AP On Saturday night, the House of Representatives is likely to pass amendments to the Senate's continuing resolution¬†that include a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act and a permanent repeal of the tax on medical devices.¬† Like a game of ping-pong, this will send the continuing resolution back to the Senate. And it could set up a heavy dose of drama on Monday as a shutdown looms. Here's what is likely to happen next: The "Vitter amendment" would bar lawmakers, Congressional staffers, and administration staffers from receiving federal subsidies for health insurance under Obamacare.¬† Republicans think that this would give them good political standing in the shutdown battle. They think they would be able to paint Senate Democrats as willing to shut down the government to keep their congressional perks. There are a couple potential problems with this strategy, however. The first is that it's not clear if leadership could get enough Republican votes for the measure. Some will think it doesn't go far enough, as it does not delay or defund Obamacare in any way.¬† Others might not support it because it would directly hit their pockets and the pockets of their staff. When Vitter tried to bring up his amendment during debate over an unrelated energy-efficiency bill, Politico's Ginger Gibson reported¬†that staffers from Republican offices were reaching out to their Democratic counterparts to get assurance that the amendment would not pass.
REUTERS/ Jason ReedIt looks as though we're heading for a government shutdown. Our Brett Logiurato has the full story, but essentially negotiations are too far apart right now and the parties may simply run out of time.¬† Some think that this drama will ultimately end like previous shutdown showdowns, with Democrats and Republicans finding a way to muddle through a deal in the 11th hour. Ethan Harris at Bank of America has the one paragraph that will have you praying they find a way to do so: As in the past, we worry that if they do cross the Rubicon‚Äîand start a shutdown‚Äîwhat will get them to turn back? If they have decided that the political calculus is in their favor, what will make them decide it no longer is? In our view, it might require either a major popular outcry or a major stock market correction. Recall that as the fiscal cliff approached at the end of last year, one popular view was that the fiscal cliff was really a ‚Äúslope‚Äù‚Äîit would impact the economy slowly and that any damage could be easily reversed. That kind of attitude is what could cause a really damaging sustained shutdown.¬† Democrats believe that the public will blame intransigent Republicans if the government shuts down. Determined to use this opportunity to weaken Obamacare, the GOP believes that the public will put the blame on the president here. Neither party has blinked yet. Let's hope Harris is wrong and it doesn't take a "major stock market correction" to get Washington moving.
APSenate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) rebuked House Republicans' plan to push a one-year delay of Obamacare through the continuing resolution bill, calling Saturday's House vote "pointless." The House will vote later Saturday on amendments to be added to the Senate's so-called "clean" continuing resolution, which the chamber passed Friday. The amendments include a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act and a permanent repeal of a tax on medical devices.† Both amendments make a government shutdown more likely. Reid said, "to be clear," that the Senate would reject both. "After weeks of futile political games from Republicans, we are still at square one: Republicans must decide whether to pass the Senateís clean CR, or force a Republican government shutdown," Reid said.† "Senate Democrats have shown that we are willing to debate and vote on a wide range of issues, including efforts to improve the Affordable Care Act. We continue to be willing to debate these issues in a calm and rational atmosphere. But the American people will not be extorted by Tea Party anarchists." A Senate Democratic leadership aide told Business Insider that there are no plans to bring the Senate back in session on Sunday. It plans to reconvene Monday at 2 p.m. ó 10 hours before a shutdown. "No point to coming in earlier. We are not playing games," the aide said. The plan, the aide said, is to table both of these new amendments through majority vote. It could leave House Speaker John Boehner with a choice Monday night ó pass the "clean" bill by relying on Democratic votes, or have the government shut down.
It's clear that Jos. A. Bank is beating Men's Wearhouse in the fierce competition for customers.† Jos. A Bank's shares have gained more than 8% in the past six months, while Men's Wearhouse only gained 1.6%.† And while Men's Wearhouse reported a disappointing outlook for future months, Jos. A. Bank executives recently said that sales are increasing.† Both retailers market to men who want to look current, but can't afford to shop at Nordstrom. Both face similar challenges in getting cash-strapped customers to go shopping.† So what does Jos. A. Bank have that Men's Wearhouse doesn't?† Those infamous "buy one, get seven free" sales.† "Those promotions are why Jos. A. Bank is getting foot traffic that Men's Wearhouse isn't," said†Brian Pitera, a principal of consultancy at A.T. Kearney. "To compete, Men's Wearhouse is going to have to step up promotions and advertising."† While Jos. A. Bank's promotions sound too good to be true, the brand actually manages to make money by selling the products at higher initial mark-ups than necessary. In other words, Jos. A. Bank builds the cost of free products into the one full-priced suit you purchase.† And once customers are in the store, Jos. A. Bank can count on them making impulse purchases on accessories like ties and belts.† "Critics can hate on Jos. A. Bank's promotions and call them a 'bait and switch,' but they actually have a tried-and-true tactic for getting people in stores," Pitera told us. "That's more than Men's Wearhouse can say."† To get customers back in stores, Men's Wearhouse is going to have to come up with an aggressive promotions strategy, Pitera said.† "Men's Wearhouse doesn't need fancy designers or big names," Pitera said. "What they need is to give customers the value they're looking for right now."†
REUTERS/Alessandro BianchiROME (Reuters) - Prime Minister Enrico Letta accused center-right leader Silvio Berlusconi on Saturday of telling Italians a "huge lie" by claiming the cabinet's failure to pass measures to avert a rise in sales tax was the reason for pulling out of the government. The statement came after Berlusconi, battling moves to expel him from parliament following a tax fraud conviction, pulled ministers from his center-right party out of the cabinet, effectively bringing down Letta's fragile coalition of left and right. "To justify today's mad and irresponsible action, aimed exclusively at covering his own personal issues, Berlusconi is trying to twist reality, using the sales tax as an alibi," he said in a statement. "In parliament, everyone will have to assume responsibility for their actions before the nation," he said. (Reporting By James Mackenzie)
REUTERS/ Zoran MilichJP Morgan's Tom Lee expects the S&amp;P 500 to rally to at least 1,775 by the end of the year. "Investor apprehension about this market continues to increase," says Lee. "It is the combination of fears that this was a 'false breakout' to new highs coupled with lingering concerns about the budget/debt ceiling showdown in the US and the possible resulting turmoil." With this in mind, Lee identified 21 stocks with attractive valuations and high free cash flow. Each stock is rated overweight by JPM's analysts and offer at least 10% upside. They also have price/earnings ratios based on next-twelve month (NTM) earnings of under 12.8. The most attractive stock on Lee's list offers a 58% return opportunity.
AP Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) is calling the shots in the Republican Party. That's what one Senate Democratic aide said is clear from House Republicans'†latest strategy on the House's continuing resolution†ó one that is likely to force a government shutdown on Tuesday. "Draft Cruz" for Speaker, the Senate aide said in jest. After a week that included a 21-plus-hour†talk-a-thon against the Affordable Care Act†and pleas to House Republicans to "stand firm" against a Senate bill, the actual House Speaker, John Boehner (R-Ohio), did just that. House Republicans plan to vote on amendments Saturday that would add a one-year delay of Obamacare and a permanent repeal of the medical-device tax to the bill that keeps the government funded past Sept. 30. Egged on by Sens. Cruz and Mike Lee (R-Utah), among others, Republicans continued to target Obamacare rather than look to pass the so-called "clean" version of the continuing resolution passed by the Senate on Friday. "He's played a huge role. He's been the rallying force," Rep. John Fleming (R-La.)†told reporters†of Cruz. Cruz didn't just call on the House to "stand firm," however.†According to National Review's Robert Costa, he actively played a role in telling House conservatives to oppose Boehner's strategy of moving past the continuing resolution and focusing on a fight over the debt ceiling. For any senator to work and shape House strategy ó let alone a freshman senator ó is unprecedented. But he likely realized, despite public statements, that his gambit was doomed in the Senate, and he moved on to where he could have more leverage. As Republicans†have repeatedly grumbled throughout this fight, Cruz's strategy still appears to lack an end game. A Democratic Senate aide repeated that the Senate will not pass a continuing resolution that touches Obamacare, and the Senate is still not planning to reconvene until Monday at 2 p.m. ó 10 hours before a shutdown. But Cruz has inspired a loud faction of Republicans, especially in the House. And he has resonated with voters. A†new survey from Public Policy Polling†found that, just nine months into his term as senator, he is already the top choice of Republican primary voters to be the party's presidential nominee.
Courtesy of the Boston Public Library, Leslie Jones CollectionMystic River, 1930 (Photo: Leslie Jones)When markets reopen on Sunday evening, things might be interesting. That's because two out of the three countries with the largest debt markets in the world are experiencing political crises right now. Pretty much everyone is aware of what's happening in the U.S., where the government is going to shut down Monday night, provided there's not some last-minute save to keep things operating. It doesn't look like there will be. At issue is the fact that the GOP refuses to pass a budget unless there's some sort of cancellation, defunding, or delay to Obamacare. Obviously, Democrats won't support such a bill, and Obama would never sign it. So: gridlock. Meanwhile, in Italy, the entirety of Silvio Berlusconi's Popolo della Libert√†, or PDL Party, has indicated that they will resign from government, threatening to collapse the fragile coalition that was established after February's election. So it's unclear what happens now, and if a new coalition can be formed, but it's not good. So you have the world's largest government bond market (the U.S.) and the world's third largest (Italy) both experiencing political crises on the same weekend.
APIt looks like the U.S. is headed toward a government shutdown. House Republicans came out of a rare Saturday session with a plan to pass a bill that includes a one-year delay in the Affordable Care Act. It also will feature a permanent repeal of a new tax on medical devices, something that passed the Senate in a bipartisan but symbolic vote earlier this year. When asked if that means shutdown, a Senate Democratic leadership aide said, "Yup." The government runs out of funding after Sept. 30. The House will vote on the amendments later Saturday. Separately, it will also vote on a bill to ensure that members of the military get paid in the event of a shutdown. House GOP leadership ó†Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.), Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), and GOP Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) ó released a statement after the caucus meeting. ìThe American people donít want a government shut down and they donít want ObamaCare," the leaders said. "Thatís why later today, the House will vote on two amendments to the Senate-passed continuing resolution that will keep the government open and stop as much of the presidentís health care law as possible." The Senate passed a so-called "clean" continuing resolution on Friday, which would keep the government funded through Nov. 15. But it also strips out language from the original House-passed bill that defunds Obamacare. House Republican aides had said it's unlikely that the House will move this bill. Senate Majority Harry Reid has said that the Senate won't pass anything that delays or defunds the health-care law ó or even anything that "relates to Obamacare." But House Speaker John Boehner and GOP leadership are looking to satisfy a group of conservatives that have tied their hands. For the House, the other option would have been to pass an extremely short-term extension that would keep the government funded for another week or two. That was the only option discussed in the House that Senate Democrats didn't flatly reject. Because of the legislative ping-pong between the House and Senate and the significant differences, there might not be enough time to avert a shutdown.
REUTERS/Alessia Pierdomenico Earlier today La Stampa declared that the Italian government was hanging on "by a thread." Now, the daily newspaper reports, that thread has broke. †"[Prime Minister Enrico] Letta's ultimatum is unacceptable and inadmissible," Silvio Berlusconi announced today, the newspaper reports. "The ministers of the PdL will immediately resign." Berlusconi's announcement looks likely to mean that Letta's broad coalition government will collapse without the support of Berlusconi's PdL party, leading possibly to more elections and instability in the troubled country. Tensions had been high since Berlusconi was†finally found conclusively guilty of tax fraud†earlier this summer. The verdict should have effectively ended the Italian billionaire's political career, but his allies threatened to bring down the government unless Italy's president agreed to pardon Berlusconi, or at least limit his ban from politics. Berlusconi and the PdL were effectively holding Italy hostage. The final straw for Berlusconi seems to have been Letta's call for a clear show of support from all members of the coalition. It's unclear exactly what will happen now ó Letta may be able to form another coalition, but additional elections may be more likely. Either way, it's more chaos when the country desperately needs action.
en.wikipedia.orgSo it really looks like we're going to see a government shutdown. Read Brett Logiurato explaining why. So what does that mean for the economy? Earlier this week we published the quick analysis from Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart and Ellen Zentner: In terms of macroeconomic consequences of a short shutdown, the sudden drop and subsequent recovery in activity would be absorbed in the same quarter. There is, however, a direct arithmetic impact on GDP. Compensation of nondefense employees and civilian defense employees makes up about one-fifth of real federal spending and about 1.5% of GDP. Eliminate a third of that in a shutdown as non-exempt workers stay home, and GDP is haircut 0.5%. Annualized, this reduces quarterly GDP growth by around 0.15 percentage points per week of shutdown. Even if ex post legislation makes up the missed pay and therefore avoids a hit to personal income, the real numbers will be gone for good because the hours worked will not be made up. Note that the Federal Reserve is not part of the federal budget, so its operations will continue uninterrupted. As it is the fiscal agent of the Treasury, debt issuance and repayment will continue without a hitch.† Good thing the Fed didn't start to taper! For more on the likely shutdown, see here &gt;
AP PhotoThis Sept. 23, 2013 photo, Samantha Perelman, daughter of billionaire Ronald Perelman, and granddaughter of the late Hudson News patriarch Robert Cohen, center, looks on during opening arguments in her lawsuit against the Cohen family in Superior Court in Hackensack, N.J. Samantha Perelman claims her uncle, James Cohen,, systematically squeezed her out of her grandfatherís will during the last several years of Robert Cohenís life as he suffered from the debilitating effects of a Parkinsonís-like disease before dying in 2012. (AP Photo/The Record of Bergen County, Amy Newman, Pool)HACKENSACK, N.J. (AP) ó A bitter fight between two of the New York area's wealthiest families is playing out in the modest trappings of a county courthouse more used to seeing low-level drug offenders and alimony cheats. On one side is James Cohen, son of the founder of Hudson News, the newsstand operator with stores in airports and train stations across the country. On the other is Cohen's niece, Samantha Perelman, the 23-year-old daughter of billionaire Revlon Chairman Ronald Perelman. Samantha Perelman claims her uncle systematically squeezed her out of her grandfather Robert Cohen's will as he suffered from the debilitating effects of a Parkinson's-like disease before dying in 2012. The case figures to turn on whether Perelman's attorneys can demonstrate to state Superior Court Judge Estela De La Cruz that James Cohen used undue influence to get his father to change his will several times to reduce Perelman's share. Cohen's attorneys don't mince words in court filings, calling Perelman's lawsuit "brazen beyond belief" and the product of "pure gall." They claim that even under Robert Cohen's last will, penned in 2009, Samantha Perelman stood to inherit jewelry and real estate worth more than $20 million and insurance policies worth more than $47 million. They also claim her lawsuit is a thinly veiled attempt by Ron Perelman to use his daughter to get control of the Hudson News empire. "This shameless lawsuit is filled with repackaged claims, and we are confident that the truth will again prevail as it has in every previous iteration of this nuisance litigation," James Cohen said through a spokeswoman. Christine Taylor, a spokeswoman for Samantha Perelman, called the accusations regarding Ron Perelman "simply not true." "It's something they feel if they repeat enough times it'll be true," she said. "It couldn't be further from the truth, it has never been the case and it has never been contended that the business should go to Ronald Perelman or Samantha. They would like to make it about Ronald because it's easier to beat up on a grown-up than a 23-year-old girl." James Cohen, who lives in northern New Jersey, began working for Hudson News in 1980, became CEO in 1994 and had always been in line to inherit the business from his father, according to his court filings. He is credited with developing it into a business that sold for $805 million in 2008. In the 2004 document that Samantha Perelman is seeking to be considered her grandfather's last valid will, she stood to receive real estate in Palm Beach, Fla., New York City and Englewood; $25 million in cash; $500,000 a year for 10 years; a corporate jet; and other assets totaling about $150 million, according to her court filings. Her attorneys charge that once her mother, gossip columnist Claudia Cohen, died in 2007, James Cohen took control of his father's estate planning, and the "changes adverse to Claudia and Samantha came repeatedly, relentlessly and secretly." Over the next several years, Robert Cohen's physical condition worsened steadily as he battled progressive supranuclear palsy, a disorder that attacks muscular control and ultimately left him unable to walk, speak or care for himself, according to court papers. In a previous trial, also in Hackensack, a different Superior Court judge ruled against the Perelmans and concluded that Robert Cohen was "fundamentally sound" in his thinking and legally allowed to make a new will. Under the law, however, a person can still be unduly influenced in the making of a will even if he or she is considered to have mental capacity, both sides said. Samantha Perelman graduated recently from the University of Pennsylvania and is pursuing an MBA at Columbia University. Court papers revealed that her grandfather referred to her as "Little Cupcake." She is expected to testify next week. "My mother always taught me to stand up for what I believe, and I know she would have been heartbroken by what was done in connection with her father's will," Samantha Perelman said in an emailed statement. "This is my case and I intend to make sure my grandfather's true intentions are carried out." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Everyone loves to complain about taxes, but folks in some countries have a much greater right to complain than others. Business Insider's Walter Hickey recently put together a guide to the global economy in a series of maps. The data is based on information from the site Countrylicious. One of the maps shows the percentage of GDP various countries take in taxes. There's a pretty big range in tax collections. Not surprisingly, perhaps, Cuba takes more in tax money as a percentage of GDP than anywhere else. The socialist Scandinavian nations are also highly ranked. On the other hand, the U.S., like many East Asian countries, is pretty low in total tax collections. Walter Hickey/ BI, data via Countrylicious
Just like you and me, Wall Streeters from all parts of the¬† industry get the itch to settle down and start a family at some point. That means they have kids who share their fabulous lives. We decided to track down a bunch of them and see what they've done with them. All in all these young men and women are pretty remarkable. Some of them are singer-songwriters, while others are going into the family business. We found a journalist and a computer game developer, too. ¬† Now let's meet this next generation.¬†
REUTERS/John KolesidisSupporters and members of extreme-right Golden Dawn party wave Greek national flags and shout slogans outside the Greek police headquarters in Athens September 28, 2013. ATHENS (Reuters) - Greek police arrested the leader and more than a dozen senior members and lawmakers from the far-right Golden Dawn party on Saturday after the killing of an anti-fascist rapper by a party supporter triggered outrage and protests across the country. The party's leader Nikolaos Mihaloliakos, spokesman Ilias Kassidiaris, two other lawmakers and 10 members were arrested on charges of founding a criminal organization. They are due to appear in court this weekend to be charged formally. Police confiscated two guns and a hunting rifle from the home of Mihaloliakos, saying he did not have a license for them. Golden Dawn, ranked Greece's third most popular party, is under investigation for the murder of Pavlos Fissas, who bled to death after being stabbed twice by a party sympathizer. "Shame on them, the people will lift Golden Dawn higher," Ilias Panagiotaros, a Golden Dawn lawmaker told reporters before his arrest. Several hundred party supporters gathered outside police headquarters chanting slogans and waving Greek flags. The party on its website called for protests in solidarity with its leader. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras's government has so far resisted calls to ban the party, fearing it could make it even more popular at a time of growing anger at repeated rounds of austerity measures and instead, it has tried to undermine the party by ordering probes that could deprive it of state funding. Samaras ruled out snap elections after the arrests. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said Greece did not face the risk of political instability and Justice Minister Haralambos Athanassiou said all Golden Dawn members who had been arrested would receive a fair trial. TACTIC TO IMPRESS The move to arrest the party members surprised some Greeks wary of political theatre in a country where little has been done to rein in a party widely viewed as neo-Nazi. "It's good that they arrested them, but I'm afraid that we will start killing each other now," said Dimitra Vassilopoulou, a 58-year old housewife. "Does the government actually mean it or is it just a tactic to impress us? Why didn't they do anything when the immigrants were killed? How come they just discovered that Golden Dawn is a criminal organization?" The party has denied any links to the killing and Mihaloliakos has warned the party could pull its lawmakers from parliament if the crackdown does not stop. If potential by-elections were won by the opposition, as some polls indicate, Greece's fragile two-party coalition would become politically untenable, Mihaloliakos has argued. The party has 18 of parliament's 300 lawmakers and scored 14 percent of voter support in opinion polls before the stabbing. A poll this week showed this had fallen as low as 6.7 percent. Greek lawmakers do not lose their political rights or seats unless there is a final court ruling against them but the government has proposed a law that could block state funding for Golden Dawn if police find links to Fissas's murder. Golden Dawn, whose emblem resembles a swastika, rose from obscurity to enter parliament last year after promising to mine Greece's borders to prevent illegal immigrants from entering. Its members have been seen giving Nazi-style salutes but the party rejects the neo-Nazi label. Human rights' groups have accused the party of being linked to attacks on immigrants but this is the first time it is being is investigated for evidence linking it to an attack. (Additional reporting by George Georgiopoulos; Writing by Deepa Babington; editing by David Evans)
Google EarthWhen you're raking in millions ‚Äî or billions ‚Äî of dollars each year, it's not an exaggeration to say that any home on the market is within your reach. We're talking multi-acre estates in the Hamptons, triplexes in the wealthiest buildings in Manhattan, and massive dream homes from coast to coast. We found the 25 most expensive homes in the U.S. owned by the kings of finance.¬†To estimate the approximate current value of the homes, we looked at recent sales and public assessors' records, and spoke to expert realtors and appraisers in these homes' markets.
During our search for Wall Street CEOs in high school yearbooks, we came across Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein in his swimsuit.† Blankfein was a star swimmer at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn. †He was the city champion for the 400 meter freestyle event.† He graduated in 1971 and was the valedictorian of his class.† He's still an avid swimmer today.† Check it out:† Thomas Jefferson High School 1971 yearbook
People generally assume that when a democrat occupies the Oval Office, government gets bigger and government spending becomes key to GDP growth. However, that has just not been the case with President Obama. Here's an interesting chart from Chicago Fed President Charles Evans. It shows how the government contributed to GDP growth in every quarter since 1965. Notice the far right. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Matthew Hornbach, Morgan Stanley's top interest rate strategist, sent a very clear message in his latest research note, which is titled: "Read My Lips: Buy Bonds." "Fading the Treasury market rally would not be prudent, at this juncture, given risks to the economic outlook in the coming weeks," wrote Hornbach on Friday. "A possible government shutdown, increasing odds of a debt ceiling debacle, and economic data that could disappoint have led us to suggest maxing out duration overweights." Bond prices had been trending down since May when the Federal Reserve signaled it would soon start tapering its large-scale asset purchase program, which includes the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds. But when the Fed announced no taper last week, bond prices spiked. Economists caution that the taper will eventually come, which means a large customer in the bond market will eventually pull out. For now, Hornbach says buy. "We think a decline in realized volatility as Treasury yields grind toward lower yields will encourage more buying from investors who have been more or less absent year to date," he wrote. " Another technical factor that could support the Treasury market over the coming weeks is a reversal of the bond fund outflows seen since June." "We believe that investors should take advantage of a market psychology that remains shell-shocked from the Fed decision not to taper, and one that can no longer use Summers to justify a faster taper and higher short rates," he added. Hornbach recommends 5-year and 10-year Treasury notes.
Wikimedia CommonsThe Frances Perkins Building, U.S. Department of Labor HeadquartersWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States will stop publishing much of its economic data next week if the government shuts down, including the closely watched monthly employment report, officials said on Friday. Whole swaths of the U.S. federal government could shut down next week if Congress does not approve extensions to department budgets due to expire on Monday. All non-essential federal employees would stop working, including those at the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which is scheduled to release the monthly nonfarm payrolls report on October 4. "All survey and other program operations will cease and the public website will not be updated," said Erica Groshen, the commissioner of the BLS, said in a memo published on the department's website. The Commerce Department, which issues estimates on the pace of growth in the economy, also will stop releasing economic data, a spokesperson said. The jobs report due on Friday would provide estimates for the nation's unemployment rate in September. It would also show how many workers were added to employer payrolls during the month. The report sets the tone for financial markets worldwide. Policymakers and investors use it to gauge the health of the U.S. economy. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill have been racing to pass legislation to avert the shutdown, but time is running out. The Senate passed a emergency-funding measure on Friday that would keep the government running through November 15 and the House could vote on the bill over the weekend. The BLS also publishes data on inflation and productivity. Should a shutdown occur, the next closely watched data that would be delayed would be a report on import prices, due on October 10. The Commerce Department's next scheduled economic indicator is for construction spending during August. That report is due on Tuesday. Not all U.S. economic data would be delayed by a government shutdown, however. A separate memo from the Labor Department said the government's weekly jobless claims reports would not be affected. The U.S. Federal Reserve, which also publishes economic data, would continue to issue data in a shutdown, a spokesperson at the Fed said. Also, the government would continue its borrowing and debt operations, the Treasury Department said. (Reporting by Timothy Ahmann and Jason Lange; editing by G Crosse and David Gregorio)
From India and Turkey to Mexico and Brazil, stocks, bonds and currencies surged in response to the Fed‚Äôs announcement that it would stay the course with its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases until it saw more evidence of a robust U.S. recovery. Brazil‚Äôs main equity index rose 2.64 percent following the Fed‚Äôs surprising September 16 decision. In Asia, Philippine stocks rose 2.45 percent, and in India, 2.73 percent. It was an entirely unexpected reprieve for emerging markets. Since May, when the Federal Reserve first suggested that it could begin ‚Äútapering‚Äù as early as September the asset purchases that had sent a flood of cheap money to the developing world, selling pressure has been relentless. And it‚Äôs not going to go away entirely: The FOMC made clear at its September meeting that it still plans to start tapering when economic data in the U.S. merits such a move. So emerging markets haven‚Äôt dodged that particular bullet ‚Äì but simply enjoyed a postponement of its impact. ‚ÄúWe are entering a new monetary environment ‚Äì an environment very reminiscent of the one that existed prior to the 2008 financial crisis and one in which liquidity becomes a precious commodity,‚Äù Credit Suisse Head of Emerging Market Strategy Adrian Zuercher wrote in a note earlier this month entitled ‚ÄúRumble in the EM Jungle.‚Äù ‚ÄúCompetition to attract the scarcer liquidity will therefore intensify. This poses major challenges, particularly for those countries and regions that have profited more than average in recent years from the low-interest-rate environment and are more heavily dependent on foreign capital inflows due to their economic situation.‚Äù Still, the temporary lull may have created equity-buying opportunities in some key emerging market economies. ‚ÄúThe dovish stance of the Fed should be positive in the near term for emerging market assets,‚Äù Credit Suisse strategists wrote in a September 19 note entitled ‚ÄúLatin America: Positioning After the Rally.‚Äù This bullish outlook is in line with Zuercher‚Äôs September 11 analysis, published ahead of the FOMC meeting, which said that said Fed-fueled volatility could motivate contrarian investors to buy cheap emerging market assets backed by strong economic fundamentals. In particular, he said, investors may look at opportunities in countries whose fortunes rise or fall with global trade. Investors shied away from markets such as China and Korea, for example, when demand from the U.S. and Europe was weak, preferring to focus on fast-growing domestic economies such as the Philippines and Indonesia. That may be about to change. As such, Credit Suisse is especially optimistic about Asian equities, where it maintains an overweight position, favoring export-driven economies that would benefit from a growing U.S. demand. Top of the list is China, which remains the bank‚Äôs ‚Äúpreferred‚Äù Asian market, and where Credit Suisse believes that a recent economic slowdown has come to an end. ¬†Zuercher noted that while Chinese growth should continue to be slower than the breakneck pace of the last few years, that growth is unlikely to be as weak as investors feared. The exporting powerhouse should benefit from the improving economies of the U.S. and Europe in the back half of the year, and domestic China economic data is already starting to reflect an upswing. Preliminary surveys show that manufacturing activity reached its highest level in six months in September, and factory output and fixed asset investment have increased, too. Those trends, combined with repeated commitments by top Chinese officials to intervene with stimulus if economic growth slips below 7.5 percent, have helped boost the country‚Äôs stock market in recent weeks. Zuercher noted that ‚Äúalthough momentum in earnings estimates was flat last month, net downward revisions appear to have bottomed recently.‚Äù China‚Äôs Shanghai Stock Index is up more than 13 percent for the year, but Chinese equities remain some of the cheapest on a Credit Suisse scorecard that tracks the valuations of key emerging market stocks. South Korea is another Credit Suisse favorite, and the bank upped its overweighting of South Korean equities earlier this month. ‚ÄúThat market, of course, is not immune to monetary policy normalization in the U.S., but should continue to deliver a superior performance,‚Äù Zuercher wrote. The Korean economy grew at a faster-than-expected 2.3 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period last year. At the same time, inflation has remained low, giving the Bank of Korea breathing room to keep interest rates relatively low at 2.5 percent, where they have been since the bank cut rates by a quarter of a percentage point in May. Policymakers also implemented a $15 billion fiscal stimulus in April to boost growth. The recent expectation-beating data hasn‚Äôt yet impacted Korean equities, either: Credit Suisse pointed out that forward-looking price-earnings ratios (P/E) on Korean equities are 15 percent below those of other Asian economies. Turkey, one of the economies hit hardest by the emerging market selloff, is also looking more attractive. For one thing, an agreement between the U.S. and Russia has sidelined for now the possibility of a U.S.-led bombing campaign in neighboring Syria. Analysts also noted in a September 18 report entitled ‚ÄúUpgrading Turkey: Risks Removed‚Äù that inflation finally seems to be slowing, having fallen from 8.9 percent year over year in July to 8.2 percent in August. Turkey‚Äôs rising sovereign debt yields may make the bonds more attractive as a carry trade, analysts said, which could in turn help staunch recent outflows of investor cash. Credit Suisse estimates the country‚Äôs 2013 GDP growth will be 4.2 percent, more than double the 2 percent output it anticipates in former BRIC superstar Brazil. While the Fed‚Äôs decision last week to continue easing at current levels caught investors by surprise, the FOMC nevertheless made it clear that it‚Äôs still only a matter of time before the central bank starts to scale back its bond purchases. So an across-the-board focus on emerging market economies is still not the best move. But there are still good opportunities out there.
