While the national story is slow and steady job growth, the local story is much different. The US is a mix of rapidly accelerating and decelerating economies. The larger markets, particularly in the South, are growing faster than the smaller markets, which is particularly good for new home construction. There are other, more local factors at play as well.¬† The following two charts show eight economies that have rapidly accelerated and decelerated over the last year. John Burns Real Estate Consulting Accelerating Naples' and Tampa's resurgences are led by leisure and hospitality, education and health services, and transportation. Dallas and Fort Worth's resurgences are led by high-paying professional business services jobs. Surprisingly, DC-adjacent Bethesda's resurgence is led by government jobs, as well as professional business services. Infrastructure investment is also a key to growth, as evidenced by the tremendous level of freeway construction in Dallas-Fort Worth, which is improving commutes and opening up areas for future growth.¬† Decelerating California, and particularly Northern California, have fallen victim to California's recent 3% top-tier increase in state income taxes. While it is difficult to document the impact of this policy change, numerous new home sales agents interviewed by our consulting staff in Nevada and Texas have credited strong sales with a surge in affluent buyers who are relocating from California. It is also clear that being a state capital is a disadvantage, as Sacramento, Raleigh, Richmond, and other capitals like Austin are struggling in comparison to their neighbors. Over the next six months, we expect markets with heavy mortgage operations, such as Dallas and Orange County, CA, to slow. What is interesting about this is that the recovery is varying significantly across the country. It is once again time to pay close attention to local dynamics.
The FAA ordered a ground stop at Los Angeles International this morning after a shooting at the airport.¬†Inbound flights are being allowed to land, and planes¬†bound for LAX that have not taken off yet will be held at their origin airports.¬† "It's fair to say that every flight out of LAX today will be significantly delayed," an official said at a press conference. LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world and the third busiest in the country, so delays there quickly ripple through the country's air network. More than 400 flights to or from American airports have been cancelled today, more than double the rates for Thursday (148) and Wednesday (130).  FlightAware.com's Misery Map shows how delays at LAX impact flights at other airports around the country. Here's how it looked around 5pm: FlightAware.com
 REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway may have missed on its earnings, but its long bets on global stock markets are paying off even better in Q3 than it did in Q2. Berkshire made $519 million on 'financial weapons of mass destruction' in Q3. For those less colorful than Buffett himself, this is how much Berkshire made on long-term derivative bets on major global stock markets. Back in 2008 when everything was going to the dogs, Berkshire sold put options on the S&amp;P 500, FTSE 100, Euro Stoxx 50, and the Nikkei 225. That means that if those indices fall below a certain price, Berkshire has to pay whoever bought the put options. When stocks go up, the value of these options increases ó when stocks go down, they decrease. As Business Insider's Sam Ro never fails to point out, these are European style options, which means they can only be exercised at maturity. The equity index put option contracts are European style options written on four major equity indexes. Future payments, if any, under any given contract will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration date. We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore have no counterparty credit risk. We have written no new contracts since February 2008. The aggregate intrinsic value (which is the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately $2.3 billion at September 30, 2013 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2012. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates which occur between June 2018 and January 2026. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be determined for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 7.25 years at September 30, 2013. Our credit default contracts were written on various indexes of non-investment grade (or ìhigh yieldî) corporate issuers, as well as investment grade corporate and state/municipal debt issuers. These contracts cover the loss in value of specified debt obligations of the issuers arising from default events, which are usually from their failure to make payments or bankruptcy. Loss amounts are subject to contract limits. We have written no new contracts since February 2009.
Berkshire Hathaway just MISSED Wall Street's expectations for its earnings in Q3 with operating earnings of $2,228. Analysts expected operating earnings of $2,442.98 for class A shares, and Barlcays bank made headlines estimating that the Berkshire would rake in a profit of $4.3 billion, according to Bloomberg. This is rare.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why One Advisor Turned Down Money Managers For ETFs (The Wall Street Journal)  Vern Sumnicht, founder of Wisconsin-based Sumnicht &amp; Associates has used exchange traded funds (ETFs) to develop "portfolios that are more transparent and have fewer fees," he writes in a new Wall Street Journal column. After using money managers for larger accounts and managed mutual funds for smaller ones, for over 20 years, Sumnicht writes that over that time they "underperformed the index by about 2% on average--and that was equal to the fees associated with these accounts." He founds ETFs to be more helpful to his clients. "An ETF never has to invest cash or sell stock to redeem shares. They don't have the fees money managers and mutual funds charge. They also offer great ways to allocate portfolios. As I began exploring them further, I saw that we could use ETFs for fixed income investing and more recently, alternative investments." 'It's Getting Frothy Man!' (Bank of America) Investors poured $12.4 billion in global equity funds in the week ending October 30. $4 billion went to long-only funds. "Another $8-9 billion of inflows to long-only equity funds over next 2 weeks would trigger a contrarian 'sell' signal," writes Michael Hartnett of Bank of America Merrill Lynch in a note titled 'It's Getting Frothy Man!'.¬† "A breach of the 8.0 level on our Bull &amp; Bear Index would make us more negative short term. Cash remains high, 4.4% in our October Fund Manager Survey, and needs to fall below 4.0% in the November survey to help trigger a tactical 'sell signal'." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, Bloomberg Advisors That Compare Themselves To Their Competition Have A Better Chance Of Staying On Top (Investment News) Speaking to advisors at the Fidelity Inside Track conference, Mathias Hitchcock, vice president of Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services said advisors are more likely to stay on top if they compare themselves to their competition.¬† Megan Durisin at Investment News adds that some of the other key takeaways from his lecture are 1. Top firms are "more likely to bundle services in their overall management fees." 2. "High-performing firms have an average of 80 clients per adviser, versus 64 clients per adviser at other firms. The firms also manage an average of $113 million in assets per adviser, versus $75 million per adviser for other firms." 3. "72% of top firms close business in two or fewer meetings. That compares to 53% of other firms." UBS Poaches $3 Billion Team From Merrill (FA Mag) UBS poached a $3.1 billion team of four advisors for Merrill Lynch, reports Dan Jamieson of FA Mag. Craig Chiate, Mark Binder, Glenn Oratz and Scott Brown joined on Tuesday. Eight other advisors have joined UBS as well. These advisors are James Chiate, Anthony Guinane, who moved to UBS' Irvine California office. Chris Gaal, Jeff Hamilton, James Axelson, and Barry Porter moved to the Newport Beach, California office. Scott Harries is at UBS' LA office and David Mandel is at the Encino, California office. These advisors shared clients with the¬†Private Banking and Investment Group (PBIG) team of Chiate, Binder, Oratz and Brown. "Landing the PBIG team is seen as a coup for UBS. The PBIG unit serves the cr√®me de la cr√®me of advisors at Merrill," writes Jamieson.  If You Were A Fund Manager, Here Was The Key Decision You Had To Get Right This Year To Beat The Market (JP Morgan) JP Morgan thinks 2013 is shaping up to be better for active managers, and that there was one particular decision that helped some beat the market.¬† "2013 is on track to be an improvement for active managers. Notably, there are now more Russell 1000 Growth managers beating the benchmark by at least 250bp than missing it (26% vs. 25%, respectively). And the overall net diffusion of beats less misses at -600bp (net missing), is the best figure since 2010. We believe some of this outperformance reflects whether a fund owned Apple (AAPL-OW). The stock is the largest S&amp;P 500 weight (2.8% S&amp;P 500; 6.8% of NASDAQ) and is flat YTD, subtracting nearly 100bp of performance from the market overall."
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoThere are infinitely many numbers, and infinitely many ways to combine and manipulate those numbers. Mathematicians often represent numbers in a line. Pick a point on the line, and this represents a number. At the end of the day, though, almost all of the numbers that we use are based on a handful of extremely important numbers that sit at the foundation of all of math. What follows are the eight numbers you actually need to build the number line, and to do just about anything quantitative. In The Beginning, There Was Zero. Zero represents the absence of things. Zero is also an essential element of our number system. We use zero as a placeholder when writing numbers with more than one digit ó zero lets me know the difference between having 2 dollars and 20 dollars. Zero as a number on its own is also extremely important in math. Zero is the \"additive identity\" ó any time I add a number to zero, I get that number back: 3 + 0 = 3. This property of zero is a central aspect of arithmetic and algebra. Zero sits in the middle of the number line, separating the positive numbers from the negative numbers, and is thus the starting point for building our number system. We Can't Get Very Far Just Having Zero, So We Turn To One. As zero was the additive identity, one is the multiplicative identity ó take any number and multiply it by one, and you get that number back. 5 x 1 is just 5. Just using one, we can start to build up the number line. In particular, we can use one to get the natural numbers: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and so on. We keep adding one to itself to get these other numbers: 2 is 1 + 1, 3 is 1 + 2, 4 is 1 + 3, and we keep going, right on out to infinity. The natural numbers are our most basic numbers. We use them to count things. We can also do arithmetic with the natural numbers: if I add or multiply together any two natural numbers, I get another natural number. I can also sometimes, but not always, subtract two natural numbers, or divide one natural number by another: 10 - 6 = 4, and 12 ˜ 4 = 3. Just using zero and one, and our basic arithmetic operations, we can already do a good amount of math just using the natural numbers. Natural Numbers Are Pretty Great, But They Are Also Quite Limited. To start with, it is not always possible to subtract two naturals and get another natural. If all I have to work with are these counting numbers, I have no idea how to parse a statement like 3 - 8. One of the wonderful things about math is that, when we are confronted with a limitation like this, we can just expand the system we are working with to remove the limitation.† To allow for subtraction, we add -1 to our growing number line. -1 brings with it all the other negative whole numbers, since multiplying a positive number by -1 gives the negative version of that number: -3 is just -1 x 3. By bringing in negative numbers, we have solved our subtraction problem. 3 - 8 is just -5. Putting together the positive numbers, zero, and our new negative numbers, we get the integers, and we can always subtract two integers from each other and get an integer as the result. The integers provide the anchor points for the number line. The negative numbers are useful in representing deficits ó if I owe the bank $500, I can think of my bank balance as being -500. We also use negative numbers when we have some scaled quantity where values below zero are possible, such as temperature. In the frozen wasteland of my hometown of Buffalo, we would get a few winter days each year down in the -20∞ range. Integers Are Suited To Describing Whole Numbers, But We Need To Talk About Fractions Of Things. Also, the integers are still arithmetically incomplete ó while we can always add, subtract, or multiply two integers and get another integer, we cannot always get an integer by dividing two integers. 8 ˜ 5 makes no sense if all we have are whole numbers. To deal with this, we add 1/10, or 0.1, to our number line. With 0.1, and the powers of 0.1 ó 0.01, 0.001, 0.0001, and so on, we can now represent fractions and decimals. 8 ˜†5 is now just 1.6. Dividing any two integers (except for dividing by zero) gets us a decimal number that either terminates, like 1.6, or has a repeating digit, or pattern of digits: 1 ˜ 3 = 0.3333..., with the 3's going out to infinity. These types of decimals are the rational numbers, since we can form them by taking fractions, or ratios, of two integers. The rational numbers are arithmetically closed - I can take any two rationals and add, subtract, multiply, or divide them, and get back another rational number. The rational numbers allow us to represent quantities between integers, or fractional quantities. If three friends and I are sharing a cake and splitting it up evenly, we each get 1/4, or 0.25, or 25% of the cake. The rationals help us start filling in the spaces between the integers on the number line. Rational Numbers Open The Door For Irrational Numbers. The square root of a number is a second number that, when squared, or multiplied by itself, gives us the original number. So, the square root of 9 is 3, since 32 = 3 x 3 = 9. We can find the square root of any positive number, but with only a few exceptions, these square roots get messy. The square root of 2 is one such messy number. It is an irrational number ó its decimal expansion never terminates or settles into a repeating pattern. The square root of 2 starts out with the digits 1.41421356237..., and then just keeps going in weird and random-looking directions.†It turns out that the square roots of most rational numbers are irrational ó the exceptions, like 9, are called perfect squares. Square roots are important in algebra, as they figure into the solutions of many equations. For example, the square root of 2 is a solution to the equation x2 = 2. By putting the rational and irrational numbers together, we complete our number line. The full range of rational and irrational numbers are called the real numbers, and these are the numbers most commonly used in all manner of calculations. Now that we've completed our number line, we can look at a couple really important irrational numbers. Let's Add Another Dimension. p, the ratio of the circumference of any circle to the circle's diameter, is maybe the most important number used in geometry.†p shows up in basically any formula involving circles or spheres ó the area of a circle with radius r is†pr2, and the volume of a sphere with radius r is (4/3)pr3. p also features prominently in trigonometry. 2p is the period of the basic trigonometric functions sine and cosine. This means that the functions repeat themselves every 2p units. These functions, and thus p, are key to working with any periodic or repeating process, particularly in describing things like sound waves. Like the square root of 2, p is irrational - its decimal expansion never terminates or repeats. The first few digits of p are pretty familiar ó 3.14159...†Mathematicians using really big computers have found the first 10 trillion or so digits of p, though for most day to day applications, we only need those first few digits to get sufficiently precise results. Introducing The Foundations Of Computing Compound Interest. Euler's number, e, is foundational to working with exponential functions. Exponential functions represent processes that double or halve themselves in a fixed period of time. If I start with two rabbits, after a month I will have four rabbits, after two months I will have eight rabbits, and after three months I will have 16 rabbits. In general, after n months, I will have 2n+1 rabbits, or 2 multiplied by itself n+1 times. e is an irrational number, approximately 2.71828..., but like all other irrational numbers, the decimal expansion goes on forever with no repeating pattern. ex is the natural exponential function, the baseline for any other exponential function. The reason ex is special is a little complicated. For those of you who have seen calculus, you may know that the derivative of ex is ex. This means that, for any particular value of x that we plug into ex, the rate at which the function is growing at that point is the value of the function ó for x = 2, the function ex is growing at a rate of e2. This property is basically unique among functions, making ex very nice to work with mathematically. ex is useful in working with most exponential processes. One of the most common applications is finding compound interest that is being compounded continuously. With a starting principal of P, and an annual interest rate r, the value of an investment A(t) after t years is given by the formula A = Pert. And Now, Imaginary Numbers. We mentioned earlier that we can take the square root of any positive number, so now we see what happens with negative numbers. Negative numbers do not have square roots in the real numbers. Multiplying two negative numbers together gives you a positive number, so squaring any real number results in a positive number, so there's no way to multiply a real number by itself to get a negative number. But as we saw earlier, when we are confronted with an apparent limitation like this in a number system, we can just expand the number system to remove the limitation. And so, confronted with the limitation that we do not have a square root for -1, we simply ask ourselves what would happen if we did.† We define i, the imaginary unit, to be that square root, and by throwing in all the other \"numbers\" we need to make sure that addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division still make sense, we extend the real numbers to form the complex numbers. The complex numbers have many amazing properties and applications. Just as we were able to represent the real numbers as a line, we can represent the complex numbers on a plane, with the horizontal axis representing the real part of the number, and the vertical axis an imaginary component, representing the square root of some negative number. Any polynomial equation has at least one solution in the complex numbers, a result so important that mathematicians call it the fundamental theorem of algebra. The geometry of the complex plane results in some surprising and elegant results, and has many applications in the physics of electricity and in electrical engineering.
Karl Rove's plan is working.Since the government shutdown, public opinion of the Republican Party has hit a new low. Yet the Democrats might not be able to gain from it. Despite the GOP's fall from grace ‚Äî and even if they suffer a lower vote count in the 2014 midterm elections ‚Äî the Republicans might still control the House of Representatives and many state legislatures after the polls close. Our Constitution is unique in that it gives state legislatures virtually complete control over how we elect the president and Congress. In other democracies, the national government runs elections, usually through an impartial commission. Our system, however, lets the party that controls the state legislatures manipulate election rules to help itself and harm its opponents in both the state and House races. Realizing this, powerful Republican leaders, including former Bush White House Counselor Ed Gillespie and Senior Adviser Karl Rove decided in 2009 to concentrate on winning control of the state legislatures. Through a combination of money, luck and skill, in 2010 the Republicans captured almost a majority of the state legislatures, and then added a few more in 2012. This has given them the power not only to shape the electoral rules and control the House, but also to pass other laws that shape many aspects of our lives. The public outrage at the Republicans for the government shutdown and the debt ceiling crisis, however, offers the Democrats an opportunity to regain control of some state legislatures. This will require a great deal of money and hard work ‚Äî and it is the national Democratic Party that has the resources to do this. Democratic national leaders, however, seem to consider that the only elected offices worth seeking are in Washington. Whether the national organization will be willing and able to pivot to something they have ignored for so long is problematic. But they must act, for a comparable opportunity is unlikely for a long time. Otherwise, gridlock may continue. As I wrote for Reuters here, after the GOP's crushing defeat in 2008, party strategists poured money and talent into the Republican State Leadership Committee (RSLC) ‚Äî formed in 2002 to centralize all GOP state efforts. Gillespie took over the chairmanship and installed a senior aide, Chris Jankowski, as president. The goal was to win enough individual state districts to control the state electoral process, and then gerrymander congressional and state districts to ensure that Republicans win the House and state legislature seats for years to come. The GOP's 2010 " shellacking" of the Democrats gave the Republicans what they wanted ‚Äî control of the redistricting process in more than 20 states. The timing was key, since redistricting is pegged to the new Census, taken at the start of every decade. "When you hear members talk candidly about their biggest victory," the National Review's Washington Bureau Chief Robert Costa observed, "it wasn't winning the House in 2010. It was winning the state legislatures in 2010 ‚Äî because they were able to redraw their districts so they had many more conservative voters." The GOP¬†gerrymandering¬†allowed Republicans to withstand the Democrats' strong 2012 win. There was little damage to the GOP in Congress and the states during that election cycle. Republicans won nine of the 10 states where¬†gerrymandering¬†had produced the greatest discrepancy between votes and seats, netting 7.2 extra seats. It may add even more in Texas because of the Supreme Court's Shelby County ruling, which undermined the Voting Rights Act. That decision also precipitated the passage of scores of voter suppression measures in Republican-controlled Southern states that had subject to federal oversight under the act . The GOP state legislatures also passed hundreds of other conservative laws in 2011 and 2012, many restricting access to abortion. Additional anti-abortion restrictions have been enacted this year. So far, the Democrats have done little to improve their position. It won't be easy in any case. The RSLC is tightly organized, with a national game plan run by leading party strategists and staffed with highly-experienced political operatives. It is funded generously by many large donors, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and leading corporations. It raised $30 million in 2010, and spent approximately $19.4 million on direct campaign ads for individual candidates. In 2012, it upped the ante ‚Äî raising almost $40 million, and devoted $29 million to direct campaign spending. The group has already begun working on the 2014 election cycle. In the first six months of 2013, the organization raised $7.4 million from just 10 contributors ‚Äî including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, PhARMA and Altria. There is a Democratic counterpart to the RSLC, the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee (DLCC). But it is no match for the RSLC ‚Äî either alone or together with the two other Democratic campaign organizations, the Democratic Attorney General Association (DAGA) and the Democratic Lieutenant Governors Association (DLGA). Each group operates independently and has a relatively modest budget. The lieutenant governors group, for example, spent about $1 million combined in both the 2010 and 2012 election cycles. Though the attorney general candidates spent more, $8 million in 2012 and $7 million in 2010, they usually run their own campaigns ‚Äî like the governors ‚Äî based on their own agendas. The DLCC chairman is Michael Gronstal, who is the Iowa Senate majority leader. The executive director since 2007 is Michael Sargeant, who has worked on statewide and congressional elections. The organization boasts it made "net gains ‚Ä¶ in 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2012" in gaining seats and legislative chambers. While this is true, in four of the last five years, the national Democratic Party won decisively. Barack Obama has been the first Democratic president since Franklin D. Roosevelt to win at least 51 percent of the vote in two elections ‚Äî and such big victories always have a tailcoat effect. Consider that Democrats won 170 state seats in 2012, and were able to take back the Maine and Minnesota legislatures from the GOP, as well as chambers in Colorado, Oregon, New Hampshire and New York. But Obama won all these states by substantial margin ‚Äî Maine by 15.1 percent and Minnesota by 7.7 percent. In Wisconsin, meanwhile, despite Obama's 6.7 percent victory, the Republicans won full control of the state legislature. Moreover, these Democratic wins were offset by three GOP turnovers. Arkansas, for example, had been completely controlled by Democrats even after 2010. But the GOP captured both legislative chambers in 2012 ‚Äî the first time this has happened since 1874. Republicans now have a veto-proof legislature opposing a Democratic governor. The GOP also picked up a chamber in Oklahoma. In fact, because the GOP's¬†gerrymandering¬†was so effective in 2012, the tailcoat effect was far weaker than usual. Republicans won 223 more state legislature seats than Democrats, 3,093 to 2,870, and seized control 57 of 99 legislative chambers. It also increased the Republican veto-proof majorities from 13 to 16, and raised their total control of state governments including the governorship, from 22 to 24. (This includes Nebraska, which has a nominally non-partisan unicameral legislature.) The Democrats thus wound up with a net gain of only the four chambers in Maine and Minnesota and total control of just 13 states. They can't afford many more such victories. Though the Democrats have increased both their fundraising and campaign spending, they are still far behind their opponents. In 2012 the DLCC raised $17 million and allocated only $11 million to direct campaign spending, compared with $29 million by the Republicans. The 2010 DLCC direct campaign spending figure was even smaller: $5.9 million, less than a third of the Republicans' $19.4 million. GOP fundraising has also dwarfed the Democrats'. In 2010 and 2012, the three Democratic state organizations combined raised only $15.5 million and $22 million, roughly half of the RSLC's $30 million and $40 million. The DLCC funding comes overwhelmingly from a handful of labor unions. Almost half the group's top 20 contributors are unions, and only two gave $1 million or above in 2012 ‚Äî $ 1.7 million from the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and $1 million from the Teamsters. For its part, the RSLC says it has 100,000 donors nationally. Its top 20 contributors, however, include several multimillion-dollar givers. For example, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, consistently the top RSLC supporter, gave $4 million in 2012 and $3.9 million in 2010; tobacco companies and Blue Cross/Blue Shield each gave $1 million or more in the two presidential elections. Perhaps to counter the Republicans, Democratic state legislators this summer created a 501(c)(4) nonprofit group, American Values First (AVF). Like other 501(c )(4)s, it is limited in how much it can spend on elections. How limited, though, is still uncertain ‚Äî and is part of the regulatory morass that led to the Internal Revenue Service targeting scandal. By contrast, the RSLC is a 527 organization, so it can spend as much as it wants. Michael Sargeant, of the DLCC, was also appointed AVF executive director. Almost nothing else about this organization is publicly known ‚Äî neither its financial situation nor personnel other than Sargeant. He has announced that AVF plans a 50-state effort on increasing ballot access, focused initially on mail-in elections. Given the widespread Republican efforts to suppress voting with ID laws and decreased hours for early voting, it is unclear how increasing ballot access can be enacted ‚Äî other than in states totally controlled by Democrats, where ballot access is already easy. The RSLC, meanwhile, is taking concrete steps to correct Republican weakness among minorities and women. In 2011, the group launched the Future Majority Project to identify and support Republican Latino and female candidates for state office. The group spent $5.5 million in the 2012 elections to support 125 Latino candidates and 191 women candidates. Eighty-four women won, but only 15 Latinos. The GOP announced this summer that it will try to recruit 300 women candidates and 200 minorities, and plans to devote another $5 to $6 million total to the effort. The angry public reaction against the Republicans for the shutdown and debt crisis could transform the electoral picture and overcome the GOP¬†gerrymandering¬†even at the down-ballot state level. At this time, however, the Democrats' efforts must concentrate on regaining the U.S. House and holding the Senate, for little if anything can be accomplished in Congress unless the gridlock is broken. The election is a year away, however, and politics is ever-changing and notoriously unpredictable. Unless the Republicans again shut down the government or threaten a government default, memories may fade or other events will intervene. After the 1995 shutdown, Republicans lost only eight congressional seats in the 1996 election in which President Bill Clinton beat Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole handily. And today's map is far more gerrymandered. But the Democrats must also begin to overcome GOP dominance of the state legislatures. 2020 is the crucial date. If the Democrats fail to retake a substantial number of these state chambers by then, the Republicans will be able to continue the 2011¬†gerrymandering¬†in 2021. We can likely expect far more state conservative legislation against voting rights, reproductive rights, unions and more. Given the Tea Party's influence within the GOP and its many billionaire backers, gridlock could also continue in Congress ‚Äî even if the Democrats win every presidential election or the Senate for years to come. (Herman Schwartz is a constitutional law professor at the American University Washington College of Law. He served as an adviser on constitutional and human rights reforms to many former Soviet republics and former members of the Eastern Bloc. Opinions are his own.)
REUTERS/Marcelo del PozoA woman sits on her suitcase as she waits for a train during a 24-hour nationwide train strike against the privatization plans of railways public companies Adif and Renfe at Santa Just train station in the Andalusian capital of Seville, southern Spain October 31, 2013.Stocks kicked off November with a very modest move higher. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Feng Li/Getty Images In a western democracy like the United States, we assume that the best time for a leader to accomplish something is in the first year of his first term. The election has just ended, the opposition is still scattered, and the legislative mandate is intact. Everybody still talks about Franklin Delano Roosevelt's first 100 Days for a reason. In authoritarian governments, like China's, it's supposed to be different. Steering such a large bureaucracy takes time, as all the moving pieces catch up with one another. What matters is minimizing risk surrounding the transfer of power, and then engaging in a slow buildup of consensus. And yet, Xi Jinping is proving the conventional wisdom wrong. After just six months at the helm, Xi is already clearly on track to accomplish far more than his predecessor Hu¬†Jintao. The constellation of China's leadership left Xi Jinping with more room to maneuver upon taking office: the Politburo Standing Committee, the top brass in China's government, was consolidated from nine members to seven. Over the next few months, Xi built up a track record of successful reforms. He has worked at overhauling the banking system and shaking out its bad loans. Through his anti-corruption efforts, he has increased the accountability for the leaders of state-owned enterprises and provincial leaders. He improved product safety and the environment by changing the reward structure for the people in charge and implementing air pollution regulations. We've also seen the establishment of a free trade zone in Shanghai. Despite all this progress, there is vastly more to do. But Xi seems up to the task ‚Äî and he is eager to get started. Over the weekend, one of Xi's allies, Yu Zhengsheng, a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, promised even further reforms at the upcoming Third Plenum meeting of party leadership from November 9-12th, declaring it will usher in "unprecedented" policy changes and reform. What might those unprecedented reforms be? I would expect some tangible, public commitments to rectify financial issues ‚Äî some combination of things like the deregulation of interest rates, currency convertibility, or the liberalization of capital accounts. On top of that, I anticipate that the party will announce changes to the house registration policy (called "hukou" in China), which facilitates the historic rural to urban transition that's moving 250 million Chinese from the countryside and into cities. Elsewhere, a move toward tax reform, particularly at the local level, would be very significant. We've seen local Chinese governments running up huge debt burdens: tax reforms that improved their revenues could help rectify the situation and offset potential financial disaster. And finally, although air pollution regulation has already been announced, expect even more focus on the environment. Studies now show that Chinese coal pollution is cutting life expectancy by up to five years. I wouldn't be surprised if Xi delivers a more pointed declaration that China needs to wean itself off of coal in exchange for environmentally cleaner alternatives. We may get a step in this direction with the announcement of an intended coal tax. With all that said, it should be stressed that there's one thing that is incredibly unlikely to be proposed at the Politburo meeting: political reform. If anything, we've seen China further crack down on political dissidents and outspoken media outlets (the Bo Xilai saga is just one example). Chinese leaders have appeared to take a cautionary lesson from Gorbachev: when engaging in radical economic reform, don't try and do political reform at the same time. The Chinese are going to balance their newfound economic flexibility by staying rigid on dissent. Xi's recent decision to reinstate "self-criticism sessions," a practice with Maoist associations, has made it clear that, politically, Xi Jinping is no Western liberalizer, even as he liberalizes his economy. This is reform within the parameters of the existing Communist Party. And it's reform that's badly needed, as China's political elite are entangled with an overwhelming share of the economy. On the 2012 Fortune Global 500 list, of the 70 Chinese countries that made the cut, 65 of them are state-owned. The people who run the companies are some of the most influential political leaders in China, and so the government can't just privatize the businesses ‚Äî because the businesses are the government. But somehow they'll have to get more efficient, and less corrupt, for China to stay competitive internationally. Economic reform is challenging, and it will lead to demand for more of the political change that Xi is limiting right now. That's the risk. But the reward is tangible: a more efficient, dynamic economy that can be sustainable even without the government fueling it. Xi has already done more for that cause than Hu and Wen Jiabao could, and in far less time. But he faces a Goldilocks challenge, where moving too slowly could produce an angry clamoring for more progress, but changes that come too rapidly could destabilize the economy altogether. The upcoming plenary will give us a hint as to where Xi wants to set the speed limit. (This column is based on a transcribed phone interview with Bremmer.) (Ian Bremmer is a Reuters columnist. Opinions are his own.)
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonNews broke recently that Barclays has suspended six traders in an internal probe looking at whether its employees were rigging the foreign exchange market. There's also RBS, who emailed clients Wednesday to essentially say, Yikes, we're going to go ahead and take a look at what our traders are doing in the minutes before rates are set. Regulators in the U.S., Asia, and U.K. have all opened investigations, with multiple banks implicated. Even JP Morgan, already very much in the penalty box, has said that various regulators are prying into their currency trading practices.†Here we go again! This particular rigging saga is not to be confused with another well-known scandal ó so-called Liborgate ówhere traders manipulated the short-term interest rate benchmark. But it looks like this (fairly similar) one may be the next big†Traders Doing Very Bad Things fracas to rock the financial world. We're here to answer your questions. Hey, what's going on here? We'll start with the basics. The foreign exchange market ó "forex" ó is the biggest market in the world, though it doesn't get as much mainstream press as its stock and bond brethren. Traders buy and sell money on the forex market. "The FX market is like the Wild West," one forex expert told Bloomberg. "It's buyer beware." That's in part because the market is lightly regulated and a ton of currency trading happens in the shadowy realm outside of exchanges. This particular currency rigging story has been going on for some time, with Bloomberg reporting in June that traders at some of the world's biggest banks had been toying with rates by pushing through trades before the 60-second window when the FX benchmarks are set. What is the rate they are messing with? That would be the the WM/ Reuters rate. Here's a good description: The WM/Reuters rate set at 4 pm London time is considered the benchmark by many companies and investors because more than 40 percent of daily global FX trading is done in London. It is the nearest thing to a closing price in a 24-hour, self-regulated market. For the big, frequently traded currencies ó like USDEUR (dollar/euro) óthe rate gets published every half hour. For the little guys, every hour. Without getting too detailed, the rate is calculated by taking the median of total trades during a 60-second period every half hour. "If there arenít enough transactions between a pair of currencies during the reference period, the rate is based on the median of tradersí orders, which are offers to sell or bids to buy," Bloomberg reports. "Rates for the other, less-widely traded currencies are calculated using quotes during a two-minute window." Got it? Not really. Why is this rate important? Like Libor, the WM/Reuters rate is peculiar to those outside the financial world. Actually, many people in the financial world probably don't pay that much attention to it (unless they are concerned with currency trading). But the rate matters to society at large because, as Morningstar estimates, $3.6 trillion in things like pension funds and savings accounts†can fluctuate in value when the rate moves. Now I'm listening. So how do traders mess with the rate?† Traders at these big banks are market-makers. They are buying and selling for clients and for the bank itself. In that June report, Bloomberg spoke with some traders who described how their contemporaries managed to exploit the WM/Reuters rate. The gist: Knowing that their traders will try to trade against them, customers wait until just before 4 p.m. to place their orders. So traders get the orders minutes (plural) before 4 p.m. and then in the minute (singular) before the 60-second window, traders adjust their own position because the large order they just got from some index fund will move the market. It's called "banging the close," which, of course it is. Here's the nitty gritty if you're interested, from Bloomberg: One trader with more than a decade of experience said that if he received an order at 3:30 p.m. to sell 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in exchange for Swiss francs at the 4 p.m. fix, he would have two objectives: to sell his own euros at the highest price and also to move the rate lower so that at 4 p.m. he could buy the currency from his client at a lower price. He would profit from the difference between the reference rate and the higher price at which he sold his own euros, he said. A move in the benchmark of 2 basis points, or 0.02 percent, would be worth 200,000 francs ($216,000), he said. "If they didnít do so, [the traders] said, they risked losing money for their banks," according to Bloomberg. Are these traders just smart... or are they jerks? Or are they smart jerks? Or are they smart jerks doing something illegal? It kind of depends on what your baseline theory of trading/financial regulation is. If, as Bloomberg columnist Matt Levine desribes, you believe that the fundamental precept of regulation is that A) Regulators attempt to write the rules B) Banks sit down and try to figure out how circumnavigate those rules and C) Banks are way better at it for a variety of reasons, then you might call this whole forex gambit a "risk strategy" instead of "manipulation." As in, this isn't free money, it's merely a tactic to mitigate a trader's risk. It could backfire! One of the whistleblower traders told Bloomberg that the strategy doesn't necessarily work with A) highly-traded currencies where the market is so big or B) If someone else comes in and messes with your bet during the 60-second window. Isn't this like Libor though? The Libor rate gets calculated by bank estimates, so that scandal was†rigging in the truest sense of the word. If you want proof, we have hilarious traderspeak emails such as: Swiss Franc Trader:†can u put 6m swiss libor in low pls? Primary Submitter:†NO Swiss Franc Trader:†should have pushed the door harder Primary Submitter:†Whats it worth Swiss Franc Trader:†ive got some sushi rolls from yesterday? Primary Submitter:†ok low 6m , just for u The forex market rate is based on actual quotes, not bank estimates (or the promise of sushi).† Though, two of the trader sources told Bloomberg that dealers were colluding to move the rates, so maybe we'll eventually see a paper trail like the above. And, hey, traders are (maybe!) messing with a rate that has reverberations for our pensions.†And there's this: In the space of 20 minutes on the last Friday in June, the value of the U.S. dollar jumped 0.57 percent against its Canadian counterpart, the biggest move in a month. Within an hour, two-thirds of that gain had melted away.†The same pattern ó a sudden surge minutes before 4 p.m. in†London†on the last trading day of the month, followed by a quick reversal ó occurred 31 percent of the time across 14 currency pairs over two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The market goes crazy and then corrects on the last day of the month... when clients are placing huge orders. Interesting.† So what's going to happen? It's hard to say exactly. Barclays suspended those six traders (including its head currency trader in London). A smattering of banks will probably cough up fines and fire traders and/or slap wrists. There's always a slight chance of criminal proceedings, but it's too soon to tell what regulators are going to game for. But they'll change the rules for the WM/Reuters rate, right? Sure! And then everyone on Wall Street will sit down and figure out how best to make money next.
So it appears there may be some academic heft behind some of the prognosticating I've been doing. I came across¬†a piece at Better Cities and Towns¬†that suggests that America is at the onset of the Fifth Migration, according to Dr. Arthur C. Nelson, professor of city and metropolitan planning at the University of Utah and director of its Metropolitan Research Center. ¬†In the recently released issue of¬†Planning Theory and Practice,¬†Dr. Nelson says that trends that we're all aware of -- rising energy costs, stagnant incomes, growing wealth inequality, tighter home financing and shifting housing and community preferences -- are combining to make the next fifty years of American development look very different from the previous fifty. ¬†In fact, Dr. Nelson says the Fifth Migration, or Fifth Wave, could also be called America's Suburban Resettlement Movement. ¬†Driven by empty nester Baby Boomers and young professional Millennials, Dr. Nelson says development focus through the middle of this century will be on central city neighborhoods and mature, inner-ring suburbs, as they become "re-urbanized". To which I say, I agree.I made my point on this with my "Big Theory" series over the last several months. ¬†Earlier this month¬†I wrote that¬†the 2008 financial crisis likely put the nail in the coffin for the suburban pattern of the post-war era, and kicked off the next wave: What I believe will happen is that perceived differences between ‚Äúcity‚Äù and ‚Äúsuburb‚Äù will begin to disappear.¬† Suburbs will introduce more housing types than conventional single-family homes, to attract a more diverse group of residents.¬† Edge cities will become more walkable.¬† Downtowns and town centers will emerge where currently none exist.¬† They‚Äôll have to respond to the aging of their residents and the needs they have.¬† Similarly, cities will continue to attract young, educated and affluent residents who will be attracted to the inherent adaptability of cities ‚Äì their transit networks, mix of housing types, job centers, and amenities. ¬†  On the surface, in many places it will appear as the ‚Äúcity‚Äù is gaining as the ‚Äúsuburbs‚Äù are losing.¬† However, the truth will be that there will be greater economic and social balance between the two, and that both will begin to look more similar than dissimilar.¬† To me, this is a positive.¬† I see this as a trend that will accelerate after 2020. In fact, I can think of a new term to describe what will happen with metros that more accurately describes what I expect to happen -- The Great Congealing.¬† After the hot, fast-paced expansion of the suburbs since World War II, the next phase of American development will cool down and thicken. There will be some winners and losers at the community level, and it won't be a simple city-wins-and-suburbs-lose game.¬† I think access will drive this shift, and, to a lesser extent, each community's quantity of small-to-medium size households on small-to-medium sized lots.¬† So yes, to the extent that some exurbs went all out on large-lot single family development, and chooses to stay there, they may end up on the wrong side of the emerging trends.¬† But there will likely be plenty of opportunities for communities to alter their course. At the outset, however, some communities may be aligned for future success.¬† Let's look at the map below to see how some communities in the Chicago region may be ready (or not ready) for the Great Congealing: The Corner Side Yard This map shows the municipal boundaries for the 284 suburbs in the seven-county Chicago metropolitan area, as well as the 77 defined community areas within the City of Chicago (outlined in bold).¬† The colors detail community areas and suburbs by transportation access -- the green areas are served by both rail transit and interstates; the darker yellow areas are served by rail transit only; the lighter yellow areas are serve by interstates only; and those left blank are served by neither.¬† If you're wondering how the Great Congealing might play out in the Chicago area, areas that have the best current access, either both rail and highway or one or the other, might be at the leading edge of the trend.¬† Coincidentally, the areas that have the greatest access are generally the ones that have the most eclectic mix of small, medium and larger home lots, possibly making them more attractive to a wider range of potential home buyers and renters than others.¬† I expect that this pattern will play out in metros around the country, even in those currently without rail access.¬† Older areas with a more diverse mix of land uses will benefit; the more homogeneous places may have to adapt quickly or risk decline.How will we know for sure that the Great Congealing is occurring?¬† We'll have to wait for the economy to end its slow trot toward recovery and pick up the pace.¬† If residential and commercial builders are betting on mature communities with better transportation access, the shift is on.
The ISM manufacturing index unexpectedly climbed to 56.4 in October from 56.2 in September, suggesting that manufacturing activity accelerated even as the government shutdown and debt ceiling debate dominated headlines. This confirmed Thursday's huge Chicago PMI number, which exploded to 65.9, the highest level since March 2011. However, Societe Generale's Kit Juckes published an interesting chart in his new "10 Weekend Charts" note that may have you concerned about the ISM reading going forward. "My final chart is of the US ISM, against the ëforward-ISM' which subtracts inventories from new orders and is seen as a leading indicator," he wrote. "It tells its own tale. Just one to ponder over the weekend. We still expect the US economy to get over the shutdown quite quickly and the Fed to ëtaperí in March." As you can see to the right, the beige line has turned down suggesting the ISM headline number may fall again. Societe Generale
At Oracle's annual meeting on Thursday, shareholders told CEO Larry Ellison and Oracle's other top execs that they makes too much money,†reports Reuters' Noel Randewich. Shareholders took part in a non-binding 'say on pay" vote, where they could vote in favor of the pay packages awarded to executives, or against. More than 2 billion votes were cast against, compared to more than 1 billion in favor,†Randewich reports. However, in a mixed message, they also voted to retain all of Oracle's directors. Activist investment group CtW Investments, which owns 6 million shares of Oracle, started lobbying for a pay cut for Ellison and other execs in September. They wanted shareholders to vote "no" and also vote out three board member on the Compensation Committee:†Bruce Chizen, George Conrades and Naomi Seligman. "The board should tie his compensation to some kind of revenue target or strategic initiative, not just throw options at him in such a huge amounts," Michael Price Jones, CtW's senior governance analyst told Business Insider at the time. Oracle's board didn't see it that way. Oracle's top attorney,†Dorian Daley, responded to CtW by saying:† As best we can decipher, your position seems to be that Mr.†Ellisonís compensation package is approximately $50 million too high against a backdrop of $13.6 billion in free cash flow delivered under his leadership. In other words, we are spending approximately 36 basis points of our free-cash flow (less than one-half of one percent) too much to ensure the continued services of one of the countryís most successful entrepreneurs and technological visionaries. Top proxy advisor firm, Institutional Shareholder Services, agreed with CtW. It†recommended that shareholders vote against Oracle pay packages and vote "withhold" for eight of Oracle's 11 directors, Reuters' Ross Kerber†reported. A withhold vote is a non-binding way for shareholders to express disapproval. This is the second year in a row that shareholders have voted against executive pay packages. And†Ellison did give up a $1.2 million cash bonus for fiscal 2013, which ended in May. His annual salary is a token $1. But the board still showered him with stock options. CtW pointed out in a research report that in 2013†that†Ellison was paid about $78 million in cash and stock, mostly stock, compared to an industry average of $29 million. In 2012, it was $96 million, compared to an average of $43 million. And in 2011, it was $76 million, compared to $22 million.†CtW also wants lower pay for Oracle's five top execs. In 2012, they were paid $253 million, compared to an industry average of $90 million, it said.† Larry Ellison is a self-made billionaire, one of the founders of Oracle and the Valley's longest-running CEO. He's the heart-and-soul of the company and his pay reflects that. Year after year, Ellison lands on the lists of the highest paid CEOs.† But his company is struggling to grow as smaller cloud computing players rise up to bite his ankles. And his grand vision of moving Oracle into the hardware business hasn't yet paid off. This chart explains the problem: Bloomberg
Walter Hickey / BIDENVER (AP) ó A pro-pot jingle in Colorado last year went like this: "Jobs for our people/Money for schools/Who could ask for more?" Nearly a year after Colorado legalized recreational weed, voters get the chance to decide exactly how much more ó in taxes. On Tuesday, voters decide whether to approve a 15 percent pot excise tax to pay for school construction, plus an extra sales tax of 10 percent to fund marijuana enforcement. Some pot activists are campaigning against the taxes, arguing that marijuana should be taxed like beer, which has a tax rate of 8 cents a gallon. They've handed out free joints at tax protests. "Our alcohol system is regulated just fine with the taxes they have, so we don't see any need for this huge grab for cash from marijuana," said Miguel Lopez, volunteer coordinator for the small opposition campaign to Colorado's pot tax measure. While polls suggest the tax is going to pass ó even in this state where voters frequently reject new taxes ó it is very much an open question how much the state is going to reap. A projection prepared for voters by state fiscal analysts predicted the taxes would bring in $70 million a year. But an early draft of Colorado's first budget after retail sales begin, the 2014-15 fiscal year, doesn't include an amount they expect in pot revenue. Washington state isn't counting on pot revenue, either. Voters in that state set tax rates when they approved legalization last year. Taxes will be 25 percent, levied at least twice and up to three times between when the pot is grown and when it reaches the customer, plus sales tax. Marijuana's tax potential is an important question for the prospects for pot legalization in other states. If pot proves a tax windfall for Colorado and Washington, other states may be inclined to look favorably on legal weed. But if recreational pot smokers in the two states stay in the black market to avoid taxes, while the price tag for regulating a new industry balloons, marijuana legalization could suddenly look like a bad deal. That's why many in Colorado's marijuana industry are pushing the tax measure. They say that because most people don't use marijuana, the public needs to see a public benefit from making the drug legal. "Taxes are an opportunity for marijuana to show it can play a valuable role in the community," said Joe Megyesy, spokesman for the campaign promoting the tax measure. Support for the marijuana taxes extends even to politicians who opposed legalization in the first place, including Democratic Gov. John Hickenlooper and Republican Attorney General John Suthers. "I think everyone sort of realizes that the die has been cast. We're really doing this, and if we're going to move marijuana out of the shadows, we need to regulate it and tax it," said Sam Kamin, a University of Denver law professor who studies drug policy and served on the Colorado panel that helped write state marijuana regulations. Still unclear is how the new marijuana market responds. Colorado's medical marijuana framework will remain in place, with a much lower taxation rate. Heavy pot users could save a lot of money by paying nominal annual fees to be on the state medical marijuana registry and paying only regular sales taxes on their pot. Colorado also allows growing pot at home without a license, allowing users to avoid taxes entirely. Surveys suggest that 20 percent of pot smokers consume 80 percent of the pot, so the behavior of the heavy user has significant tax consequences, said Beau Kilmer, co-director of the RAND Drug Policy Research Center. It's too soon to say what will happen to recreational pot prices after retail sales begin next year. But if current prices hold, Colorado's proposed tax rate would add about $50 to an ounce of medium-quality loose marijuana, roughly the amount that would fit in a sandwich-sized plastic bag. Precise projections for the pot tax burden on the user are dicey. Like alcohol, marijuana can vary widely in potency, quality and price. Both Washington and Colorado plan to use taxes based on price. By contrast, alcohol is taxed by the gallon and cigarettes by the pack, regardless of how expensive the booze or smokes are. Another unknown is how much regulation will cost. Colorado has approved an ambitious seed-to-sale tracking scheme that includes extensive video surveillance of licensed growing sites and radio-frequency identification tagging. That could end up costing more than the 10 percent special sales tax produces, warned Colorado State University economists in a report issued in April. Kilmer said that Colorado and Washington are aware they're treading into uncharted waters on marijuana taxation. Voters and consumers, he said, should be prepared for big changes in pot tax rates and regulatory schemes. "Flexibility is clearly going to be the key here," Kilmer said. ___ Kristen Wyatt can be reached at http://www.twitter.com/APkristenwyatt Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThe NASDAQ MarketSite in New York's Times Square.Nasdaq appears to be having another tech issue. The exchange says that it has halted trading in its Nasdaq Options Market. ¬†That options market will remain halted through today's close. ¬† Here's a timeline of events from today courtesy of Nasdaq. From Nasdaq Trader:¬† 14:06 ET: On Friday, November 1st at 10:36:57 a.m. ET, NASDAQ OMX halted trading on the NASDAQ Options Market (NOM), one of the exchange group‚Äôs three U.S. options markets.¬†A significant increase in order entries inhibited the system‚Äôs ability to accept orders and disseminate quotes on a subset of symbols, which resulted in the NOM halt.¬†As equities options trading continues on eleven other venues, including NASDAQ OMX PHLX and BX Options, NASDAQ OMX has determined it is in the best interest of market participants and investors to cancel all open orders on the NOM book at 10:36:57 a.m. ET, and to continue the market halt through the close. Equities trading has not been impacted. 12:49:19 ET: NASDAQ Options Market (NOM) is currently working to resolve the system issues and remains halted. We will send out an update once we have additional information and/or a resolution. Please contact Market Operations at (215) 496-1571 if you have any further questions. 12:48:05 ET: NASDAQ is currently experiencing interruptions in dissemination of the NOM Depth at Price (DAP) Data Feed. NASDAQ expects dissemination to be current shortly. All NASDAQ systems are operating normally. 11:28:25 ET: NASDAQ Options Market (NOM) is currently working to resolve the system¬†issues and remains halted. We will send out an update once we have additional information and/or a resolution. Please contact Market Operations at (215) 496-1571 if you have any further questions. 10:55:27 ET:¬†NASDAQ Options Mart NOM has Halted trading as of 10:36:57. We will send out an update once we have additional information and/or a resolution. Please contact Market Operations at (215) 496-1571 if you have any further questions. 10:33:26:¬†NASDAQ Options Market (NOM) is currently¬†investigating an issue sending unsolicited outs over FIX¬†in symbol range¬†A through M. We are advising¬†you to route away until this issue has been resolved.¬† ¬†Please contact Market Operations at (215) 496-1571 if you have any further questions. This is the second issue the exchange has had this week. On Tuesday, Nasdaq halted trading of a bunch of indices due to an issue with disseminating their values.
First Solar shares are up 18.75% after the largest solar panel manufacturer in the U.S. crushed earnings forecast. The company reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.28, compared with $0.99 expected. Unadjusted earnings came in at $1.94/share. Net sales were¬†$1.3 billion¬†in the quarter, up 74% from¬†Q2 and from the prior quarter and 204% from Q3 2012. Here's the chart: Yahoo
School authorities at Brooklyn's Medgar Evers College Preparatory School called emergency services when a odor was detected in a sixth-grade classroom, causing 8 kids to be taken to the hospital. The smell turned out to be Axe Body Spray, according to†reporting †by the New York Daily News.† The incident occurred when a student, who is now facing disciplinary action, unleashed the spray on the classroom.† ìEMS transported eight students to the hospital, and parents of two students took them to their own doctors,î said a statement from the city's Department of Education. The deodorant spray, which is a teenage-boy staple, has marketed itself as a way for young men to irresistible attract women.  Slate writer and mother to pre-teen boys Dahlia Lithwick experimented with wearing the spray for a week, and was advised by her teenage nephew to "stay away from the ìnasty grossnessî-scented products."† Lithwick also found that wearing the Axe fragrance for a week was the best way to stop her children from using them. She says, "Both my kids were so embarrassed that they stopped using it within days of my initiating the experiment. Smell you later, Axe."
Every minute you spend making cat memes represents 0.05 minutes you could have spent socializing, 0.27 minutes you could have spent on work, 0.04 minutes of relaxing and thinking†and 0.12 minutes less of sleep. That's what a new NBER research paper by Scott Wallsten finds after looking at the opportunity costs of spending your leisure time on the Internet. The Economist's Greg Ip pointed us to this. Wallsten analyzes data from the American Time Use Survey (ATUS), which follows 13,000 Americans for 24 hours and breaks down how they spend their time. Wallsten looked at the data point that measures the time spent on†ìComputer use for leisure†(excluding games),î and looks at how it impacts other forms of leisure, such as watching TV,†socializing, and attending parties and cultural events.† Here's a chart breaking down what activities get crowded out by Internet use. Scott Wallsten/ ATUS A large part of this this Internet leisure time happens during the work-day, between 9 am to 5 pm, but it peaks during the post-dinner period at around 10 pm.† Scott Walsten/ATUS Of course, time spent on the Internet differs by demographic. Breaking down the population by income, Wallsten finds that the richer you get, the less free time you have on the whole. However, your time spent unwinding on the Internet does increase. Internet leisure time is lowest among the lower income groups between $5000 to $15,000 a year, presumably because of lack of access to the internet.† Scott Wallsten/ATUS Scott Wallsten/ATUS Internet leisure time decreases with education, and declines 5.5% for people with Ph.Ds. It's also highest for those without a high school diploma and high school graduates. † Scott Wallsten/ATUS A racial breakdown shows that those identifying as "White-Asian-Hawaiian" spend nearly 50% of their free time on the internet,†followed by ìWhite-Asian,î ìBlack,î and finally ìWhite.î Scott Wallsten/ATUS Scott Wallsten/ATUS
Vittorio J, InstagramGentlemen, it's time to have a talk about your shoes. There are two reasons why they're important. First, they can change your entire outfit, and second (no matter what your frat brothers told you) everyone notices them. Because of these two truths, when shoes are bad, they're really horrendous. Alternatively, when they're great, they're wonderful. Impressive, even. And that's what we're going for here. Impressive. Business Insider reached out to its friends in the world of men's fashion ó†Judah Estreicher of custom suit shop JBD Clothiers, and designer Jesse Chao at Vittorio J ó to put together a quick guide to buying a pair of men's dress shoes this season. In it, you'll find a few pointers about what's trending, some gorgeous examples of them, and then those same styles at a more ... conservative price point. But first, lets talk basics. If you're buying a good quality shoe, all the materials should be organic, nothing synthetic. The soles should be stitched onto the shoe, never glued. You want that stitching through the sole into the shoe, and around the entirety of the shoe. If you're buy good quality shoes, they'll last a long time if they're taken care of. Buy a polishing kit, take your shoes to get resoled, and be good to them. That should go without saying. Now for what's trending. "For this season it's about the military inspired dress boot," said Estreicher. "Double monk strap and wingtip are all styles which you can get away with dress or casual. In addition, people are wearing a combination of military inspired dress boot with wingtips." This season, you'll also see a lot of suede, a pop of color, and some two-toned shoes. Now, if you have upwards of $550 to spend on a pair of shoes, Chao recommends that you check out New York based shoe store Leffot. The shoes are impeccable (we used some for this story, and yes... they are sick). Estreicher showed us some smoke-shows from Scarpe di Bianco (same price point. Be careful out there). For the rest of you there's anything from awesome boutique Jack Erwin ó where shoes and boots are all under $215 ó to Johston and Murphy, Allen Edmonds, and even Aldo as long as you know what you're looking for ó and that's quality. Now for the dos and don'ts ó we have to have those or else it's no fun. "My biggest advice would be if you're going to spend money on a nice pair of shoes, make sure they are brown," says Chao. "Brown shoes match almost every color suit (except for black) and look great with jeans. The only times I have ever worn black shoes, have been with a tuxedo." For Estreicher, there's nothing worse than "unkempt shoes with gaudy buckles while wearing a suit, or casual shoes with dress clothing." Don't do that stuff. A few suggestions on how to do it below.
California-based hedge fund Topturn Capital sent out a press release today saying that they've teamed up with pro surfer Joe Curren for marketing purposes. † What's more is the fund's co-founder referred to Curren as "The Trojan Horse" of their investment strategy.† The JOBS Act changed the rules allowing hedge funds to market themselves. † Here's the full release (emphasis ours):† Hedge Fund Manager: Topturn Capital†Aligns with Professional Surfer† November 1st, 2013; MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA -†Topturn Capital,†a boutique investment management firm, aligns with professional surfer†Joe Curren†in a bold maneuver to take advantage of the SECís ratification of the JOBS Act and set new precedency in marketing. ìThe SECs recent ratification of the Jobs Act has dramatically changed everything,î notes Dan Darchuck, Top Turn Capitalís Co-Founder and Managing Director. ìWhen our industry leverages the ability to outwardly market alternative investments, things are going to get very competitive very quickly. We just happen to be leading the industry.î In the surfing lexicon, a ëtop turní refers to a surferís ability to reposition himself back into the momentum of moving water. Topturn Capitalís approach to asset management parallels this analogy. With the recent JOBS Act ruling, Topturn was presented with a very unique opportunity to position their company and investment strategy. ìWe feel that how we represent our company will change the industry norm,î says Greg Stewart, Co-Founder and Chief Investment Officer of Top Turn Capital. ìPeople look at numbers all day everyday. We just brought in The Trojan Horse for our investment strategy by introducing a surfer into the equation.î ABOUT TOPTURN† Dan Darchuck and Greg Stewart have more than 50 years of combined experience in asset management and have gained recognition for their OMNI-STRAT Fund ñ an systematic approach to alternative investing utilizing a combination of three distinct strategies which tend to have a low, long-term correlation to stocks. By employing leading economic research and portfolio management technology to develop innovative strategies for managing risk and multiplying return, Top Turn Capital has a proven track record of more than three years and currently manages more than $100 million AUM.
BalthazarI ate breakfast this morning at a New York restaurant called Balthazar. Balthazar is hot with the cool crowd, which is a bummer, but if you get there early enough you can get a table. The dining room is classy, the food and service are good, and as far as hip New York eateries go, it's not fantastically expensive. So I am, for the most part, a fan of Balthazar. But there's one thing that really irritates me about it. The bosses at Balthazar, for reasons that mystify me, have a longstanding practice of making some poor guy stand in the small men's bathroom in a tuxedo and provide "services" to Balthazar clientele who use the bathroom. These services include: * Turning on the sink water for Balthazar clients who approach the sink after peeing * Wiping the sink after each use * Handing Balthazar clients who have washed their hands a paper towel to dry them with I suppose it is possible that there are some Balthazar clients who actually regard this as something positive or helpful ó the mark of a fine establishment. But, wow, am I not one of those clients. I always forget that Balthazar makes a guy stand in the tiny bathroom all day, so whenever I open the Balthazar bathroom door after breakfast, I am hit by the same series of unpleasant emotions: Annoyance, guilt, pity, uncomfortable invasion of personal space, and then... extortion. First, as I squeeze through the tiny space between the attendant and the door, I think, "Ugh, I forgot about this. Why on earth does Balthazar do this?" Then I think, "This poor guy, who just had to announce my entrance into the bathroom by greeting me graciously, has to stand in the bathroom all day. That's a terrible job, and now I feel like I'm contributing to making him do it." Then I think, "And now this poor fellow is going to have to stand there, three feet away from me, and watch me pee. And he is somehow going to have to do that while not feeling degraded and uncomfortable. Meanwhile, I'm going to have to stand there and pee in front of him. What if it takes a few seconds? Am I going to start to be embarrassed about that? What if it then takes a few more seconds? †And so on. The poor guy is going to have to stand there and pretend not to notice." Then I think, "And after that will come the worst part. I will have to walk over to the sink and watch him turn on the water for me before I get there. I will think, 'Thanks, but I actually don't need someone to turn on the water for me. First of all, it wastes water. Second, it makes me feel like I'm the kind of guy who dreams of being rich enough to be able to pay someone to turn on the water for me.' The poor guy will talk to me while I'm washing my hands, while standing 6 inches from me. Then, after I wash my hands, he will hand me a paper towel. And then he will expect a tip. And, then, at that point, I have an internal debate with myself: Should I really give him a tip for providing a service I hate that I don't want that takes exactly 5 seconds? Should I really encourage this annoying practice by rewarding it? Should I really support what is, in fact, extortion-by-guilt? Then I remember that it's not this guy's fault that his idiot bosses make him stand in the bathroom watching people pee all day. The poor guy is obviously doing that job because he has to do that job. I always feel bad for people who have no choice to do bad jobs because they have to -- because I happen to be lucky enough to be able to do a job that I love. And that internal dialogue makes me think that, yes, I should tip the poor guy, even though I not only didn't want the service he provided but actually found it invasive, embarrassing, and annoying. I go through this internal dialogue and series of emotions every time I enter the Balthazar bathroom. And it makes me hate Balthazar and never want to come back. And then, over time, I forget the Balthazar bathroom experience, and remember only the dining room and meal. And then, eventually, I go back. But this is a terrible practice ó this "bathroom attendant" thing. It is never helpful. It is never anything other than uncomfortable and degrading. It is never a "service" that I look forward to or enjoy. So I am hereby appealing not just to the bosses at Balthazar, but to restaurateurs and hoteliers all over the world, to eliminate this service. UPDATE: Good news! The boss at Balthazar, Keith McNally, apparently agrees with me and also doesn't like the bathroom attendant service he has asked his employees to provide. Hopefully, as he phases it out, he will reassign the talented employees who provide it to the dining room. If the bathroom attendants can do the bathroom job that well, they will make great waiters or bus-people. I, for one, look forward to working with them. UPDATE 2: Balthazar's boss, Keith McNally, has clarified that he is NOT going to fire the excellent employees who work as bathroom attendants at Balthazar ó rather, he is going to reassign them! Hats off to Mr. McNally and Balthazar. And a very happy ending...
GettyFairfield County, Conn. is full of hedge funders ... and homeless people. As if U.S. Census data released last month wasn‚Äôt bad enough news for the middle class, a new study by Cornell and Stanford researchers has found that, over the last 40 years, families have become increasingly segregated in where they live in relation to their income.¬† Using U.S. Census data from 1970-2000 and American Community Survey data from 2005-2011, Cornell's¬†Kendra Bischoff and Stanford's Sean F. Reardon¬†found that more people are living in extremely high income areas or low income areas, while fewer are living in areas characterized as middle-income. In 1970, 65 percent of families lived in middle-income¬†neighborhoods; by 2009, only 42 percent of¬†families lived in such neighborhoods. (To see more pictures from highly unqual Fairfield County, shown above, click here.) While the study stopped short of offering reasons why the income segregation has progressed so rapidly, it notes that ‚Äúchanges in unemployment and manufacturing jobs are inversely related to income segregation.‚Äù As you can see in the chart below, there has been a steady decline of families living in middle income neighborhoods and a corresponding increase in those living in neighborhoods at the extremes:http://www.s4.brown.edu/us2010/Data/Report/report10162013.pdf While income segregation has been bad for all races, it has been particularly pronounced in Hispanic and Black families:http://www.s4.brown.edu/us2010/Data/Report/report10162013.pdf What the study found is alarming because income segregation was found to have a vicious-cycle effect. The higher income areas give economic advantages to the high-income families while the lower income areas do the opposite for low-income families. Here‚Äôs two ways from the study on how this works: Suppose that poor neighbors hinder children‚Äôs educational success because children observe fewer adults in their neighborhood with high educational attainment, and, by extension, fewer adults who have succeeded in school. Children in high-income neighborhoods observe just the opposite. In this case, income segregation would lead to educational inequality between high- and low-income children because it would produce large differences in children‚Äôs access to adult role models. ... Suppose instead that one's neighbors do not influence school success, but that it is largely determined by the resources in the school; e.g., high-skill teachers. If high-income communities attract those high-skill teachers ‚Äî for instance, by paying higher salaries ‚Äî then residential income segregation will lead to unequal school resources among communities, which will in turn lead to inequalities in educational success among high- and low-income children.¬†
REUTERS/Larry DowningBen Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve.The release of unexpectedly strong manufacturing data from the Institute of Supply Management at 10 AM has sparked a bit of a sell-off in stocks, Treasuries, and gold, illustrating just how on edge market participants are about when the Federal Reserve will begin tapering quantitative easing. The S&amp;P 500 just went negative and is now trading down 0.1% at 1755 ‚Äî more than 10 points off the highs made earlier this morning. Meanwhile, the losses in Treasuries are deepening. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are down 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is trading at 2.60%, 5 basis points above yesterday's close. Gold is down 1.3%, trading just below $1307 an ounce.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalIn the week ended October 30, investors poured another $12.4 billion into global equity funds ó with $4 billion of the total going into long-only funds, according to the latest data from EPFR Global. In a note to clients ó titled "It's Getting Frothy, Man!" ó BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett writes, "Another $8-9 billion of inflows to long-only equity funds over next 2 weeks would trigger a contrarian 'sell' signal (Chart 2). Bullish investor flows dovetails with our Bull &amp; Bear Index, which is on course to trigger a cautionary risk- off signal in mid-November." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, BloombergIn a Wednesday note to clients, Hartnett warned about the Bull &amp; Bear Index. "A breach of the 8.0 level on our Bull &amp; Bear Index would make us more negative short term," wrote Hartnett. "Cash remains high, 4.4% in our October Fund Manager Survey, and needs to fall below 4.0% in the November survey to help trigger a tactical 'sell signal'." Below is a complete breakdown of this week's flows, via Hartnett. † Asset Class Flows  Equities: $12.4bn inflows ($4bn via LO funds) Bonds: $3.7bn outflows (outflows in 12 out of past 14 weeks) Precious metals: $0.4 outflows (7 straight weeks) MMF: second straight week of inflows post debt-ceiling resolution  Equity Flows  Europe: 18 straight weeks of inflows ($2.3bn) Japan: 8 straight weeks of inflows  US: $7.6bn inflows (majority via ETFís ñ SPY, XLP, XLE, QQQ)  EM: modest outflows (first outflows in 4 weeks)  By sector, chunky inflows to Energy ($1.4bn) and Consumer ($1.2bn); outflows from Utilities and Healthcare  Fixed Income Flows  Largest outflows from IG bond funds in 18 weeks ($3.3bn) (caveat: outflows concentrated in one fund) 71 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt 8th straight week of inflows to HY bond funds ($1.6bn) 8th straight week of redemptions from govt/tsy funds 5 straight weeks of outflows from EM debt funds 29 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS
Courtesy of Millbrook Vineyards & Winery.Last week, Morgan Stanley predicted a massive crunch in wine supply, as production levels fell to their lowest in 40 years and demand from the US and China rose. However, the report has been dismissed by¬†trade organizations like the¬†International Organization of Vine and Wine¬†and Federation of French Wine and Spirits Exporters, according to reporting by¬†Mercopress.¬† While the International Organization of Vine and Wine did acknowledge that nearly 300,000 hectares of wine-producing land has been lost since 2006, they believe this loss is being made up for by production in¬†non-European countries like¬†Romania, Chile and New Zealand, and an increase in productivity in traditional wine producers like¬†Italy, France and Portugal.¬† Historically, the majority of wine-production comes from old-world countries like France, Italy and Spain, while most of the growth in consumption comes from the US and China. Vineyards in Europe have been shutting down at an alarming rate, and China's newly-wealthy population has been demanding wine in ever-greater quantities.¬† According to¬†Pierre Genest, assistant director general of the Federation of French Wine and Spirits Exporters,¬†2013 saw more production of wine than consumption for the first time in six years. He told Mercopress:  ‚ÄúIt's obvious that we're in a situation where the size of European vineyards is diminishing, but the size of vineyards in the rest of the world is increasing...And if the surfaces shrink, one would think that technological developments would allow for an increase in yields, which would make up for it.‚Äù Drink up.
FrontpageOne of the scariest risks for anyone doing business in the emerging markets or even traveling there is kidnapping. The threat is common enough that kidnap and ransom insurance is big business, a market doubling over five years to $500 million by 2011. Premiums range from $3,000ñ$6,000 for a businessman in Iraq to several million dollars per year for a shipping fleet in a dangerous area,†according to The Economist. So where do you need insurance, protection, or a ticket home? We saw a useful rundown in a recent presentation†by Chubb Assistant Vice President Christopher Arehart.†Arehart adds via email that kidnapping risk is rising particularly in Mexico, driven by the prominence of drug cartels, and also in northern Africa, due to Al Qaeda. Below are data on annual kidnappings by country and comments on particularly dangerous places for foreign businesspeople or travelers in general. Based on research conducted by The Chubb Group of Insurance Companies and The Ackerman Group. Based on research conducted by The Chubb Group of Insurance Companies and The Ackerman Group. Based on research conducted by The Chubb Group of Insurance Companies and The Ackerman Group.

James Koutoulas, the attorney representing thousands of MF Global customers on a pro-bono basis, dressed up as the defunct broker-dealer's chief Jon Corzine for Halloween. † Check it out:† Happy Halloween for MF global customers due to finally get their funds back soon. Next up, making this a reality pic.twitter.com/CLwAzV5lAH
Carnegie Institution/AsnerThis is the plane that the researchers used to survey the land and map where the mines are.Years of illegal gold mining in Peru have taken a serious toll on the Amazon rainforest. No one knew the full extent of the damage until a research team from the Carnegie Institution of Science and Peru's Ministry of the Environment used satellite imagery to map the damage. Their findings are published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Greg Asner and his team of researchers found that gold mines in Peru increased by 400% from 1999 to 2012. Tons of forest area has to be cleared in order for miners to dig into the Earth and extract gold, and this is a serious problem because the Amazon forest produces about 20% of the planet's oxygen, according to the World Wildlife Fund. It also sucks up carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gasses, returning them to the Earth. Peru's rain forests sit on top of a wealth of natural treasures, from oil and coal to gold. To get to these riches, miners destroy the forest and mountains that sit atop them. This could be devastating for the Earth, since these forests play such an important part in our ecosystem. Justin Catanoso, a journalist who just returned from touring the Peruvian rain forests with ecologist Miles Silman, thinks that saving these forests is an integral part of slowing the potentially devastating effects of climate change. One way we can do that, he said, is if richer countries work together on an international level to pay countries like Peru to leave these pristine and important forests untouched and stop the for-profit destruction of these forests. His fear isn't unfounded, according to the new paper. These miners are already destroying acres and acres of these precious rain forests. An article in The Verge described the process gold miners use: They create craters by digging a few meters and blasting the holes with pressurized water to clear away the soil, completely destroying the forest area. Asner and his team used a plane outfitted with Laser Imaging, Detection, and Ranging technology to survey the area. This kind of imaging actually uses lasers to scan areas and creates 3-D diagrams of the land. This kind of satellite imaging is much more sensitive than older kinds, and revealed many more mines than scientists were able to detect in the past. You can see how much the mining industry has grown along the Madre De Dios river in the southern part of Peru in the image below: Carnegie Institute/AsnerCajamarca, Peru has also seen a steep increase in mining over the years: Carnegie Institution/AsnerWhen the price of gold skyrocketed in 2008, miners began clearing forest area much faster. The rate of forest destruction jumped from about 5,400 acres per year to 15,000 acres per year. Thousands of small mines have sprung up in the area, away from main roads so most are undetected from the land, but visible from the air. Miners have so far been able to resist most government attempts to regulate the industry. Until 2008, Peru's mining regulation decisions were all made by the Ministry of Energy and Mines ó a clear "conflict of interest," the researchers said in the paper. Around 50,000 small-scale miners in Peru are mining without permits or any government regulation, according to The Verge. In addition to forest destruction, the mining in Peru also releases pollutants into the nearby Madre De Dios river. Mercury is used to extract gold from the Earth, and excess Mercury from the mines has polluted the area and made its way into the food chain.
ReutersChina's financial system experienced a liquidity squeeze in June with short-term interest rates spiking to frightening levels before cooling off. From October 19 to October 30, China's interbank rates jumped again, this time surging by about 220 basis points. Adding to the investor anxiety was speculation that China's central bank might tighten monetary policy thanks to stabilizing economic growth and rising inflation.  But the central bank has stood on the sidelines. Bank of America's Ting Lu explains that it is in part because it thinks this could enforce some discipline. It's also because it's ability to gauge liquidity demand is limited. Here are Lu's reasons verbatim: The Chinese central bank clearly needs to be clearer on the role of key interbank rates and needs to improve it communication with the markets to ease anxiety.
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookFord just reported a 13.9% rise in auto sales in October. However, Wall Street analysts were looking for a 16% rise. Chrysler¬†reported an 11% rise in auto sales, but¬†analysts were looking for a 14% rise. Toyota reported a climb of 8.8%. Analysts were predicting 13%. Nissan vehicle sales missed as well, climbing 14.2% when analysts were looking for 17%. Unlike its rivals, GM saw vehicle sales surge 15.7%, crushing expectations for 7.9% Analysts predict total vehicle sales in October were 15.45 million at a seasonally-adjusted annualized rate, up from 15.21 million SAAR in September. Domestic vehicle sales are expected to come in at 11.90 million SAAR, up from 11.66 million in September. "Our primary data sources ‚Äì which include dealership surveys ‚Äì suggest that auto SAAR grew slightly in October in spite of the government shutdown," say Morgan Stanley analysts Ajit Agrawal and Spencer Hill. "We estimate that most manufacturers will be up between 5% and 10% after adjusting for selling days," write BofA Merrill Lynch analysts Douglas Karson, Mark Hammond, and Claudia Gasiorek in a report.¬†"October 2013 had 27 selling days, while October 2012 had 26 selling days." We will have October sales figures LIVE as auto makers report throughout the day. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª
The ING New York City Marathon is this weekend and thousands of runners will descend on the streets of New York City and the surrounding buroughs. Among these competitors we'd expect to find some recognizable Wall Street names. So in the spirit of the 26.2 mile race, we've decided to do a little digging and find the best running times for some of the biggest players in the financial services industry.† It turns out that Credit Suisse's CEO Brady Dougan, 53, is a really good long distance runner. He ran a marathon a few years ago averaging a mile pace of 7:43. †We also learned that†Dougan was a cross-country runner in high school. †(See photo below).† JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon finished a half marathon earlier this year. †Goldman's Edith Cooper also did a half marathon this year and she was 20 minutes faster than the JPMorgan chief.† Below we've included a round up of marathon, half marathon, half Ironman, 10K and 5K times courtesy of Athlinks.com.† Check it out:† Marathon (26.2 miles): Hillcrest High School yearbook Brady Dougan running cross country in high school  Half Ironman (70.3 mile swim, bike, run): Half Marathon (13.1 miles):† 10Ks:† 5Ks:†
This post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds. Has the stock market peaked? How should investors be thinking about their portfolios if it has? As part of our "Ask A Financial Expert" video series, OppenheimerFunds Senior Economist Brian Levitt talks about looking for growth in less conventional places, such as the emerging markets of Brazil and China. And he responds to a question from Business Insider reader Gino, a young professional who has questions about where and how to start investing. Click for sound. Learn more at GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. Before investing in any of the Oppenheimer funds, investors should carefully consider a fund's investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Fund prospectuses and summary prospectuses contain this and other information about the funds, and may be obtained by asking your financial advisor, visiting oppenheimerfunds.com, or calling 1-800-CALL-OPP (800-225-5677). Read prospectuses and summary prospectuses carefully before investing.  © 2013 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
ISMThe¬†results of the Institute for Supply Management's October manufacturing survey are out. The headline index unexpectedly rose to 56.4 in October from September's 56.2 reading. Economists were looking for a decrease to 55.0. Numbers above 50 indicate varying rates of expansion while numbers below 50 indicate various rates of decline, so this reading¬†suggests that, contrary to expectations, American manufacturers shook off the government shutdown in October. At right is a breakdown of the sub-components of the report. Below is what respondents to the survey are saying: Click here for the full release ¬ª
Steel Wool via flickr The Container Store opened at $35 on Friday. The retailer had set its initial public offering pricing at $18 each.  This would mean the stock is up 100% in the first minutes of trading. The company offered 12.5 million shares that should have valued the company at $225 million. In its S-1 filing with the SEC the firm said the company does not expect to pay cash dividends. "We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business, and therefore we do not currently expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant." The Container Store is a specialty retail store that focuses on storage and organization.
ThinkorswimThe euro is dropping fast against the U.S. dollar.The euro is trading below $1.35 this morning, down more than 2% from the high above $1.38 made last Friday. In October, the euro has become one of the hottest topics on Wall Street, as its persistent strength over the past few month has defied expectations. In the last few days, however, the currency has started sinking, and yesterday, it got slammed after the release of weak inflation and unemployment data in Europe, something a growing number of analysts now expect will prompt a 25 basis-points cut to the European Central Bank's benchmark refinancing rate ó which currently stands at 0.5% ó when the Governing Council meets next week. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale "Yesterday's shock has prompted a flurry of rate cut forecasts from ourselves as well as everyone else," says Kit Juckes, global strategist at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale. "If the ECB wants to avoid the further Japanification of the Euro Area, they need to do everything they can to ease monetary policy." However, Juckes doesn't believe 25 basis points are worth much in economic terms. "There are just a couple of problems," he says. "Firstly that the best policies (massive open-ended QE and FX intervention) are ruled out by the architects of Europe. And secondly that since my Taylor Rule for Euro rates suggests they should be at -2% today, a 25bp rate cut will be like sticking a bandaid on a gunshot wound."
Don't forget about Uber drivers.Last week, in the face of¬†growing scrutiny¬†from the city of New York, the five-year-old accommodation-sharing company¬†Airbnb¬†released some data designed to make its case as a good neighbor ‚Äì even an economic catalyst ‚Äì in the five boroughs. In the previous year,¬†according to numbers¬†crunched by the consulting firm HR&amp;A Advisors, Airbnb had helped generate $632 million in economic activity throughout town, supporting 4,580 "jobs." Its hosts ‚Äì individuals often held up as direct competition to major hoteliers ‚Äì were making on average $7,530 a year renting out their homes. And the visitors they welcomed stayed longer (6.4 nights on average) than the typical New York tourist, and spent more money in the process ($880 at New York businesses). This was the sixth local impact study Airbnb has produced as part of its campaign to move beyond personal anecdotes about struggling renters to hard economic data. Specifically, that $632 million speaks to the question of Airbnb‚Äôs footprint in New York City: Is it siphoning customers from Manhattan‚Äôs Marriotts, or creating new customers ‚Äì and economic activity ‚Äì that never existed before? (Another data point: 82 percent of Airbnb‚Äôs New York listings are outside of the tourist epicenter of Midtown Manhattan.) Micro-entrepreneurs are doing something so nontraditional we don‚Äôt even know how to measure it. But there‚Äôs also a much larger question lurking behind early data of this sort that's starting to trickle out of "sharing economy" companies. Exactly what is this entire industry doing to the economy? When people share and rent things instead of buying them, does that mean we need to produce less stuff, requiring fewer jobs, ultimately creating less economic growth? So far, the sharing economy‚Äôs impact has been largely unseen because we (and the¬†Bureau of Labor Statistics) are used to counting employment in whole jobs, or part-time jobs, not something-I-do-on-the-side-while-I-freelance jobs. Currently, companies like Airbnb, and¬†Etsy, and¬†Sidecar¬†enable tens or hundreds of thousands of people who are even further down the food chain than ‚Äúsmall businesses.‚Äù They‚Äôre micro-entrepreneurs doing something so nontraditional we don‚Äôt even know how to measure it. "It's like an invisible economy," says Molly Turner, Airbnb‚Äôs director of public policy. And companies inside it need to get real sophisticated, real fast in figuring out how to measure this invisible economy, she says, because for many people this looks like an important part of the future of work. It could even be a big component in our understanding of why America's jobs numbers look so lethargic. "That's not to say Airbnb advocates for counting this as work, or as a 'business,'" Turner says. "But it's a productive economic activity that has a really important impact." So how do you measure that impact when the standard definitions of "work" and "jobs" don't even apply? "The overarching question here is 'how much economic growth will be induced by the sharing economy?'" says¬†Arun Sundararajan, a professor at the NYU Stern School of Business who has been studying the question. "Contained in that is the possibility that the sharing economy may not lead to economic growth." ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ It‚Äôs notable that a company like Airbnb, at this stage in its evolution, is trying to put out data like this at all. Look back at Google circa 2003, Sundararajan says. The year before Google went public, the company was interested in trying to size up how large its market would be. It was interested in articulating its revenue model for the public. It was not all that interested in painting a picture of its broader impact on the world. ‚ÄúMost entrepreneurs and firms are not out sharing their data, and I would even use the term, trying to justify their existence,‚Äù says Lesa Mitchell, the vice president of innovation and networks at the¬†Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, which advocates for entrepreneurship. ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt see that normally. They just do their stuff.‚Äù But that‚Äôs not really an option for Airbnb or Uber, companies founded on tech platforms that are creating new, more efficient ways of doing what other people are already doing (and what regulators are already regulating). There‚Äôs a creative destruction element to the sharing economy that theoretically threatens hotels or cab companies, or even the auto manufacturers who used to build and sell cars to 25-year-olds who‚Äôd now rather use Zipcar instead. Back in August,¬†Business Insider¬†published a story warning that the sharing economy and the rise of renters could have¬†‚Äúcatastrophic ripple effects.‚Äù¬†A market strategy firm called the ConvergEX Group had been circulating a memo outlining how demand for new cars and houses would drop, with a potential effect on the consumer psyche ‚Äúsimilar to that of the Depression.‚Äù If something becomes better, people want more of it, not less. That argument also neatly nests within wider fears that technology is¬†now destroying jobs faster¬†than it is creating them. The innovation behind many sharing economy companies, however, is that they are making it more efficient to hail a cab, or rent a hotel, or¬†order a wedding cake topper. On the supply side, they‚Äôre making it more efficient to provide these services or sell these products. And an increase in efficiency generally leads to an increase in economic productivity, which, generally speaking, translates to economic growth. Give people a more efficient, convenient, cost-effective way of getting something, and typically the demand for that thing actually goes up. ‚ÄúIf something becomes better,‚Äù Sundararajan says, ‚Äúpeople want more of it, not less.‚Äù In other words, an expansion of consumption possibilities leads to an increase in consumption. This is essentially a story of economic progress, Sundararajan says: new technology leads to more efficiency, which leads to an expansion in production and consumption possibilities. There are substantially more hotel rooms in America today than there were 50 years ago, because people have accumulated more leisure time, more income, more need for business travel. On the other hand, there are substantially fewer farmers than there were in America in 1900. But as farming became more efficient, people who once were farmers found other things to do instead (conveniently right around the same time as a massive expansion in secondary education). ‚ÄúSo to think about things in a really static way ‚Äì we have a certain amount of stuff, and if people are using it more efficiently, we need less stuff ‚Äì it‚Äôs sort of myopic,‚Äù Sundararajan says. ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ The sharing economy, however, is not exactly like economic disruptions that came before it. More complex technology typically demands more complex skills. And, in the past, major technological change in the economy has been accompanied by a shift toward higher-skilled work. Initially, there‚Äôs a shortage of those high-skilled people. Their wages go up, while wages go down for the people who are steeped in the old technology. The sharing economy is fundamentally premised on new technology, and it's creating new jobs exactly like this for the developers and programmers on the back end of Etsy‚Äôs platform or SideCar‚Äôs app. But that‚Äôs not the most interesting part of this story. ‚ÄúeBay‚Äôs impact hasn‚Äôt been on the thousands of tech jobs it created for eBay,‚Äù Sundararajan says, ‚Äúbut on the hundreds of thousands of sellers it created.‚Äù eBay‚Äôs impact hasn‚Äôt been on the thousands of tech jobs it created for eBay, but on the hundreds of thousands of sellers it created. That‚Äôs where the real economic impact here lies, and it‚Äôs not actually clear if all of¬†those¬†people ‚Äì Uber drivers, Etsy sellers, Airbnb hosts ‚Äì need more complex skills than what was required of them a decade ago. If you sell furniture on Etsy that you built with a Makerbot 3D printer that you keep in your living room, your skills probably have grown more advanced. But, for the most part, the sharing economy is not creating new machines that people must learn to use to produce more stuff. It‚Äôs creating new marketplaces to access familiar things in better ways. "There‚Äôs something a little different going on with the sharing economy," Sundararajan says. And he doesn‚Äôt yet know the broader implication of this. He‚Äôs wary of all the estimates he sees of the size of the sharing economy, or any projections for its future growth, because we also don‚Äôt know how quickly this new kind of consumption will become ‚Äúnormal.‚Äù This is a question of culture, not public policy. Everyone knows how to behave when you walk into a hotel. But most of us are still a little uncertain about what‚Äôs supposed to happen when we arrive in someone‚Äôs else apartment to rent a room for the night. That‚Äôs a sign that an idea like Airbnb hasn‚Äôt yet become legitimized. And the growth of the whole sharing economy ‚Äì and its economic ripple effect ‚Äì depends on the speed at which that happens. Sundararajan also suspects that many of these platforms are quietly operating as ‚Äúfinishing schools‚Äù for tentative entrepreneurs, another effect that so far hasn't been measured. You can test out selling some of your crafts on Etsy, for example, without quitting your job and cashing in your 401K to open a brick-and-mortar store. Whole new companies will start this way, he predicts. And that would have an impact on the economy, too, that would be inarguably positive. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know how it can‚Äôt be,‚Äù Mitchell says, ‚Äúsimply because in using things like¬†Daily Grommet, Etsy, these platform technologies that are out there, that‚Äôs allowing people in small towns that have been impacted by business closures to actually make and sell things online to customers they‚Äôre never going to meet or see.‚Äù ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚Ä¢ Sundararajan chuckles whenever New York City gets wound up about a new tech company relocating to town. ‚ÄúGoogle comes, hundreds of tech jobs are created, and there‚Äôs a lot of hoopla about these things,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúMeanwhile, Etsy is quietly creating massive amounts of employment, and they‚Äôre not counted as jobs.‚Äù Pull back and consider this network of uncounted jobs, sort-of-income, and tentative entrepreneurs all across the country, and a larger possibility emerges: Maybe the economy is doing marginally better than we think. Those¬†stagnant jobs numbers¬†that come out of the Bureau of Labor Statistics the first Friday of every month don‚Äôt account for any of this activity. Earlier this summer, the¬†MIT Technology Review¬†published¬†a startling article¬†based on the work of MIT‚Äôs¬†Erik Brynjolfsson¬†and¬†Andrew McAfee¬†showing not only that technology was destroying jobs, but that productivity in America had recently become¬†decoupled from employment. Traditionally, the two rise in tandem. As productivity increases, jobs increase, too. But amid the massive new wave of automation, starting around 2000, this has¬†ceased to be true. Andrew McAfee That chart, from McAfee, shows the widening gap between productivity and employment in America (the pink arrow inserted is ours). This is deeply troubling to economists. But it‚Äôs possible ‚Äì and this is what Sundararajan and others are hoping to measure ‚Äì that the gap could contain all these people we are currently not counting. That's not to say that say that these unconventional workers fill up that entire gap, but they could be an important part of the picture. And if that turns out to be true, it should change not only how we think of people like the part-time Airbnb host, but also how we create climates that enable them. More From The Atlantic Cities: The Radical Case for Bloomberg's 'Nanny' State One Sociologist's Epic Quest: Walk New York City, All 120,000 Blocks Why Drug Traffickers Love Buses 
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon has been getting jabbed right and left in the press (rightly or wrongly) and was relegated to the uncool table at the White House, where he was once very "in". But at least there's one place where he's still loved, and that's London... Politico's Ben White reports: A little birdie tells us while things are not so friendly for him in the U.S. right now, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon ‚Äúgot a warm embrace from UK leaders‚Äù during a recent visit. Dimon was in London for a series of JPM events, anchored by their CEO Forum and Global Cities Initiative (GCI) ‚Ä¶ Boris Johnson, Mayor of London spoke to the GCI dinner, ‚Äúextolling the virtues of the finance sector, JPMorgan's presence in the UK, and its positive impact on job creation in other parts of the country, particularly in Bournemouth.‚Äù Johnson‚Äôs big joke: ‚ÄúThe US gave us JPMorgan, we gave you Piers Morgan, and the UK got the better deal.‚Äô With JP Morgan's $13 billion settlement with the Justice Department over the bank's pre crisis dealings in the mortgage market in danger of falling apart, Dimon definitely needs his friends. So this is nice.
MarkitThe final results of Markit's October U.S. Purchasing Managers Index survey are out. The headline reading came in at 51.8, down from 52.8 in September but up from the October flash estimate of 51.1. The sub-components of the report are broken down in the table at right. Economists predicted the index would fall to 51.1 in October, as preliminary survey results published by Markit on October 24¬†suggested. The output sub-index fell to 50.6 from September's 55.3 reading, suggesting a sharp slowdown in the growth of manufacturing output this month. However, the output number was above the flash reading of 49.5, which initially suggested that America had seen its first decline in manufacturing output since September 2009. (Numbers below 50 on the index indicate varying rates of decline while numbers above 50 indicate varying rates of increase.) "Manufacturers linked the slight increase in output primarily to a weaker rise in new orders," said Markit in the release. "Total incoming new work rose modestly and at the slowest pace in six months in October. Panellists commented on greater client demand in both the domestic and international markets."¬† On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve failed to acknowledge the government shutdown in its October FOMC statement, an addition that was widely expected by economists across Wall Street. The statement caused a sell-off in the Treasury market as investors priced in greater chances that the central bank could begin to taper down its quantitative easing program before its March meeting. ISM's October Chicago Purchasing Managers Index unexpectedly¬†surged to 65.9¬†from last month's 55.7 reading. The report caused another sell-off in the Treasuries on Thursday. "In its narrative the organization says that businesses were 'seemingly unaffected by the [government] shutdown'," said Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, of the Chicago PMI release. "In light of the Fed‚Äôs failure to draw additional attention to the impact of the fiscal showdown in¬†Washington, that message is likely to resonate with investors." Today, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are trading down 0.3%, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.58%, up 3 basis points from Thursday's close.
REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini Sailing boats gather at the start of the Barcolana regatta in front of Trieste harbour October 13, 2013. HEADS UP: The world's major economies are publishing their October manufacturing PMI reports, and this is our scorecard. So far, that numbers have been unexpectedly encouraging. Uncertainty was high during the month as he U.S. ‚Äî the world's largest economy ‚Äî spent most of the month with its government shut down as Congress struggled to cobble together a budget deal. Congress eventually cobbled together a deal, but the fiscal uncertainties linger. "[T]he most likely outcome in both the US and euro area is that policymakers will do enough to avert a crisis, even if this involves further 'kicking the can down the road,'" said Citi's Willem Buiter. However, the Chicago PMI report blew away expectations, surging to a two-year high of 65.9 in October from 55.7 in September. ‚ÄúThe government might have shut down but Chicago area companies powered ahead in October as orders and production surged," said Philip Uglow of MNI Indicators. Meanwhile in Asia, the sustainability of China's growth rates remain in doubt and liquidity concerns continue to linger in the emerging markets. However, the official and unofficial Chinese manufacturing PMI's climbed, signaling an acceleration in growth. Indeed, as you can see below, almost all of the Asian PMI reports showed significant improvement. The PMI reports will continue to come out through November 4. PMI At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing¬†purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. Read more about it at Markit. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- October 30 (All Times ET) October 31, November 1 November 4
Well,† there it is, the collapse in infrastructure spending that everyone is talking about. It's from BSA Research BCA Research The chart was first spotted by Cardiff Garcia at FT Alphaville. Yves Smith at Naked Capitalism is also writing about it. The key thing, as Yves notes, is that the chart includes state and local infrastructure spending, which explains why they were was such a furious collapse right after the bust, as state and local governments furiously slashed spending. The tragedy of course is that with inflation non-existent and a huge surplus of excess labor, this would have made an incredibly good time to spend like crazy on infrastructure, fixing everything and putting people to work. But there wasn't the political will at the Federal Government (which had the capability to do it), and we've wasted all these years.
Here's an interesting nugget from JPMorgan: #1: 2013 is on track to be an improvement for active managers. Notably, there are now more Russell 1000 Growth managers beating the benchmark by at least 250bp than missing it (26% vs. 25%, respectively). And the overall net diffusion of beats less misses at -600bp (net missing), is the best figure since 2010. We believe some of this outperformance reflects whether a fund owned Apple (AAPL-OW). The stock is the largest S&amp;P 500 weight (2.8% S&amp;P 500; 6.8% of NASDAQ) and is flat YTD, subtracting nearly 100bp of performance from the market overall. If you haven't owned Apple this year, you probably beat the market. If you did own Apple, you probably did not.
REUTERS/ Mark BlinchToronto Mayor Rob Ford responds to the Toronto police investigation dubbed "Project Brazen 2" to the media at City Hall in Toronto, October 31, 2013. Ford, a player in a video that police say matches one that allegedly shows him smoking crack cocaine, said on Thursday he had no reason to resign.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithAn Apple computer is shown on Google's company campus in Mountain View, California February 9, 2010.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The group that owns thousands of former Nortel patents filed a barrage of patent lawsuits on Thursday against cell phone manufacturers including Google, the company it outbid in the Nortel bankruptcy auction. Rockstar, the consortium that bought the Nortel patents for $4.5 billion, sued Samsung Electronics Co Ltd,†HTC Corp,†Huawei†and four other companies for patent infringement in†U.S. District Court†in†Texas.†Rockstar†is jointly owned by Apple, Microsoft, Blackberry, Ericsson and†Sony. Google is accused of infringing seven patents. The†patents cover technology†that helps match Internet search terms with relevant advertising, the lawsuit said, which is the core of Google's search business. A Google spokesman declined to comment. Representatives for Samsung,†Huawei, HTC and†Rockstar†could not immediately be reached. Samsung,†Huawei†and HTC all manufacture phones that operate on Google's†Android†operating system, which competes fiercely with Apple and Microsoft mobile products. In 2011 Google placed an initial $900 million bid for Nortel's patents. Google increased its bid several times, ultimately offering as much as $4.4 billion. After losing out to†Rockstar†on the Nortel patents, Google went on to acquire†Motorola Mobility†for $12.5 billion, a deal driven partly by†Motorola's library†of patents. "Despite losing in its attempt to acquire the patents-in-suit at auction, Google has infringed and continues to infringe," the lawsuit said. Rockstar†is seeking increased damages against Google, as it claims Google's patent infringement is willful, according to the complaint. The Google case in†U.S. District Court, Eastern District of†Texas†is†Rockstar†Consortium US LP and†Netstar Technologies LLC†vs. Google, 13-893. (Reporting by Dan Levine; editing by Andrew Hay and Leslie Adler)
REUTERS/Rogan WardBrazilian Minister of Finance Guido Mantega (L) and Chinese Minister of Finance Lou Jiwei sign a memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Brazil and Ministry of Finance of the People's Republic of China on Bilateral Cooperation in Macroeconomic, Fiscal and Financial Policies at the 5th BRICS Summit in Durban March 26, 2013. SAO PAULO (Reuters) - For Chinese investors,¬†Brazil¬†is no longer the promised land. After making a big push into the South American giant in search of raw materials such as iron ore, as well as a promising market for their consumer goods, Chinese executives have grown frustrated with stagnant economic growth, heavy costs and what they see as a political and popular backlash against their presence. As a result, Chinese investment is falling, and as much as two-thirds of the roughly $70 billion in projects announced since 2007 is either on hold or has been canceled, according to recent studies and interviews with Chinese and Brazilian officials. The unexpected decline, which investors and analysts say has little hope of reversing itself anytime soon, will deprive¬†Brazil's struggling economy of what once seemed like a sure-fire source of growth for years to come. "The ardor for investment in¬†Brazil¬†is fading. Operating in¬†Brazil¬†is a huge challenge," said¬†Zhang Dongxiang, chief executive of the Brazilian unit of Bank of¬†China¬†Ltd &lt;601988.SS&gt;, one of¬†China's four largest state-owned commercial banks. In a rare interview in his Sao Paulo office that included some of the sharpest criticism of¬†Brazil¬†by any Chinese business leader to date, Zhang complained of growing hostility from the Brazilian public as well as "protectionist" policies passed by President¬†Dilma Rousseff's left-leaning government. "Public opinion sometimes seems to be against foreign investment ... as if it makes local industry less competitive," he said. "There are some antiquated ideas." While some Chinese companies are succeeding in¬†Brazil, he said, "many are having doubts." The shrinking investment flows between two of the world's biggest emerging markets raises questions about the strength of the so-called "south-south" capital movement, and comes as¬†China¬†undergoes a broad shift away from investment-focused policies and toward a more consumer-based economy. To be sure, Chinese investment in¬†Brazil¬†remains well above what it was last decade. Companies such as CNOOC Ltd &lt;0883.HK&gt; and¬†China National Petroleum Corp, which last week bought rights to drill for oil in¬†Brazil's huge Libra offshore area, continue to see opportunities in¬†Brazil. Others with an eye on expansion include¬†China Construction Bank¬†Corp &lt;0939.HK&gt; &lt;601939.SS&gt;, which reached an agreement this week to buy 72 percent of¬†Brazil's mid-sized lender Banco Industrial e Comercial SA &lt;BICB4.SA&gt; for 1.62 billion reais ($726 million). Also,¬†China¬†remains¬†Brazil's largest trading partner, thanks to demand for its commodities, and exports have been steady. But the euphoria of three or four years ago, when politicians hoped Chinese investment would fundamentally reshape¬†Brazil's trade flows and generate billions of dollars' worth of badly needed new infrastructure, has clearly faded. And while investors from all over the world have become less bullish on¬†Brazil¬†in recent years, evidence suggests the rise and fall in Chinese interest has been particularly abrupt. The outcome is especially disappointing for¬†Brazil's farming sector, which until recently saw¬†China¬†as its most likely savior for a dilapidated network of roads, railways and ports that make it very challenging to export crops. "I don't know of a single Chinese infrastructure project that has gotten off the drawing board," said¬†Edeon Vaz, who monitors logistics for Aprosoja, the country's largest cooperative of soybean growers. The recent Chinese experience in¬†Brazil¬†seems to be one of high expectations, followed by second thoughts. After years of sending trade missions to¬†Brazil¬†but mostly keeping their wallets closed, Chinese companies abruptly announced a flurry of billion-dollar bets in 2010. That was the year¬†Brazil's economy grew a torrid 7.5 percent, and seemed to have entered a new era of Asian tiger-style growth. The investments went beyond the extraction of commodities, traditionally¬†China's focus in¬†Latin America. Companies such as automaker Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co &lt;600418.SS&gt;, otherwise known as JAC Motors, and telecoms supplier¬†Huawei¬†Technologies Co Ltd &lt;HWT.UL&gt; announced big investments focused on selling toBrazil's rapidly growing middle class. Most analysts agree that the sudden spurt, which was led by state-owned companies, was part of a strategic decision by¬†Beijing¬†to diversify its consumer markets abroad following the 2008-09 financial crisis and the ensuing stagnation in the¬†United States¬†and much of¬†Europe. Since then, though, little has gone right. Brazil's economy cooled sharply, growing just 0.9 percent last year, and its consumers are burdened with debt. Meanwhile, the government has taken several steps that have made many Chinese investors feel unwelcome. Some measures, such as a tax increase on foreign-made cars in 2011 that led JAC Motors to threaten to suspend construction of a new factory in¬†Brazil, were part of a broad protectionist drive that targeted all countries equally. But others, including a 2010 law that restricted land purchases by foreigners, were the specific result of worries that the Chinese were snapping up too many of¬†Brazil's natural resources, legislators said at the time. In private,¬†Brazilian government¬†officials express concerns that¬†China¬†is primarily interested in securing raw materials in a way that barely benefits Brazilians, while also flooding the country with low-cost manufactured goods. Meanwhile, trade data shows that just three commodities - iron ore, oil and soy - and their derivatives - still account for 80 percent of¬†Brazil's exports to¬†China. That has angered officials in¬†Rousseff's government¬†who had hoped that Brazilian manufacturers like aircraft maker Embraer SA &lt;EMBR3.SA&gt; would have made greater inroads by now. Chinese officials have countered that Brazilian industry needs to become more competitive to sell in¬†China. Derek Scissors, an expert on Chinese outward investment at the¬†American Enterprise Institute, a Washington think tank, said the sudden spurt in investment, followed by a backlash and then a withdrawal, was "absolutely classic Chinese behavior" that also occurred in¬†sub-Saharan Africa¬†in recent years. "What happens," Scissors said, "is you start getting people saying 'Wait a minute, we are running a huge trade deficit with¬†China. They are investing $20 billion and grabbing up all our resources. Are we a colony?'" It's not just the government that has lashed out in¬†Brazil. Unions and industry groups regularly target¬†China. At an international textiles fair in Sao Paulo last week, hundreds of protesters gathered to denounce what they called unfair Chinese trade practices. Hundreds also demonstrated against foreign involvement in last week's Libra oil sale, which saw European and Chinese companies successfully bid for the right to drill in¬†Brazil's biggest-ever oil field. The protests prompted¬†Rousseff¬†to warn against "xenophobia" that could scare away foreign capital. Chinese companies have noticed. For various reasons, many investments announced to huge fanfare in recent years now seem to be up in the air. Reuters followed up on several of those projects, including a $5 billion railroad line in¬†western Brazil¬†that Chinese companies declared interest in building in 2011. The line has not yet secured financing from Chinese development banks and may be taken up by South Korean or European investors, said¬†Francisco Vuolo, logistics secretary for Mato Grosso state. The¬†Chongqing Grain Group Corp's plan to build a $2 billion soy processing complex in¬†Bahia¬†state, announced in March 2011, has so far yielded just 15 percent of the planned investment, officials there say. "The Chinese delay a lot in doing things," said¬†Josalto Alves, a spokesman for¬†Bahia's agriculture department. "They're very set on negotiating." Attempts to reach¬†Chongqing¬†executives were unsuccessful. Huawei, the telecoms supplier, recently moved its regional headquarters from¬†Brazil¬†to¬†Argentina. A¬†Huawei¬†spokesman said the move occurred because¬†Brazil's market is "growing mature." All told, of the Chinese investments announced between 2007 and mid-2012, only a third of them as measured by value were finished or in the process of being implemented, according to a study published in June by the¬†China-Brazil Business Council, a¬†Rio de Janeiro-based group. The remainder - worth some $44 billion - were "still under negotiation or being evaluated," the CBBC said. Other countries have not turned on¬†Brazil¬†in the same fashion. Despite the economic struggles, foreign direct investment has remained relatively steady since 2010, with strong flows from the¬†United States,¬†Japan¬†and others. Scissors said¬†Brazil¬†remains a relatively attractive market for the Chinese. But, he said,¬†Beijing¬†seems to have shifted its priorities once again - focusing its investments on the¬†United States¬†and¬†Canada, in particular, since late 2011. "You aren't going to have another rush (in¬†Brazil) for another few years at least," he said. That jibes with the view of Zhang, the CEO of Bank of¬†China¬†in¬†Brazil. He said his bank, whose clients include Chinese companies operating here as well as big Brazilian concerns such as¬†Petroleo Brasileiro SA¬†&lt;PETR4.SA&gt;, seeks to increase its capital by some $100 million in coming months. He called that a "good stimulus" for future growth in¬†Brazil. Yet, when asked if investment would recover in the next five years, Zhang was guarded. "It depends on policies from the government," he said, tapping his desk for emphasis. "Brazil¬†is at a crossroads. Will it grow, or will it cool down?" (Editing by Todd Benson, Kieran Murray and Ken Wills)
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesLONDON (Reuters) - High levels of home ownership are strongly linked to subsequent rises in unemployment because labor mobility becomes reduced, according to new research. Using data going back to 1950 across all U.S. states except Alaska and Hawaii, Warwick University economics professor Andrew Oswald finds that the lag from ownership levels to unemployment rates can take up to five years to show up. But he said the linkage, established using data on millions of randomly sampled Americans, was extraordinarily robust. Doubling home ownership in a state can lead to more than a doubling of the jobless rate. "I have become convinced that by boosting home ownership we have ruined our labor market," Oswald said. He conducted his research with David Blanchflower, a professor of economics at Dartmouth College, New Hampshire, who used to be a member of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee. Oswald said the research may go some way to explaining why Spain, with a home ownership rate of 80 percent, has unemployment above 25 percent, whereas Switzerland, with a 30 percent ownership rate, has a jobless rate of just 3 percent. Germany, another nation of renters rather than home owners, also has relatively low unemployment. Studies carried out independently by a Finnish researcher produced similar findings for the Nordic nation, Oswald said. Home ownership unwittingly impairs the labor market by deterring people from moving in search of work, a process that is time-consuming and expensive; long commuting times might also discourage a householder from taking a particular job, his research suggests. Another theory is that home owners are opposed to new businesses opening up in their neighborhoods - a phenomenon known in Britain as NIMBY, or Not In My Back Yard. "This suggests that, without politicians being aware of it, high home ownership may slowly erode a country's industrial base," Oswald wrote in a paper for Warwick University and Chatham House, a London think tank. He said his statistical correlations should be deeply worrying for politicians in those countries that have promoted home ownership through tax breaks and subsidized mortgages. Britain is due to expand one such home-loan scheme, called Help to Buy, at the start of next year. "In Britain we have incredibly cheap mortgages and we're giving help-to-buy inducements on top of that in a world where house prices are already rising far above the rate of inflation that the Bank of England says it wants. It's unbelievably illogical," Oswald told Reuters. (Reporting By Alan Wheatley; Editing by Giles Elgood)
REUTERS/Mike Blake People walk near new single family homes under construction in San Marcos, CaliforniaLONDON/LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - From China to Canada and London, fast-rising property markets are haunting the global economy again, five years after the U.S. subprime mortgage bubble burst and triggered the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. For now, house price inflation is neither as high nor as widespread as it was in the middle of last decade. Except in a few cases, the warning signals are flashing amber, not red, and several countries have acted to cool overheating markets. But the confidence of policy makers that they can avoid another generalized boom and bust could be tested if central banks keep pumping out nearly free money to support economic growth by encouraging investment in riskier assets such as equities and property. Plentiful cheap credit is just one more inducement to home buyers who, in many countries, can deduct mortgage interest from their taxable income or are exempted from capital gains tax when they sell their house, said¬†Andrew Oswald, a professor of economics at¬†Warwick University in Britain. "We're stoking up a huge bubble. It's quite extraordinary. We virtually ruined the Western world by having high house price inflation and now we're determined to do it again," he said. On the face of it, the reacceleration in U.S. house prices spells trouble. According to the¬†National Association of Realtors¬†(NAR), the national median home value at the height of the bubble, in July 2006, was $230,400. In July 2011, the median price was 25.7 percent below that peak. By July this year, it had climbed back to within 7.3 percent of the high water mark. Yet some of the engines of the price recovery are spluttering. Most importantly, mortgage rates have risen as markets anticipate an end to the Federal Reserve's bond buying. Robert Shiller, the co-creator of the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, said higher borrowing costs could limit U.S. house price gains in 2014 to roughly 6 percent. The index rose 12.8 percent in the 12 months to August. "The U.S. market might be cooling," Shiller told Reuters. "I think prices will keep going up for a while. There is still momentum, but it may fade and turn down in the next year or two." Higher interest rates are also causing cash buyers to pull back. According to Goldman Sachs, in 2012 and the first half of 2013 fully 60 percent of home purchases were all-cash transactions - double the pre-crash figure - as Wall Street and foreign investors swooped in on distressed markets. Family buyers are taking up some of the slack. But the speculative frenzy that marked the go-go years of the mid-2000s is missing. Banks have tightened mortgage standards, while the jobless rate is a lofty 7.2 percent and wages are stagnant. In¬†Las Vegas, prices have rebounded 29.2 percent in the past year, but¬†Gregory Smith, a local real-estate agent, said the market was now cooling off. "More families are starting to get their offers accepted, as the investors retreat. These are real buyers who intend to stay in the homes long-term. We are in a flattening-out phase," he said. ALL ABOUT INCOMES To assess property market risk, house prices need to be gauged in relation to income. Whereas the U.S. price-to-income ratio at the end of 2012 stood at 84.3, measured against a rolling long-run average of 100, the ratio in Canada was at a 10-year high of 131.7, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Moreover, Canada's debt-to-income ratio reached a record high of 163.4 percent in the second quarter. "Debt is at record levels, and we know consumers are biting off more than they can chew financially, so does this lead to more problems down the road?" asked¬†Laurie Campbell, chief executive at¬†Credit Canada, a credit counseling agency. The same question is being asked across¬†Asia. As mortgage rates return to pre-crisis averages, monthly housing payments in most Asian countries will rise by 15-25 percent, according to¬†David Carbon, an analyst with DBS, a Singaporean bank. But he said¬†Asia's housing debt as a percentage of GDP remains much lower than in¬†America. And home prices inAsia¬†are now 22 percent lower, relative to incomes, than in 2000. "By this gauge,¬†Asia¬†has little to fear on the property front - homes are become more affordable, not more expensive," Carbon wrote in recent report. Even in¬†China, prices are 40 percent more affordable on average than in 2000, according to DBS. But the average masks vast discrepancies in¬†China, where the government is concerned about a bubble and the potential for social unrest as inequality over access to housing grows. Prices nationwide rose on average by 9.1 percent in the year to September but surged 16 percent in¬†Beijing¬†and 17 percent in¬†Shanghai. "There are overheating signs in Tier 1 cities. The central government should take some measures, at least including stricter implementation of existing measures," said¬†Wang Juelin, a former senior housing ministry researcher. Demand by Chinese buyers has helped boost Hong Kong prices by 120 percent since 2008. Hong Kong responded last October with a 15 percent tax on overseas buyers and in February imposed higher stamp duties and home loan curbs. As a result, the premiums for new homes over existing homes that developers seek has shrunk to about 20 percent from 50-80 percent, according to¬†Thomas Lam, head of research for¬†Greater China¬†at real estate firm Knight Frank. Singapore¬†has also increased stamp duties and capped how much people can borrow relative to their income.New Zealand¬†has clamped down on mortgage lending. In¬†Australia, house prices rose 5.8 per cent in the year to mid-September, but Phil Chronican,¬†ANZ Bank's local chief executive, said concern about a bubble was overstated, partly because the market had been subdued for so long. "To stop this demand exacerbating the rising price trends, though, we need to see a supply response," he said. "We need more houses and apartments." Supply constraints, notably strict planning rules, are also contributing to surging prices in London, where high-end property has been in demand from well-heeled foreign investors. Richard Donnell, research director at property analysts Hometrack, said it was tough to set a rational price benchmark for London given the differing motives of foreign buyers. Prices in the capital rose 9.4 percent in the year to September, according to Land Registry data. "At the moment it looks like prices are going to keep on going up. But it's impossible to know what will change sentiment," Donnell said. The¬†British government¬†has launched subsidized mortgage schemes to galvanize housing ahead of an election in 2015 but Donnell said there was no nationwide bubble. Prices rose 3.4 percent on average in the year to September, government figures show, though mortgage lender Nationwide said property inflation hit a three-year high of 5.8 percent this month. The picture in¬†Europe¬†is one of stark divergences. The¬†International Monetary Fund¬†has expressed concern about high prices in¬†Norway¬†and the¬†Bundesbankgrabbed headlines by warning that apartments in¬†Germany's biggest cities could be overvalued by as much as 20 percent. In countries such as¬†Ireland,¬†Spain¬†and¬†Denmark, by contrast, price-to-income ratios have slumped since the peak in 2006/2007. Prices have also been tumbling in¬†the Netherlands¬†because of uncertainty over the future of generous tax breaks. Generalizing about a global asset class when conditions vary from country to country is treacherous. In¬†Japan, the cost of residential land - a proxy for property prices - is still 50 percent below its 1991 peak but new condominiums in¬†Tokyo¬†are selling briskly. At Skyz Tower¬†&amp; Garden, an apartment building near the site of the athletes' village for the 2020 summer Olympics, the first 820 units went on sale in August and are almost sold out. Buyers probably expect Prime Minister¬†Shinzo Abe's economic policies, which include a doubling of¬†Japan's monetary base, to push up prices and lead to higher interest rates, said¬†Ryo Hashimoto, head of the condominium's sales team. For advanced countries as a group, house prices were now ‚Äòappropriate' considering historically low mortgage rates, according to ABN Amro, a Dutch bank. "We are getting to a new phase where regular, middle-class families can purchase again," said¬†Madeline Schnapp, an economist with PropertyRadar.com, a¬†California¬†firm. "But unless jobs get moving and incomes begin to rise I don't think we are in danger of any sort of bubble." (Additional reporting by Andrea Hopkins in Toronto, Xiaoyi Shao in¬†Beijing, Anne Marie Roantree in Hong Kong, Kevin Lim in¬†Singapore, Jane Wardell in Sydney and Junko Fujita in¬†Tokyo; Editing by Giles Elgood)
We wrote earlier about how the world is seeing strong manufacturing data. And the UK is no exception for October. A reading of 56.0 was a hair behind expectations, but is fundamentally a strong number. From Markit: Markit
FRED The surging Euro ó which is at levels not seen since late 2011 ó is one of the biggest stories in global financial markets. Analyzing the factors driving the Euro has become something of an obsession. Morgan Stanley FX strategist Hans Redeker offered his explanation of why the Euro's been to strong in a recent note. He offers a few basic explanations. One is that the Euro just naturally benefits from US dollar weakness (which is partly the result of the Fed being on hold). There's also stronger European growth. And then there's flows from foreign investors (scooping up European assets that are cheap) and banks with weak balance sheets shedding foreign assets and repatriating cash. Here's Redeker: First, the EUR is the anti-USD, and with the USD trading south the EUR goes up. Second, the improved European growth outlook has reduced the risk premium for EUR denominated assets. Third, the EUR has benefited from foreign investors buying EUR assets at discounted prices. If you compare the evolution of EURUSD with one year / one year interest rate forwards, EURUSD trades well above the level suggested by rate differentials. The EUR trades at a premium. Why? EMU banks deploy too many assets relative to their equity. For instance, the net foreign asset position has increased to EUR6710 billion. Ahead of Europeís Asset Quality Review, banks are unlikely to keep this euro short funded position open, as the drain on the banksí equity ratio coming from this side can be substantial. EMU banks preparing for the Asset Quality Review provided an additional factor driving EURUSD higher as European banks repatriate assets. Of course, repatriation flows are limited by nature, suggesting EURUSD will trade markedly lower in 2014.
Jeff J. Mitchell/Getty ImagesEDINBURGH, SCOTLAND - APRIL 19: Protestors from the UK Tar Sands Network 'drink' from oil cans as they demonstrate against the RBS backing the controversial extraction of oil from tar sands in Canada, outside the Royal Bank of Scotland annual meeting on April 19, 2011 in Edinburgh. Protestors gathered outside the bank's headquarters Gogarburn to show disapproval to the long term pay rewards for the bank's CEO Stephen Hester, and other senior staff.Royal Bank of Scotland warned on Friday that it would make a substantial loss this year after its new chief executive Ross McEwan announced ¬£38bn of troublesome assets would be ringfenced inside the bailed out bank. In an move that was seen as an attempt to restore the often strained relationships with the government and regulators, McEwan also made clear he wanted to draw a line under lingering concerns about the bank's capital position. On a number of occasions he talked about "resetting" relationships with the Treasury and the Bank of England. He acknowledged the stinging criticism contained in a report into the bank's lending practices, which found it was turning away three out of every four applications for business loans from small and medium-sized businesses and was too aggressive to towards existing customers facing financial difficulty. McEwan said that while the report made uncomfortable reading, the bank had to confront the problem. The review into creating a bad bank ‚Äì commissioned by the chancellor, George Osborne, after the Mansion House speech in June ‚Äì had concluded the "effort, risk and expense involved in the creation of an external bad bank is not justified". Investment bank Rothschild, which conducted the review which was recommended by the parliamentary commission on banking standards, said it would "do more harm than good". Pat McFadden, the Labour MP who sat on the commission, tweeted: "So RBS will have an internal bad bank, as it has had for five years." RBS shares were the biggest faller in the FTSE 100, down 3.5% at 355p ‚Äì well below the 500p average price the taxpayer paid for them ‚Äì after the bank reported a third-quarter loss of more than ¬£600m. Osborne, who through UK Financial Investments owns 81% of RBS, said the bailed out bank was on a "new direction". A report published by the Treasury showed that RBS would become more UK-focused with even smaller investment bank ‚Äì which employed 25,000 before the bailout and now employs 9,000. Instead of the bad bank, which the taxpayer would have had to fund, about ¬£38bn of troublesome loans ‚Äì including ¬£9bn from Ulster Bank ‚Äì will be placed into a new non-core division to be known as the capital resolution division, which will aims to be wound down in two years. Some ¬£11bn of capital should be released as a result. McEwan ‚Äì who said he wanted to "reset the key relationships" with government and regulators ‚Äì will accelerate the spin-off of RBS's US arm, Citizens, to next year rather than 2015 and signalled a review of a large number of businesses, the outcome of which will be announced in February. Ulster Bank is likely to remain part of RBS Group. The New Zealander, who has been chief executive since 1 October, would not comment on the potential impact on jobs as he discussed the need to cut costs. Creating the new non-core division would mean the bank has to write off up to ¬£4.5bn of problem loans in the next year ‚Äì driving the bank to a "substantial loss" for the full year. Despite the warning of the losses, Osborne said: "Today RBS sets out a new direction ‚Äì a new direction that will lead it to being a boost to the British economy instead of a burden. This is part of our economic plan for sustaining the economic recovery and creating a banking system that works for Britain." He conceded though that a sale of the government's stake was unlikely to happen before the next election. The bank took a fresh provision for payment protection insurance mis-selling of ¬£250m ‚Äì taking its total bill so far to ¬£2.65bn and admitted it was involved in new investigation into alleged manipulation of foreign exchange markets. McEwan would not comment on reports two traders had been suspended. Hired by Stephen Hester a year ago run the retail bank and now promoted to the top job, McEwan said: "I took on the job because I believe we can make this a great bank for our customers. That's also the best way to make RBS an attractive investment and a good place to work for all our employees." He said the Bank of England's Prudential Regulation Authority was preparing to ask banks to hold more capital and so RBS was acting in a "pro-active manner". The Bank of England had found RBS would have had a ¬£13.5bn capital shortfall at the end of December 2013, which is why it taking steps to bolster its financial strength. The review into a possible bad bank had been conducted with the regulator. "The good bank/bad bank review has from the start been carried out in conjunction with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). This has allowed us to address our shared objective of identifying ways in which to strengthen the capital position of the bank, speed up the recovery in our core UK businesses and accelerate the path to privatisation," McEwan said. RBS is now in discussions about releasing the dividend access share that would have forced the bank to pay dividends ‚Äì when it could afford them ‚Äì to the government before its other shareholders. McEwan's own review into the business will be unveiled in February and will cover customer-facing businesses, IT and operations and decision-making structures. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Normally today would be a Jobs Day. The monthly Non-Farm Payrolls report is regularly scheduled for the first Friday of each month, but thanks to the government shutdown in October (which delayed last month's jobs report) this month's report is getting pushed back a week. But that's okay, there's still some interesting data coming out today: Monthly motor vehicle sales. Per Calculated Risk, monthly motor vehicle sales for October are expected to come in at 15.4 million (annualized) vs. 15.2 million (annualized) for September. Why is this number interesting to us? Because there's not surprisingly a correlation between auto sales and employment. This chart shows monthly auto sales adjusted for population (red line) vs. the unemployment rate (blue line). It's not perfect, but for the last couple decades, there's a pretty steady relationship between the two. If auto sales come in strong this month, it will be a good sign that employment is going in the right direction. FRED
Flickr / Mick_tnWelcome to November! So far there's been a lot of economic data, but markets are pretty meh. First with the data, we've been covering the latest PMI reports for various countries, and the good news is that the data out of Asia has been universally strong for October, which augurs well for the whole globe. European manufacturing data will be out Monday, and US data (which will show the impact of the shutdown) will be out later this morning). In the meantime, markets are mixed. Japan was down. China was up a bit. Europe is down a bit. US futures are a little higher.
There's no question about it: Property is back. After the financial crisis, there was tons of talk about how people might be off property for good for awhile, and how nobody, for a long time, was going to buy property for an investment. That mentality didn't last long. From California to London to East Asia, property prices and new developments are red hot. Via Reuters, here's what the boom really looks like. REUTERS/Mike Blake People walk near new single-family homes under construction in San Marcos, California REUTERS/Edgar Su Real estate agents gather around a board showing the units sold at the development (in red stickers) as prospective buyers look on at the launch of a suburban private condominium project in Singapore REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA staff member of Skyz Tower and Garden touches a rosette, which indicates sold apartments, as she gives an explanation about the condominium during a photo opportunity at its showroom in Tokyo REUTERS/Edgar SuProspective buyers look at a model of an upcoming suburban private condominium development during its launch in Singapore  REUTERS/Mike BlakeSingle family homes for sale are seen in San Marcos REUTERS/Tyrone SiuA general view of a construction site for luxury residential apartments at the reclaimed West Kowloon in Hong Kong  REUTERS/Mike Blake A view of single family housing lots before construction begins at a new neighborhood in San Marcos, California REUTERS/Yuya ShinA customer looks at the model of Skyz Tower and Garden as its sales staff explain about the condominium at its showroom in Tokyo
Flickr/Mr. T in DCWe're part-way through PMI Day, when reports come out for various countries showing the health of their manufacturing industries. Sam Ro has been cataloging the numbers here. And so far, things are looking pretty good! The Asian economies really seem to be cranking, a fact corroborated by a very strong trade report, which is seen as a global bellwether. China had one of its best reports in months. And the U.K. just came out with a very solid October manufacturing number. There's still European data to come (which will come out Monday) and of course we have to wait for the U.S. numbers, which might be impacted severely by the government shutdown (or it might not be if yesterday's strong Chicago manufacturing report is significant). But anyway, so far so good.
