Flickr/whitefield_dMarkets are open in Asia, and they're not looking good. Early gains for Japan's Nikkei 225 are evaporating. The index opened up 1.3%. Australia's ASX 200 is off -1.03%, but it has regained some of its earlier losses. This follows an incredibly volatile week that appeared to be triggered by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who said the Fed could begin to taper, or gradually reduce its stimulative bond-buying plan. This week, at least eight Federal Reserve officials will be speaking about monetary policy and the economy.¬† Everyone will be listening for further clues regarding the taper.
REUTERS/Larry Downing Last week was crazy. Treasuries tumbled sending the 10-year yield above 2.5% for the first time since April 2011.† Gold crashed below $1,300, hitting its lowest levels since September 2010. And the S&amp;P 500 ended the week at 1,592, down 5.6% from its high of the year. Market volatility has been elevated ever since Wednesday when Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke suggested that the Fed could begin to taper, or scale back, its stimulative monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds "later this year." "Expect further market volatility and liquidity dislocations in the immediate period ahead," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. "[M]arkets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth." This week, eight Federal Reserve officials will be speaking as at least ten critical economic reports come out. Buckle up. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The big question on everyone's mind is whether it's time to buy stocks after last week's sell-off, especially considering the elevated volatility. Citi's Tobias Levkovich says no. "Investors may be encouraged by a VIX reading above 20 but they shouldn't be," warned Levkovich in a note to clients on Thursday. "Factors such as tapering, international economic disappointments and challenges for a quicker anticipated equity market leadership shift into global cyclicals suggest that the environment may not be that conducive for a new rally effort quite yet." Levkovich currently expects the S&amp;P 500 to end the year at 1,615.
Terrafugia Financial markets have seen violent swings lately, particularly in the fixed income market, as interest rates on Treasuries have surged in a manner that we haven't seen since the end of the financial crisis. Part of the reason for the rise in rates is the improving economy, but a lot of it is believed to be the result of the Fed taking on a slightly more hawkish tone, and Bernanke indicating his inclination to "taper" the pace of bond purchases starting later this year. But the ructions in financial markets, and the drop in inflation expectations, is a hint that perhaps the Fed is being premature, and that if things deteriorate again, and the Fed needs to press back down on the gas pedal, then it won't have the credibility it needs, having been timid this time around. That's Paul Krugman's argument, who says that the Fed is making, potentially, a historic mistake. So how can the Fed do better? In a long note, Goldman chief economist Jan Hatzius talks about a A More Graceful Exit from QE. Hatzius' argument is that the taper is overblown as the big story. Instead he points to this chart, of Fed futures, which indicate that market expectations for the timing of the first Fed interest rate hike have moved from May 2015 to December 2014. Goldman Sachs Says Hatzius: In our view, the most compelling explanation for the reaction to Chairman Bernankeís appearances is that market participants have shifted their monetary policy expectations more broadly than suggested by the small change in QE forecasts. A broader shock to expected monetary policy is consistent with the combination of higher TIPS yields lower breakeven inflation rates, and weaker equities over the past few weeks. More specifically, we believe that the bond market views QE tapering as a broader signal that the monetary policy exit is getting underway, and hikes in the funds rate will not be far behind. Exhibit 3 shows the change in the marketís pricing of short-term interest rates since Bernankeís testimony to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress on May 22. The first hike in the funds rate has moved forward from May 2015 to December 2014, which is probably at least twice as much as expectations about the first tapering of QE. So how can the Fed stick the landing? It needs to make even more clear that it's going to be a long time until the first Fed rate hike. One way it can do this is to reduce, even further (from 6.5%) the threshold at which it would consider raising rates. If Fed officials want to take out insurance against a further tightening of financial conditions and the resulting downside risks to the growth and inflation outlook, they basically have two options. The first would be to delay the tapering of QE from ìlater this yearî into 2014. This is certainly possibleóBernanke made it clear that the timeline now projected by the committee could change if the economic outlook changes. That said, we also agree with St. Louis Fed President Bullard that the mere fact that there is now an official timeline was a step away from state-contingent monetary policy which will presumably make policy less responsive to new information.† The Fedís other option would be to alter the forward guidance for the federal funds rate. A return to calendar guidance is unlikely, but we were intrigued by Bernankeís comment in the Q&amp;A of the press conference that a reduction in the 6.5% threshold for the unemployment rate is ìsomething that might happen.î As we discussed in early May, our own view is that a significant part of the drop in the labor force participation rate over the past few years is a cyclical consequence of the labor demand shock during the crisis. This means that there is significantly more slack in the labor market than suggested by the gap between the actual and structural unemployment rate aloneóby our estimates about twice as much. Greater recognition of this fact would suggest that the FOMC should alter the threshold guidance for the funds rate, either by including the labor force participation rate or an employment/population ratio directly in the statement orómore likelyóby adjusting the unemployment threshold downward.Separate from this, Vice Chair Yellenís optimal control simulations suggest that the funds rate should not rise until the economy returns to the neighborhood of full employmentóa criterion that would also point to a materially lower threshold than the current 6.5% .† A reduction in the unemployment threshold also looks attractive from a more tactical perspective. In our view, it could yield outsized benefits by dissuading market participants from assuming that a tapering of QE implies earlier hikes in the funds rate. At present, the markets seem skeptical of Bernankeís repeated assertions that there has been no change in the committeeís view of the outlook for the funds rate. They seem to believe that Fed officials must have become at least somewhat more willing to consider earlier hikes if they are sufficiently comfortable with the economic outlook to preannounce QE tapering. Bottom line: The taper could work smoothly if it clearly breaks any hint of a connection between tapering and stopping ultra-low rates. ... we think they would change their mind and take the FOMC at its word that it has not become more hawkish on short rates to a much greater degree in response to a move in the two policy tools in opposite directionsóthat is, a tapering of QE on the one hand and a reduction in the unemployment threshold on the other.
A few of us were sitting around after a day of fishing on pristine waters, with marvelous weather and wonderful conversation here in Maine. We discussed the results of Fed (Federal Reserve) policy and its impact on the housing market. I was fortunate enough to gather with Ed Pinto, Josh Rosner, and Chris Whalen. They have great expertise in housing, housing finance, mortgaging, impacts of the Fed on the banking system, and the regulatory regimes that are affecting the country. Those three have had their share of experiences with congressional testimony and analysis. Regular readers and viewers of economic and financial television will recognize them. The mortgage interest rate in the US is up about 100 basis points in a brief time, thanks to the failed communication policy of the Fed. What does that rise mean? We speculated about how much of a setback will occur to the housing recovery. We know refinancing will come to a stop. Rosner pointed out that a large number of people in the market were cash and speculative buyers. That activity may slow down or come to a stop. The salvaging of the foreclosure document mess will slow. Chris Whalen has done serious work on that. His firm, Carrington Holding Company, is involved in the mortgage servicing process. Ed Pinto has been all over the issues involving FHA (the Federal Housing Administration), another mess in the making. The takeaway from the group and others gathering here at Leen‚Äôs Lodge is pretty clear. Housing, finance, mortgaging, and the recovery in the US will see a setback. How severe that setback will be remains to be seen. The range of outcomes may span several hundred thousand single-family housing starts a year. The news is not good. The economy is likely to slow because of the slowdown in the housing recovery. The policy options available to the Fed are likely to become more difficult. What is the Fed going to do if housing slows and we get well under two-percent GDP growth rates because of that? What happens to the incipient recovery in terms of consumer discretion? What happens to job creation in the housing sector, which offers higher-paying jobs? Is the Fed about to repeat its 1937 mistake of too-quick tightening? In 1937 the Fed did not have to deal with the balance sheet side and escrow reserve deposit rates. Policy was made differently then. However, the ramifications of imposing a serious shock on a recovering economy may be quite similar. We talked about inflationary pressures under these circumstances. Whether or not St. Louis Fed President Jim Bullard is right on the mark by worrying about inflation was a high point of our discussion. The conclusions from this early visit to Leen‚Äôs Lodge are these: Uncertainty and risk to the recovery are higher than they were a few weeks ago. The housing finance mechanism in the US is not fixed. There is a lot more to be done. We think lower interest rates are going to be with us for a while longer. The combination of two rounds of communication confusion plus President Obama‚Äôs comments about Ben Bernanke have put the Fed in a position where its message requires greater clarification. The fishing was good at Leen‚Äôs Lodge. The small-mouth bass cooperated. Food was delicious, and the 28 people assembled had lots of fun. The takeaway for the economic outlook on the other hand, was a sobering counterpoint to the pleasures of our gathering: slow rather than robust growth coupled with low interest rates, and for a long time. As we have said repeatedly, we expect low rates for at least several more years. They are bullish for asset classes over time, and rising asset prices are good for investors. In the real economy on Main Street, the circumstances are different. If you want to buy a house in the US and you need a conventional mortgage, and if you are not a speculator and want to live in dwelling, your costs have now risen substantially.
Last night was the "Super Moon", which is the largest full moon of the year. As Dina Spector explained: A supermoon occurs when a full moon coincides with the moon being closest to Earth in its orbit, also known as perigee. The¬†near perfect timing of these two celestial events makes the moon appear¬†larger and brighter in the night sky.¬† Lots of photographers (pro and amateur alike) snapped gorgeous pictures of the Super Moon. The most incredible one comes from Carlos Allegri at Reuters, who, perfectly enough, captured riders on the "Luna Park" Swing Ride at Coney Island, in Brooklyn. Carlos Allegri, Reuters A few other remarkable images, include this one from Greece: REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis This one of a church in Vienna is also quite powerful. REUTERS/Heinz-Peter Bader And finally, we loved this one, which is described by Reuters as: The largest full moon of 2013, a "super moon" scientifically known as a "perigee moon", rises over the Tien Shan mountains and the monument to 18th century military commander Nauryzbai Batyr near the town of Kaskelen, some 23 km (14 miles) west of Almaty. REUTERS/Shamil Zhumatov
Flickr / zcopleyThe Bitcoin Foundation has received a cease-and-desist letter from the California Department of Financial Institutions, Forbes contributor Jon Matonis reports. Matonis' bio says he himself is on the board of the Bitcoin foundation. The agency charges the Foundation with allegedly "engaging in the business of money transmission without a license or proper authorization." You can read the full letter here. It's an odd development, since the Foundation doesn't actually perform any wire transfers, but rather serves as a kind of custodian of, or advocate for, the Bitcoin universe. It's also registered in Washington D.C. and has a mailing address in Seattle, Matonis says. Matonis himself serves on the board of the Foundation and says it remains unclear whether other Bitcoin-related firms have received similar letters. The Department is closed Sundays. Click here to read Matonis' story &gt;
Bitcoin has its first British boozer. The Pembury Tavern in Hackney, east London ‚Äì as well as its sister pubs in Cambridge, Norwich and Peterborough ‚Äì are now accepting the virtual currency. It was pub group founder Stephen Early, a former computer scientist, who decided to give the currency a go. "I bought some in 2011 but there wasn't really anything to do with them," he explains. "So I did the equivalent of putting them in a drawer and forgetting about them." The coins were soon worth 20 times what he paid for them but Early still couldn't find anything to buy. He figured other Bitcoin holders might fancy spending their online cash on a pint. It took him just a couple of evenings to create and install a Bitcoin payment option; the pub was already using his custom-built till software. The system is quick and effective. The bar staff press two buttons on the till and the screen displays a QR code. The customer opens their digital Bitcoin wallet, takes a snap of the screen and confirms the payment. The staff¬†press one more button and the transaction is complete. Snapping the QR code in a crowded bar could be a challenge but in a quiet pub it is faster than paying by card. Early registered his pubs with a database of Bitcoin retailers and people started popping in to see for themselves. So far he's sold around ¬£800 of booze to Bitcoin users. "It's more than I expected it to be," he says. "I really didn't expect that wave of enthusiasm and people coming in to try it out. There is a certain novelty value." The Pembury Tavern is the first UK pub to go Bitcoin-friendly but not the first real-world business. In the Kreuzberg district of Berlin, restaurants, bars and a record shop have been using the payment system for months. In Ireland, just outside the small town of Birr, Bitcoin users can now book a night at a farmhouse bed and breakfast. Small online businesses now accept the currency in exchange for everything from alpaca socks to pet accessories and hemp skincare treatments. Bitcoin enthusiasts have held a¬†meet-up at the Pembury Tavern,¬†descending on the pub to¬†swap their virtual coins for frothy pints and discuss the future of the currency. Still, Early is hedging his bets. I ask him if he plans to hold on to the Bitcoins coming in. He tells me no. "My plan is gradually to turn them back into pounds." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk
Global financial markets are now in a very perilous state, and there is a much higher than normal chance of a crash. Bernanke's recent statement revealed just how large a role speculation had played in the prices of nearly everything, and now there is a mad dash for cash taking place all over the world. After years of cramming liquidity into the markets, creating massive imbalances such as stock markets hitting new highs even as economic fundamentals deteriorated (Germany) or were lackluster (U.S.), junk bonds hitting all-time-record highs, and sovereign bond yields steadily falling even as the macro economics of various countries worsened markedly (Spain, Italy, Greece, and Portugal), all of this was steadily building up pressures that were going to be relieved someday. Just over a month ago, Japan lit the fuse by destabilizing its domestic market, which sent ripples throughout the world. The early stage of any liquidity crisis is a mad dash for cash, especially by all of the leveraged speculators. Anything that can be sold is sold. As I scan the various markets, all I can find is selling. Stocks, commodities, and equities are all being shed at a rapid pace, and that's the first clue that we are not experiencing sector rotation or other artful portfolio-dodging designed to move out of one asset class into another (say, from equities into bonds). Here's the data. Let's begin with the place that the most trouble potentially lurks¬†‚Äì bonds ‚Äì and here we have to start with the U.S. Treasury 10-year note, as that is the benchmark for so many other interest-rate-sensitive items, such as mortgage bonds. Here there's been a very interesting story that predates the recent Fed announcement by nearly two months. This chart of the price of 10-year Treasurys tells us much (remember, price and yield are exact opposites for bonds; as one moves up, the other moves down):  The first take-away is that the current price of 10-year Treasurys is now lower that at any time since late 2011. The second take-away is that this has happened despite both Operation Twist and QE3. That is, after all the hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars of thin-air money-printing and bond-buying, Treasurys are now lower in price than when the Fed initiated Operation Twist and QE3. And it's not just 10-year rates; the entire yield curve from 5-year to 30-year debt is now higher than it was a month ago:  This is very, very important. On the one hand, it tells us that the Fed may not be omnipotent after all, because you can bet your bottom dollar that the Fed simply does not want long rates to rise and that this was an unplanned and unwelcome move. On the other hand, rising rates will do much to a fragile economy and over-leveraged speculators and institutions. I may need more hands here, because there are other undesirable effects of rising rates, including falling equities (we'll get to that in a minute), fiscal difficulties for heavy borrowers (many sovereign entities belong to this club), and mortgages becoming increasingly expensive. An early casualty of rising U.S. interest rates, of course, was mortgage rates, which have climbed approximately 40 basis points (0.40%) over the past month:  Obviously, anything that will impact the housing market at this point is entirely unwelcome by the Fed, which has openly stated that it wants people buying homes ‚Äì and for a variety of reasons, people tend to take out fewer mortgages when rates rise. This is especially true for refinancing mortgages, an important source of revenue for financial institutions. If it were just U.S. rates that were rising, that would be one thing, but rates have been on the move in Europe and Japan. In this next table, you can see two things: (1) much of the one-month rise in rates can be attributed to the past 24 hours (red arrows), and (2) quite a number of the most problematic nations have bond yields that are below their recent highs (as seen in the green circle).  (Source) What I gather from this is that countries like Spain, Portugal, Greece, and Italy do not deserve the ridiculously low rates they now enjoy, and that those old highs in yield will be revisited. Where the U.S. had a change in yield trend in mid-May 2013, Spain was leading the charge by reversing course in early May:  Who was buying all that junky sovereign debt at inflated prices as Spanish yields fell? Institutions and speculators. The institutions were entities like Spanish banks and the Spain pension system, buying Spanish debt for reasons that seem far more political than financially prudent. For a while, that strategy worked, as rising bond prices delivered both nice yields and capital gains, but now pretty much anybody who bought those bonds in 2013 is (at best) roughly even for the year, leaving plenty who are nursing losses. The speculators in this story represented the hottest of the hot money, involving hedge funds jumping on any trades that seemed to be headed in the right direction and/or offered useful yields for spread trades, both of which conditions were met by southern European sovereign debt. But that hot money is best described by the phrase easy come, easy go. It arrives fast and leaves even faster. Okay, so what we can say at this point is that bonds are being sold off around the world. This is very bad for equities, because there's a connection between falling yields and rising equities. As yields fall, the risk-appetite of investors climbs because they need returns, and so they put more money into equities and real estate. This is especially true when interest rates are negative, meaning that they yield less than the rate of inflation, and that is precisely what the Fed engineered. On purpose. However, this coin has two sides, and the less virtuous face combines rising bond yields with falling equities. It is simply the reverse of the Fed's desired and manufactured outcome of the prior several years. If we look at the U.S. stock market, as typified by the S&amp;P 500, we see that it peaked in May (to no one's surprise, I hope) and has been steadily falling over the same period that interest rates have been rising.  1600 is now the magic 'round number' for the market to break through if it is heading lower, which I think it is. We'll also note that the 50-day moving average (the rising blue line) has been critical support for the S&amp;P 500 throughout the entire advance (green circles), and that it has been soundly violated on this drop. Commodities have been heading down, too, but seemingly as a part of a larger move that's been underway for a couple of years:  Note that commodities are now beneath their 200-week moving average, which is a very bearish indicator (green circle). Collectively, the move away from commodities, bonds, and equities in all markets globally tells us that there's nowhere to hide and that this is a 2008-style dash for cash. Everything is being sold, as it must, to meet margin calls, pay down leverage, and get out of positions; all are signs of the end of a speculative phase. I know it's a lot to claim that we are at that turning point, but the evidence that we are there is now more than a month old, and it's time to consider that we are entering the next phase of our date with destiny. In Part II: The Ride Down from Here, we look at the increasing number of flashing indicators warning that a 2008-style ‚Äì but worse ‚Äì sell-off is arriving. We say "worse" because this time it looks like it will be accompanied by a vicious cycle of rising interest rates. Plus, governments and central banks have used up all of their major options already. There are no more white knights to hope for. We examine the likeliest course from here for asset prices and what to expect from the central planners as desperation increasingly drives the decision-making. We also look at what defensive steps individual investors should be considering. Because, as we've been advising for months, now is a time for safety. Buckle up. It's going to be a bumpy summer. Click here to read Part II¬†of this report¬†(free executive summary;¬†enrollment¬†required for full access).
ajleon/flickr Some important pieces of your July 4 cookout are going to be a bit more expensive this year. John Davie, president of restaurant group-purchasing firm Consolidated Concepts, has released the following list of year-over-year food increases: Ground beef: +6% Broiler chickens:¬† +10% Chicken breasts: +25%, at highest point since 2004 Potatoes: +10% Hot dogs, soft drinks, baked beans, chips, and chicken thigh prices will basically see no change, Davie said. It's too early to know corn on the cob prices. Chicken wing and rib prices will decrease. Davie told us the increases mostly stem from lingering effects of last year's epic drought, along with slightly higher gas prices.
For several months, at least some investors seeking income have fled the bond market and headed toward the stock market because stock dividend yields were higher than than bond coupon payments. This was a considered a tailwind for the stock market. However, with this week's -- and this month's -- sell-off in the bond market, prices have come down so much that bond yields are now higher than stock dividends. Here's BMO Capital's Brian Belski: One of the biggest advantages stocks have enjoyed lately has been relatively high dividend yields when compared with bonds. Based on our work, this has provided a significant boost to stock market performance. For instance, ever since the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield consistently exceeded the 10-year Treasury yield (in this cycle), stocks have gained an average annual return of 24.1%. This compares with 18.2% for periods where the dividend yield was below the Treasury yield and 5.5% if you exclude the ‚Äúrebound‚Äù year of 2009. Needless to say, the yield advantage has clearly provided a strong tailwind for market performance, and in our view, made the ‚Äúre-allocation‚Äù decision for skittish investors a little easier. Unfortunately, recent higher rates have pushed the S&amp;P 500 dividend yield back below the 10-year Treasury yield for the first time in almost a year and a half -- a trend that is likely to continue given Fed posturing. This is not to say stocks aren't attractive on an absolute basis. However, the relative value offered by stocks over bonds has narrowed significantly. BMO Capital
Bloomberg TelevisionMarc Faber On Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told us that the U.S. economy could be strong enough for the Fed to begin tapering, or scaling back, it's stimulative quantitative easing (QE) program later this year. However, the bears aren't convinced. After Bernanke's comments, Peter Schiff said the economy was so weak that the Fed's next big announcement would actually be to increase QE. Uber bear Marc Faber, embracing hyperbole, suggested that QE would basically be a part of everyday life for the rest of our lives. "As I said already three years ago, we are going to go with the Fed to QE99," said Faber on Bloomberg Television with Trish Regan and Tom Keene on Friday. We are currently on the third round of QE, aka QE3. Here's a transcript of the interview via Bloomberg Television: Faber on whether problems will continue for the equity markets: "Well, right now equities, bonds and gold are very oversold. They can easily rally on the S&amp;P. We could rally 43, 50 points, but I don't expect a new high. Just in case a new high would be achieved in the next two months or so, it would not be confirmed by the majority of shares. In other words, very few stocks would lead the advance. In terms of bonds, they are also incredibly oversold. Where the sentiment about equities is actually still rather positive and all of these super bulls still predicting the market to continue to rise into 2014, 2015. In bonds and gold, sentiment is by historical standards incredibly negative. As a contrarian, I would rather buy bonds and gold than equities." On whether yields will be higher if Bernanke meant what he said on starting to taper sooner rather than later: "If you say that if he means what he says, then you believe in Father Christmas. He said if the economy does not meet the expectations of the fed in one years' time, they will consider additional measures. In other words, if the economy has not fully recovered by mid-2014, more QE will be forthcoming. As I said already three years ago, we are going to go with the Fed to QE99." On whether he's investing with a backdrop of no inflation: "Well, I think investors have a misconception about what inflation is because it is essentially an increase in the quantity of money and credit. We have wage deflation in the world in real terms, for sure. In other words, real wages are going down and the cost of living everywhere are going up. That is why you have social unrest in North Africa, in the Middle East, in Turkey, in Brazil, and it will spread because the average person on the street hasn't participated in the huge asset inflation that has been going on in high-end properties, Mayfair properties, Fifth Avenue, Madison Avenue, the Hamptons and in equities and until recently in bonds and commodities." On Laszlo Birinyi saying that gold is his biggest short: "To that I respond there are many people out there, they never owned an ounce of gold in their lives. They were bearish about gold at $300, bearish about gold at $700, bearish about the stock market in 2009 when the S&amp;P was at 666. Now, they are bullish about stocks and they are still bearish about gold. The commercial hedgers - these are professional miners, mining companies and people involved in gold trading. They have the lowest short exposure, since 2001 when gold was at $300. Similarly, in the silver market, the commercial hedgers, again, the professionals have the lowest short exposure since 2001. I would rather bet on the commercial miners, the commercial hedgers than on some forecaster who knows about the future of prices as little as I know. The only thing that I know is that I want to own some physical gold because I don't want all of my assets in financial assets." "First of all, I believe that today we are talking about the global economy. The U.S. stock market has just about outperformed any other market around the world in the last 6 to 12 months. We have big trouble coming into emerging economies. The emerging economies are not performing well, There is no growth at the present time. The Chinese economy, maximum is growing at four percent per annum. We have multinationals in the S&amp;P. Their growth and global growth came from the last four years from¬† the recovery in the emerging world. If the emerging world does not grow, the global economy will not perform well and corporate profits, as we just saw today from Oracle, will disappoint and stocks won't be the best investment in the world‚Ä¶Will not be a very good investment. I think the market is on the high side, corporate profits are inflated and we could easily, from the recent high, May 22 at 1687 on the S&amp;P, drop by 20% to 30%, easily." On where gold is heading by year end:  "Well, I think we will be higher by year end but I am not worried where we are. I have said that I buy gold regularly. I just bought today at $1300 and I will buy more at $1200 and I will buy more at $1100." On whether gold will go down before going back up: "I don't know, I am not a prophet, I don't know exactly where the price will be on a month by month basis, but I want to have some wealth, some of my assets in physical gold. I can see a lot of problems coming into the world including expropriation through taxation or through regulation or even through revolution and social strife." On where 10 year yield is going: "I am tempted to buy a 10 year treasury at a yield of 2.5%. I think we will rebound in the treasury market. Yields will go down first, and if they go up further, it will kill the economy including the housing market."
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci A combination picture shows demonstrators with their faces painted and wearing a Guy Fawkes mask during a protest against the Confederations Cup and President Dilma Rousseff's government, in Recife City June 20, 2013. Hosting the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics ‚Äî which has never happened in the same country within three years ‚Äî has been touted as Brazil's chance to "show the world it has more to offer than just street parties and first-rate football." ReutersBut over the past week, amid the World Cup's ongoing preliminary tournament, the people have told their government that public services trump even"O Jogo Bonito" (i.e. "The Beautiful Game"). "What am I protesting for?" Savina Santos, a 29-year-old civil servant in Sao Paulo, said to Reuters. "You should ask what I'm not protesting for! We need political reform, tax reform, an end to corruption, better schools, better transportation. We are not in a position to be hosting the World Cup." It's telling, given how much Brazilians love f√∫tbol, that more than a million of them are¬†embedding their message in the fabric of the World Cup experience. Here a protester/fan at the Confederations Cup Group A soccer match between Brazil and Mexico is holding up a sign that reads, "We want hospitals up to FIFA's standard": REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach The "Fifa standard" is a reference to the "first world standard" required by FIFA for World Cup arenas, which has not extended outside of the massive stadiums. "Ending the Cup next year, we'll be forgotten again in our reality typical of the outskirts of Fortaleza," Professor Raymond John Smith, 55, who lives tens of meters from $520 million Estadio Castelao, told BBC Brazil (translation via Google). Not only that, but construction has caused situations like losses of running water in nearby neighborhoods ‚Äî forcing the poor to sacrifice for the pomp. "Since we started the works [near my street], my house started flooding whenever it rains," 31-year-old domestic worker Lucineide Cavalcanti Lima told BBC. "The World Cup did not help the residents, only worsened our situation." Despite all that, the protests are still remarkable given Brazilian culture. Isa, a blogger who grew up between New York and Bangkok before living in Sao Paulo (i.e. Latin America's largest city), eloquently explains: Brazilians don't like to get worked up about things. They like to sit back, and relax, and would rather sweep issues under the rug if they can possibly avoid confronting them and as long as things look pretty. This has allowed corruption to run wild in the background as the government prepared a pretty face for the world in the foreground. ... The trigger for the protests was a small increase in bus fare, but the real reasons for discontent lie in decades of corruption and high taxes coupled with low services - I once heard it described as "France's taxes but Somalia's services". Most cities have already rescinded the hike in transportation fares - a small victory - but the protests continue. REUTERS/Marcos BrindicciDemonstrators carry a banner made of Brazilian national flags during a protest against the Confederations Cup and President Dilma Rousseff's government, in Recife City June 20, 2013. Importantly for protestors, the confluence of bubbling public gripes and the hosting of the world's two biggest sporting events in three years suggest that the vigorous movement may have staying power. From Isa: The protestors are primarily young, white, upper-class students with few strong political ties ... The question will be whether they have the conviction to keep this up, and whether those that suffer the true consequences of corruption in Brazil - the poor, the lower-class, the uneducated - will join them. Let's hope their what-can-we-do attitude doesn't get the better of them. Editor's note: This 10-second clip is a pithy illustration of the connection between the people and O Jogo Bonito: 
Flickr / Federal ReserveFederal Reserve Board of Governors Last Wednesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told us that the Fed could begin to taper, or gradually reduce its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. The markets appeared to take this very seriously as reflected by all-out havoc in the global financial markets. Stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies around the world all fell. However, everyone still has questions. And they may get some answers this week as seven Federal Reserve Governors and Bank Presidents give speeches this week. Add to that some important economic data. Societe Generale gives us a brief preview: Chairman Bernanke set out a clear timeline last week; if the economy continues to improve, the Fed will begin to taper its $85bn/month QE program later this year and end the program altogether around mid-2014. Seven Fed speeches on the agenda this week will be scrutinised for more taper clues, starting with Fischer on Monday, Kocherlakota on Wednesday, Powell and Lockhart on Thursday, Lacker, Williams and Pianalto on Friday. As highlighted by Chief US Economist Aneta Markowska in FOMC on track for September tapering, the message from Chairman Bernanke has made the Fedís forecasts the implicit benchmark against which investors should evaluate incoming data. The Fed forecasts unemployment will average around 7.4% in Q4 compared to 7.6% today. Investors will have to wait until 5 July for the next employment report. This week should overall see good news from the economy with strong May durable goods orders and firm housing data (S&amp;P/Case Shiller home price index, new home sales and pending home sales). MARKET ISSUES: Firm economic data will be further evidence that QE tapering is in the pipeline. The contrasting forces of a less accommodative monetary policy stance and better US economic data are not the only factors for markets. The earnings season is just around the corner and one question is how rising bond yields will impact notably financial sector earnings. An additional factor is conditions in the rest of the world. China (cf. above) credit and activity concerns took centre stage last week
Edith Hunt, Chief Diversity Officer and former Head of Talent Management at Goldman Sachs has been helping the bank figure out who gets to join its ranks since the 1990s. In an interview for Open Door, a video series from leading finance career site OneWire, Hunt explains how she creates a diverse work environment and what it takes to make it at one of Wall Street's top firms. ìUnderstand what the job entails, find a job match that youíre going to enjoy, because any of these jobsóparticularly those at Goldman Sachs or Wall Streetórequire a lot.† Theyíre demanding rolesÖSo it better be something you like, because if you like it, you have a chance at being good at it.î Hunt was part of the first generation in her family to receive a college education, ultimately graduating from the University of Pennsylvania. ìIím very mindful of the fact that I would not have had this career if I hadnít gone to the University of Pennsylvania, and the fact that I knew about the University of Pennsylvania was kind of a fluke.î She went on to earn her MBA from the University of Chicago, where she was one of merely ten female students in her class. In the early days of her career, she recalls, ìWe knew [women] were a huge minority.† We knew we were kind of pioneers, and it was kind of fun.î† Now, however, the role of women in finance is evolving. ìI think weíre looking for a point in time when senior management and boards of directors are coming to something thatís approaching 40% [female].† I think when you get over 30% you reach a tipping point where itís really not the woman speaking; itís just a person speakingóshe happens to be femaleÖWeíve made huge strides in terms of numbers but not as much as we need to get to.î Check out the video for her full interview with OneWire, and for more on Hunt look below.  About Edith Hunt After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania and subsequently earning her MBA at the University of Chicago, Edie Hunt began her impressive career at Citibank.† After a series of promotions, she joined J. Aron, a small private commodities trading company, where she assumed the role of Personnel Director.† Eleven months later, Goldman Sachs bought J. Aron, and as a result, Edie eventually became the Chief Administrative Officer for Goldman Sachsí Fixed Income division.† When the Fixed Income division merged with Currency and Commodities, she became increasingly involved in recruiting.† She was named Co-COO for Human Capital Management and was promoted to Partner in 2004. From 2008 to 2011, Edie managed primarily diversity, recruitment, and training.† In 2011, she retired as Partner.† She continues to act as Advisory Director and Chief Diversity Officer at Goldman Sachs.† Edie is actively involved in a number of charitable organizationsóparticularly those focused on education and the advancement of women.† Such organizations include the mentoring program, New Jersey Needs You, and the Board of Trustees at St. Philipís Academy.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid, Business InsiderHere they are: the most important charts in the world. We asked our favorite analysts, traders, economists, and strategists across the Street for the charts that they deem the most important right now, and this is what they sent us. A lot of the focus is on fixed income ñ specifically, what is going on in the U.S. Treasury market. The sell-off there over the past several weeks and the attendant rise in bond yields has had violent implications in financial markets around the world. But there are a lot of other things going on as well.
APThe Iranian rial has strengthened by more than 15 percent against the dollar since the victory of moderate Hassan Rowhani who was elected president more than a week ago, reports said on Sunday. The Iranian currency was trading at under 30,000 to the dollar on Sunday morning compared to 35,000 a week ago, media and dealers said. The rial had lost more than two-thirds of its value against the dollar since early 2012 when the United States and the European Union announced new sanctions against Iran's oil exports and access to the global banking system. The sanctions have been blamed by the government for most of the problems in Iran, where oil exports plummeted by 40 percent in 2012 while inflation is officially running at more than 30 percent. Rowhani has promised more transparency in talks with world powers on Iran's controversial nuclear programme that could help ease the sanctions. "Many Iranians had bought dollars and were stashing them at home but now they are selling because they fear that the perspective of a dialogue with the United States and a more subtle diplomacy on the nuclear front could strengthen the rial," a currency dealer told AFP on condition of anonymity. According to the central bank, Iranians have collectively stashed around $18 billion in their homes. Analysts have said that Rowhani's election, which ended eight years of conservative rule by outgoing president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, could soothe tensions with the West. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
US 30yr mortgage rates spiked to a 2-year high on Friday (4.49%). In the near term this spike may actually push some potential buyers who have been on the sidelines into purchasing a home. People are concerned that rates will rise even further, which may have the effect of increasing June/July sales (see¬†this story).The longer term effect however is less clear. While 4.5% is low by historical standards, it certainly takes a portion of the population out of the housing market. Also the speed of the rate spike may have a negative impact on consumer sentiment. Monthly payments on a new mortgage have increased by 10% from just a month ago (roughly $100/month for a median house price).One thing we can be confident of is that the wave of mortgage refinancing is over. Consumers have been putting extra cash into their pockets by refinancing multiple times in recent years. That gravy train just ended.
