Bitcoin is another example of ‚Äúmarket innovation‚Äù that deserves closer scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission. SEC Chairman Mary Jo White has said virtual currency itself may not be considered a ‚Äúsecurity,‚Äù but interest issued or returns gained by it likely would be and therefore subject to regulation. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress that the Fed ‚Äúdoes not necessarily have authority to directly supervise or regulate these innovations.‚Äù And the Justice Department says Bitcoin is legal, but that doesn‚Äôt mean it is adequately market tested, investment safe and ready to be a global currency. Asset bubbles have three phases: growth, maturity and pop. Bitcoin was created in 2009, hitting its growth stage in 2011 and maturity stage in 2013. Now it is ready to pop, having reached the nosebleed price of over $1,000, up from $13 since January. In addition to high-tech stocks, Chinese real estate and high-end artwork, Bitcoin can be added to the list of speculative bubbles that will not end well for investors. Unfortunately, the bubble run-up in Bitcoin and reputational damage will destroy a potential innovation that could have been used for legitimate market purposes. Silk Road, the deep web purveyor of drugs, guns and prostitution was its biggest promoter.¬† Dangerous price movements ‚Äî over 5,000 percent increase this year ‚Äî also hamper its adoption as a trusted currency. Unlike the U.S. dollar, which is backed by faith in the largest economy in the world, Bitcoin has no backing and lacks a stable or predictable price, inhibiting commerce. Placing high risk bets on a fad asset is not for the faint of heart. Compared to other assets, Bitcoin is over 7 times as volatile as gold and over 8 times as volatile as the S&amp;P 500. Recent Bitcoin price movements make owning Zambian kwacha seem boring. The benefits of digital currency to reduce transaction cost and compete with Visa and MasterCard has real promise for consumers. But to claim that volatile Bitcoin is the currency of the future in its current ‚ÄúWild West‚Äù stage is intellectually dishonest. There are numerous digital currency alternatives evolving including PeerCoin, Litecoin and Anoncoin that are gaining investor interest and challenge the notion that Bitcoin will be the market standard. Very few credible retail shops even accept Bitcoin which leaves the bulk of interest with speculators. Bitcoin has no underlying value and is simply a digital way to place bets and attempt to capitalize on it by claiming built-in scarcity and hyped demand. In reality, it is a virtual coin created by computer programmers out of thin air. These are computer geeks ‚Äî not central bankers that understand capital markets and how global economics works. Bitcoin only has value if speculative interest remains. Prices could drop as dramatically as they have risen, inflicting substantial financial losses, causing investors to flee. In the last week, prices have risen by over 60 percent and could easily fall by that same amount or more. Once sellers outnumber buyers, prices will eventually drop below $10, erasing all gains. This price collapse will occur by the first half of 2014. Bitcoin is not a currency with intrinsic value but a hyper bubble fueled by a get-rich-quick mindset. Can the 12 million digitally manufactured Bitcoins in circulation really be worth $12 billion? If so, why can‚Äôt 12 million rare clamshells discovered on a remote island be worth $12 billion? At least with clamshells there is history supporting their use as viable currency. In the last month, Bitcoin has increased over six fold ‚Äî from $150 to over $1,000 ‚Äî despite the fact that underlying fundamentals have not changed, nor do they support such lofty prices. Is one Bitcoin mined by a computer really worth the equivalent of close to one ounce of gold? The supposedly maximum number of Bitcoin that will be mined remains at 21 million. Yet these internet coins can also be broken down into almost infinite bite sizes. Skyrocketing prices have increased the number of computers participating in this modern gold rush, raising legitimate concerns about whether existing controls will be adequate to prevent market manipulation schemes. If Bitcoin is not backed by anything and has no underlying value, why have prices risen to the clouds? Speculators are being sold on hype and recent price spikes have been used to claim this flawed investment premise is rock solid. Real value is created through meaningful innovation and adoption ‚Äî not from smoke and mirror deception. In recent U.S. Senate testimony, soon-to-be Fed chief Janet Yellen missed an important opportunity to call out Bitcoin as an example of a dangerous speculative bubble. Smart investors needn‚Äôt wait to be told.

REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNelson Mandela, former South African president and anti-apartheid leader, died in Johannesburg Thursday at the age of 95. Mandela had suffered from a recurring lung infection. Mandela's death prompted many to worry for the nation, even as they mourned his death.¬† Dennis Gartman, editor and publisher of the Gartman letter, writes that it was Madiba, as Mandela was fondly called, who "kept South Africa together after the end of Apartheid," and that he now "fears" for South Africa.¬† "It was Nelson Mandela who forced the blacks in S. Africa to push ahead with the reconciliation councils rather than physically attacking whites living there. It was Madiba who chided radical blacks bent upon revolution rather than reconciliation, and it was Madiba who brought the whole of S. Africa into the modern world and showed the world that the leaders such as Mugabe from Zimbabwe, or Mobutu Sese Seko of the Congo needn‚Äôt be the hallmarks of a new African leadership. "We do fear for S. Africa now that Madiba has passed away, for we fear that it was his presence that kept radicals such as Julius Malema at bay and away from the wheels of power there. One ‚Äúlook‚Äù from Madiba... one comment... one statement was sufficient to force Malema to be ousted from his position of authority within the ANC‚Äôs Youth League. President Zuma... a man in which we‚Äôve no confidence whatsoever and a man given to the most lunatic decisions and actions... at least had to remain within the bounds of common sense knowing that Nelson Mandela could and would call his hand at a moment‚Äôs notice. "Hence we fear for S. Africa once the period of mourning for the passing of this great man is passed; but for now we mourn the loss of this truly great man... a man for the ages, the likes of which we shall not likely see in our lifetime again." Gartman goes on to compare President Obama and Madiba, saying the President is a man of the left moving farther in that direction. Mandela on the other hand, he writes, "was a man of the Left who moved to the centre and created a nation."
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Former¬†Goldman Sachs Group Inc¬†trader¬†Matthew Taylor¬†was sentenced Friday to serve nine months in prison and pay $118 million in restitution to his former employer after he pleaded guilty to pursuing an unauthorized $8.3 billion futures trade in 2007. In imposing a sentence well below the 33- to 41-month term the U.S. Department of Justice had recommended, U.S. District Judge¬†William Pauley¬†in New York castigated both Goldman and government authorities for failing to immediately address Taylor's conduct when it occurred. The case is a "paradigm of everything that is wrong with Wall Street and the regulators charged with protecting the public," Pauley said. Prosecutors claimed Taylor lied to supervisors and fabricated trades in December 2007 to conceal an $8.3 billion position in Standard &amp; Poor's 500 e-mini futures contracts, which bet on the direction of that index. Goldman fired him shortly thereafter. The bank had sought the $118 million to cover its losses on the trade, a request the U.S. Department of Justice supported, though it is unlikely that Goldman will collect. Taylor, a married father of two, has moved to¬†Florida, where he and his wife have started a pool cleaning business. "We've tried to rebuild our lives far from Wall Street," Taylor, who turns 35 on January 1, told Pauley. He pleaded guilty in April, a day after turning himself in to authorities. He was previously fined $500,000 by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Goldman itself paid a $1.5 million civil fine last December to settle CFTC charges that it failed to adequately supervise Taylor, an amount that Pauley said it earned back in a "couple of minutes" given its more than $7 billion in annual profits. Pauley also faulted Goldman for simply firing Taylor without disclosing the full extent of his cover-up. "Astonishingly, Goldman then watched as one of its competitors, Morgan Stanley, rehired Taylor," Pauley said. But the judge saved some of his harshest words for the government, criticizing regulators and prosecutors for failing to investigate Taylor for years and then claiming credit in the media when they finally did. "It cannot be called justice or oversight when it took the government six years to bring a rogue trader to justice, when the trader admitted his conduct on Day 1," he said. "At some point, the justice needs to be swift if it's going to mean anything, other than another press release and the ability to say, 'another pelt.'" The office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney¬†Preet Bharara¬†and the CFTC declined to comment on Pauley's remarks. But a person familiar with the criminal investigation said prosecutors only first became aware of Taylor's conduct last November after seeing a news report about the CFTC probe. In a statement, a Goldman spokesman said the bank had disclosed in a filing with the¬†Financial Industry Regulatory Authority¬†that Taylor was fired in 2007 for "inappropriately large proprietary futures positions in a firm trading account". Pauley said Taylor is a "brilliant and talented" man who made a series of terrible decisions, and while he did not deserve years in prison, the judge concluded that a short sentence of imprisonment was necessary. "Everything about this case is sad," Pauley said. "Your employer's response was sad. Your conduct is sad. The government's conduct is sad. "Undoubtedly, they'll issue another press release," he added. As of 5 p.m., Bharara's office had not yet fulfilled that prediction. The case is U.S. v. Taylor,¬†U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 13-cr-00251. (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Kenneth Barry, Richard Chang and Ken Wills)
Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. KOESTERICH: Stock Valuation And Investor Sentiment Don't Justify Bubble Fears Just Yet (BlackRock Blog)  To understand if U.S. stocks are in bubble territory, BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks investors should look at valuation and sentiment. In terms of valuation, he writes that stocks aren't cheap by they are still far from their previous peaks. He pays close attention to the Shiller P/E Ratio. "Todayís reading, in the mid 20s, suggests below average returns in coming years. A further advance would suggest a more serious problem. By way of comparison, the indicator reached a high of around 30 prior to the 1929 crash and was close to 45 in 2000," Koesterich writes. In terms of sentiment investors should look at both what investors are doing and what they are thinking. Looking at the put/call ratios and Bullish/Bearish Sentiment from the survey by the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII), Koesterich writes "that both metrics suggest bullishness, but not craziness." Bottomline: "For now, the preponderance of the evidence still suggests that stocks are not so overvalued, nor investors so exuberant, as to justify the ëBí word just yet." Mutual Fund Legend Peter Lynch Gave A Rare Interview ó Here's What He Said About Investing (Bloomberg TV)  Peter Lynch, legendary money manager who was formerly at the head of Fidelity's Magellan Fund sat down with Charlie Rose on Bloomberg TV for a rare chat on investing. Lynch gave Rose his "Three C's" of investing ó complacency, concern, and capitulation. "Being complacent is the worst one," Lynch said. "If you're working hard, you can avoid it." He also said its important to get into a stock when the company still has years of growth ahead. He said investors should get into a stock in the "first, second, third inning, not when they're drawing up the line-up." Retail Alternatives Are The Next Frontier For Asset Managers (Goldman Sachs)  Retail liquid alternatives (RLAs) which include "long/short equity, multi-alternatives, currencies, market neutral, managed futures, real estate, energy and commodities," provide an immense investment opportunity for asset managers, according to Goldman Sachs' Marc Irizarry. ìRLAsî are in the early stages of a 5-10 year growth trend, generating 15-20% organic growth annually, capable of producing a $2 trillion AuM opportunity--reminiscent of early stage ETF growth." FINRA Board Votes To Increase Arbitrators' Pay (FINRA) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has voted to increase arbitrator pay to $600 for each hearing day, instead of the current $400 rate. The chairperson of the panel would receive an extra $125 per day instead of $75. "To cover these honoraria increases, FINRA would increase the member firm surcharges and case processing fees for claims larger than $250,000. The proposal would also increase filing fees for investors, associated persons, or firms bringing claims of more than $500,000," according to the press release. This is the first change to arbitrator pay since 1999 but it has yet to be approved by the SEC. There Never Was A Golden Era Of Retirement (The Motley Fool) Americans between the ages of 55 - 64 have a median networth of $180,000, according to Nieslsen Claritas. "Only 58% of us are even saving for retirement in the first place. Of that group, 60% have less than $25,000 put away ... a full 30% have less than $1,000," according to ConvergEx Group. But this is hardly a new problem, writes Morgan Housel at the Motley Fool. He says here never was a golden era when Americans could enjoy retirement and that "by some measures, retirees are in a better position today than at any other time in modern history."
Business Insider/Andy Kiersz"Pythagorizing" the Flatiron BuildingAs part of their first anniversary celebrations, the Museum of Mathematics (MoMath) and about 500 math enthusiasts of all ages proved that New York's iconic Flatiron building is approximately in the shape of a very special type of right triangle. "Pythagorizing the Flatiron" is the first in a planned series of "MathHappenings" to be run by MoMath.† The proof of the Flatiron building's right triangle nature is based on the Pythagorean theorem ó the statement that for a right triangle with legs (shorter sides) of lengths a and b, and hypotenuse (long side) of length c, the sum of the squares of the two shorter lengths equals the square of the long length ó a2 + b2 = c2. The Museum of Math flipped this idea around ó if the lengths of the sides of a triangle, like the Flatiron building, satisfy the Pythagorean theorem, then the triangle must be a right triangle. MoMath measured the sides of the Flatiron building in a unique way. People lined up around the three sides of the building, and MoMath workers and volunteers handed out lightsticks that the math enthusiasts held end to end. By counting while handing out the glowing toys, MoMath was able to estimate the length of the building's sides in terms of lightsticks. Google Maps/ Business Insider The shortest side of the building, along 22nd St and designated side A, measured 75 lightsticks. The longer leg of the building, going up 5th Ave and designated side B, measured 180 lightsticks. The longest side of the building, the hypotenuse C running along Broadway, had a length of 195 lightsticks. Having found the lengths of the sides of the building in lightsticks, MoMath then projected on the side of the building the calculations that showed that the three sides do in fact match up with the Pythagorean Theorem, proving that the Flatiron is in fact a right triangle: Business Insider/ Andy KierszSquare the lengths of the two shorter sides: a2 = 752 = 5625 and b2 = 1802 = 32,400. Add those together and get a2 + b2 = 38,025. Then, square the length of the longest side: c2 = 1952 = 38,025 ó you get the same number as the sum of the squares of the shorter sides: a2†+ b2†= c2. So, the Pythagorean theorem holds for the Flatiron building, proving that it is in fact a right triangle. Right triangles whose sides all have whole number lengths are special. For most right triangles, at least one of the three sides will be an irrational number ó a right triangle whose shorter sides both have length one will have a hypotenuse of length square root of 2 (since, again by the Pythagorean Theorem, 12 + 12 = 1 + 1 = 2, and 2 is, by definition, the square root of 2, squared). Sets of three whole numbers that describe a right triangle, like 75, 180, and 195, are called Pythagorean triples, and they have been of interest to mathematicians since the time of the ancient Greeks. This particular Pythagorean triple also has one other interesting property. All three of the numbers 75, 180, and 195 can be divided by 15 without leaving a remainder: 75†˜ 15 = 5, 180†˜ 15 = 12, and 195†˜ 15 = 13. So, if we "rescale" the length measurements by performing this division on the three lengths, we get that the sides of the Flatiron building are 5, 12, and 13. MoMath thus was very clever in choosing the date for the event ó December 5, 2013, or 12/5/13, matching the sides of the building. After making the measurements of the Flatiron building's sides and showing their Pythagorean relationship, MoMath projected a couple nice geometric proofs of the Pythagorean theorem onto the side of the building: Business Insider/ Andy KierszThis proof is based on representing the squares of the side lengths as being the areas of squares drawn around the triangle. MoMath then showed how one can cut up and move around the two smaller squares based on the legs of the triangle, so that they fit perfectly inside the large square based on the hypotenuse, showing that the two smaller squares put together have the same area as the larger square ó proving that a2†+ b2†= c2. Events like this are a delightful way for all kinds of people to participate in the elegance and beauty of mathematics. The Pythagorean Theorem is a core concept in our understanding of geometry, and in many ways, it defines the shape of our world. It was exciting to see this fundamental mathematical principle brought to life in a fun and interactive way.
AP The ongoing political crisis in Ukraine has brought a renewed attention to the Eurasian Union, Vladimir Putin's grand dream of a†political and economic union that would bridge the gap between Europe and Asia. The protests in Kiev only began last month when President Viktor Yanukovych made an unexpected u-turn on a proposal that would have established free trade and furthered political cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union, an agreement that was seen as a possible precursor to EU membership. Instead, Yanukovych began to move toward an agreement with the Russian-directed Eurasian Customs Union (ECU), which includes Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan at present. The ECU is seen as a precursor to the broader Eurasian Union, a project close to Russian President Vladimir Putin's heart, which some say he sees as essential to his legacy. It's his plan not only to give Russia and allies a way to compete with economic giants such as the United States, China, and the EU, but also to put Russia firmly at the center of regional power. To put this all in context, let's look at a map of the European Union versus the Eurasian Customs Union as they stand right now: Business Insider As you can see the big red blob that represents the ECU already has a clear size advantage over the EU, and it covers a natural resource rich land in Russia and Kazakhstan. The three nations currently involved have a combined population of around 165 million people and a $2.3 trillion GDP. Add in†Ukraine and Georgia and you would get around 205 million people and $2.5 trillion GDP. Those are big numbers, but they still pale in comparison to the EU, which has more than 500 million inhabitants and a GDP of more than $16 trillion. China has a population of 1.3 billion and a GDP of $8.2 trillion, and the USA has a 313 million population and a GDP of almost $16 tillion. The ultimate hope for the Eurasian Union is that countries like Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan will join. More fantastical plans exist too: One Russian politician (a member of the Putin-linked United Russia party) has floated the idea of eventually broadening the union to include historical allies such as Mongolia and Finland, or even Cuba and Venezuela. Still, it's a risky venture for Putin ó the immigration implications may be huge for Russia, a country that already deals with a lot of ethnic strife, and you have to question the sanity of any nation entering an economic partnership with Belarus, Europe's last dictatorship and poorest country. Putin is a big idea kind of guy, however, and he may be more interested in the symbolism than the reality of his plan. The Russian president has publicly said that the fall of the U.S.S.R. was a "genuine tragedy" and the "the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century." Putin wasn't talking about Communism here, he was talking about Russia losing its grand geopolitical position as the center of an empire. The Eurasian Union is his plan to regain that position. It may be a long shot, but right now its all he's got.
Paulson &amp; †Co.'s Paulson Advantage Fund has put up some good performance numbers in the month of November, according to CNBC.† Paulson Advantage LP (onshore) Fund up 13.2% in November, up 29.5% year-to-date. This year has been challenging for most funds. Many of them are underperforming the S&amp;P, which is up about 27% this year.†
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe U.S. added 203,000 nonfarm payrolls in November, besting economist expectations, with the unemployment rate dropping to 7%. Over the past 12 months, job growth has averaged 195,000 per month, according to the BLS. In November, we saw the strongest†job gains in the transportation, health care, and manufacturing sectors. In the report, the BLS breaks down the job growth sector by sector. As always, the charts tell the story.†
Wikimedia CommonsNOTE: We've featured this post before previous CFA exams were administered.† The feedback has been positive, so we're running it again for you December 7 test takers.----------------- Dear CFA candidates, I'm not going to give you any tips on how to memorize formulas.† I'm not going to tell you how or what to eat during your lunch break. I just have one word for you: coffee. Maybe Red Bull or some other energy drink is your preferred source of caffeine.† But whatever it is, drink it up! Test-takers are often told that they have an average of 90 seconds to spend on each question (120 questions for each 3-hour section).† At least that's what they told me when I took the cram courses. As such, bathroom breaks are often considered wastes of time. But that's a fatal error. Drink coffee, Red Bull, or whatever, and give yourself 5 minutes for a bathroom break for each section. It's better to be efficient for 5 hours and 50 minutes, then to be inefficient for 6 hours. Sincerely, Someone who sat through and passed all three exams PS: And don't wear a diaper.† Every CFA test-taker has heard someone joke about this, and some claim they know someone who's done it.† But that's ridiculous.
Wikimedia CommonsChewing gum from France's Haribo factory.Is the stock market a bubble? Liz Ann Sonders doesn't think so. "The growing cries that we've reached sentiment or valuation extreme worthy of past tops, or a bubble at its bursting point, seems a bit premature," wrote Sonders recently. While there are warning signs for the economy and the markets, most signs actually suggest that fears of a bubble are way overblown. Sonders, the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, gave her brief Market Snapshot presentation earlier this week charting both the good and bad things about the market today. While her message can't be characterized as a "raging bull," her evenhanded message is nevertheless likely to leave you feeling more sanguine about the current state of the markets. Thanks to Charles Schwab for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
REUTERS/Nigel RoddisPuffins carry sand eels for their young as they fly above the Farne Islands off the Northumberland coast, northern England.Today's jobs report was solid, and the markets responded positively. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
"The Wolf of Wall Street" is going to be a monstrous hit.† It is the kind of movie that will inspire (mostly) men of a certain age (I am guessing 15 to 55) to memorize scenes and forever trade their favorite lines over and over. I won't give any of them away. But this movie will enter the pantheon of Martin Scorsese classics like "Goodfellas" and "The Departed." I was lucky enough to see a screening at the Director's Guild Theater on 57th Street on Thursday night. This is not a movie review. Just an early heads-up that this movie is epic. And it will be huge.† Leonardo DiCaprio compares "The Wolf of Wall Street" to a "modern-day Caligula" in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter. And he's not far off. There's gratuitous t&amp;a. So much so that my wife Natasha asked me why there were so many orgy scenes. I didn't have a good answer. There's so much nudity and sex that I was surprised to learn that the film had EVEN MORE in an earlier version ó†but additional sex scenes were cut to avoid an NC-17 rating. So prepare yourself for flesh. Then there are the drugs. From Quaaludes to cocaine, crack and booze ó†the drug scenes are exquisitely staged. Drug use fuels the whole movie, especially 'ludes. DiCaprio's Jordan Belfort character (the movie is based on Belfort's memoir of the same name) seems to thrive on 'ludes ó†a tranquilizer that you'd be hard-pressed to find in the U.S. today. But the drugs act as a fuse for all of the Wall Street selling that Belfort oversees at his firm in the late 1980s and early '90s. The movie is also incredibly long. I am going to guess that the cut we saw was almost 3 hours.† There's more to this movie though than sex, drugs and 165 minutes. DiCaprio revels in his role as Belfort ó†a cult-like figure who inspires his sales team to unload crappy penny stocks to unwitting buyers. There's a scene at a country club that will forever be associated with the Great Actor Leo. He is so convincing that the audience last night didn't know whether to laugh. I couldn't. But many people did.† And Jonah Hill ó†in the role of Belfort's business partner ó†plays it straight, to a point, and is memorable as soon as he comes on screen. He kills it in his second, third, and fourth scenes too.† Surprisingly, it's less a movie about Wall Street and more about salesmen, posing as brokers. (And I mean men. Hundreds of them. Women are few and far between unless they're naked.) They happen to be selling penny stocks, but might as well be selling fake real estate plots. Or encyclopedias. They are selling. Period. Because people want to buy.† Scorsese focuses hard on all the big-time sins: greed, gluttony, lust, envy and pride. Add it all up and it makes it hard to look away. Wall Street will be pleased. The film will be released on Christmas Day. (You should all go see it.) 
This happened. Bloomberg TV Here's the full story of Roger Ver, also known as Bitcoin Jesus. The 34-year-old has made a fortune investing in the digital currency since 2011.
Bitcoin is down big, approximately 25% from today's highs. † That's causing major problems on Mt.Gox, the world's largest Bitcoin exchange according to The Genesis Block. The price is stuck at $877. Some have suggested there is simply a lag in the site processing trades. The platform seems to have entered a bizarre cycle, flipping back and forth between $877 and about $830. Here's what it looks like: Bitcoinity/reddit ClarkMoody.com, a site that tracks Mt.Gox trades, is still going. It shows trades haven't broken through $800. We have no way of verifying whether they are accurate. At least one person has already posted that they think users will lose money on inability to cancel orders.
BloombergAt the helm of Fidelity's Magellan Fund for 13 years, mutual fund legend Peter Lynch transformed $18 million in assets under management to more than $14 billion. Now Lynch is pretty much out of the game. He chose to manage his own money for his family and philanthropic causes as opposed to launching a hedge fund or something of the like.† Lynch doesn't do that many interviews, but he sat down with Charlie Rose†on Bloomberg (via Market Folly)†to talk about his philanthropic work in education and his take on the markets. Lynch gave Rose his "Three C's" of investing ó complacency, concern, and capitulation. "Being complacent is the worst one," Lynch says. "If you're working hard, you can avoid it."  When considering an investment, Lynch says, you have to ask yourself if it is still early for a company or if it has years of growth ahead. Using a baseball analogy, the trick is getting into a stock in the "first, second, third inning, not when they're drawing up the line-up." Make sure to get your facts straight first and don't rush. As an example, "You could have bought Wal-Mart 10 years after they went public," and still done very well, Lynch notes. On what has changed in the market, Lynch highlighted the "computer-driven" nature of today's high-frequency trading. "I think that's a waste of time, it's disruptive."  Though, he did note the wealth of information online has been a help to investors. You don't have to wait for the mail to see Nike's inventory anymore, he joked. Lynch, who was not able to short stocks at Magellan, said that "being right on the long side" is better. "When you're short you can only make 90%; when you're long you can make tenfold," he said. Click here to see the interview at Bloomberg ª
REUTERS/Tim WimborneOctober consumer credit data are out. Total credit expanded by $18.186 billion in October to $3.08 trillion, up 7.1% from a year earlier and ahead of estimates for a $14.5 billion rise. Revolving credit ‚Äî credit cards and the like ‚Äî rose $4.3 billion to $856.8 billion, up 6.1% from a year earlier. Nonrevolving credit ‚Äî auto loans, student loans, and the like ‚Äî rose $13.9 billion to $2.22 trillion, up 7.5% from a year earlier. September consumer credit growth was revised up to $16.293 billion from $13.737 billion. While nonrevolving credit has grown at a rapid clip in recent months, revolving credit has lagged, averaging 0.4% year-over-year growth over the five months preceding October. The October year-over-year advance of 6.1% marks a significant acceleration in credit card borrowing.
REUTERS/Darren HauckCongress is at another impasse. This time,†America†is facing a countdown to the ìdairy cliff.î The farm bill, which since the Depression has offered risk-taking farmers price supports and guarantees while helping the poor by providing free basic foods, has become the latest victim of a divided Washington desperate to put the brakes on spending while tweaking social welfare policies. ìThis is a historic breakdown,î writes the editorial board of The†Des Moines†(Iowa) Register newspaper. RECOMMENDED:†So you think you know Congress? Take our quiz. While the main issue is the extent of cuts to food stamps, now called SNAP (or†Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program), the stakes are high enough to potentially touch just about every American family ñ namely by doubling milk prices to as much as $7 a gallon. If the $80 billion farm bill isnít hammered out by next week, it will revert to the original 1930s ìfarm lawî on New Yearís Day. House Republicans put things in motion this summer by demanding a $4 billion cut from SNAP payments, while allowing states to attach work requirements to the benefit. Senate Democrats, backed by†President Obama, have offered a far more modest $400 million cut, with no new work requirements. Also on the table are direct payments paid to farmers regardless of actual prices or yields. The two sides actually agree that something needs to be done about this $5 billion subsidy, since it offers an incentive to some farmers not to farm at all. But just what to do is unresolved. Just as tricky, Republican lawmakers have added an amendment that would ban states from setting farming standards that would affect goods grown or produced outside a particular stateís borders. The amendment targets a new†California†law that demands that all eggs sold in the Golden State come from chickens housed in larger-than-standard coops. ìWe cannot start trade wars between the states and have a patchwork quilt,î said†Rep. Steve King (R)†of Iowa, who sponsored that amendment. Another sticking point: In a backdoor benefit strategy, some states have been paying low-income Americans $1 a year for utility assistance to make them eligible for a larger chunk of food-stamp benefits. In the same vein,†Republicans†want to end a farm bill benefit that grants indefinite food stamps to adults who are perfectly able to work. On the breadbasket side, negotiations are also focusing on massive agribusiness subsidies provided by the farm bill. Critics,†Democrats†and taxpayer groups among them, have long contended that farm-bill entitlements, including generous crop insurance programs supported largely by taxpayers, constitute a sort of corporate welfare that puts little onus on large-scale producers to see beyond their own profit-and-loss statements. Farmers ìmust demonstrate that they are willing to accept mandatory conservation rules and participation as a tradeoff for asking American taxpayers to subsidize their business,î†The Des Moines Registerís editorial board writes. ìThat has not happened. Instead, powerful farm organizations and state leaders in Iowa send the opposite message that they expect government handouts without any strings being attached.î On the Hill Wednesday, negotiators emerged smiling from a closed-door session, although†House Speaker John Boehner†(R) of†Ohio†suggested Thursday he hasnít ìseen any real progress.î One potential band-aid fix is for Congress to extend the current bill by a month. But†Sen. Harry Reid (D)†of†Nevada, who leads the Senate majority, has said he might balk at such a move, given that the bill has already been extended several times. If Congress indeed fails to come to an agreement, the†US Department of Agriculture†is ready to quickly rewrite the current rules to comply with the original Depression-era law,†Secretary Tom Vilsack†has said. Among other things, that would raise the prices that the government pays for milk, the upshot of which would crimp the flow of milk from Americaís dairies to the grocery store, thus raising prices. Whether Americans are ready to live with higher milk prices in order to tackle deeper fiscal and philosophical conundrums is the open question for farm-bill negotiators as they head into the weekend.
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhitney TilsonHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, gave a presentation to the Harvard Business School Club of New York this week about the lessons he's learned from short selling. † Tilson said that he has two strong and conflicting feelings about shorting right now. First, it's been a painful business recently. "It's a horrible business, it's cost me (and my investors) a fortune over the past 4 1/2 years, I wish I'd never heard of it, and every bone in my body wants to cover every stock I'm short and never short another stock again." † Then again, there are obvious opportunities. † "In my 15-year career of professional investing, the only other times that have been as target-rich in terms of juicy, obvious shorts are late 1999/early 2000 and late 2007/early 2008 (and we all know how those ended...)." †† †Tilson said he can't bring himself today to cover his shorts. †He said covering them would be the "most boneheaded capitulation trade of all time." † His presentation also features twelve reasons why you shouldn't short stocks. It also includes five reasons why you need to short stocks. †He also added some of his tips for shorting and stocks that he's currently betting against. †
flickr/fanofretailOnce booming sandwich chain Quiznos started running into trouble during the recession, and things have only gotten worse. In 2012, the company restructured its debt in order to avoid bankruptcy and fund a turnaround, but the plan hasn't worked.¬†Now it has missed a loan payment, is attempting to restructure its debt again, and has franchisees worried and angry, according to The Wall Street Journal. In this time, Quiznos has¬†gone from nearly 5,000 stores to around 2,100, and hundreds more US stores are underperforming and may close, according to the Journal. Meanwhile similar chains have done just fine. Chicago-based Potbelly is rapidly expanding and recently had a very successful initial public offering. Jimmy John's is expanding too, and Subway continues to be a growing and highly profitable behemoth. Here's what went wrong with Quiznos: The company's creditors already took a large hit last year, writing down over a third of the company's debt. They may not be so forgiving this time.
On Wednesday we reported that Yahoo acquired a mobile app called Ptch and will shut it down in a month. Business Insider has since learned from multiple sources that Yahoo paid $6.5 million for Ptch. We've also learned that this wasn't really an acquihire ñ only three Ptch employees joined Yahoo, sources confirmed. Most importantly, it was a raw deal for most of Ptch's early employees who at one time had an equity stake but got nothing in the end. Yahoo declined comment when contacted by Business Insider. But we've spoken to three sources close to the company. Here's what we know: DWA Investments, the company that created the Ptch app, was a wholly owned spin-out of DreamWorks Animation founded in late 2011. DreamWorks invested $10 million in DWI Investments, one source told us. At the time DWA Investments was considered a breakout moment for DreamWorks, a company best known for doing animated movies, its first attempt at launching consumer tech startups. Ptch is a†mobile video app that lets users remix their videos with effects and music. It was released about a year ago. When it launched it was hailed as an "Instagram for videos" by the tech press. Ptch was widely regarded as the brainchild of Dreamworks CTO Ed Leonard. He started the project at DreamWorks and left to become the startup's CEO after he talked DreamWorks' CEO, Jeffrey Katzenberg, into funding DWA Investments. At the time the app launched, DWA Investments had 15 employees and all of them had a stake in the company. About a third of the staff came from DreamWorks. ìThe guys that transferred over, we all took pay cuts, but in exchange we got a material chunk of equity,î Leonard told the Beta Beat blog at the time. Under Leonard's leadership, DWA Investments quickly burned through about $6.5 million creating Ptch, hiring like crazy. At the peak of development, Ptch had 32 employees. Leonard's co-founders were not happy with how he was running the company and chewing through cash. "Ed Leonard was forced out of Ptch due to serious issues with DWA and the other founders," our source said. Leonard left Ptch†and returned to DreamWorks in February, according to his LinkedIn profile. (We've reached out to Leonard and asked for his response, and will update if we hear back.) After Leonard left, several of his hires also left and the company stopped burning cash so rapidly. That's when another mobile startup, Qwiki, showed up and merger talks began. It was a weird sort of merger. The two companies would combine, and the remaining $3.5 million in DWA's coffers would be invested in the new joint company. The Ptch investors and employees wouldn't have gotten any money out of the deal, our source said. But the merger stalled, a source said, and a few days later, in June, Qwiki announced it had been bought by Yahoo for a reported $50 million. Ptch employees grumbled that Qwiki bagged the merger so that it wouldn't have to share the $50 million with DreamWorks or Ptch employees. Another source told us that it was Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer who tanked the merger because she didn't want to buy both companies. "The merger didn't fall apart. Marissa decided she wanted to buy each separately. That's exactly what happened. She bought them in parallel and the Qwiki deal was larger so sequentially Qwiki closed first and then Ptch," one source close to the company told us. Meanwhile, things were devolving at Ptch and most employees were finding jobs elsewhere. But negotiations between Ptch and Yahoo were ramping up. "At the time of sale, Ptch had one employee, [co-founder] Hans [Ku], and two part-time employees, who all went to Yahoo," our source said. We've confirmed with a source close to Yahoo that three Ptch employees joined Yahoo. DreamWorks' Katzenberg originally wanted Yahoo to pay $10 million but then agreed to $6.5 million because Yahoo wasn't buying DWA Investments, just the Ptch technology. Because of the way this deal was structured, employees with an equity stake didn't get any part of the $6.5 million. "No founder or employee received anything out of the Yahoo deal, only potential job offers," a source told us. It all went to DreamWorks, both of our sources confirmed. Moral of the story: In Silicon Valley's startup culture, a $6.5 million exit for a two-year old company is not a dream come true.
It's not just Bitcoin. Digital currencies everywhere are crashing on reports that Chinese search giant Baidu has suspended Bitcoin payments for its music service. There is also speculation China Telecom has stopped accepting Bitcoin. Litecoin, the next largest after Bitcoin, is off 25%. Peercoin, the third largest, is down 31%. Here's a snapshot from CoinMarketCap, which does a great job tracking the galaxy of "alt-coins": CoinMarketCap
Bitcoin prices on the Mt. Gox exchange have fallen 24% from Friday highs to below $900 after Baidu announced it would stop accepting Bitcoin†for its music service users. According to multiple†reports, the Chinese search giant issued a statement saying: Dear acceleration music users: Due to the recent fluctuations in the price of Bitcoin larger unable to protect the interests of users, in response to the risk of state-controlled bitcoin spirit Baidu music accelerate decision to suspend with immediate effect from accepting bitcoin buy accelerate music services. This follows the People's Bank of China's announcement†that†it would not allow banks to handle the virtual currency. There is also speculation China Telecom has stopped accepting Bitcoin, although we couldn't confirm this. China had been a huge driver of Bitcoin's growth last month†and is now believed to account for the majority of Bitcoin trading. Earlier, the Bank of France warned against using currencies not backed by central banks. However, Bitcoin also seemingly stood to benefit from a fairly bullish outlook issued by Bank of America analyst David Woo. Chart: ClarkMoody On†ClarkMoody.com, a site that tracks the Mt. Gox exchange, prices fell as low as $800. The sell-off appears to have caused Mt. Gox to malfunction so we can't verify whether those prices are accurate.†
Rob Wile/Business InsiderIt's really hard to make money off Bitcoin. How hard is it? The makers of the most powerful miner in the world can't even satisfy the insatiable demand for their product, because they would probably ruin Bitcoin if they did. Here's the problem: Bitcoins are mined by computers solving math problems. More technically, they unlock blocks of encrypted hashes, or numbers. As more of these blocks are unlocked, it requires exponentially more power ó literally, electricity ó to mine one single Bitcoin, because you need to run your machine continuously to do so. But Bitcoins were designed so that as more Bitcoin was mined and created, the encryptions would get more difficult. In other words, it would require more time and power to mine a single coin. If you were "crazy" enough to get in on Bitcoin in its infancy, say around 2009, you got a great deal, because you could mine a lot of Bitcoin in a matter of hours just by using your desktop CPU. But if you only started reading about Bitcoin in the last couple of weeks, it would now take you three days to mine a single Bitcoin just on the Jupiter (on a more average miner it could take up to two months), since the number of miners has now proliferated. And the advent of the Jupiter by KnCMiner, which runs on a 28 nanometer chip that requires 40% less electricity than the previous generation of chips, have made it impossible for older mining units to compete.  It's a great deal if you own one, not so much if you don't. "We're both the cause and the cure," KnC technical communications director Alex Lawn told us when he stopped by our offices this week. "We're busy delivering the product, and making it more difficult at the same time. But we're anxiously aware of that which is why we're not delivering any units at least January."† The situation is complicated by what you might call the mega-miner problem. When a Bitcoin is mined, other users must confirm that a block was successfully unlocked. But in theory, a dedicated army of miners could take control of the entire Bitcoin network and only tell themselves about new successful decryptions.† It would be extremely difficult to do this, as it would require an incredible amount of computing power. But KnC is dedicated to spreading the Bitcoin gospel and has refrained from attempting such a cornering even if they could. They don't even mine their own coins. "We made a promise," Lawn said. "In the summer, there seemed to be a lot more people going to this [28 nanometer] technology ó it looked like the hash rate was going to get completely mutilated. So we just said as long as everyone is trying to respect the hash rate we will do the same." In the event, Lawn said some of Bitcoin's competitors ended up failing to reach the 28 nanometer rate in time, but KnC still fulfilled their pledge anyway, to avert the cartelization scenario. Even now that others appear to be within reach, Lawn says KnC†doesn't mind ó Lawn said KnC's engineers are uber-geeks who live for the thrill of making stuff, and are already†at work building the next most powerful machine.† "We need competition ó the whole point of Bitcoin's protocol is that it's distributed through many people around the world." Just another paradox in this strange, fascinating world.†
The BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategy team is out with a list of its 10 favorite stock picks for 2014. "We provide a list of 10 S&amp;P 500 stocks for 2014 ‚Äî one from each of the 10 GICS sectors," writes BofAML strategist Savita Subramanian in a note to clients. "These stocks align with our themes for the year-ahead 2014 and our quantitative work. This list is intended for the full year, meaning we do not provide updates intra-year." Below are the criteria the team used to select the picks: And here are the picks: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
"I am not yet sounding the alarm. But in many countries stock exchanges are at a high level and prices have risen sharply in some property markets that could end badly.¬† I am most worried about the boom in the U.S. stock market. Also because our economy is still weak and vulnerable.¬† Bubbles look like this. And the world is still very vulnerable to a bubble." Bubbles are created when investors do not recognize when rising asset prices get detached from underlying fundamentals, which I showed is currently the case in "The Market In Pictures."  Stawealth.com However, just recently the Mercenary Trader blog reminded me of George Soros' take on bubbles.¬† First, financial markets, far from accurately reflecting all the available knowledge, always provide a distorted view of reality. The degree of distortion may vary from time to time. Sometimes it's quite insignificant, at other times it is quite pronounced. When there is a significant divergence between market prices and the underlying reality I speak of far from equilibrium conditions. I have developed a rudimentary theory of bubbles along these lines. Every bubble has two components: an underlying trend that prevails in reality and a misconception relating to that trend. When a positive feedback develops between the trend and the misconception, a boom-bust process is set in motion. The process is liable to be tested by negative feedback along the way, and if it is strong enough to survive these tests, both the trend and the misconception will be reinforced. Eventually, market expectations become so far removed from reality that people are forced to recognize that a misconception is involved. A twilight period ensues during which doubts grow and more and more people lose faith, but the prevailing trend is sustained by inertia. As Chuck Prince, former head of Citigroup, said, 'As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance. We are still dancing.' Eventually a tipping point is reached when the trend is reversed; it then becomes self-reinforcing in the opposite direction. Typically bubbles have an asymmetric shape. The boom is long and slow to start. It accelerates gradually until it flattens out again during the twilight period. The bust is short and steep because it involves the forced liquidation of unsound positions." The chart below is an example of asymmetric bubbles. Stawealth.com Soros' view on the pattern of bubbles is interesting because it changes the argument from a fundamental view to a technical view.¬† Prices reflect the psychology of the market which can create a feedback loop between the markets and fundamentals.¬† As Soros stated:¬† "Financial markets do not play a purely passive role; they can also affect the so-called fundamentals they are supposed to reflect. These two functions, that financial markets perform, work in opposite directions. In the passive or cognitive function, the fundamentals are supposed to determine market prices. In the active or manipulative function market, prices find ways of influencing the fundamentals. When both functions operate at the same time, they interfere with each other. The supposedly independent variable of one function is the dependent variable of the other, so that neither function has a truly independent variable. As a result, neither market prices nor the underlying reality is fully determined. Both suffer from an element of uncertainty that cannot be quantified." The chart below utilizes Dr. Robert Shiller's stock market data going back to 1900 on an inflation adjusted basis.¬† I then took a look at the markets prior to each major market correction and overlaid the asymmetrical bubble shape as discussed by George Soros. Stawealth.comThere is currently a strong belief that the financial markets are not in a bubble despite much evidence to the contrary. However, it is likely that prices are currently driving fundamentals particularly given the artificial interventions of the Federal Reserve which is something that I discussed back in March in "There Is No Asset Bubble?" "The speculative appetite combined with the Fed‚Äôs liquidity is a powerful combination in the short term.¬† However, the increase in speculative risks combined with excess leverage leave the markets vulnerable to a sizable correction at some point in the future.¬† The only missing ingredient for such a correction currently is simply a catalyst to put 'fear' into an overly complacent marketplace.¬†¬† In the long term, it will ultimately be the fundamentals that drive the markets.¬† Currently, the deterioration in the growth rate of earnings, and economic strength, are not supportive of the speculative rise in asset prices or leverage.¬† The idea of whether, or not, the Federal Reserve, along with virtually every other central bank in the world, are inflating the next asset bubble is of significant importance to investors who can ill afford to, once again, lose a large chunk of their net worth.¬†¬† It is all reminiscent of the market peak of 1929 when Dr. Irving Fisher uttered his now famous words: 'Stocks have now reached a permanently high plateau.'¬† The clamoring of voices that the bull market is just beginning is telling much the same story.¬† History is replete with market crashes that occurred just as the mainstream belief made heretics out of anyone who dared to contradict the bullish bias." The Mercenary Trader blog imparted some excellent words of wisdom in this regard: In other words, you don‚Äôt have to be theoretically correct in your reasoning. You just need to have the right positions on at the right time. If you are in this game to win, then it is not about being right, but making money.  Yet at the same time, as a general rule you want to be theoretically sound if at all possible‚Ä¶ because if your portfolio is anchored to a foundation of false beliefs, or not anchored to anything at all, that increases the likelihood of getting your head handed to you. And thus, for traders especially, the ideal is to have the best of both worlds: The ability to maintain general theoretical correctness, i.e. the chops to recognize a false trend for what it is, coupled with the flexibility and the means to profitably exploit false trends regardless, while keeping risk under control. There are at least three levels to the game: And so we would argue that, right now, it is more important than ever to understand the nature of false trends, feedback loops, bubbles and the like ‚Äî and the proper means of handling them all. Does an asset bubble currently exist?¬† Ask anyone and they will tell you "NO."¬† However, maybe it is exactly that tacit denial which might just be an indication of its existence.
The beauty of gifting quality alcohol is, quite simply, that the right bottle will compel the recipient to crack it open right away ‚Äî and share. So it's really in your best interest this holiday season to give the gift of liquor (responsibly). We headed to¬†Astor Wines &amp; Spirits¬†‚Äî Manhattan's Shangri-La of booze ‚Äî for some recommendations. Wine and spirits consultant Steven Bowles walked us through some of his favorites. If you have a tippler in your life, don't just go to the liquor section and buy something expensive with a fancy label.¬†There are plenty of special and rare items that won't break the bank. The prices used are Astor's (and you can purchase these bottles on¬†their website), but prices will vary. Steven Perlberg / Business Insider This single cask gin is unique to Astor, and carries a lot of flavors: "Woodsy pine, lemon balm, crushed rose petals, pepper and cinnamon spice." A richer and sweeter kind of gin. Origin: Oregon, USA ABV: 44% Price:¬†$44.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider A high-quality, single-cask bottle for the true tequila lover. This is for sipping, not shooting. Origin: Jalisco, Mexico ABV: 40% Price:¬†$49.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Charred oak gives this sipping rum some serious power. Rich notes of vanilla "with a playful, fruity vibrancy and grassiness that can only come from a top-quality sugar cane spirit" makes this a really complex rum. Origin: Barbados ABV: 43% Price:¬†$39.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Made with "virgin" potatoes from Cape Bj√§re, Karlsson's actually retains its true potato flavor. Gift this to anyone who likes a good up martini with fresh cracked pepper. Origin: Sweden ABV: 40% Price:¬†$31.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider A solid whiskey with caramel and vanilla flavors coming through. It's 18% rye, giving it a nice spiciness too. Origin: Massachusetts, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$41.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Bar Hill's distiller is a beekeeper and adds raw northern honey at the time of bottling. The result is "sweet, floral, and slightly herbaceous." Origin: Vermont, USA ABV: 45% Price:¬†$42.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Here's a special gift for the Don Draper on the go. A barreled Manhattan. That's right, the cocktail. Rye, sweet vermouth, and Angostura bitters thrown into rye barrels for 120 days, served ready to drink. Origin: Utah, USA ABV: 37% Price:¬†$49.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Another one from High West, the "campfire" delivers on its name. It really tastes like a camping trip, in a good way: Corn, toffee, maple, spicy vanilla, cherry, and a hint of peat smoke at the end. It's a blend of Bourbon, rye, and peated scotch ‚Äî great for an all-around whiskey lover looking for something different. Origin: Utah, USA ABV: 46% Price:¬†$52.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Peat-malted Scottish barley gives this single malt whiskey honey, bitter chocolate, and sweet malt notes. Plus, it's a pretty rare, small-production bottle. Origin: Oregon, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$53.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Japanese whiskies like Yamazaki are already pretty popular in the U.S., but the Nikka is slightly less common. It's a really nice treat, and has that "exotic" alcohol gift feel. Origin: Japan ABV: 40% Price:¬†$69.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Oak barrels give this gin its darker coloration. "The sustained aromas transition to spicy, malty rye on the palate." Origin: New York, USA ABV: 44% Price:¬†$35.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider This is the biggest name on our list, but don't let that discourage you. "Baking cinnamon, vanilla, sweet cream, rye spice, acetone, and heady orchard fruits all leap out of the glass and lure you right in," according to Astor. For any Beam drinker, this is a holiday upgrade. Origin: Kentucky, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$40.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider New cognac drinkers will go straight to the Hennessey, just because. But the Fillioux are one of the last independent cognac producers in France, and this one is a cognac staple. "Fresh and primary, with a focus on beautiful florals, mouth-watering citrus, and almond notes." Origin: Grande Champagne, France ABV: 42% Price:¬†$68.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Rum (or "rhum") from Martinique has a purer, grassier feel. This one is aged 10 years in old bourbon and whiskey casks. "Roasted nuts, dark fruit, and warm spice make this a delightful body warmer." A winter rum if there ever was one. Origin: Martinique ABV: 42% Price:¬†$72.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Another tequila meant for sipping. "Distinct tropical citrus aromas and flavors are accented with whiffs of mint, spice, peppercorn and mineral-laden notes of rich, sweet and pure agave." Origin: Jalisco, Mexico ABV: 40% Price:¬†$54.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider One of the better single malt whiskies available for under $100, Armorik is matured in casks of Sauternes, a sweet French wine. "The resulting spirit is a fusion of rich nectar fruit complexity, creamy malt, nougat, and dry barrel spices." Origin: Brittany, France ABV: 46% Price:¬†$99.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Glenfarclas is a Speyside like Glenfiddich and The Macallan, and has "notes of sherried fruit, a touch of vanilla, and a tingle of spice." The 12 year expression is reasonably priced, but Astor also carries the 40 year for¬†$500 a bottle if you're really going for it this holiday season. Origin: Speyside, Scotland ABV: 43% Price:¬†$53.99
Simon Hinrichsen points us to this fascinating chart from Ray Dalio's work on debt cycles, leveragings, and deleveragings. "The chart below shows the geographic size of the British Empire going back to 1860," writes Dalio. "Note how it rose from 1860 until 1920, flatted out until 1950 and then collapsed. By comparing this chart with the one that follows showing relative incomes, you will note that the size of the British Empire correlated with the level of its relative income. In the charts that follow, you will also see that it correlates with sterling‚Äôs stature as a reserve currency and that these changed due to the reasons explained in my description of the long term economic cycle." Bridgewater Associates You can read the full thing here ¬ª
Pew Research CenterA¬†one-day strike by fast-food workers¬†in 100 cities set for Thursday, along with protests planned in 100 more, is refocusing attention on¬†efforts to raise wages¬†for the lowest-paid U.S. workers. Congressional Democrats are pushing a bill¬†that would gradually¬†raise the federal minimum¬†to $10.10/hour from $7.25 and index it to the Consumer Price Index. But the measure faces little chance of passing the Republican-led House, where many members argue that a higher minimum wage would lead businesses to cut jobs. Meanwhile, states and cities are taking up the issue. On Tuesday, the Washington, D.C. City Council voted to¬†raise the capital city‚Äôs minimum wage¬†to $11.50/hour from $8.25 by 2016.¬†Last month, New Jerseyans voted to¬†raise their state‚Äôs minimum wage to $8.25/hour¬†and index future increases to inflation.¬†Massachusetts‚Äô state Senate voted¬†last month to raise its hourly minimum wage to $11.00 from $8.00. Pew Research CenterThough raising the minimum wage is broadly popular, there are clear partisan differences. Back in February, a¬†Pew Research Center survey¬†found that 71% of people favored an increase in the federal minimum to $9.00/hour from $7.25. But while large majorities of Democrats (87%) and independents (68%) said they favored such an increase, Republicans were split. Here are five more facts about the minimum wage and the people who earn it: 1.¬†Adjusted for inflation, the federal minimum wage peaked in 1968¬†at $8.56 (in 2012 dollars). Since it was last raised in 2009, to the current $7.25/hour, the federal minimum has lost about 5.8% of its purchasing power to inflation.¬† 2.¬†Just over half (50.6%) of the 3.55 million U.S. workers who were at or below the federal minimum last year are ages 16 to 24; an additional 20.3% are ages 25 to 34 (both shares have stayed more or less constant over the past decade). That 3.55 million¬†represents about 2.8% of all wage and salary workers. (We wrote more about¬†the demographics of minimum-wage workers¬†back in July.) Pew Research Center 3.¬†Nineteen states (plus D.C.) have set their own, higher minimums, ranging from $7.35 in Missouri to $9.19 in Washington State. (Some cities and counties have gone even higher ‚Äî San Francisco‚Äôs minimum wage, for example, is set to rise 19 cents to¬†$10.74¬†next month.) Those states collectively include¬†45% of the nation‚Äôs working-age (16 and over), meaning¬†the federal demographic data don‚Äôt capture a significant share of the nation‚Äôs lowest-paid workers. Fortunately, there are other approaches. Pew Research Center 4.¬†Nearly 21.3 million U.S. workers (or 16.4% of the workforce) would be directly affected by raising the minimum wage to $10.10 by July 2015, as the Senate bill referred to above seeks to do, according to analysis of¬†microdata from the Current Population Survey by the¬†Employment Policy Institute¬†(a labor-backed research group that supports raising the minimum wage). 85.5% of those workers, according to EPI‚Äôs analysis, are 20 or older; 57.3% are female; and 39.4% are black or Hispanic (versus 26.8% of the workforce as a whole). 5.¬†While not strictly minimum-wage workers, almost 23.2 million Americans (17.8% of all wage and salary workers)¬†worked in the nation‚Äôs lowest-paid occupations as of last year, according to Pew Research Center analysis of¬†occupational employment and wage data¬†from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Those occupations, defined as paying $10.15/hour ($21,112/year) or less, were largely in a few categories: retail salespeople (4.3 million), cashiers (3.3 million), food preparers/servers, including fast-food workers (2.9 million) and waitstaff (2.3 million).
Image courtesy of Goldman SachsLeighton Symons, a VP and head of strategist recruitment in Goldman's securities divisionGoldman Sachs recruiter Leighton Symons explains how to prepare for an interview for a strategist (a.k.a. "strat") position on the investment bank's Careers Blog.† A strat, which is similar to a quant, works on the trading floor by the traders creating models for pricing and risk management.† Symons, a VP and head of recruitment for strategists in the securities division, admits that the strat interview is really difficult. † He does, however, provide some tips on how to prepare:† The honest answer is that itís very difficult to prepare, but there are some things that candidates can do based on areas we focus on during interviews.† For example, we'll focus on math and ask brain-teasers. It could be a question on probability theory, partial differential equations, stochastic calculusóor other aspects of math that are not related to finance.† There are books, blogs and other online resources to help candidates practice and condition their minds to some extent towards doing puzzles.† We want to see how candidates think on their feet when they come across a question they likely havenít seen beforeóthis is often what itís like on the trading floor. Another area of focus is coding. Again, weíre not looking for specific programming languages but we do want to see an ability to code and an aptitude to pick up a new coding language. Candidates should have a genuine interest in coding because our strats are responsible for implementing the models they create.† Finally, we want to see candidates demonstrate an interest and passion for the finance industry. During the interview, we will ask candidates to tell us why they want to be a strat or work for Goldman Sachs. Read the rest of Symons' advice on Goldman's Careers Blog ª
REUTERS/Siphiwe SibekoAmong the world's big emerging markets, South Africa has been one of the more notable underperformers. The country continues to struggle with slow economic growth and high unemployment at 27%.¬† Citi's Gina Schoeman anticipates "more downside risk" to the economy, which she expects will grow just 1.9% in 2013 and 2.8% in 2014. The biggest risks include labor unrest, especially in the form of prolonged strikes in the motor sector that could drag on GDP growth.¬† While consumption could pick up modestly in the near-term ahead of upcoming elections, Schoeman thinks "stretched balance sheets remain a significant ‚Äòcap‚Äô to household consumption growth." "The persistently wide current account and budget deficits bring structural weakness to the fore, keeping the ZAR on the back foot and prompting a hawkish undertone to SARB [South African Reserve Bank] commentary. That said, rate hikes are still highly unlikely while CPI is back within the 3-6% target band (even if mostly due to base effects).¬† "Put together, we believe all these factors create the perfect storm for another sovereign ratings downgrade which only clear policy direction and diminished labour strife can avoid." South Africans will be voting some time during April or May 2014. The African National Congress is expected to win a majority but "it could see its percentage drop," writes Nomura's Alastair Newton. After the elections, the ANC could take a tougher line with the the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) over "labor market changes, especially if it loses support from the youth, the unemployed and the poor," writes Peter Worthington at Barclays.
NYSETwitter went public last month without a female board member. They hired their first, Marjorie Scardino, yesterday.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - At Pinterest, the online bulletin board service that is valued near $3.8 billion, some 70 percent of the users are female. But the company's board of directors is 100 percent male. Male-heavy boards dominate in the start-up mecca of Silicon Valley, which prides itself on progressive thinking and putting talent first. A Reuters survey of the 10 top venture-backed start-ups, as measured by venture funds raised, shows that six do not have any women on the board, including Pinterest. And none has more than one. Reuters' research relied on publicly available data and discussions with start-up executives and board members. The gender imbalance has been the norm for years despite some recent signs of change. Google, Facebook and Twitter all went public without a woman on the board. They are more diverse now. Big, established companies, by contrast, frequently have two or more female directors, based on the 10 largest U.S. tech companies by market value. All of the top 20 have at least one.¬† The dismal record of start-ups when it comes to gender diversity was highlighted last month when Twitter came under fire for its all-male board on the eve of its public offering. On Thursday, the company announced that it had added former Pearson chief Marjorie Scardino to its board. Entrepreneurs and executives contacted by Reuters did not question the conclusion that there are few women directors at start-ups, but they frequently described it as unintended, and some such as Pinterest say their executive ranks are more balanced. Start-ups tend to blame the lack of women on their boards on factors such as their youth, their small boards, their single-minded focus on growth to the exclusion of other priorities, and a scarcity of women steeped in technology. They also blame venture capitalists, who are usually male, usually hold the bulk of board seats - and don't want to see their voting power diluted by adding noninvestor board members. Critics counter that entrepreneurs who pride themselves on creativity and innovation simply aren't trying hard enough when it comes to gender diversity. At Pinterest, the focus is on work, said Chief Executive Ben Silberman, whose board consists of himself and two male venture capitalists. "It's pretty heads down," he said. If the company expands the board and a qualified woman emerges as a candidate, "we'd be open to it," he added. "Diversity across all dimensions, including gender, is important to our success," a Pinterest spokesman said. The company's leadership is roughly 40 percent female, including its heads of engineering, finance, sales and recruiting, he added. Public companies think about board diversity all the time - whether it's because they are constantly being scrutinized, or because they face public investor pressure. "The companies that want to do it will do it. Those who don't will not," said Maria Klawe, president of Harvey Mudd College, a computer scientist and a board member at software giant Microsoft and chipmaker Broadcom. "This stuff doesn't happen by chance." The issue is not simply one of social equity. A study by the Credit Suisse Research Institute, a bank-funded group, looked at 2,360 public companies and found that over six years, the share price of large-capitalization companies with at least one woman on the board outperformed companies with no women on their board by 26 percent. For small and mid-capitalization stocks, the outperformance totaled 17 percent. The study identified a handful of factors that could explain the better performance, including a healthier mix of leadership skills, better corporate governance, greater understanding of consumer decision-making, and access to a wider pool of talent. Even though it's now conventional wisdom in Silicon Valley that a lack of women in leadership and technical roles is a big problem, progress has been very slow, especially at the top. "Meritocracy is the word you hear all the time here. Everyone can get ahead," said Heidi Roizen, a venture capitalist at Draper Fisher Jurvetson and a former software-company founder and Apple executive. "I don't think it's as clean and pure as people think." Women board members set an important tone, said Roizen and others, signaling to employees that talented women can succeed in the organization. THE BOYS CLUB That matters especially at a time when skilled technology workers are in high demand, but women are not pursuing tech careers in anywhere near the numbers as men. While women receive 43 percent of U.S. bachelor's degrees in math and 40 percent in physical sciences, they receive only around 30 percent of doctorates in those areas, according to the National Science Foundation. They receive around one-fifth of bachelor's and doctorates in computer sciences. Only 27 percent of entrepreneurs are women, says Ross Levine, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is researching the gender gap in entrepreneurship. Only 20 percent of startups across industries have one or more female senior-level executives, according to a study of startups by Dow Jones VentureSource. And about 89 percent of all venture capitalists are male, according to the National Venture Capital Association, directly affecting the lack of women on start-up boards. "If my investors don't have more women working for them there's not much I can do to get more women on the board," said Dave Goldberg, the chief executive of SurveyMonkey, also one of the 10 startups surveyed by Reuters. Goldberg is married to Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, one of the most successful female executives in Silicon Valley. One of Goldberg's two independent board members, former VeriSign chief financial officer Dana Evan, is female. Roizen and other female venture investors say their industry is beginning to change. More women are starting companies, they say, and as some of those companies achieve success that will bolster the number of female VCs, since many VCs cut their teeth as company founders. "It's been in the last two, three, four years," says Theresia Gouw, a VC at Accel Partners, pointing to examples such as her portfolio company Birchbox, a beauty-products subscription business launched by two women in 2010. Indeed, a handful of women have achieved celebrity status in the start-up world, including Sandberg, Google's head of ads and commerce Susan Wojcicki and Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer. High-profile female venture capitalists include Mary Meeker of Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, who is on the board of payments-service Square and funding service Lending Club, and Aileen Lee of Cowboy Ventures, who has backed companies such as Dollar Shave Club and Philz Coffee. If a company doesn't land a female VC on its board in its early years, when most start-up boards consists of the founder and a few key investors, it acquires a built-in chance later: when it weighs going public. Both New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq board rules, such as building audit committees, generally require bolstering board seats. Still, many start-ups duck and weave rather than bringing a woman onto the board. Facebook dallied until after its 2011 IPO before appointing Sandberg to the board. Google added two women to its board a year after its 2004 IPO. Now three of Google's 10 directors are women. Some female directors of startups say they are sometimes reluctant to overtly suggest the topic of adding more women for an open board seat. That is because they know it might raise the hackles of existing board members who want to make sure the best person gets the seat, not somebody who was less qualified but female. "People don't want to just stuff women on these boards," said Ann Winblad, a venture capitalist at Hummer Winblad, who says she tends to suggest women candidates without highlighting their gender as an asset. Many people, both male and female, assume the woman is the weaker candidate, said Meiko Takayama, founder and chief executive of advocacy organization Advancing Women Executives. "It's based on unconscious bias," Takayama said. "It's not malicious." Roizen herself was the subject of a Columbia Business School study that asked students to evaluate her accomplishments - but with half the students seeing her name as "Howard," not "Heidi." The students seeing her true name thought she seemed selfish, not the type of person they wanted to hire or work for. The students who saw the name "Howard" thought he seemed likeable. 'COP OUT' Many young companies acknowledge the issue, often saying they go out of their way to try to hire from a relatively small pool of technical women. But critics roll their eyes when that qualification comes up. "I personally think that's a bit of a cop out," said Carol Bartz, the former chief executive of Yahoo and a Cisco board member. "There are all kinds of expertise that you need on a board. And if the entire board is technical then it is not diverse enough." "They're more comfortable with their VC boys' network and really don't want to rock the boat," she added. Bartz said that sometimes the companies can make the specifications - or 'spec' as it is known in the recruiting industry - for the recruitment of board members so narrow that it automatically eliminates women from the candidate pool. That spec always sounds the same, said Martha Josephson, Silicon Valley-based partner with recruiting firm Egon Zehnder: someone from the C-suite who has experience running big parts of a company's operations. Even if existing board members are actively looking for a woman to bolster their ranks, unacknowledged biases can come into play, said investor and former analyst Esther Dyson, whose board seats include genealogy company 23andMe, local-organizing network Meetup, and advertising company WPP Group. "A just-okay guy seems suitable," she said. "But a just-okay woman doesn't quite match the awesome-woman image they have in their heads." Dyson forms part of a small group of sought-after female board members for start-ups that also includes Evan, the SurveyMonkey board member, and former Macromedia CFO Betsey Nelson, whose board seats include LivingSocial. "Can you show us a pool that has more than the same names that circulate?" Nelson said she often finds herself asking when the subject arises of ensuring that women win consideration for an open seat. Evan says she is approached at least 3-4 times a quarter to join a board. (Additional reporting by Alexei Oreskovic. Editing by Jonathan Weber and Ken Wills)
TD Securities, University of MichiganConsumers' intentions with regard to purchases of homes, durable goods, and autos surged in December, according to the University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence release.The¬†preliminary results of the University of Michigan's December consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index surged to 82.5 from November's 75.1 reading. Economists predicted a smaller advance to 76.0. The economic conditions sub-index advanced to 97.9 from 88.0, while the economic outlook sub-index advanced to 72.7 from 66.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead rose to 3.0% from 2.9%, while expectations for inflation five years ahead fell to 2.8% from 2.9%. "The rebound in spending intentions is also particularly worth noting, with home purchase expectations jumping to 164 from 150, edging closer to recent highs and suggesting that consumer confidence in the housing recovery remains high despite the recent increase in mortgage rates," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a strategist at TD Securities. "Auto purchase intentions also rebounded to 134 from 120, suggesting that the recently strong pace of auto sales data could be sustained. Durable goods purchase expectations hit a fresh cycle high this month, climb sharply to 155 from 136."
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, December 2, 2013.The November jobs report is out. The numbers were strong, and market are surging. The Dow is up 130 points and the S&amp;P 500 is up 14 points. These moves reflect 0.8% gains. Nonfarm payrolls grew by 203,000, which was better than the 185,000 expected by economists. The unemployment rate plunged to 7.0% from 7.3% last month. This was the lowest reading since November 2008. This was much lower than the 7.2% level expected by economists. The decline in the unemployment rate comes as the labor force participation rate climbed to 63.0%. Ahead of the release, markets were already pointing up. Dow futures were up 58 points. S&amp;P futures were up 6.9 points. Nasdaq futures were up 11.5 points. The 10-year Treasury was yielding 2.86%. Gold was at $1,228, down $3.90/oz. For the most part, strategists expected a surprisingly strong number to be bearish for the markets as it would increase the odds that the Fed tapers its quantitative easing program sooner than later. However, that thesis doesn't seem to be playing out. Here's a look at Dow futures via FinViz: FinViz
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke opens a bottle of water.The November jobs report from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics said 203,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls last month, well above the consensus Wall Street forecast of 185,000 job gains. The strong employment numbers have Wall Street economists and strategists pulling forward their predictions for when the Federal Reserve will begin to wind down its quantitative easing program, with some saying the Fed could pull the trigger on tapering as soon as its December FOMC meeting in two weeks. Below is a summary of their views. Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs:†Hatzius calls the November jobs report "strong overall," but sticks to his call that the FOMC will wait until its March meeting to announce tapering, while noting that the 7.0% unemployment rate ó the level which Fed chairman Ben Bernanke previously flagged as a spot where the central bank would likely end winding down QE ó will add further fuel to the argument that the FOMC announces tapering "sooner rather than later." (via Bloomberg) Steven Englander, Citi:†"This is good enough for the Fed to discuss tapering in a concrete but market-friendly fashion, while reiterating and possibly emphasizing their commitment to keeping rates low for a very long time.†The nice thing about the NFP release is that it was nowhere near threatening enough to make the market worry that the Fed will be tempted to raise rates sooner than they indicated. With short rates anchored near zero, being short 10yr Treasuries is expensive unless your timing on the next big shock is very good. The moderately positive payroll number has put gentle tapering up as a Dec/Jan possibility but it has removed any risk of harsh tapering in market." Alan Ruskin, Deutsche Bank:†"The Fed will take todayís data in the context of some improvement in growth momentum from other indicators, which is why it likely clinches a December tapering. It also comes against a backdrop of promising signals on a budget deal that is however not signed and sealed; and, a still buoyant equity market that has weathered this latest data remarkably well. That equities are this strong is a clear signal to the Fed that tapering will not do too much damage to risk appetite ó which will have the effect of making a Dec tapering even more likely! Equity strength has also tempered the FX impact in high beta EM and commodity currencies that initially weakened sharply on the release. The markets are trading like 1) they were well positioned for strong data; and, 2) would be relieved if the Fed tapers in December and so removes the tapering timing uncertainty. All of that is quashing the immediate positive USD impact, even if this data should provide a solid underpinning for the USD in coming weeks, notably against favorite shorts like the JPY and CAD in G10." Drew Matus, UBS: "We continue to anticipate a taper announcement at the January FOMC meeting. However, despite the strong report we expect an overly cautions Fed will want even more proof that job gains can be sustained. Our credit model for payrolls (which has been performing well, see chart) and our work on the labor force participation rate suggest that these gains can be sustained and that the unemployment rate is still at ìriskî of falling more quickly than is anticipated by either the Fed or the market consensus. Nevertheless, we would expect the Fed to acknowledge the sustained healthy job gains in the FOMC meeting on December 18th, a shift in tone that will set the market up for the taper announcement we expect at Chairman Bernankeís final meeting in January." Michael Gapen, Barclays:†"We maintain our view that the Fed will taper its purchases beginning next March. The recent employment data do increase the likelihood that the Fed could taper its asset purchases in December, but we believe the committee will continue to view declines in the unemployment rate as overstating the amount of improvement in labor markets. In addition, we believe the Fed desires to see an acceleration in economic activity and some indication that inflation is returning towards its long-run goal before it begins the tapering process. On these fronts, we believe the committee will discount Q3 GDP growth on account of the substantial inventory contribution and focus on rates of growth in final demand, which has remained more subdued. In addition, with core PCE inflation at 1.1% y/y in October, some on the committee may be reluctant to begin tapering without more evidence of inflation firmness. Consequently, although the November employment report shows further cumulative improvement in labor markets since QE3 began and brings the Fed closer to tapering, we believe it will remain patient before taking the step." Ward McCarthy, Jefferies: McCarthy says it's "time for a gentle taper," warning that the November jobs report may lead the Fed to reduce its purchases of Treasuries by $5 billion per month at its December meeting. He says private payrolls are "getting close to the promised land" of replacing the headcount lost in the recession, and that the labor market should be back to "square one" by April. (via Bloomberg) Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ: "Net net, the economy is moving strongly in the right direction and momentum is starting to build. †As the fiscal headwinds diminish next year, the wind will shift and push economic growth along at a faster pace. †Unemployment is falling for the right reason with sustainable private business hiring of 2.4 million jobs in 2011, 2.3 million in 2012 and 2.1 million so far in 2013. †What else is the Fed waiting for? †The economy has reached escape velocity and could well blast off in 2014. †Donít ask when is the time to taper, the time to taper is NOW!" Millan Mulraine, TD Securities:†"This is an unambiguously positive report and it suggests that the US economic recovery is continuing to generate significant positive momentum. In many ways, this report validates the strong tone seen in the other economic reports and it will add further confidence to the Fed of a reduced need for monetary stimulus in the US economy. As such, we now see the bias shifting in favor of a January tapering announcement, especially if a budget deal is reached in time to avoid another government shutdown on January 15. However, we see a December tapering announcement as a low probability event." Paul Ashworth, Capital Economics:†"The 203,000 increase in November's non-farm payrolls, along with the drop in the unemployment rate to a five-year low of 7.0%, gives the Fed all the evidence it needs to begin tapering its asset purchases at the next FOMC meeting later this month. The Fed got cold feet in September, when it learned that employment growth had dipped below 100,000 in July. Over the past four months, however, the average monthly gain has been over 200,000 ...†given the apparent strength in the labour market, we now expect the Fed to begin its taper at the upcoming FOMC meeting." Andrew Wilkinson, Miller Tabak: "The driver for the FOMC is the headline unemployment rate, which we continue to predict will result in a mere $5 billion reduction in the flow of security purchases at the December meeting. Mr. Bernanke can support that decision with evidence of what appears to be sustainable improvement in the headline reading and point to the micro statistics as reasoning to delay the onset of any increase in the fed funds rate into 2016 or beyond.†When the FOMC met in mid-September and decided against the onset of tapering at the time, the three-month average pace of payroll creation was 175,000. And although the November report is not strong enough to replace the subsequently revised August reading of 238,000 which drops out of the quarterly equation today, the latest average reads 192,000 and is 17,000 above its September pace." Jim O'Sullivan, High Frequency Economics:†O'Sullivan says the FOMC will probably wait to start tapering until the January or March meetings as opposed to the December meeting. He says the "trend in payrolls continues to be more than strong enough to keep the unemployment rate trending down." (via Bloomberg) Tom di Galoma, ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets:†Loads of talk about tapering in January now due to today's solid jobs data. With regard to tapering, it's a little like skydiving for the first time: the Fed wants to do it but is very nervous about the repercussions. I am still of the view that March is when tapering begins. We will add more commentary to this post as it comes in.
Construction payrolls climbed for the sixth-straight month in November, reaching a preliminary estimate of 5,851,000. That's a 17,000-job gain from October's 5,834,000 print, and the highest level since August 2009. We recently learned construction spending surged nearly 1% in October, the biggest jump since at least June.¬† We are still well below where we were during last decade's boom years.¬† But, for what it's worth, it also matches the figure from August 1997. BLS ¬†
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeGoldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius.The November jobs report is out, and the above-consensus numbers have some predicting that the Federal Reserve will announce the first tapering of its quantitative easing program at the December FOMC meeting in two weeks. Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius is not one of them ‚Äî he's sticking to his March taper call. "Despite the stronger-than-expected report, we do not think that today's release was¬†strong enough to prompt the Fed to taper asset purchases in December as a baseline, although a move in December remains a possibility," says Hatzius. He does note, however, that the unemployment rate, at 7.0%, is now at a level which Fed chairman Ben Bernanke flagged earlier as where the Fed would likely finish tapering its bond buying, which will necessarily add further fuel to the argument that the FOMC should taper "sooner rather than later." Click here for a breakdown of the jobs report ¬ª
Flickr / Defence ImagesThe November jobs report is out and it is a very solid report. The economy added 203,000 jobs in November, beating expectations of 185,000, and the unemployment rate fell to 7.0%. The labor force participation rate rose to 63.0%, from 62.8%, and the employment to population ratio returned to its September level of 58.6%, up from 58.3% in October. Revisions were also good as the September number was revised up 12,000 to 175,000 and October revised slightly downwards to 200,000 from 204,000. Previous economic reports the past two weeks have had impressive top-line numbers, but the underlying data has been week. Third quarter GDP came in at 3.6% yesterday, but that was entirely due to to a build-up in inventories. Last week, building permits surged, up 6.2% month-over-month, but most of the growth was in multi-family units, a volatile economic indicator. Not so in this report. The underlying numbers matched the strong top-line ones. The only slight blemish is that the ranks of the long-term unemployed rose by 3,000, but that is essentially unchanged at 4.1 million. Overall, it was a very solid report.
The U.S. economy added 203,000 jobs in November, which was much stronger than the the 185,000 expected. The October number was revised modestly downward to 200,000 from an earlier estimate of 204,000. Adding to optimism this morning, the unemployment rate plunged to 7.0% from 7.3% last month. This improvement came as the labor force participation rate rose to 63.0% from 62.8%. Despite the improvements in the numbers, the U.S. labor market remains anemic. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. "The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." Calculated Risk
REUTERSThe November nonfarm payrolls report was just released, and it beat expectations. The labor force participation rate rose to 63.0% from 62.8% the month before. The American economy added 203,000¬†nonfarm payrolls in November, above the 185,000 consensus estimate. The unemployment rate ticked down to 7.0% from 7.3% in October. After falling 720,000 in October, the civilian labor force rose by 455,000. Bloomberg's Michael¬†McDonough tweeted the chart. Labor force participation is showing the first signs of life in some time. Twitter.com/Michael McDonough
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertU.S. President Barack Obama shops with his daughter Malia at Politics and Prose Bookstore and Coffeehouse in Washington, November 30, 2013Personal incomes declined 0.1%, versus an¬†expected climb of 0.3% and 0.5% print in September. Personal spending growth climbed 0.3%, beating expectations of 0.2% and the same figure last month.¬† Average hourly earnings came in as expected, at 0.2% growth month over month, versus 0.1% in September, and 2.0%¬†year-over-year versus 2.2% last month. Weekly hours also came in as expected at 34.5 versus 34.4 last month. Core personal consumption expenditure prices came in as expected, unchanged at 0.1% growth month-over-month, and up 1.1% year-over-year versus 1.2% last month.¬† Full release ¬ª
St. Louis FedJob growth has been rising slowly but steadily in 2013.The November jobs report is out. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics says 203,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in November, above the 185,000 consensus Wall Street estimate. The unemployment rate fell to 7.0% from 7.3% in October. Economists predicted a smaller decline to 7.2%. October's nonfarm payrolls number was revised down slightly to 200,000 from 204,000, but net revisions over the last two months totaled +8,000. The change in private payrolls in November was 196,000, above the 180,000 consensus estimate, while October's private payroll change was revised up to 214,000 from 212,000. S&amp;P 500 futures are unchanged in the wake of the release, while gold and Treasuries are taking a bigger hit and the U.S. dollar is surging as traders re-calibrate positions toward a Federal Reserve tapering of quantitative easing perhaps sooner rather than later. A few other numbers from the report: Click here for the full BLS release ª
Rob Wile/Business InsiderMining a Bitcoin, which involves directing large amounts of computing power at solving complex equations, doesn't come cheap. We recently told you about the gonzo sales Stockholm-based KnCMiner saw on Black Friday for its Neptune device, set to be the most powerful Bitcoin mining device in the world when it's released.¬† It won't be available until next year, and you won't be able to get it right away unless you're a pre-existing KnC customer. And it will cost $13,000. ¬† We got our hands on the next best thing: KnC's Jupiter miner, currently the world's most powerful. You actually can't purchase one of these now either ‚Äî KnC has promised all customers who bought before August that it wouldn't sell anymore so as not to disrupt the Bitcoin mining difficulty rate. Bitcoin is designed so that the more people mining, the more power is required to mine a single Bitcoin. But yesterday,¬†Alex Lawn, KnC's English head of technical communications, stopped by our offices to demonstrate a Jupiter model. Check it out: Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Alex Lawn/KnCMiner Alex Lawn/KnCMiner Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider Rob Wile/Business Insider
Creative ToolsTwitter is bullish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is 210,000, above the Wall Street consensus estimate of 185,000. The mean estimate is 213,000, and the standard deviation is 50,317. These numbers were calculated from 117 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:12 AM ET this morning. The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ª
SG Cross Asset ResearchSoci√©t√© G√©n√©rale economist Brian Jones is usually above consensus when it comes to forecasting nonfarm payroll gains, but this month, he's relatively bearish ‚Äî he predicts only 150,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in November, below the 185,000 consensus estimate. Jones doesn't stop at a prediction for how many payrolls were created in November, though. He also predicts exactly how markets will move immediately following the release. "The SG forecast is below consensus and a marginal negative¬†intraday impact for risky assets is expected if the SG forecast materialises," says Jones. "We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to¬†move down 0.2% and the [10-year] USD swap rate down by 2 [basis points] in the first half-an-hour after the¬†release." Jones says there is a statistical relationship between the deviation of the actual nonfarm payroll print from the consensus forecast and the market's reaction. "The relationship between asset changes around the release and the spread NFP versus consensus is measured by a regression (OLS)," says Jones.

Land's EndSears shares are up 1.6% this morning to $50.80 after the Chicago-based retail giant announced it was spinning off its Land's End clothing division.¬† Land's End was sold to Sears in 2002 for $1.9 billion.¬† Sears shares have fallen 20% this week on reports of flagging sales. It's been losing market share to other big-box retailers, and Fitch recently downgraded some of its debt.

Business Insider Reader Joe Johnson sent us the above before-and-after photo from his office in Shanghai. The clear picture on the right is from mid-October. The photo on the left is from today. According to various measures, the city's smog levels hit record highs. What makes it get so bad?¬† Johnson, who sent us in the photo describes a combination of factors: - Pressure And Wind: If there's no wind, and the pressure system is right, the smog can just hang out for a long time without going anywhere.- The Cold: When the temperature collapses, a lot more coal is burned. More coal = more smog.- Cars: The number of cars on the road in Shanghai keeps growing, and this obviously creates ongoing upward pressure on smog readings.- Christmas Season: Factories are cranking overtime right now to meet demand for Christmas products. Put 'em all together, and voila, the worst smog day in Shanghai history.¬†
SHANGHAI¬†(Reuters) - Hundreds of flights were delayed or cancelled on Friday in¬†China's commercial hub of¬†Shanghai¬†as record levels of air pollution shrouded the city in smog, prompting authorities to issue the highest level of health warning. The incident is especially embarrassing at a time when¬†China¬†seeks to build¬†Shanghai¬†into a global business hub on par with the likes of¬†London,¬†New York¬†and Hong Kong by 2020. On Friday afternoon, the¬†Shanghai¬†government issued its severest health warning as the city's pollution index ranged between 23 times and 31 times the levels recommended by international health officials. In the first such advice since a new health warning system was launched in April, authorities urged residents to stay indoors and asked factories to either cut or halt production. "I don't think it's fit for people to live in this kind of environment," said¬†Shanghai¬†resident Fan¬†Jianjun, 34, who wore a face mask as he walked through the opaque air in the Lujiazui financial district. "But I have no choice. I still need to work. I can only take preventive measures but I have no idea whether they work." Air quality in cities is of increasing concern to¬†China's stability-obsessed leaders, anxious to douse potential unrest as more affluent citizens turn against a growth-at-all-costs economic model that has polluted much of the country's air, water and soil. The government has announced many plans to fight pollution over the years but has made little apparent progress. Most of the flights leaving¬†Shanghai's Pudong International Airport¬†have been delayed, according to the airport's website. Pudong was the world's third busiest cargo airport in 2011, data from the Airports Council International shows. Hazardous air pollution forced schools to shut or suspend outdoor activities in at least two cities in¬†eastern Chinaon Thursday. Some schools in¬†Shanghai¬†cancelled outdoor activities on Friday, as well. The unusually noxious haze was caused by several factors, including industrial pollution and auto emissions trapped by cold, windless weather, said¬†Xu Bin, an associate professor at¬†Shanghai's Tongji University. By 0700 GMT, the level of PM2.5 particulate matter, or tiny particles in the air that are the most hazardous to health, reached a "severely polluted" 466, according to the¬†Shanghai¬†government's monitoring website, http://www.semc.gov.cn/aqi/home/English.aspx. A similar measure by the¬†U.S. consulate in Shanghai¬†showed a reading of 503, a level described as being beyond the index on its website http://www.stateair.net/web/post/1/4.html. Levels above 300 are considered hazardous, while the¬†World Health Organization¬†recommends a daily level of no more than 20. (Reporting by¬†Shanghai¬†newsroom; and Kazunori Takada; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
AP Photo/J. Scott ApplewhiteThe Associated Press Description:House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of Calif., center, discusses the unfinished work of Congress and the struggle for Republican and Democratic budget negotiators to reach a compromise, at a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Dec. 5, 2013. WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.¬†budget¬†negotiators were down to the final, most difficult items in a two-year deal to avoid another federal shutdown next month and ease some across-the-board spending cuts set to hit military and domestic programs, congressional aides said on Thursday. The small-scale agreement being negotiated by Senator¬†Patty Murray, a Democrat, and Republican Representative¬†Paul Ryan¬†would lead to less than $100 billion in new savings, aides familiar with the talks said. The savings would replace some of the cuts that went into effect automatically as part of the¬†budget"sequestration" earlier this year, and would provide a small amount of additional deficit reduction, they said. The deal being negotiated would set spending on discretionary programs ranging from the military to national parks for fiscal 2014 and 2015 at around $1 trillion each year. Without action, such spending would be automatically cut to $967 billion in 2014, the lowest level in a decade. Ryan, the chairman of the¬†House of Representatives¬†budget¬†committee and Murray, who chairs the¬†Senate budget¬†committee, are expected to continue their talks on Friday with the aim of a deal that can be passed next week, before the start of a House recess on December 13. "I'm hopeful that next week we can show the people of this country that we can produce something that is smarter than the way we're going about things now," said House Majority Leader¬†Eric Cantor, a Republican. But any deal's fate in¬†Congress¬†could hinge in part on whether it includes an agreement to extend long-term federal unemployment benefits due to expire later this month for some 1.3 million Americans. President¬†Barack Obama¬†and his Democrats want to extend the benefits to avoid job losses caused by reduced consumer spending, but Republicans question whether the benefits are still needed in an improving economy and are opposed unless it is offset by other savings. Other difficult issues remain including a plan to require federal workers to contribute more to their pensions, which are separate from the Social Security retirement benefits system, and a move to increase airport fees. Both measures could be part of a broader effort to either raise non-tax revenues or cut costs in order to ease some of the automatic spending cuts. "The last few steps are the hardest," a¬†Senate¬†Democratic leadership aide said of the Murray-Ryan negotiations. The $1 trillion top-line spending number, provided by a House Republican aide, would allow¬†Senate¬†and House appropriators to parcel out funding to the various federal agencies for the rest of this fiscal year, which began on October 1, as well as the one that starts on October 1, 2014. Lawmakers, exhausted from three years of non-stop¬†budget¬†fights which culminated in a 16-day shutdown of many federal agencies in October, hope a deal would bring some sanity to the¬†budget¬†process. The string of budget¬†crises has contributed to historically low public approval ratings of¬†Congress. Among the non-tax revenues considered in the talks is a contribution of around $10 billion from an increase in airport security fees paid by air travelers. Airlines for¬†America, an industry trade group, estimates the¬†Transportation Security Administration¬†fee would double to $5 per ticket if the proposal is adopted, said¬†Jean Medina, a spokeswoman for the group. "We think this is really a wrong-headed move, especially when air travelers are already so heavily taxed," Medina said, adding that the trade group handed out air sickness bags at¬†Reagan National Airport¬†this week as part of a campaign to stop the fee increase. Also unclear was whether any deal would contain a temporary "patch" to prevent a scheduled reduction in payments to doctors treating elderly patients in the¬†Medicare¬†program, a fix that tends to arise every year. If Ryan and Murray do reach a deal, it could draw opposition from liberal Democrats, who do not support subjecting federal workers to additional¬†budget¬†savings, as well as from conservative Republicans, who will not get the long-term cuts to¬†Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security programs that they have been seeking. (Additional reporting by Steve Holland and Thomas Ferraro; Editing by Vicki Allen, Cynthia Osterman and Paul Simao)
Margin CallThe market has gone nothing but up all year. And yet suddenly we're on a 5-day down streak. Not only that but we've gotten a string of good economic data, which has put the Fed sharply back into play, while raising hopes that just perhaps the great "liftoff" is finally here. Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading has some good commentary on this: We have to admit the developments this week have been rather exciting. After being trapped in a Groundhog Day environment for so long, it is noteworthy when different patterns emerge. Let‚Äôs start with the preliminary Q3 GDP revision released this morning. The 3.6% annualized growth during Q3 is an impressive headline print. The ISM reports have foreshadowed the improvement since the summer. Similar to the data released yesterday, the internal composition of the GDP report left a great deal to be desired. Approximately 70% of the growth came from an inventory build. The other problem was that as inventories were built, Personal Consumption Expenditures began to fade and posted its weakest growth since 2009. The positive here is that the Federal Reserve is finally on track to have one of its forecasts come to fruition. A second half recovery in GDP is in the works, it is up to Q4 growth to make it a reality. It is imperative that the consumer resurges in Q4 to whittle the inventory down. One of the worst possible combinations of data in Q4 would be further consumer retrenchment in the face of a huge inventory build. The unimpressive start to holiday sales is no secret, but the resurgence of Auto Sales is notable. As it stands now, it is a tough call. One can see that it is best GDP reading in 1 ¬Ω years. Regardless, it only sent bond yields mildly higher. This is an indication that the market recognizes this strong GDP print represents an equal amount of risk and reward. Personal Consumption in Q4 will decide which side wins. Just when you were starting to get bored, we have some storylines again.
Here's something we hadn't realized. In September, the healthcare industry actually shed jobs. The healthcare industry has been a workhorse for job creation in America, which is not surprising given spiraling costs and demographics. Even through the Great Recession, the healthcare industry added workers every single month. But as Dan Diamond at Advisory.com¬†notes (via Morning Money), that streak came to an end in September. People didn't notice at the time, since the number of new jobs for the month only went negative after revisions. Here's a chart of monthly jobs gains and losses going back over 10 years, and you can clearly see that this was the first month of losses in over a decade. FRED So watch this closely. One of the big sleeper stories in the US economy has been the recent decline in healthcare inflation. If we start getting more job losses in the sector, it would be a sign that it's becoming more "normal."
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidToday at 8:30 AM ET we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report. Analysts are looking for about 200K new jobs and a drop in the unemployment rate from 7.3% to 7.2%. But there are three other important datapoints to watch that will make today particularly interesting. Here's the quick summary from Calculated Risk: ï Also at 8:30 AM,†Personal Income and Outlays for October. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in personal income, and for a 0.3% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%.ï At 9:55 AM, the†Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index†(preliminary for December). The consensus is for a reading of 75.5, up from 75.1 in November.ï At 3:00 PM,†Consumer Credit for October†from the Federal Reserve. The consensus is for credit to increase $15.0 billion in October. We'll be covering all of there here LIVE of course.
St. Louis FedJob growth is making a comeback in 2013.On Friday, at 8:30 AM ET, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics releases the most important economic data release on the calendar: the November Employment Situation (a.k.a. "the jobs report"), which Wall Street economists believe will show that 185,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls last month. Many believed the October jobs report would be negatively affected by the government shutdown that spanned the first two weeks of the month. Instead, it showed that the economy shrugged off the shutdown, creating 204,000 nonfarm payrolls in October ó well above the consensus 120,000 estimate. The unexpected acceleration in hiring caused a big sell-off in the Treasury market as investors re-calibrated forecasts of when the Federal Reserve is most likely to begin winding down (i.e., taper) its quantitative easing program ó the sole consideration dominating markets at the moment. In recent weeks, we have seen a lot of positive economic data points that seem to confirm that the U.S. economy accelerated in October and November, including various indicators of labor market activity. Tomorrow's jobs report could be the key confirmation many investors are looking for. "In our view, the strength in the October employment report put the possibility of a December taper back on the table, after a weak September employment report had dimmed the prospects," says Deutsche Bank chief U.S. economist Joe LaVorgna. "Another month of solid job gains (inclusive of revisions) increases the probability that policymakers will taper when they meet at the December 17-18 FOMC meeting." Regardless of whether a strong November jobs report will actually spur the Fed to consider tapering QE in December, it's a game of probabilities for market participants, so a big nonfarm payrolls number will force the market to adjust accordingly. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Gennadiy Goldberg, an interest rate strategist at TD Securities, argues that "with the market already pricing in increasing odds of a January taper amid the steadily improving flow of economic data," an above-consensus nonfarm payrolls print in the range of 190,000-225,000 will only spark a "mild sell-off" in the Treasury market. Indeed, on the back of a sell-off that has gripped the market over the past six weeks, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is at 2.87% ó right where it closed on September 16, when imminent tapering was widely believed to be largely priced into the market. Below are consensus forecasts for the major components of the November jobs report: Estimates for the crucial, market-moving nonfarm payrolls number range from 115,000 to 230,000, according to a survey of Wall Street economists polled by Bloomberg. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones is usually on the higher end of that range ó his forecast has been above consensus every month for the last year. This time, however, he's slightly bearish ó predicting 150,000 ó given where the Thanksgiving holiday fell on the calendar this year. "We have found that the placement of Thanksgiving over the 22-28 November span can provide either a significant lift to or exert a considerable drag on estimated job growth in that month," explains Jones. "Reflecting the early hiring of seasonal holiday workers when the fourth Thursday of the month falls between 22-24 November, the estimated change in payroll employment is on average 57,000 above what the fundamental variables in our model would suggest. The converse is essentially true when Thanksgiving is observed over the 26-28 November period. Indeed, our estimated coefficient ñ a drag of 45,000 ñ is almost symmetric." Perhaps the most interesting forecast is also on the bearish side of the spectrum. Toby Dayton, CEO of the job listing search engine LinkUp, predicts the nonfarm payrolls number will actually be negative for the first time in over three years. "With the 6.4% decline we saw in our September LinkUp data, we are anticipating a massive downward revision to a gain of only 65,000 jobs last month," writes Dayton in a post on the LinkUp blog. "If Octoberís numbers are as horrible as we believe them to be, we are forecasting that the economy actually lost jobs in November for the first time since September 2010. With the 5.6% decline in new and total job listings in the LinkUp index in October, we predict that the U.S. showed a net loss of 25,000 jobs in November." Needless to say, that would be quite a surprise. Finally, courtesy of Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle, here are all of the data points that point to either a strong or a weak report.  A number of factors point toward a moderately strong report:  1.†Strong recent trend.†The three-month average of nonfarm payrolls now stands a bit over 200k, and the 204,000 gain in October was an impressive positive surprise relative to expectations for a shutdown-induced slowdown.  2.†Job cuts.†Challenger, Gray &amp; Christmas reported a decline in seasonally adjusted job cuts in November, despite a boost from the final closing of two large chain stores.  3.†Job advertisements.†The Conference Board's measure of new job ads reported in its Help Wanted OnLine index rose in November. While the index is quite volatile month-to-month, its four-month average has steadily improved since July.  4.†ADP.†Once again, the ADP report proved to be a poor indicator of payrolls in October. In addition, methodological revisions late last year have made its predictive power for private non-farm payrolls difficult to gauge. However, yesterday's report showed a strong 215k gain and suggested in particular that recent employment gains in the construction and manufacturing sectors would continue in November.  Other indicators are sending a neutral-to-weaker message:  1. Business surveys.†The most worrisome sign for November payrolls is the decline in the employment component of the ISM non-manufacturing index, which we have found to be the most valuable business survey for forecasting payrolls, from 56.2 in October to 52.5 in November. Partly offsetting this, the Richmond Fed's service sector survey reached a record high and the employment components of the ISM manufacturing index and the Chicago PMI both improved.  2.†Cold weather. While October had an unusually small number of cold days, November had an unusually large number. Our model suggests less supportive weather could detract about 10k from November payrolls relative to October.  3. Jobless claims.†The jobless claims data have been difficult to interpret over the last couple of months as a result of distortions in October and challenges associated with seasonal adjustment during holiday weeks in the second half of November. However, the early November prints in the low 340s were roughly in line with or a touch above the four-week average before the distortions began.  4. Consumer confidence.†Headline confidence numbers were mixed. The Conference Board's confidence numbers remain depressed last month, while the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index beat expectations, suggesting that the shutdown's blow to confidence is beginning to fade. More importantly for payrolls, respondents to the Conference Board's consumer confidence survey who answered that jobs are "hard to get" exceeded the number answering that jobs are "plentiful" by 22.2 percentage points, a slight improvement from October. We will be flooding the zone with jobs report coverage Friday morning. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ª
Wikimedia COmmonsGood morning! Markets are modestly higher in Europe and futures for the US are in the green. The US is currently riding a 5-day losing streak (the likes of which we haven't seen in awhile). At 8:30 AM ET we get a very highly anticipated Non-Farm Payrolls report. This week we've seen a string of strong data, and interest rates have been rising, as markets begin to suspect that the Fed will soon pull the trigger on "tapering," a reduction in the pace of bond purchases through QE. If today's jobs report is strong, and there's a notable drop in the unemployment rate, those fears could easily come true. For a full preview of today's report, see here.
