IntradeBack in early March, "prediction market" InTrade shocked the world by announcing it was halting all trading activity immediately. InTrade, of course, was famous for offering betting on event outcomes like the US Presidential election (along with other events). Now the company has posted the following message on its site, which says that it has discovered a $700,000 cash shortfall that must be rectified immediately in order to avoid liquidation. The company also says it knows what happened to the money, and is pursuing legal claims against two parties. ---------------------------------------------------------- April 5, 2013 We have now concluded the initial stages of our investigations about the financial status of the Company, and it appears that the Company is in a cash ‚Äúshortfall‚Äù position of approximately US $700,000 when comparing all cash on hand in Company and Member bank accounts with Member account balances on the Exchange system. If the Company is not able to rectify this cash shortfall position very quickly, the Company will become insolvent and therefore is very likely to go into liquidation. Since March 10, 2013, the Company has been operating with new funds invested by current shareholders. We are now very confident about the reasons which caused the current circumstance of the Company; however, for legal reasons we are not yet at liberty to document them to you. I can confirm that the Company, if it is able, intends to vigorously pursue two substantial monetary claims against two distinct parties for an aggregate amount greater than $3,500,000. Because of these circumstances, the Company has now contacted all members with account balances greater than $1000, and proposed a ‚Äúforbearance‚Äù arrangement between these members and the Company, which if sufficient members agree, would allow the Company to remain solvent. The successful recovery in the future of even part of our intended legal claims, ought to allow the Company to provide full restitution to Members. We would also hope at that time, that the Company would be in a position to resume commercial operations. For now, we are in active discussions with current shareholders and possible new investors as we seek further investment in the Company to strengthen our financial position. Please note that while we will try our very best to ultimately return 100% of Members‚Äô settled account balances, we can make no promise or assurance that we will be able to do so. It is possible that, even though we gain a sufficient number of Members to agree to provide forbearance to the Company, the Company may go into liquidation in the future. By Tuesday, April 16, 2013, we expect to be able to inform our members if sufficient forbearance has been achieved. If so, we will then resume limited operations of the Company and we will be able to process requests for withdrawals as agreed.  If sufficient forbearance has not been achieved, it seems extremely likely that the Company will be forced into liquidation.  I am truly grateful for your personal expressions of support and your patience as we try to deal with this unfortunate circumstance. I appreciate the feedback provided, and I intend to exceed your expectations as we try to correct this situation. I hope that you decide to stand by our side in the effort to preserve the Company and in our efforts to pursue the complete restitution of all of your funds.  Sincerely, Ronald Bernstein Director, Intrade
Tonight at 11:00 pm EST, Brooklyn based media company, Vice Media, premiers a half hour documentary show on HBO, and there really isn't anything like it on TV. That's always been the point. For years, Vice has been making documentary videos about some of the most dangerous corners of the world. They called them Vice Guides. Think: Liberian slums, long North Korean highways, and lots and lots of guns. Now the company is teaming up with HBO (the show is produced by Bill Maher and Fareed Zakaria is a consulting producer) to take that world beyond the internet. Tonight, expect Afghan child suicide bombers, an interview with the Taliban, and yes, definitely some violence.†It's a huge part of what everyone's been saying about it.†† The New York Times wrote that at Vice's "ludicrously luxurious" premier party, some of the guests were visibly shaken by the "stomach churning" screening.† Rolling Stone was even more clear. The magazine wrote, "HBO Courts Danger With Gonzo Vice Show,"†and said that it still "feels a little like your buddy from the bar just happened to be wandering through eastern Afghanistan with a camera crew." Perhaps that's true, but it isn't the point. Vice has spent years building a fiercely loyal audience that expects insane access, raw footage, and the persistent threat of danger. It works because no one else has it.† Or more importantly, because no one else will do it.† Check out a clip of the show below: †
Business InsiderWith great wealth comes great responsibility. That's how we judge the tycoons of tech. While many of them spend their money on expensive luxuries, like cars, houses, planes ‚Äî even islands¬†‚Äî they are also expected to use their prosperity to do good works. That's the implicit demand of the tech industry. Some are astoundingly generous, giving tens of millions ‚Äîeven hundreds of millions ‚Äî to their favorite causes. How much they give says a lot about them. Which causes they support does, too.
In a speech at the Women In The World summit Friday, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton mentioned a startling fact: Women in the U.S. are living shorter lives than women in almost every other industrialized country. And worse yet, female mortality rates are actually rising in many parts of the country. "Think about it for a minute. We are the richest and most powerful country in the world," Clinton said. "Yet many American women today are living shorter lives than their mothers, especially those with the least education. That is a historic reversal that rivals the decline in life expectancy for Russian men after the disintegration of the Soviet Union." We looked into Clinton's claims, and it appears she is correct. A study published last month by the "Journal of Health Affairs" found that between 1992 and 1996 and from 2002 and 2006, the number of premature deaths actually rose for women in some parts of the country The research, conducted by David Kindig and Erika Cheng of the University of Wisconsin, found that the national female mortality rate fell from 324 to 318 per 100,000 during that period. But in 42.3 percent of counties, the female mortality rate rose, from 317 to about 333 per 100,000. Male mortality rates, by contrast, rose in only about 3 percent of counties. Check out the map below, via Bill Gardner at the Incidental Economist. Red means that mortality worsened. Bill Gardner As Clinton noted in her speech, the reasons for this trend are varied. ‚ÄúWe did find significant associations between mortality rates and some of these factors, such as smoking rates for both sexes," Kindig and Cheng wrote. "But socioeconomic factors such as the percentage of a county‚Äôs population with a college education and the rate of children living in poverty had equally strong or stronger relationships to fluctuations in mortality rates.‚Äù Regardless of the causes, however, there is clearly something very alarming ‚Äî and tragic ‚Äî going on with women in America, particularly in the South and the Midwest.
REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.South Korea's stock market has been demonstrating a bit of volatility in recent days. Some of this is likely due to the nuclear provocations of North Korea and its new president Kim Jong-un. However, there has also been a lot economic data that could be playing a bigger role in the market's moves. Ultimately, if investors believed North Korea were a real threat, then the markets would likely be a lot lower.† You see, the lack of follow through by the North has led to a lot of complacency in the South. "Working in a newsroom in Seoul, South Korea, it certainly does not feel like I'm living in a country that is in a state of war," said CNBC reporter Chery Kang earlier this week. Morgan Stanley's Shawn Kim discusses this in a new note to clients: Is it different this time? Tensions may be prolonged in the absence of a mediator to cool down the current standoff. China, which also agreed on tougher UN sanctions, has remained on the sidelines, but will likely eventually have to step in to diffuse tensions as it has in the past. Consequently, provocations could continue to escalate throughout this month, given upcoming major celebrations in North Korea, such as the birthday of founding leader Kim Il-Sung and Military Foundation Day, but full-scale military conflict is unlikely, in our view. And when it comes to the stock markets, Korean stock have become "immune to North Korean tensions" writes Kim. North Koreaís provocations have had little impact on South Korean stocks in the past few years, as these incidents are quite frequent and usually temporary in nature, especially around that time of joint US-South Korea annual military exercises during March. The KOSPI has remained resilient, even after North Koreaís nuclear tests, missile launches and major incidents, e.g., Daecheong (2009) and Yeonpyeong (1999, 2002, 2010). Here's Kim's review of recent events.† As you can see, the short term response by the KOSPI, Korea's major stock market index, has been around 0 percent. Morgan Stanley
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 6 Must Reads For Financial Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) The Wall Street Journal reached out to financial advisors and found that they find these books helpful: 1. "The Charge: Activating the 10 Human Drives That Make You Feel Alive" by Brendon Burchard. 2. "Raving Fans: A Revolutionary Approach To Customer Service" by Ken Blanchard and Sheldon Bowles. 3. "18 Minutes: Find Your Focus, Master Distraction, and Get the Right Things Done" by Peter Bregman. 4. "Traction: Get a Grip on Your Business" by Gino Wickman. 5. "Seeds of Greatness" by Denis Waitley. 6. "Who Stole the American Dream?" by Hedrick Smith The Renminbi's 'Prestige, Tradability, And Valuation' Mean It Will Continue To Rise (Advisor Perspectives) Hayden Briscoe at Alliance Bernstein writes that renminbi will 1. "Appreciate by 2% - 3% a year on average, just to keep pace with the country‚Äôs persistent trade surpluses, and by up to 5% a year once economic rebalancing is factored in." 2. Be fully-convertible by 2015. 3. Become a reserve currency, especially among emerging markets and in Asia. ¬† Despite the recent slowdown, Briscoe says he believes in the country's structural reforms. "The currency‚Äôs prestige, tradability and valuation," are driving these expectations.¬† Federal Judge Approves Bank Of America's $2.43 Billion Settlement Over Its Merrill Lynch Acquisition (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) Bank of America has been granted federal approval for a $2.43 billion settlement with shareholders that said it failed to disclose important information when it bought Merrill Lynch. U.S. District judge Kevin Castel said the settlement was "fair, reasonable and adequate." The Last Time Banks Dumped Treasuries This Fast, They Missed Out On A Huge Bond Market Rally (Gluskin Sheff) Over the past 13 weeks, U.S. commercial banks have dumped holdings of U.S. Treasuries and bonds at almost a 10 percent annual rate, according to Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. And the last time they dumped treasuries this fast was in 2007, "just ahead of one of the great bond rallies in recent history." He expects banks to "scramble" and load up on Treasuries again this time.¬† Gluskin Sheff  Here Are The 10 Best Trades For Spring¬†(Bank of America) With stocks having hit news highs in the first quarter, many expect the market to correct in the next two quarters. With that in mind, Bank of America's Michael Hartnett has 10 trade recommendations for spring. Hartnett and his team expect stocks to outperform in 2013 and 2014. 1. "Own volatility in Q2." 2. "Telecom and utilities are the best defensive contrarian equity play." 3. "Sell treasuries into Q2 strength." 4. "Long the U.S. dollar versus commodities." 5. "Favor stocks over bonds. High yield over high grade in 2013." 6. "Own Japanese financials." 7. "Buy German equities on Q2 weakness." 8. "Long U.S. financials, short Canadian financials in 2013." 9. "Long U.S. industrials, short European industrials." 10. "Long BRIC resources versus Emerging Markets in Q2." 
Even more intriguing is that the creator of Bitcoins is unknown, pseudonymous like Banksy. And maybe like installation artist JSG Boggs producing a work exploring the meaning of money. A common analogy for Bitcoins is gold: like gold, they have value only because people want them, the supply is limited, more Bitcoins are created only by ‚Äòmining‚Äô for them and the difficulty in mining grows as they are mined. But rather than being stored in underground vaults Bitcoins are simply entries in a notional ledger held across many computers around the world. The actual mining of Bitcoins is by a purely mathematical process. A useful analogy is with the search for prime numbers: it used to be fairly easy to find the small ones (Eratothenes in Ancient Greece produced the first algorithm for finding them). But as they were found it got harder to find the larger ones. Nowadays researchers use advanced high-performance computers to find them and their achievements are noted by the mathematical community (for example, the University of Tennessee maintains a list of the highest 5000). For Bitcoins the search is not actually for prime numbers but to find a sequence of data (called a ‚Äòblock‚Äô) that produces a particular pattern when the Bitcoin ‚Äòhash‚Äô algorithm is applied to the data. When a match occurs the miner obtains a bounty of Bitcoins (and also a fee if that block was used to certify a transaction). The size of the bounty reduces as Bitcoins around the world are mined. The difficulty of the search is also increased so that it becomes computationally more difficult to find a match. These two effects combine to reduce over time the rate at which Bitcoins are produced and mimic the production rate of a commodity like gold. At some point new Bitcoins will not be produced and the only incentive for miners will be transaction fees. The raw performance of a Bitcoin mine is measured in hashes per second (i.e. the number of tries per second to find a block). With the difficulty and bounty settings it becomes possible to calculate the expected rate of Bitcoin production. An ordinary computer can do this work running software and typical high-end PC (using an Intel Core i7) can perform about 6.7MH/s (6.7 million hashes per second). This would have been quite successful at mining a couple of years ago but today it would have an expected rate of 0.0005BTC per day (this is a actuarial measure: a miner finds a block or doesn‚Äôt, and in this case it would likely take decades to find one). Fortunately, there are more powerful computers available quite cheaply: your graphics card used for gaming is actually a massively parallel computer (quite often containing more than a thousand CPUs). My PC‚Äôs GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) contains a Radeon 6870 chip that will do 300MH/s. That‚Äôs enough for 0.02BTC per day (it would take on average more than three years to find a block). But there‚Äôs the cost of the electricity to run the PC (and the cost of the PC) to take into account. The PC uses about 250W of electricity (the graphics card alone uses 150W). At current difficulty and electricity price ($0.15/kWh) it would cost $44 in electricity for each Bitcoin mined. But crucially, the low probability of finding a block means that the economics are likely to have shifted before one is found. The only viable way to mine Bitcoins with a GPU is to have lots of fully-amortised cards in a datacenter running right now. In short, if you didn‚Äôt get into Bitcoin mining ages ago with your PC, you‚Äôre too late now. There is another way to calculate hashes faster: using FPGAs (Field Programmable Gate Arrays). In essence this is custom programmable electronics. Rather than using general purpose processors running software, the hardware is directly performing the calculations. FPGA programming is quite specialist engineering used in applications like HFT (High Frequency Trading) and ULLDMA (Ultra Low Latency Direct Market Access). An FPGA mining rig can achieve a hash rate as high as 800MH/s, but at some expense (the cost can run to $1000 per module). A high-end rig of 8 modules could expect to generate 0.5BTC per day on average (allowing the hardware costs to be amortized over 130 days at current BTC prices and difficulty levels). However, anyone who invested in FPGAs recently will likely have lost their money: a new generation of mining hardware has hit the market rendering all previous mining rigs obsolete. ASICs (Application Specific Integrated Circuits) are the kind of chips found in cellphones and other electronics. They are expensive and time-consuming to design (taking months or even years) and hard to get the production right (requiring large silicon wafers, people in cleanroom bunny suits, etc.) but once they work properly can be manufactured cheaply in quantity. The first dedicated mining rigs built from ASICs shipped a few weeks ago: Avalon claims their first product achieves 65GH/s, uses 650W of electricity and is priced at ‡∏ø72 (yes, it‚Äôs priced in BTC). Butterfly Labs say they will be shipping imminently kit that will do 50GH/s (currently priced at $2499). This should at current difficulties find a block about every 6 days, giving a BTC rate of 3.75BTC per day. At current BTC/USD prices that would allow the hardware cost to be amortized over just 5 days. ASIC-based Bitcoin mining has created a step-change in Bitcoin mining economics. In keeping with the analogy with gold, there is now a rush to be amongst the first with the new mining technology and scoop the current set of Bitcoin nuggets that are easily mined before someone else does - the difficulty will step up as ASIC-based rigs become widespread. And just as in California in 1849, the suppliers of mining equipment are likely to be the ones who make the most money. In the end the limiting factor will be the amortization costs of ASIC rigs (given the economics of silicon this need not be high) and electricity (perhaps the future of Iceland‚Äôs economy is hosting air-cooled Bitcoin mining rigs powered by volcanoes?) As to whether all of this is a fool‚Äôs pursuit and Bitcoins are really modern-day tulips (albeit tulips that weigh nothing, don‚Äôt decay and have no storage costs) it is difficult to say. In the end a form of money is a human construct that has utility when it is widely agreed that it has utility. Of course, it could be a huge geeky joke. Like the Internet used to be.
What is it like to work as a floor trader at the New York Stock Exchange? We caught up with Kenny Polcari, director of NYSE Floor Operations at O'Neil Securities, and a CNBC contributor, who walked us through a regular workday: Produced by Dan Goodman and Will Wei
www.colorexpert.comLeatrice Eiseman is somewhere in the world right now looking for the next Color of the Year. The executive director of the Pantone Color Institute, Eiseman has made this important decision for the past 13 years. It is not taken lightly. "We deliver the news in a sealed envelope, and we have our representatives go out to [partner companies] in their trench coats with their suitcases,"¬†Lisa Herbert, Pantone's Vice President of Consumer Licensing, explained over the phone.¬†"They have to sign a confidentiality agreement and the color cannot be revealed until we say so." This year's announcement of emerald green swept¬†through the marketing world and into celebrity wardrobes. Pantone's partner¬†Sephora unveiled its Emerald-hued collection, with¬†competitors like Revlon jostling to compete. Magazines such as Us Weekly, InStyle, Lucky, and Elle Decor began to capitalize on the trend with photo spreads and emerald-hued product features, while the color cropped up in advertising campaigns for Banana Republic and the flash shopping website Gilt. InStyle, April 2013 "It becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy because people are going into the stores asking for it," Herbert said. "[Retailers] have to have it, even if they have to scramble to do it." So why does Eiseman get to make this decision? She's recognized by those in the fashion and marketing communities as an American color specialist, and has authored¬†eight books¬†on the subject of color and consumerism. After graduating from Antioch University and UCLA with degrees in psychology and counseling, Eiseman put her skills as a color consultant to work for major brands like IKEA, Best Buy, and Microsoft. Eiseman doesn't make the Color of the Year decision alone: Pantone has a committee of color experts searching for the next big thing year-round, and hosts international "colorists" biannually in a pre-planned European city to discuss dominant hues for each season. APBeyonce wearing the Emerald earrings as she sang the National Anthem.Even so, she's the most influential person in the room. She gave us a little insight into how she helps make the decision. "It's hard to explain to anyone how you really arrive at the specific color," Eiseman explains. "But it's picking up nuggets of information wherever you travel ‚Äî and I travel all over the world. If I see that a color is coming into prominence (for instance, if I'm in Asia and I see the same color in Italy and Germany), then I would say that color is on the rise and starts to have a collective impulse." She and her team also do research on trends in related industries, like high-end jewelry and show business. "We knew that greens have been big in the last few years, and people are still very much attracted to green and the message that it gives: the whole idea of being connected to the environment, unity, elegance, rejuvenation, and clarity. The color green stands for all of these things, and is universally appealing." And after Eiseman and her team decided green was trending worldwide, they had to decide the specific shade: "You can't use the same shade that's been out there in the marketplace for three years season after season, because it won't work," she said. "What can you choose that still captures the zeitgeist of the public and yet still offers something new? That's what we ask ourselves." So the next time you're wondering why emerald green is so prevalent this year, you can thank Leatrice Eiseman.
Just as the big crisis story in Cyprus has started to wind down, it looks like the attention could shift to Portugal. Today, the Portuguese Constitutional Court struck down articles 29 and 77 of the Portuguese government's 2013 budget. Dow Jones reports: *Portuguese Court Rules Some Measures in 2013 Budget Illegal *Portuguese Court: Paycheck Cuts for Public Workers, Pensioners Illegal And, as is the case in other peripheral euro area member states under troika aid programs, the austerity measures have been divisive. There were even reports last week that Portuguese Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho acknowledged that he may have to resign depending on how much of the budget the Constitutional Court decided to strike down. Whether that is the case here is unclear. According to Reuters, the measures struck down account for about 20 percent of the savings found by the austerity package, and the government has called for a special meeting on Saturday. In any event, the next few days should be interesting ones for Portugal.
APSome of Congress' more liberal members and various liberal groups are already expressing their displeasure with President Barack Obama over his decision to include a so-called†"chained CPI" adjustment that would have a significant effect on the growth of Social Security. Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and a host of liberal members of the House of Republicans pushed back on reports of the plan, as did the progressive public policy advocacy group MoveOn. Sanders, an Independent known for his progressive views, released a lengthy, six-paragraph statement†that accused Obama of putting deficit reduction "on the backs of some of the most vulnerable people in the country." ìI am terribly disappointed and will do everything in my power to block President Obamaís proposal," Sanders wrote. Reps. Ra˙l M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), the co-chairs of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, also criticized the chained-CPI proposal, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates†could raise $124 billion in revenue and cut the deficit by $216 billion over a 10-year period. In a joint statement, Grijalva and Ellison said that Obama was adopting what was essentially a Republican viewpoint toward entitlement programs.† "Republicans have been trying to dismantle Social Security ever since President Roosevelt proposed it during the Great Depression," they wrote. "We should not try to bargain for their good will with policies that hurt our seniors, especially since theyíve been unwilling to reduce tax loopholes for millionaires and wealthy corporations by so much as a dime." Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.), a member of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, released his own similar statement decrying the proposal.† And MoveOn appeared baffled by the proposal, lashing out at Obama in a statement from executive director Anna Galland, which noted that "Republicans in Congress aren't even asking for this Social Security cut." "Millions of MoveOn members did not work night and day to put President Obama into office so that he could propose policies that would hurt some of our most vulnerable people," Galland wrote. "Just as we fought and defeated President Bush's plan to privatize Social Security, we will mobilize and stop this attempt to diminish the vital guarantee of Social Security."
Over the past 13 weeks, U.S. commercial banks have purged their holdings of U.S. Treasuries and bonds at almost a 10 percent annual rate, writes David Rosenberg. The last time they reduced their holdings in such large quantities over such a short period of time, was in late 2007. This, was "just ahead of one of the great bond rallies in recent history." With that in mind he tells investors to watch as banks "scramble now to gobble them back up ‚Äì and recall their timing." Gluskin Sheff He goes on to say that the Great Rotation (a rotation out of bonds and into stocks) was a Great Hoax: "We could, in fact, start to see a shift back into bonds because credit demands are starting to slow ‚Äì the 13-week rate of change in total bank loans has weakened to 2.7 percent annual rate from over 4 percent a month ago, and over six percent at the turn of the year. Moreover, this "Great Rotation theme has really turned out to be the 'Great Hoax'. While retail investors did indeed plow $3.8 billion into equity mutual funds in the past week, on top of $5 billion the week before that, bond funds also took in a new $4.5 billion in addition to $6 billion the prior week. What sort of rotation is that? Bond inflows are matching equity inflows tit for tat." All this, Rosenberg thinks should be a major source of support for the bond market.¬†
Flickr / Todd DwyerFor the past few decades, hedge funds have been the sexiest way to make money on Wall Street ó you can go long or short, fill them with "exotic" products, and lever up as you wish. But it looks like they're losing their edginess to (are you ready?) mutual funds. Just stay with us here. These aren't your father's†average long-only mutual funds. These are†"alternative mutual funds." These are mutual funds that act like hedge funds but they're not. They diversify and hedge with shorts, derivatives, ETFs, you name it. The reason they're not hedge funds is because investors don't have to be accredited and can invest less money, there are limits on leverage, and most importantly, alternative mutual funds do not charge that infamous hedge fund 2% and 20%. According to data compiled by Morningstar, there were 112 alternative mutual funds in 2007. In 2012 there were 357. Part of this is happening because the hedge fund world is a dismal place these days. First off, it's hard to raise the money necessary to start a fund. Each investor has to be an†accredited investor, which for individuals means they have to make at least $200,000 a year (or $300,000 with a spouse).† And if you don't want to get laughed off the Street, you better have a nice chunk of money to start ó something like $50-100 million, and a significant portion of that should be from you (the hedge fund manager). There are a lot of people starting (and, more often than not, failing at starting) these funds, but industry-wide hedge fund returns since 2008 have been lackluster, most underperforming the S&amp;P. Investors are getting skittish. That's why even hedge funds are starting mutual funds right now. Last November legendary hedge fund manager Cliff Asness started two of them. "You tell them, 'Hey we're a rock star hedge fund at a mutual fund price ...' It's what's working right now," one fund manager told Business Insider, adding "People just won't pay the fees, and they shouldn't have to." Those fees, says the manager, are the reason why hedge funds, which are truly compensation schemes and not a specific asset class, has persisted. But they keep many investors away, and if fund managers can get more assets under management by making it cheaper for people to participate, they may want to say goodbye to 2% and 20%. It's what Jack Bogle did when he started Vanguard. He set the bar lower, he welcomed retail investors, and his fund got massive. "We are a harbinger of things to come," said the manager. Sorry hedge funds.
Travel + Leisure/Dariusz CzumajStocks tanked early in the trading session after a disappointing jobs report.† The Dow was down as much as 170 points. But they slashed those losses. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,565, -40.8 pts, -0.2 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,553, -6.7 pts, -0.4 percentNASDAQ: 3,203, -21.1 pts, -0.6 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Pour one out for the bears. Think about it. Today we have: And yet? Dow off just over 40 points, coming back from about 150 points down. Catastrophic if you're negative. Meanwhile, check out the VIX. Almost no jump in volatility at all. For the full roundup of what happened, see here &gt;
Flickr/Philip Taylor PTTotal consumer credit in the United States expanded 7.8 percent at an annualized rate ‚Äì or $18.1 billion ‚Äì in February, ahead of expectations of a $15 billion expansion. Revolving credit ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì rose 0.8 percent at an annualized rate to $848 billion in December. Non-revolving credit ‚Äì auto loans and the like ‚Äì increased 10.9 percent at an annualized rate to $1.95 trillion. The rate of expansion in total consumer credit was up significantly from January, when credit expanded $12.7 billion. January consumer credit growth was revised down from a $16.2 billion initial reading. Click here for the full release &gt;
Judging by the purchasing frenzy of Italian bonds today, most of it emanating out of Japan, which, after last night's epic snafu involving¬†JGBs and the double halt of bond trading, may have spooked the "New BOJ-frontrunning Normal" Mrs. Watanabe, not to mention Albert Edwards' recent rekindled love affair with the Mediterranean country, one may have left with the impression that all is well, and Italy is "safe." Not so fast: according to Bridgewater, the world's biggest hedge fund (after the ECB and the NY Fed of course), whose daily letter today is titled "Could Italy Blow Up The Euro?" things in Italy are hardly as rosy as market conditions make them appear (although as the BOE itself admitted, any link the policy vehicle known as the "market" may have had with economic fundamentals is long gone), and in fact may be set to get far worse. Some of the key highlights: Economic conditions in Italy are as depressed as they've been since the end of WWII, the economy is still contracting, Italy's banks are in terrible shape, private sector lending is very strained, and the ECB's policy is not resolving the problems. As is typical in countries enduring this level of economic pain, the political situation is starting to get pretty chaotic. Bersani, the top vote getter in the recent elections, has been unable to form a government, new elections this year are increasingly likely, and recent polling suggests a dead heat among Bersani, Berlusconi, and the anti-establishment party of Grillo. Surge in support for Grillo creates a risk because it is not entirely clear what he would do if he came to power. He has made a clear promise to put the euro to a vote and generally thinks that the European fiscal and monetary policies have been a bad deal for Italy. Obviously, an attempt to revisit those policies by a country as systemically important as Italy could destabilize things fast, and the risk of a radical outcome is growing.¬†And over the past few months there are indications of that risk getting priced in and putting pressure on Italy, particularly on its banking system. Italian banking spreads are up; there has been a modest pullback in banks' wholesale funding, a modest increase in their ECB borrowing and no bond issuance. So far, the Italian sovereign has not come under as much pressure. Spreads have risen a bit, but issuance has been steady, and the government is so far meeting its needs for the year. However, there are some indications that things are getting tighter for them (a postponed 30 year auction, worse auction technicals, weaker foreign demand). And there isn't much margin for error, as the gross issuance needs are big and steady. And the sovereign is still relying on Italian banks to buy a lot of bonds.¬† So there is a¬†risk that if economic conditions continue to be terrible and the political situation gets more extreme, the pressure on the banks will increase, and the sovereigns could start to have trouble¬†(and with the political uncertainty, should the need arise, who would the Troika negotiate with?). Those who have been following our coverage of the Italian fiasco in recent months will be quite aware of all of Bridgewater's caveats, but here are some of the important drill downs, especially as pertains the still woefully insolvent (and now leaking deposits) banking sector. To wit: Italian banks increasingly look strained, both outright and relative to Spain. Bank CDS spreads have risen 150 basis points and bank eguity prices have fallen 30% in the past two months, and there are some indications of stress in the bank funding flows. Unlike in Spain, Italian banks have not decreased their reliance on the ECB at all, and in February they actually increased their net ECB funding. At the same time, wholesale funding lines with banks and non-banks are falling, and Italian banks have had substantial bond redemptions that they haven't rolled in February and March. Italian banks are getting liquidity by reducing private sector loans and through a healthy inflow of retail deposits, which is helping them to pay for the wholesale funding that is leaving. Italian banks bought government bonds at a healthy pace in January, but the purchases slowed in February, and they have been selling foreign corporate and bank bonds for the past six months. Funding costs for the banks have risen about 150 bps over the past few months and have noticeably diverged from sovereign spreads  And the stocks of the big Italian bank have sold off pretty sharply. The stock prices of the three largest Italian banks are down almost 30% since late January. Italian bank borrowing from the ECB has been increasing. Italian banks have only paid down a modest amount of their 3year LTRO borrowings, and their net reliance on the ECB increased by ‚Ç¨11 bn in February (‚Ç¨6bn in new borrowing and a decline of ‚Ç¨5bn in deposits). Spanish banks on the other hand have been reducing their ECB reliance at a rapid pace. Italian banks continue to fund 18% of domestic GDP and around 10% of their balance sheets at the ECB  The quality of Italian bank balance sheets has been deteriorating for years. NPLs are still rising and Italy's banking system is on course to see historically bad losses.  And the scariest news for those few who are taking seriously the warning from UniCredit's CEO that deposit confiscations in Italy may well happen, is that NPL are soaring, and are likely orders of magnitude worse than the official data. Just like in Cyprus.¬† When we go asset-by-asset through the bank loan books, and look at various deleveraging cycles to gain historical perspective, we think a reasonable estimate is that Italian banks will end up with full cycle losses of 10% on their ‚Ç¨1.5trIn of domestic loans, which would be a bit worse than bath the 1993 Spanish recession and similar to the recent US crisis (though the context of the Italian cycle would be that conditions continue to be worse and stimulation continues to be less than the recent US case, but with better quality loans and less leveraging up).¬†  To summarize the adverse view:¬† So that's the situation in Italy:¬†Conditions are depressed and play no small part in the prevailing political uncertainty. Increasing pressures are being placed on an already-stressed banking system. The sovereign is pretty reliant on those banks to buy their bonds, and there are modest signs of those sovereigns also getting pressured. But, there are a few countervailing forces: Growth conditions in Italy will probably stabilize a bit as the big impact of the fiscal austerity fades (but a new round of financial instability cuts the other way). The probability that Grillo actually gets some kind of mandate and then takes a radical path still seems low. The ECB's commitment to do what it takes should for now keep spreads from moving out too much.¬†But the possibility of a dangerous outcome is real and one we're continuing to monitor. So for all those scrambling to frontrun other lemmings in the global capital reallocation game, be it rushing into U.S. stocks or Italian bonds, be careful: the fact that others are doing it doesn't mean massive losses aren't lurking just around the corner. Don't worry though, if all the bad news outcomes as forecast do hit, the ECB is prepared. After all, as was made abundantly clear yesterday, it has "No Plan B."
Bloomberg TelevisionLakshman AchuthanThe stock markets are selling off in the wake of this morning's disappointing jobs report. While there were certainly some encouraging details in the report, there's no question that the overall U.S. labor market continues to be anemic. "Contrary to all the recent happy-talk, year-over-year jobs growth has been falling for a while," said Lakshman Achuthan in an email to Business Insider. (Click here for his chart.) Achuthan, the head of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, has long argued that the U.S. economy is in recession. He notes that, year-over-year growth in nonfarm payrolls and household jobs have fallen to 19 and 18 month lows, respectively. "The key issue is the pressure on income: people between 35 and 54, i.e., those in their prime earning years, have actually lost jobs since the start of the so-called jobs recovery," he continued. Indeed, income is becoming an increasingly worrisome metric as consumer spending appears to be bolstered by a falling savings rate. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich even dubbed it the most important number right now.
Skilling was sentenced in October 2006 for his role in the accounting fraud that caused Enron's spectacular collapse and spurred major reforms under Sarbanes-Oxley. Skilling has said he wants a retrial because of allegations of prosecutors' misconduct, and now the government is considering a deal to cut his sentence ó possibly to avoid dealing with those allegations of misconduct. Aside from the alleged misconduct, the original case against Skilling was deeply flawed, Houston attorney Tom Kirkendall argues to Business Insider. It basically just accused him of being "too optimistic about Enron" and never suggested he stole a dime from the company, according to Kirkendall. "I think it's preposterous he served a day in jail much less seven years," he says. The government prosecuted Skilling under the a statute that makes it illegal to deprive others of "honest services." Kirkendall says the goal of this law was to punish executives for accepting bribes at the expense of their employer. Skilling, on the other hand, only had Enron's best interests at heart, according to Kirkendall. From his blog: "The Task Force faced a big problem with prosecuting Skilling at all because he never stole a dime from Enron (that is, no private gain). In fact, the Task Force conceded at trial that, not only did Skilling not embezzle any money from Enron, the case against him was not about ìgreed,î that Skilling always sought to pursue Enronís ìbest interests,î and that every act for which he was being prosecuted was undertaken for the purpose of protecting Enron and promoting its share price." While a federal appeals court in New Orleans upheld that conviction in 2009, it found his sentence was too harsh and prosecutors might have been guilty of misconduct. Prosecutors apparently broke the rules by failing to disclose evidence they uncovered that might have been favorable to Skilling ó so-called Brady Evidence. This is the same kind of misconduct that proved to be deeply embarrassing to prosecutors who went after former Alaska senator Ted Stevens for corruption. (The now-deceased former senator's conviction was ultimately voided because prosecutors didn't hand over Brady evidence.) "There are very perverse incentives involved in these kinds of white collar prosecutions," Kirkendall says. "If you turn over exculpatory evidence to the defense ... you've given the defense information they can use to prove the innocence of their client." In the case of Skilling, if the case is retried a whole new set of prosecutors will have to defend themselves against allegations of misconduct that happened years ago. The so-called Enron Task Force that brought down Skilling and other executives in the first place would also face one more setback if his conviction is overturned.
Getty Images/ Patrick McDermottWall Street firms have a habit of hiring lacrosse players.¬† Bloomberg Businessweek published a piece¬†last year about the "lacrosse mafia" linking several Wall Street execs to the sport. We decided to comb through Major League Lacrosse rosters and find the best players at Wall Street firms. Since MLL has only been around since 1998, we have included some players who were standouts that never had the chance to join a pro team. We have also included a member of the women's U.S. world cup gold medal-winning team who works in finance. Many of the players on our list play professionally while working full-time finance jobs. ¬†Some have retired from the sport and others have left the Street. If we're missing any big names, feel free to send us an email at jlaroche@businessinsider.com to add to the list.¬†
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoStocks in the U.S. hit a record high in the first quarter. And many expect a correction in the next two quarters.¬† In this environment, Bank of America's Michael Hartnett say investors should try and find opportunities in "a Great Rotation toward equities" that began in 2012 when the U.S. property sector began to recover.¬† To tap that theme, Hartnett and his team have 10 trades in Spring: Hartnett and his team expect equities to "outperform over the next year or two". They are long stocks, short bonds, neutral commodities and bullish on the U.S. dollar.
flickr/rainforestactionnetworkBank of America is adding a new feature to its automated teller machines: actual human tellers.The company¬†announced Thursday morning¬†that it will start rolling out new ATMs with Teller Assist, a feature that allows customers to live video chat with a remote teller. Customers using the new ATMs will be able to call the remote teller for services that a machine is unable to provide.  That includes cashing checks for their exact amount (including change) and getting a withdrawal in smaller denominations than the usual $20 bills. Bank of America is also planning to offer the option of paying your credit card bill from the ATM, as well as splitting a deposit across multiple accounts.¬† The feature, available in both English and Spanish, will be most useful for customers using ATMs during hours when the bank is closed. That said, video chat will be available from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. on weekdays and 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends, which means that you can also use it when the bank is open and you don't feel like waiting in line to speak with a teller. And of course, it will also be a big help for customers using ATMs that aren't attached to a bank -- the company says that the new feature will be available at drive-up locations and standalone ATMs.The program is starting at a single Bank of America location in Boston, but will roll out at other locations across America over the course of the year. More from DailyFinance:¬†
Americans have high hopes for a manufacturing renaissance ó the idea that rising overseas labor costs and falling domestic would be bring jobs back to the U.S. But as Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius has noted, there isn't much evidence that this is actually happening. Marketwatch's Steve Goldstein just gave us more evidence that this renaissance may be just a myth. It's pretty simple: a chart showing total nonfarm payrolls versus manufacturing payrolls. The lines are going in the wrong direction.† And manufacturing jobs are actually falling faster than other jobs: Marketwatch/FRED Manufacturing lost 3,000 payrolls in March. Click here to read the full story on Marketwatch &gt;
auremar / shutterstockDo it Yourself (DIY) exists for IRAs, although the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex would prefer you not know this. Normally banks, brokerages, and mutual fund companies happily open your account and act as custodian of your retirement funds, secure in the knowledge that at the moment you invest you are likely to choose a bank, brokerage, or mutual fund product that they can then sell you. These types of mainstream IRAs have much to offer, including low cost, low maintenance, high liquidity, regulatory coverage, a vast universe of public securities to invest in, and the safety of buying something off the shelf from a big fat financial entity carrying massive consumer liability in the event something goes wrong. But we live in a¬†Pimp my Ride¬†world, so off the shelf doesn‚Äôt work for everyone and some people like to put their own personal stamp on everything.¬† The DIY IRA ‚Äì typically referred to as a ‚Äòself-directed IRA‚Äô ‚Äì has some advantages as well. Many people do not realize that a whole range of investment products can be purchased inside an IRA, beyond the traditional bank, brokerage and mutual fund products. You can buy real estate for investment,[1]¬†lend money to others[2], earn rental income, earn royalties, own physical commodities, or speculate in currencies.¬† You can buy distressed debt, private companies, franchises, rare coins, artwork, private equity investments, and tax liens.¬† Heck you could probably create weird derivative products with your neighborhood banker and own them through your IRA as long as it didn‚Äôt break the main IRS rules on forbidden investments.[3] The downside, of course, is that to invest in these products appropriately requires additional work, could involve higher fees, low liquidity, less regulatory protection, and access to professional advice to make sure you stay within the rules. I‚Äôm not advocating a Pimp my Ride IRA for most people, but I did open accounts for myself and my wife a few years ago.¬† All of our IRA contributions since 2010 have gone into self-directed IRAs. As a result of my old investing business, I occasionally find small but worthwhile opportunities that could grow in our IRAs.¬† Many of us have specialized knowledge that could help make niche investments in a self-directed IRA. If you‚Äôre curious to find out more,¬†Wikipedia is a good place to start learning.¬† In addition, an online search for ‚Äòself-directed IRA‚Äô in your state will bring up custodian companies you may want to¬†contact¬†for more information. Please see related posts on the IRA: The Humble IRA IRAs don‚Äôt matter to high income people A rebuttal: The curious case of Mitt Romney The magical Roth IRA and inter-generational wealth transfer [1]¬†But not for personal use [2]¬†But not to yourself [3]¬†Don‚Äôt take my word for it on that last one.¬† Please consult with somebody a bit more reliable than a guy online who calls himself an Anonymous Banker.¬† I will say, however, that the biggest rule in IRA investing is a prohibition on ‚Äòself-dealing.‚Äô¬† That means there needs to be a fiduciary wall between you as the IRA beneficiary, and you as a Trustee of your IRA.¬† So you can‚Äôt sell things of yours into an IRA, nor can you borrow money from it, nor can you be employed by a company owned by your IRA.
Charlie RoseSome are questioning the oil industry's safety record these days after the town of Mayflower, Arkansas got hit by an oil spill from an Exxon-owned pipeline. Indeed, the it's definitely one of the more risky industries. A recent interview Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson gave to FuelFix.com's Zain Shauk has now reinforced this. Tillerson says that when he was a young man, he witnessed a tragic accident that essentially traumatized him for life. From Shauk: One such incident happened when Tillerson was a young facilities engineering supervisor working at a well in Galveston Bay. A high-pressure line came loose and hit one of the men working at the site, throwing him into the water, where he drowned. ‚ÄúThat has a big impression on you when you are 27 years old and you realize people get killed with the things we do,‚Äù said Tillerson, now 61. ‚ÄúAnd when you have to go talk to someone‚Äôs family about that, it makes a big impression on you. I think that experience was the earliest experience I had where suddenly I had this awareness that we‚Äôre managing a lot of risk out here.‚Äù Arkansas' attorney general has now set an April 10 deadline for Exxon to turn over all documents related to the accident.
APNext week, President Barack Obama will announce his budget plan. And though headlines suggest the plan will represent a bold move to the "center," the proposal could actually end up undermining his goals. Obama's budget will include lowered cost of living adjustments in various benefit programs, including the key "chained CPI" adjustment that would have a significant effect on the growth of Social Security.† But by opening up to entitlement cuts, Obama is providing House Speaker John Boehner and Republicans with an opportunity. As Slate's Matt Yglesias wrote Friday morning, Republicans can argue that since they and Obama agree on certain entitlement cuts, why not just get them out of the way now? Then, they can solve the tax issue ó on which both sides fundamentally disagree ó later in the debate. That's exactly what Boehner said in a statement responding to the reports of Obama's budget offer Friday morning.† "If the president believes these modest entitlement savings are needed to help shore up these programs, there's no reason they should be held hostage for more tax hikes," Boehner said. "Thatís no way to lead and move the country forward." Meanwhile, Obama is also opening himself up to opposition from the American public. Because though polls show that Americans prefer blanket "spending cuts," not even Republican voters like the idea of any specific cuts, especially to entitlement programs. A recent Pew Research Center poll found that 41 percent of respondents actually want to†increase Social Security spending, compared with just 10 percent who said it should be decreased. And because Obama is technically proposing them, Republicans can hit Democrats up for re-election with a charge that their party is cutting Social Security. New York Magazine's Jonathan Chait wrote much of the same argument as Yglesias, calling the strategy a "completely ridiculous" one that only serves to appeal to those inside the beltway: Mainly this appears to be a message strategy aimed at advocates of BipartisanThink, who have been blaming Obama for failing to offer the plan he has in fact been offering. The strategy is that, by converting their offer to Boehner from an ìofferî to a ìbudget,î it will prove that Obama is Serious. Like he did with the sequester, Boehner seems to be continuing to play the budget games perfectly thus far.
Sotheby's International RealtyThis is not a bad place to grow up people. The 5 acre estate that was home to financial thriller 'Arbitrage' producer Kevin Turen is on sale for $39 million, the WSJ reports.†He was also married on the grounds. The home is known as the 'Gloria Crest Estate' and was built for Polish Count†Stefan Ponyatovsky. Turen's parents are selling the property because they want to buy a townhouse in NYC. It's hard to imagine why. This gorgeous 8 bedroom house is unbelievably ornate, and comes with †an in-home movie theater, pool, library, fountain... we could go on. Dennis McCormack of Sotheby's has the listing.
For many, central banks act in mysterious ways. Yet these enigmatic institutions have emerged as THE leaders in economic policy formulation around the world. More accurately, central banks have been pushed into a role that they did not seek and that they are less than fully equipped to deliver on.† And their impact is significant. Just witness how the Bank of Japanís U-turn is realigning the pecking order in markets, shaping new political narratives, and making ìexpertsî revisit many of their priors. You should have no doubt. From the security of your job to the wellbeing of your 401K, and from the safety of your financial savings to the value of your home, central banks are touching you in multiple ways. This reality will get more intense in coming months. But its ultimate outcome is also quite uncertain. So here are a few things to remember: In enjoying the ride on this huge wave of global central bank liquidity, investors should not lose sight of two key elements:† We all want central banks to succeed in promoting economic growth and enhancing job creation. There is a lot at stake, for both current and future generations. Such success would also allow for economic and company fundamentals to validate current artificial pricing in many market segments. Should success prove elusive, however, the major investment theme will pivot quite suddenly: From the benefits of riding the huge liquidity waves to the urgent importance of minimizing exposure to collateral damage and taking advantage of the inevitable market overshoots. In closing, remember this simple analogy: Central banks these days are like a pharmaceutical company that feels compelled to bring to market medication that has not been clinically tested. In eagerly taking the medication, investors should focus not just on the immediate upside and its durability, but also on the longer-term impact of potential side effects.
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesJust 88,000 jobs were created in March, well below economists' expectations for 190,000.¬† The unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent.¬† This time around analysts say companies slowed down the pace of hiring because of the impact of they payroll tax hike.¬† But mass layoffs in the past year have also weighed on employment. We drew on Bloomberg data to highlight the 18 biggest layoff announcements since April of last year.
Here's a few items that ought to make you take a bunch of deep breaths: Negatives included: Finally, in what I guess will provoke the most heated debate from this report, almost†500,000†people dropped out of the labor force. This is why the various unemployment measures declined. The employment/population ratio declined to 58.5%, and the labor force participation rate dropped to the lowest level since 1979. How much of that is pessimism by potential employees, and how much is the ever increasing level of Boomer retirements I will leave up to the combatants, but you probably would be right figuring that a lot of both is going on.† Exactly one year ago, we got an employment report that similarly looked awful, with only +120,000 jobs added. By the time the revisions were completed, that number had risen to +205,000. I don't mean to gloss over the negatives in this report, and I am very concerned as I have been since the beginning of the year about the impact of the payroll tax increase and now of the sequester. But I am going to take a deep breath, because there are simply too many good internals in this report for me to proclaim that we are DOOMED! 
flickr/larry1732Seriously, hear us out. We've been talking all morning about what a bad jobs report we got for March. But there is another side. We chatted with Matt Busigin, an economist and investor, who argues that actually this was a "great" jobs report. His basic argument: Interestingly, Matt is not alone in his assessment. Over at The Bonddad Blog, they call it The Best Awful Employment Report Ever. Here are some of their bullets on why the number was actually a good one: Below is the transcript of our chat with Matt. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Matt Busigin: I think it's a great nfpJoe Weisenthal: why?MB: large upward revisionsJW: mmhmmMB: strong leading cyclical sub-indexes - construction and professional/business servicesJW: trueJW: anything else?MB: unemployment in 25-34 men dropped 108k in one month manMB: people are finally feeling confident enough to retireMB: this is the first major cyclical strong retirement nfpMB: how is this a bad nfp?MB: 25-34 unemployment rate went from 7.8% to 7.4%MB: that is hugeMB: and it shows that this is all demographicMB: I've been saying that we're going to get a &lt;0 NFP and a lowering unemployment rate at some point for a whileMB: this ain't quite itMB: but it sure looks closeMB: the unemployment rate of 25-34 men went from 7.7% to 7.1%
REUTERS/China DailyA new form of bird flu, H7N9 avian influenza, has been spreading across China. Four have died in Shanghai.¬† Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that if the new bird flu worsens his Q2 GDP forecast would be revised down to reflect 8 percent growth, from 8.1 percent.¬† To get a better sense of what to expect, Lu points us to the impact of SARS in 2003. At the time, SARA caused Chinese GDP growth to fall by 2 percentage points in one quarter, or an annualized 0.5 percent.¬† "Overall, SARS imposed a sizeable but non-lasting negative shock to the Chinese economy. While SARS hit the economy across the board, it also boosted demand in certain products such as masks and vaccines." Here's a breakdown of the economic impact of SARS in 2003: GDP ‚Äì The SARS virus began in November 2002 and continued until March 2003. GDP growth climbed from 8.1 percent in Q4 2002, to 10.8 percent in Q1 2003, and fell to 7.9 percent in Q2 2003. But in Q3 it climbed to 9.6 percent. BAMLCatering and accommodation sector ‚Äì This sector took a big hit going from 17 percent YoY in March, to 4 percent in April and -14 percent in May. Industrial production ‚Äì In Jan-Feb industrial production stood at 17.5 percent. Many Chinese economic indicators at the start of the year are considered on a Jan-Feb basis because of the New Year holiday. In March this fell to 16.9 percent and continued to decline reaching 13.7 percent in May.  BAMLTransportation ‚Äì But this sector took the biggest hit, with railway passenger traffic declining from +5 percent YoY in March, to - 11 percent in April and -67 percent in May. Home sales ‚Äì Home sales were barely impacted by SARS but since the property sector has ballooned since then, it could have a more significant impact this time around. Hong Kong's property market was hit hard by SARS. Financial market ‚Äì The Shanghai A-share market didn't register a huge impact from the SARS virus, but Hong Kong's market did. Bottom-line: The biggest impact should be seen on the catering sector, which has already taken a hit as China has cracked down on "gift giving", and the transportation sector.
Google FinanceThe markets are open, and stocks are tumbling. The Dow and S&amp;P 500 are down by over 1 percent. This comes after a disappointing jobs report that showed U.S. companies only added 88,000 jobs in March.
 As you may have heard by now, Jeff Bezos has invested in Business Insider. My plan was to issue a carefully scrubbed boring official announcement in an hour or so to tell you about this. Alas, the excellent journalists at Bloomberg beat me to the punch. And then my internal memo got leaked. So, now, it's ancient history. But it's also awesome! In case you're interested, here's the official announcement: Jeff Bezos Is Investing In Business Insider! To the Business Insider community: I have some exciting news. Bezos Expeditions, the personal investment company of Jeff Bezos, has led a new round of financing for Business Insider. Many of our existing investors, including Institutional Venture Partners and RRE Ventures, also participated. The new capital--$5 million--will allow us to continue to invest in our editorial, technology, and client teams and make Business Insider even better. On a personal note, I will add that we are totally stoked about this. Jeff Bezos's leadership, vision, and philosophy at Amazon over the last two decades have inspired a whole generation of startups and entrepreneurs, including me. Jeff has always put Amazon's customers first. This focus is rare in American business, and it is one reason why Amazon has been so successful.† I have admired Jeff and Amazon since the mid-1990s, and it is a privilege and pleasure to have Jeff invest in the company. Obviously, at Business Insider, we write about Amazon occasionally, along with some of Jeff's other ventures (rockets, rocket engines, and other cool stuff.) In the future, our articles on these topics will disclose that Jeff is an investor in the company. Thank you for your support of Business Insider over the years. Our goal is still to become the world's biggest and best digital business publication, and we will keep striving to move closer to that goal every day. Please continue to send me your suggestions and feedback. I can't always respond, but I read them all.
David McNew / Getty ImagesJeff Bezos has invested in Business Insider, according to an internal memo we have just obtained. Here's the memo from Business Insider CEO and Editor-in-Chief Henry Blodget: Team, I wanted to share the details of the financing we mentioned last night. (Apologies for not being able to share them then ‚Äî closing these things is an administrative nightmare, and it took a few hours longer than we hoped).¬† I'm going to post about this shortly after 10 a.m. Please don't say anything or tweet about it until after the post hits. Basically, Jeff Bezos is making a significant investment in the company. Our existing investors are also chipping in some more. In total, we're raising $5 million. This capital will allow us to continue to invest aggressively in many areas of the business, including editorial, tech/product, sales and marketing, subscriptions, and events. As we mentioned last night, it will also allow us to expand our office. Jeff's investment grew out of a dinner he and I had about a year ago. We talked about the business, and he was excited about it. (He sees some parallels with Amazon). ¬†A few months later, he expressed an interest in investing. My reaction was basically "Hell, yeah!" Jeff's vision, leadership, and philosophy at Amazon have inspired a whole generation of startups and entrepreneurs, including me. Amazon has always focused on customers first, knowing that, if they do a great job at that, everything else will take care of itself. This obsession with customers and long-term focus are the reasons that Amazon has been so successful. And this philosophy is something that we very much want to emulate. (We have two sets of customers, obviously ‚Äî readers and sponsors. And we're obsessed with both). Jeff's interest, and Business Insider's extraordinary success over the past year, are due to your efforts on behalf of our readers and our clients. We have improved and grown dramatically, and we were pretty good to begin with. Our goal is simple: To become the best digital business publication on the planet. We're making great progress toward that. And this investment will help us get there. Thank you again for your incredible work over the past year. Here's to an even better 2013. Here's the official announcement, which includes our new disclosure policy &gt;
BloombergDrew Matus, UBSThe labor force participation rate fell to 63.3 percent in March.¬† This is the lowest level since 1979. Many are quick to attribute this falling rate due to workers leaving the labor force because they're so discouraged by the poor job market. But this is only a small part of the story. UBS's Drew Matus argues that this dropping participation rate is largely due to shifting American population dynamics.¬† Specifically, we're running out of workers. Matus is re-circulating a report he published in January. ... In 2012 the participation rate declined from 64.1 percent to 63.7 percent. This decline was the result of a decline in the prime working age (aged 25-54 years) population that was only partially offset by rising participation among older workers (aged 55 years and over). These movements are a continuation of labor force developments that have been underway since the financial crisis. Even if there is a moderate rebound in participation among prime working age workers, it seems possible that, given population trends, the labor force participation rate will remain close to 63.7 percent. An increase in the number of discouraged workers is only a minor factor in the decline in the LFPR. In 2012 there were 909,000 discouraged workers, about 420,000 more than normal relative to the size of the population. Returning these ‚Äúworkers" back into the labor force would only boost the participation rate by 0.17pp, to 63.8 percent (the unemployment rate would increase by 0.25pp, to 8.1 percent). "All else being equal, a lower participation rate lowers the 'break even' rate of employment growth ‚Äî the number of new jobs that must be created to hold the unemployment rate constant," wrote Matus. UBS For more on today's jobs report, see here &gt;
REUTERS/Stephen LamTesla CEO Elon Musk said an email urging customers to make payments early and help the company reach profitability was "overzealous." "As soon as I found out, I put an immediate stop to it. That is now how Tesla operates," he told Bloomberg News, whose editor-at-large Cory Johnson obtained that email, sent in March. The email, sent by Tesla sales staff, urged customers who had reserved cars but not yet made their payments to do so. It said, in part: Tesla is right on the cusp of profitability this quarter for the first time in 10 years since the company started. This is a huge company milestone that will not only be great for the company, but also for our customers. In order for Tesla to be able to count your Model S for the quarter, we simply need to receive payment. Receiving payments ahead of schedule may have made Tesla profitable for the quarter ó and given its stock price a significant bump ó but it could leave the electric car company weak for the next quarter, since payments that would have been made in the coming months were made ahead of schedule. Musk told Bloomberg the profitability for the quarter was a "clear, clean victory," that was not "juiced."
I'd like to share with you a key pair of sentences from the congressional report on MF Global's collapse,†summing up a long investigation†led by Louis Freeh: Corzine, an active trader at the firm, was supposed to be supervised by the companyís chief compliance officer. But the oversight mechanism was put in place to make sure he wasnít engaged in insider trading or market manipulation ó the officer had no control over the 'economic rationale' of the trading decisions, the report said. Right ó and let's suppose the firm's back office was given oversight of the "rationale" behind firm trades ... then what? Can you imagine ó the compliance officer of MF Global, a salaried employee replaceable on seven seconds' notice ó ever trying to overrule a trade being done by the illustrious Jon Corzine, former CEO of Goldman Sachs, former Governor of the State of New Jersey, chartered and card-carrying Master of the Universe, rainmaker extraordinaire? The compliance officer!†Can you imagine that? Can you picture that conversation? "Jon, we need to talk about some of these trades you've got on..." "Get the f--- out of my office." "Okay Jon, sorry." End of discussion. I've witnessed it firsthand countless times. It's no one's fault ó it just is. The kind of guys who end up running brokerage firm compliance departments are rarely the alpha male in the room, the kind of guys who end up owning or running Wall Street firms definitely†are. Period. Testosterone poisoning is almost a prerequisite. The endless cycle goes something like this: Owners want to see more profit at the firm. Compliance officers want to tighten up the activities they're allowing producers to engage in so as to alleviate regulatory pressure and scrutiny. Both sides can't win simultaneously in a competitive business. Producers will eventually gravitate to firms where their hands are untied. Profits will follow. Owners won't like that. Career-oriented compliance professionals will stand their ground and sometimes be fired. Or they'll get creative with disclosures and written supervisory procedure interpretations, thereby keeping their employers happy. Something or someone will blow up. Everyone will get serious again. The cycle starts fresh when the stench of uncaptured money wafts its way into the corner office's window from elsewhere on The Street. Repeat ad infinitum, ad nauseam. I view the entire SRO conceit similarly ó self-regulatory organizations for broker-dealers are a good idea in theory until you realize they're ruled by large firms at the end of the day because that's where the funding comes from. Yes it's true that the wirehouse brokerage giants allow the small firms "a seat at the table" so to speak - but in reality this is a bit like a lion pride allowing a handful of carrion birds to alight around the grassy perimeter of a freshly killed carcass they're dividing up. "Yes, yes, by all means ó peck your little beaks into a puddle of blood or two, just mind you stay clear of the real feast." Don't ask me whose "fault" this is. It is not anyone's†fault†ó this is human nature, laws can't preclude the formation of eons-old social hierarchies just because we're wearing two-button suits now and not mammoth skins, they can merely seek to contain them. The compliance guys are not in control. They never were, As their intra-firm influence ebbs and flows, they are always mindful not to interfere too much with the Swagger that truly rules on The Street. Now you might be thinking "But isn't it in the firm's stakeholders' best interest to have a strong compliance voice so there aren't blow-ups and massive fines?" Good thought, but have you forgotten that we're dealing primarily with sociopaths who make a million dollars a month to take risk for a living? You go to the back of the class. Wall Street's "Original Sin" ó as I see it, it's fundamental flaw, is the beholden nature of compliance officers to the Big Swinging D ó who cut their checks. As the tech bloggers say, this is not a bug, it is a feature.
This is exactly right, from Justin Green. Cut the payroll tax And this weakness isn't just confined to March. Here's a chart of the monthly change in retail employment. You can see that the start of this year has been much weaker than many of the numbers seen last year. FRED What's a good solution? In a recent interview with Business Insider, former Obama budget chief Peter Orszag suggested a payroll tax holiday that would stay in place until the jobs market was healthy again. We removed the holiday way too quickly.
It's jobs day in America. This morning we learned that the U.S. economy added a measly 88,000 jobs in March.¬† The unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent, but that was due to a big drop in the labor force participation rate. The jobs report was much worse than expected, and it reflects a job market that remains incredibly weak, almost four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Calculated Risk
David Cameron "chugged down" cups of rice wine during a visit to Japan last year, Yoshihiko Noda, the former Japanese prime minister has revealed. Mr Cameron made his first official visit to Japan last year to promote trade and investment. But after dark his time was taken up with knocking back cups of sake with his Japanese counterpart, former prime minister Yoshihiko Noda. Mr Noda, a well-known aficionado of Japanese rice wine, has described how he ìchugged downî cups of the famously potent national beverage with Mr Cameron in the confines of the prime ministerís official residence. Mr Cameron was among a number of international politicians outed as former drinking partners by Mr Noda as he addressed MPs from the Democratic Party of Japan launching a group to promote Japanese drinks abroad. "When I was a finance minister, I chugged them down with Treasury Secretary Geithner,î said Mr Noda, according to reports in the Yomiuri Shimbun. ìHe loved íKamotsuruí.î He added: ìAt the prime ministerís official residence, I chugged them down with British Prime Minister Cameron.î Mr Noda, who was voted out of office last December after just over a year as prime minister, was well known during his tenure for his love of sake, known in Japan as nihonshu. The two leaders enjoyed a sake known as Wakuwaku, brewed by Philip Harper, a Briton who is Japanís only foreign master brewer. ìAfter an extremely hectic and productive day, Prime Minister Cameron was able to unwind a little at a working dinner with Prime Minister Noda,î Japanís Ambassador to London, Keiichi Hayashi, said of the meeting. Mr Cameron presented his Mr Noda with a Brompton bicycle, while Prime Minister Noda reciprocated with ìsome acclaimed Wakuwaku sakeî, said the ambassador. ìDuring their dinner, the two leaders were able to confirm for themselves that Mr Harper has indeed been putting his unique talents to good use!î added the ambassador in a blog post. The word Wakuwaku describes a ìstate of expectant excitementî. Mr Harper has described his brew as ìcompletely unfiltered, rather difficult to handle, and so rare overseasî. The former PM is not alone in his appreciation of Japanese beverages, with a culture of heavy drinking after dark having long been prevalent in business and political circles. ìThere is a drinking culture in Japan,î said Professor Jeffrey Kingston, the director of Asian studies at Temple University in Tokyo. ìIn the US and elsewhere, people are much more abstemious. But in Japan, it is not uncommon to drink to the point of inebriation in business situations. ìIn the world of Japanese politics, you commonly go to bar and bar. Politicians need strong livers. ìIt is worth noting that this is a society that generally puts a premium on being extremely careful in terms of what you say and how you act. ìBut in a drinking situation, it is an institutional time out, enabling people to act and speak more freely. Itís not just politicians, but corporate executives too.î Next time Mr Cameron arrives in Japan, however, he is unlikely to receive the same reception, as the current prime minister Shinzo Abe is not a big drinker, according to Professor Kingston. ìAbe is different,î he said. ìHe is unusual for a politician, he very rarely drinks.î 
Wikimedia CommonsOil wells offshore at Summerland, California c. 1915The oil and gas extraction industry lost 600 payrolls in March, according to the BLS report out this morning. That ends a 27-straight month period without job losses for the sector. Total payrolls fell to 192,500 from 193,100. We shouldn't necessarily be surprised ‚Äî oil prices have now entered their second year of a downward trend. But natural gas prices rose practically every other day in March thanks to the cold snap. One data point does not a trend make, but watch this space.¬† For more on today's jobs report, see here &gt;
The March jobs report has come in very mediocre. It'd be nice to blame the sequester (the automatic spending cuts that started in March) but it doesn't even appear to be about that. A series of tweets from WaPo's Zachary Goldfarb points out that this really more likely to be about the expiry of the Payroll Tax Holiday (as the job losses fell in the retail sector) rather than the sequester (seeing as there was not a big decline in professional services). This jobs report is more a story of the impact of the payroll tax hike than the sequester. Professional and business services, which includes lots of gov't contractors, was +51k jobs, well within its recent range.
cristiano_betta / FlickrThe March jobs report is out and it's ugly. By far the ugliest component of the report was retail trade jobs, which plunged by 24,000. "The industry had added an average of 32,000 jobs per month over the prior six months," wrote the Bureau of Labor Statistics in its report. "In March, job declines occurred in clothing and clothing accessories stores (-15,000), building material and garden supply stores (-10,000), and electronics and appliance stores (-6,000)." This is a sign to many that the payroll tax increase at the beginning of the year is really starting to bite. For more on today's jobs report, see here &gt;
Today's nonfarm payrolls number was well below expectations. It came in at 88,000 versus the 190,000 predicted by market economists. Yet the unemployment rate still ticked down to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent last month. The explanation: the labor force participation rate fell to 63.3 percent, its lowest level since 1979. The chart below shows the decline. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from St. Louis Fed
Flickr / EU SocialThe March jobs report is out and the market is falling. Dow futures are down by 140k.¬† S&amp;P futures are down 17 points. Minutes before the report came out, Dow futures were down 84 points. S&amp;P futures were down 8.8 points.¬† The 10 year Treasury yield was at 1.75.

Flickr / harry_nlThe jobs number is out, and it's bad. Just 88K new jobs were created in March. That's well below the 190K that analysts had expected. It's also well below the "whisper" number of 150K The unemployment rate fell to 7.6%, amid a drop in Labor Force Participation. The slight drop in unemployment isn't necessarily a good sign. Last month was revised up modestly to 268. Dow futures are now off 140 points. Fears of a "spring swoon" have grown a lot in recent days, and this number will definitely exacerbate that. One ominous thing is that this doesn't seem to be about the sequester. It seems to be more about the payroll tax hike as retail got creamed. Professional services, which would be affected by government layoffs, were up fine. The Labor Force Participation Rate has fallen to its lowest level since 1979. The full report from the BEA is here.
FlickrThe average†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is 170K. The median estimate is 170K. The standard deviation from the mean is 38K. These figures are based on 83 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:13 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†190K new jobs. We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET &gt;
White House photo/Pete SouzaWASHINGTON (AP) ó President Barack Obama's proposed budget will call for reductions in in the growth of Social Security and other benefit programs by including a proposal to lower cost-of-living adjustments to government social safety net spending, a senior administration official says. The proposal attempts to strike a compromise with congressional Republicans on the Fiscal 2014 budget by combining the president's demand for higher taxes with GOP insistence on reductions in entitlement programs. The official, who spoke on a condition of anonymity to describe a budget that has yet to be released, said Obama would reduce the federal government deficit by $1.8 trillion over 10 years. A key feature of the plan Obama is proposing for the federal budget year beginning Oct. 1 is a revised inflation adjustment called "chained CPI." This new formula would effectively curb annual annual increases in a broad swath of government programs, but would have its biggest impact on Social Security. Obama's budget proposal also calls for additional tax revenue, including a proposal to place limits on tax-preferred retirement accounts for wealthy taxpayers. Obama has also called for limits on tax deductions by the wealthy, a proposal that could generate about $580 billion in revenue over ten years. The inflation adjustment would reduce federal spending over 10 years by about $130 billion, according to past White House estimates. Because it also affects how tax brackets are adjusted, it would also generate about $100 in higher taxes and affect even middle income taxpayers. Obama's budget, to be released next week, comes after the Republican-controlled House and the Democratic-run Senate passed separate and markedly different budget proposals. House Republicans achieved long-term deficit reductions by targeting safety net programs; Democrats instead protected those programs and called for $1 trillion in tax increases. Obama's budget proposal includes features from an offer he made to House Speaker John Boehner during fiscal negotiations last year. Those talks ultimately failed but Congress did agree to increase tax rates on the wealthiest Americans. The reductions in growth of benefit programs, which would affect veterans, the poor and the older Americans, is sure to anger many Democrats. Labor groups and liberals have long been critical of Obama's offer to Boehner for including such a plan. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Global markets are riding a "high" on central bank money printing, but a change at the top of the Federal Reserve posed the biggest threat to the rally, Bob Janjuah, Nomura's uber-bearish strategist, told CNBC on Friday. Janjuah said Janet Yellen, Fed vice-chairman since 2010 and a likely successor to Bernanke when he steps down in January 2014, had the potential to scare the bond markets. "A client said to me a few weeks ago that if Karl Marx was in charge of the world, he'd have Janet Yellen as his central bank governor. She is far looser or more dovish than Bernanke," Janjuah said on CNBC Europe's "Squawk Box." "My issue with somebody like Yellen is that she's potentially perceived as such a loose cannon - so loose ‚Äì that it would scare the bond market, whereas Bernanke has built up a certain level of credibility with the market." (Read More: Central Banks Gone Wild: What Can Investors Do?) Yellen is seen as one of the most dovish members of the Fed's policy-setting committee. She has supported the continuation of the Fed's unconventional asset purchase strategy to get the economy growing, while other members have called for an end to the purchases. Janjuah said "QE infinity" had driven markets to new highs but that rally could end when Bernanke leaves. (Read More: I'm Not Confident About US Markets: Jim O'Neill) "The message from me is that anyone who is different is a risk for the market," he said. "When we transition from one Fed chairman to another, things tend to happen. When we went from Volcker to Greenspan in October 1987, markets dropped up to 35 percent‚Ä¶so any change in that figure-head and chairman's role is a risk for the market," he added. "The big one for me isn't so much in the detail of what the Fed might, or might not do in the next few months, it's the fact that Bernanke may well not be in that job come January next year." Yellen No 'Crazy Dove' Julia Coronado, a chief economist from BNP Paribas, defended Yellen by telling CNBC's "Worldwide Exchange" that Yellen was not the "crazy dove that sometimes people make her out to be." "I couldn't disagree with Bob Janjuah more, to call Janet Yellen a 'loose cannon', I don't know which Janet Yellen he knows," Coronado told CNBC on Friday. "If you look at her speeches and track record, she is one of the most measured and experienced people. I think she will take the role when Bernanke steps down next year. She is clearly the most qualified and markets would have a great deal of confidence." "She's a very reasonable person, she's a very good economist and she's been there every step of the way through these unconventional policies, that's critical for markets," she added. Patrick O'Keefe, director of economic research at CohnReznick agreed saying that he thought Yellen was "more than capable of taking over the chair of the Fed and continuing the policy they've embarked upon." "Whether that policy is a wise policy is the real question, but she would be more than able to change course when the Fed sees data that justifies that," he added. The Federal Reserve has said that it could start tapering its quantitative easing program when the labor market improves, specifically, when unemployment drops to 6.5 percent.
Stefan / FlickrIf you're just waking up, you should know that it's a big day The jobs report is coming out at 8:30 AM ET. But already, it's been a wild ride in Asia. There were three big stories: On top of all this, markets in Europe got rocked by a huge futures trade¬† originating out of Germany. So, fun day!
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
AP ImagesFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus comes this nugget: Japanese, France, Belgium, Netherlands and Austria 10-yr bond yields hit fresh record lows. Meanwhile, the German 10-year yield is down to 1.23%. For all the talk about government debt, the real story is that the world is having a hard time rotating out of it, and are still flocking to it at any hint of market trouble. Bigger picture: It's a risk off day day in Europe and Asia and for US futures.
Instagram/chazzmanianThings were okay earlier, but in the last couple of hours, markets have crumbled somewhat. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus recounts what happened just before 6 AM, when things started to follow apart: ...Futures were having a nice morning till around 5:45AM, when almost $1.4B printed in DAX and ESTOXX futures ‚Äì knocking the DAX off almost 2%, and taking US futures down 50bp.¬† No headlines associated, but no recovery when Germany‚Äôs Factory Orders printed better (despite bearish chatter).¬† We ‚ÄúHear‚Äù that a heavy buyer of DAX futures between 7800 and 7850 on Monday got stopped out at 7800, and lighter single stock volumes could not support the weight.¬† There was nothing in Credit or FX to correspond to the move.¬† Meanwhile, it was a rough night in Asia, as the Hong Kong got slammed on Bird Flu fears, and war rhetoric hurt the South Korean market. 
(Reuters) - Fears of a rush for the exits from the U.S. bond market have been greatly exaggerated. Even as the fixed-income sector grapples with a rare negative start to the year, many of the biggest and widely followed bond firms are still attracting new cash to their flagship funds. And it is not expected to stop any time soon. "I think the demand is there because many investors, especially mom-and-pop investors, still want income and, equally important, have been burned twice on equities," said Jeffery Elswick, director of fixed income at Frost Investment Advisors, LLC, which manages over $9 billion. "They lost so much money, like in the double-digits, during the tech bust (2000-2002) and credit crisis in 2008 - and don't want to go through that again," he said. The Federal Reserve's massive bond-buying program, $85 billion a month of U.S. Treasury debt and residential mortgage bonds, has driven bond prices higher and pinned their yields, which move in the opposite direction, near record lows. That has led many market experts to warn there was a much greater risk of significant losses - as yields eventually return to more normal levels - than any further gains in the bond market. They therefore predicted 2013 would be the year of a large-scale investment shift market many dubbed "The Great Rotation" - a tilting of pension and insurance funds' long-term asset mix back towards equities from heavy weighting in bonds. Yet big names like Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO), DoubleLine, Loomis Sayles and TCW have seen their main bond funds take in an aggregate total of roughly $5 billion during January and February. Vanguard's indexed Total Bond Market portfolios have received over $5.6 billion for the same period, according to the latest data provided by Morningstar. More broadly, while U.S. funds that invest in stocks have gained $78.88 billion in new cash so far this year amid the U.S. stock market's run-up, taxable bond mutual funds have garnered roughly the same - $76.41 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters' Lipper service. These inflows belie the notion that "The Great Rotation" has taken hold this year. "The idea of a 'Great Rotation' into stocks from bonds appears to be a somewhat naive justification of the bullish case for equities for those who have not grasped the magnitude of the Federal Reserve's impact on the market," said Bonnie Baha, head of Global Developed Credit at DoubleLine Capital LP, which manages more than $56 billion in Los Angeles. Too much emphasis has been placed on the widespread prediction that record-low bond yields will prompt investors to rotate out of bonds and into stocks during 2013, Baha said. Equities have gained strongly this year on increasing confidence in the U.S. economy and financial markets, while bond prices are being supported by U.S. central bank purchases. The reallocation to equities has apparently come at the expense of money market funds, noted Larry Jeddeloh, chief financial officer of the TIS Group, which produces the Market Intelligence Report. Those funds have suffered outflows of $82.5 billion so far this year. Indeed, the Fed's program to suppress interest rates has triggered a massive yield hunt among investors. That has translated into strong demand for investment-grade corporate debt and high-yield bonds, also called junk bonds because they carry below-investment-grade ratings from Standard &amp; Poor's and Moody's Investors Service. "I think there's a tug of war going on," DoubleLine's Baha said. "This is likely to be a low volatility year for bonds with all the Fed bond buying. I don't think you will see a wholesale exit from diversified bond portfolios." The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which popped above 2 percent in February, had declined to 1.76 percent by the close on Thursday. That is despite relatively strong economic data, a recovering housing market and gains in U.S. stocks that have taken indexes to record highs. Geopolitical risks have also led investors to their favorite safe haven of Treasuries. On Wednesday, Treasuries gained on news the Pentagon was sending a missile defense system to Guam in the coming weeks and remarks by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel that North Korea posed a "real and clear" danger. WHAT BOND VOYAGE? Bonds did suffer a quarterly loss to start the year. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index registered a total return of negative 0.12 percent in the first quarter, only its second down quarter since the financial crisis, though most big-name bond funds turned in a slightly positive total return. TCW funds easily surpassed the benchmark Barclays Aggregate, posting a first-quarter return of 1.12 percent, bringing its 12-month return to 10.37 percent. That performance stems from its bet on so-called non-agency mortgages, or residential mortgage bonds not guaranteed by the likes of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Those have gained thanks to the Fed's massive bond-buying purchases, which have helped support risk assets including non-agency mortgage-backed securities(MBS). And with the housing market recovering, managers like TCW correctly bet that there would be more profit and less risk in buying private-label MBS-backed debt. The fund's manager, Bryan Whalen, said he expects these bonds to offer loss-adjusted returns in the 7.5 percent to 9 percent range. Last year, TCW also began shifting into floating-rate assets that had been less in demand given the Fed's intention to keep its target interest rate low through mid-2015. For its part, the DoubleLine fund, which is also exceeding the index with a return of 1.27 percent during the first quarter, has used a combination of government-guaranteed securities, mainly agency MBS and some Treasuries, and credit securities, mainly private-label, residential mortgage-backed securities with some commercial MBS. DoubleLine's 12-month return is now 7.37 percent, as of the end of March. When corporate credit and equity prices have fallen, be it due to macro risks such as European debt crisis, heightened fears of economic weakness in the U.S., or worries over budget deficit issues, U.S. government-guaranteed issues such as agency MBS and Treasuries have rallied. Conversely, when credit prices rally because of growing confidence in the economy, non-agency MBS and commercial MBS participate in the gains. The fund's low duration and healthy yield also buffers the overall portfolio from swings or volatility in prevailing interest rates. The PIMCO Total Return Fund, run by PIMCO founder and co-chief investment officer Bill Gross, is also outperforming its benchmark. The fund has gained 0.60 percent so far this year, as of March 31, outperforming the Barclays Aggregate, and for the full year, the PIMCO portfolio's 12-month return of 7.92 percent is easily beating the one-year return of the Barclays index at 3.77 percent. Gross's Total Return Fund has been overweight in some credits such as non-U.S. developed markets and emerging markets. He has also shortened the fund's duration thereby reducing the portfolio's risk to rising interest rates. As of February 28, the fund's effective duration stood at 4.54 years, down from 4.77 years at the end of last year. Gross said on Twitter in March that five-year and shorter maturities will "do best based on continuing policy rate. (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Dan Burns and Leslie Gevirtz) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
We mentioned earlier that rising bird flu fears caused the Hong Kong market to tank (especially Hong Kong airlines) last night. Via Shanghai Daily, here's a sample of what authorities are doing to stem the spread of the disease. A total of 20,536 chickens, ducks, geese, and pigeons from a live poultry trading zone in Shanghai were slaughtered after the H7N9 virus was detected there, Shanghai authorities said today.Huhuai Agricultural Products Wholesale Market, located at Dongjing Township of Songjiang District, was closed earlier this morning after the H7N9 bird flu virus was detected from samples of pigeons in the market. REUTERS/Stringer
Moody's economist Mark Zandi has a fairly solid/negative take on the state of the labor market. Here's what he told Ben White of POLITICO, per today's Morning Money newsletter. I expect payroll employment increased by 175K in March, and unemployment to tick higher to 7.8 percent. Hours worked should remain unchanged. The March job gain is consistent with growth experienced over the past year. ‚Ä¶¬†¬†¬†¬† ‚ÄúJob gains were a bit stronger late last year and early this due to outsized gains in construction due to Sandy rebuilding and a statistical boost from seasonal adjustment. Job growth will throttle back by the summer as the ill effects of the sequester become evident. This will also show up as lower hours worked given the furloughs related to the sequester.¬† ‚Ä¶ I don't expect much improvement in unemployment this year.‚Äù Meanwhile, some analysts say that the "whisper number" (where people really think the report will come in) could be closer to 150K.
YouTube/Office Space trailer Today at 8:30 AM ET, the BLS will release the March nonfarm payrolls report. The average estimate among the 87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for 190,000 new nonfarm payrolls created in March, down from February's 236,000 gain. Private sector payrolls are expected to rise by 200,000 after a 246,000 advance in February. The unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged at 7.7 percent. On Wednesday, ADP released its estimate for private payroll creation. The number came in at 158,000, well below the 200,000 predicted by economists. However, ADP revised up its February number to 237,000 from 198,000, almost perfectly offsetting the miss. TD Securities economist Millan Mulraine says markets may be discounting a negative outcome, writing in a note that "recent positioning in the markets (captured by the dramatic rally in Treasures) suggests that the 'whisper number' may be for something far weakerócloser to 150K." Of course, as Mulraine points out, that could be setting markets up for a positive surprise today. Just like last month, SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Brian Jones is the most bullish economist headed into tomorrow's report (Jones was also closest to the mark on February's number). He is predicting 230,000 nonfarm payrolls added in March. Below is his take: Non-agricultural establishments probably added 230,000 net new workers jobs in March, almost matching the 236,000 rise posted in February. A variety of factors support our expectation for yet another solid job gain last month (see accompanying table). Consistent with a significantly slower pace of layoffs during the reference period, the average number of persons filing new claims for unemployment insurance remained on a downtrend†over the four weeks heading into the March survey period, retreating by 17,600 to a 51/2-year low of 340.800. Implying that previously unemployed workers are in fact finding jobs, regular state benefit recipients contracted by 52,000 between canvasses to 3.05 million ñ the lowest tally since May 2008. The return of 8,000 striking New York City school bus drivers will also provide a modest lift to the March job count. On the weather front, March was significantly cooler than usual measured by heating degree days. However, precipitation was well below normal levels nationwide. As a result, our projection assumes that the number of persons unable to work due to bad weather will match the 140,000 average posted in March over the past five years. The table below shows the inputs into Jones's forecast. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale Toby Dayton, CEO of online job posting website LinkUp, has the highest NFP estimate of those surveyed by Bloomberg ñ he's predicting 366,000 nonfarm payrolls were created in March. Dayton uses the growth of job listings on LinkUp ñ which he says has the purest dataset on job postings out there ñ to make his forecasts. (Last month, his estimate was second only to that of SocGen's Brian Jones.) According to Dayton, LinkUp has observed strong growth in employment vacancies recently ñ foreshadowing a strong nonfarm payroll number on Friday. Last month's number was definitely a positive surprise. Can the American economy deliver better-than-expected job growth two months in a row? Friday's jobs report is out at 8:30 AM ET. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
This is an interesting little nugget from Dan Greenhaus at BTIG, who wrote this last night.: You could be forgiven for having missed it, but something occurred today that hasnít happened since the very early 1980s; the S&amp;P 500 changed direction from the preceding day in the eleventh consecutive sessions. Now, this might not mean much, and we assume it doesnít, but it does underscore the give-and-take manner in which the market has digested recent news. Cyprus bad, Cyprus good. Sequester bad, sequester good. Earnings good (DRI, GIS), earnings bad (ORCL, FDX and now FFIV).
The Hong Kong market fell 2.7% last night. Shanghai was closed, but this picture from Shanghai, via Reuters, says it all. Here's Reuters' picture description: A woman wears a face mask inside a subway station in Shanghai, April 5, 2013. Chinese authorities were slaughtering birds at a poultry market in the financial hub Shanghai as the death toll from a new strain of bird flu mounted to six on Friday, spreading concern overseas and sparking a sell-off on Hong Kong's share market. State news agency Xinhua said the Huhuai market for live birds in Shanghai had been shut down and birds were being culled after authorities detected the H7N9 virus from samples of pigeons in the market. All of the 14 reported infections from the H7N9 bird flu strain have been in eastern China and at least four of the dead are in Shanghai, a city of 23 million people and the showpiece of China's vibrant economy.   REUTERS/Carlos Barria 
Good morning. It's Jobs Day in America. At 8:30 AM we get the Non-Farm Payrolls report (AKA: The Jobs Report) for March. Folks are nervous that it will be weak, as this "Spring Swoon" meme takes hold. US futures are modestly lower. The big story is Japan, which at one point was up nearly 4.5%, in the wake of aggressive action from the Bank of Japan. But in the end, the Nikkei only ended up 1.5%. Nikkei That's still significant, but definitely underwhelming.
