The recent return of high volatility to the stock market, bond market and currencies suggest the end of the rally that started in November and probably to the upsurge since the March 2009 bottom.¬† As we stated in last week‚Äôs comment the market now appears to be entering a lose-lose situation where economic growth is bad since it forces the Fed to ‚Äútaper‚Äô its bond buying program, a move that investors, as they have most emphatically demonstrated this week, do not like one bit.¬† On the other hand, if the economy continues its tepid pace (or worse), as we think it will, employment won‚Äôt meet the Fed‚Äôs goals and earnings will take a dive.¬† In the latter case, the Fed would likely delay tapering of its bond-buying program and investors will interpret bad news on the economy for what it is----bad news. In comments over the last two months we have shown how various important sectors of the economy have either been slowing down or failing to meet expectations, a condition that has indicated no signs of reversing.¬† The four-week moving average of new weekly unemployment claims has moved from 338,000 to 353,000 over the past month.¬† The ADP employment report for May came in far under expectations, and has averaged 124,000 over the last two months compared to 203,000 over the prior five.¬† The majority of Fed regional surveys have showed weaker hiring in May than in April.¬† The National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) recently reported reduced hiring in May.¬† The ISM manufacturing index of 49 for May was the lowest since June 2009, when the recovery was only getting underway.¬† That number was even worse than it looked since new orders plunged 3.5 points while inventories rose.¬† The ISM non-manufacturing index for May was down from a year earlier, and has not recorded a monthly increase since December.¬† Moreover, its employment index component dropped from 52 to 50.1, its fourth consecutive decline. Consumer expenditures for April declined 0.2% and disposable income 0.1%.¬† Compared to a year-earlier, real consumer spending is up a paltry 2.1% and real disposable income only 1%.¬† Even then, consumers were able to maintain this inadequate rate of spending only by reducing their savings rate to 2.5%.¬† Notably, the savings rate was under 3% in each of the first four months of the year, whereas prior to this year the rate had not been under 3% for any month since December 2007, the peak of the economic cycle. Real GDP has increased only 1.8% over the last four reported quarters, within a range that has been in force since the first quarter of 2010.¬† The current quarter is shaping up as no better.¬† Manufacturing production has declined for the last two months and three of the last four.¬† Even vehicle sales, which recovered strongly from the recession bottom, have now flattened out for the last six months.¬† The Chicago Fed national activity index, which covers a broad swath of the economy, showed deterioration in growth in April, and has been negative in three of last four months. Although there is a lot of talk about a stronger economic recovery, the facts, as outlined above, indicate otherwise.¬† Furthermore, the effects of the sequester, which started very slowly, are starting to become more evident in slowing wage growth and reduced hours.¬† The original estimates of a 1.5% drag in GDP growth from the tax increase and sequester still appear to be valid and will likely be felt in the 2nd and 3rd quarters.¬† We therefore think that the overly optimistic earnings forecasts for the rest of year will be highly disappointing.¬† Although 1st quarter earnings slightly beat the consensus, revenues were flat, and corporations will find it exceedingly difficult to increase earnings with no help from revenues, which are likely to remain under pressure. In addition, global growth is slowing with much of Europe in recession, China coming in short of expectations and emerging markets weakening.¬† We have continually pointed out that following a huge buildup of consumer debt it would be difficult to generate a normal recovery in either the U.S. or the rest of the world, and¬†there is little that governments can do other than to choose between undergoing a major crisis or to endure prolonged sluggish growth.¬† Four years after the recession bottom, we see no reason to change this view.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The One Question Portfolio Managers Are Asking Themselves After Recent Trading (Dow Theory Forecasts) From Richard Moroney: "If a mere one-half percentage point increase in bond yields can have so much impact ‚Äî halting the broad stock market‚Äôs advance and triggering considerable tumult in high-yield stocks and aggressive bonds ‚Äî what‚Äôs going to happen when yields return to more normalized levels? That is what a lot of portfolio managers are asking themselves after the last few weeks of trading, which have seen a rotation out of defensive dividend payers morph into a broader decline. Shares of companies highly sensitive to interest rates, including homebuilders and real estate investment trusts, have been hit especially hard. But most stocks have moved lower since May 22, when the advance-decline line for S&amp;P 1500 stocks peaked." One Wall Street Ritual Hasn't Changed In Decades (ConvergEx Group) Wall Street has changed a lot in the last few decades writes Nick Colas,¬† chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group, but "one ritual" has stayed the same. After meeting with sector analysts and strategists early in the day, salespeople get on the phone with clients about the firm's investment viewpoint.¬† "The reality is somewhat sloppier.¬† Analysts give their perspectives, yes, on the investment merits of the public companies under their coverage.¬† But the most likely question from the sales staff is either ‚ÄúWhy isn‚Äôt everything you just said already in the stock?‚Äù or ‚ÄúWhat are the 24 words I can say on the off chance I actually get a client on the phone?‚Äù¬† And every salesperson serves accounts with a wide variety of investment perspectives.¬† What the guy covering hedge funds needs from an analyst call is very different from the gal covering long-only mutual funds. "As a result, the same analyst morning call gets transmitted in very different ways.¬† It might start as an upbeat reiteration of a ‚ÄúBuy‚Äù recommendation with some color about the current quarter that the analyst believes will be a penny below consensus.¬† The hedgie salesman will call every account saying ‚ÄúMy guy/gal says that this company is going to miss.¬† Short the stock.‚Äù¬†¬† The mutual fund saleswoman will go out with ‚ÄúGotta buy this name if/when it pukes on the quarter.‚Äù¬† Old school Wall Street salespeople call this a ‚ÄúNew York sell, Boston buy‚Äù call." The State Of The Four Official Recession Indicators (Advisor Perspectives) NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee looks closely at four indicators industrial production, real personal income, nonfarm employment, and real retail sales. Doug Short of Advisor Perspectives pulls each of the indicators into separate charts to see the decline in each indicator since 2006. Advisor Perspectives ¬† Small Advisory Firm Needs To Hire More People To Manage Client's Powerball Winnings (Investment News) Madden Advisory Services, the investment advisor that calls Gloria Mackenzie a client, is a four-person firm with about $203 million in assets. Investment News reports that it could see its assets under management double since McKenzie won the $590 million Powerball Lottery. She was left with $270 million after taxes. Harry Madden who founded Madden Advisory said that they would be hiring more staff and space to meet the Powerball winner's needs. Investing In International Bond Funds Could Be A 'Double-Edged Sword' (The Wall Street Journal) The Vanguard Group has forayed into global bond funds, and this could prompt mainstream investors to venture into global debt as well. But advisors are telling the Wall Street Journal that this could be a "double-edged sword." While overseas debt might be more attractive for investors chasing yield, Greg Peterson, research director at Ballentine Partners told the WSJ that they will also have to take on a lot more risk. This is because of differences in law, current account balances, volatility in Forex markets that could all impact foreign bond funds. While some think the extra yield makes up for the risks, others think investors should be cautious, especially if central banks start reducing their quantitative easing programs.
APThe claim that the FBI and National Security Agency are "tapping directly into the central servers" of the country's biggest technology companies to spy on their users looks ever more suspect. Most of the major companies have now explicitly denied participating in such a program. Apple, Facebook, and Google have denied all knowledge of it. An hour ago, Google CEO Larry Page published a blog post blasting the very idea that Google would do this. And now Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has done the same: I want to respond personally to the outrageous press reports about PRISM:Facebook is not and has never been part of any program to give the US or any other government direct access to our servers. We have never received a blanket request or court order from any government agency asking for information or metadata in bulk, like the one Verizon reportedly received. And if we did, we would fight it aggressively. We hadn't even heard of PRISM before yesterday.¬†When governments ask Facebook for data, we review each request carefully to make sure they always follow the correct processes and all applicable laws, and then only provide the information if is required by law. We will continue fighting aggressively to keep your information safe and secure.We strongly encourage all governments to be much more transparent about all programs aimed at keeping the public safe. It's the only way to protect everyone's civil liberties and create the safe and free society we all want over the long term. Skeptics continue to parse the wording of these denials, looking for ways to reconcile the companies' denials with the direct-access story. Importantly, however, these denials are explicit, vehement, and detailed, and they do not leave much room for parsing (except by diehard conspiracy theorists). The U.S. government clearly has a major intelligence program dedicated to collecting and analyzing Internet-based communications. And this program is clearly important to national security. But the assertion that the country's biggest Internet companies are voluntarily giving the government direct open access to their user data in real-time looks increasingly like bunk. The Washington Post has now¬†changed and hedged its original story. The "direct access" claim is now just attributed to a government document that, at least on this score, is likely inaccurate. SEE ALSO: The Washington Post Has Changed Its Stunning Claim That Facebook And Google Gave The Government Direct Access To Their Servers
NEW YORK, June 7 (Reuters) - Carl Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management Inc are short-listing potential candidates to become the next Dell Inc chief executive should they succeed in a proxy battle against Michael Dell and Silver Lake Partners, two sources close to the matter told Reuters. A number of high-profile industry executives have been identified as possible successors to the Dell founder, including: Cisco Systems Inc director Michael Capellas, former IBM Corp services head Michael Daniels, Oracle Corp President Mark Hurd and Hewlett-Packard Co PC boss Todd Bradley, the sources said. Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management have already approached several candidates, the sources said on condition of anonymity because the discussions were private. Capellas, Daniels and Hurd were not immediately available for comment. Bradley said in an email he had not been contacted. A representative for Southeastern declined to comment. Icahn did not return calls for comment. Icahn, Southeastern and company founder Michael Dell are locked in a battle over the future of the world's No. 3 PC maker, a struggle precipitated by the swift decline of the global computer industry and the company's failure to arrest sliding revenues. Its billionaire founder and Dell executives have argued the company has little future in PCs and needs to transform itself into an IBM-like provider of full-spectrum enterprise services - a makeover best done as a private company. But major shareholders decry Dell's offer as cheapening their stakes. FAMILIAR LIST Michael Dell and Silver Lake have proposed a $24.4 billion buyout of the personal computer maker. Meanwhile, Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management made a counter offer that would pay a $12-per-share special dividend and allow Dell shareholders to keep their shares. Dell has set a special meeting of July 18 for shareholders to vote on the $13.65-per-share Dell-Silver Lake buyout. Icahn and Southeastern have also put together a prospective board to replace all 12 of the current directors, though some analysts question the credentials of the proposed names, saying several lacked extensive turnaround or technology experience. Some of Dell's top investors have expressed support for Icahn over the past few months, including money manager T. Rowe Price Associates Inc and Yacktman Asset Management LP. This week, Dell's special buyout committee said Icahn is almost $4 billion short of the cash needed to fund his proposal for his proposed special dividend. "We are going to vote against the Silver Lake deal," said Don Yacktman, president of Yacktman Asset Management, whose fund owns 14.9 million shares of Dell. "Southeastern and Icahn make a strong case to go the other way." (Additional reporting by Poornima Gupta in San Francisco; Editing by Edwin Chan and Ben Berkowitz) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions
OMEGAMaybe this guy is "directly tapping into" Google's servers. But the government probably isn't.Yesterday, the Washington Post reported a shocking story about how the FBI and National Security Agency had partnered with Google, Facebook, and many other tech companies to spy on the tech companies' hundreds of millions of users. The government agencies, the Post said, were "tapping directly into the central servers of nine leading U.S. Internet companies, extracting audio, video, photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs that enable analysts to track a person‚Äôs movements and contacts over time." This surveillance program, the Post reported, had been "knowingly" facilitated by the tech companies, which had allowed the government to tap directly into their central servers. The Post story described a "career intelligence officer" as being so horrified by the power and privacy intrusion of this surveillance system that the officer was helping to leak the news to expose it. "They quite literally can watch your ideas form as you type,‚Äù the officer reportedly told the Post. Not surprisingly, the Post's story created an instant explosion of outrage. The ire was directed at both the government and the technology companies. The story also led to immediate, explicit denials from the technology companies. Google, Facebook, and Yahoo all said that the government did not have "direct access" to any servers. Apple said it had never even heard of the program it was supposedly partnering with. So The Post's claim that the companies had voluntarily given the government direct, open, un-monitored access to their servers quickly seemed suspect. And now, 24 hours later, after more denials and questions, the Post has made at least two important changes to its spying story. First, the Post has eliminated the assertion that the technology companies "knowingly" participated in the government spying program. Second, and more importantly, the Post has hedged its assertion that the companies have granted the government direct access to their servers. The latter change is subtle, but important. In the first version of its story, the Post stated as a fact that the government had been given direct access to the companies' servers. Now, the Post attributes the claim to a government presentation--a document that has been subjected to significant scrutiny and skepticism over the past day and that, in this respect, at least, seems inaccurate. In other words, the Post appears to have essentially retracted the most startling and important part of its story: That the country's largest technology companies have voluntarily given the government direct access to their central servers so the government can spy on the tech companies' users in real time. Specifically, here's how the Washington Post story has changed... Here's the original first paragraph: The National Security Agency and the FBI are tapping directly into the central servers of nine leading U.S. Internet companies, extracting audio, video, photographs, e-mails, documents and connection logs that enable analysts to track a person‚Äôs movements and contacts over time. Here's the updated paragraph (our emphasis): The National Security Agency and the FBI are tapping directly into the central servers of nine leading U.S. Internet companies, extracting audio and video chats, photographs, e-mails, documents, and connection logs that enable analysts to track foreign targets, according to a top-secret document obtained by The Washington Post. That change is important. The direct-access claim changes from a fact asserted by the Washington Post to a claim made in a document the Washington Post has seen--a document that might be wrong. The idea that Google, Facebook, Apple, et al, had voluntarily given the government direct unfettered access to their servers always seemed far-fetched. This behavior would justifiably trigger the wrath of the companies' hundreds of millions of users worldwide and exacerbate already existing concerns that these companies routinely trample all over their users' privacy. Furthermore, the government's assertions that its spying programs are directed primarily at foreigners, not US citizens, would not be viewed as comforting to Google, Facebook, et al. Why not? Because the vast majority of the users of these companies' services are foreigners. If the international users of Facebook, Google, et al, were to feel that the companies were opening their data centers in this way, the international users might revolt. So it's hard to imagine that these companies would just voluntarily open their servers to the U.S. government (or, for that matter, any other government). The Washington Post also broke the news about the existence of the vast government program Internet spying called PRISM, which other outlets have since confirmed. And the story illustrated how extensively the government uses Internet communications in its intelligence efforts and how important these communications are to national security. But, a day after the Post story appeared, it seems likely that the following claims are wrong or at least need major qualification:
This morning the monthly jobs report went out at 8:30 am ‚Äî for traders, that's like the gun going off in a sprint. About 482 milliseconds before the shot, however, there was aggressive trading in Treasury bonds and Treasury bond futures (September 2013), according to market research firm Nanex.¬† Someone sold a bunch of gold futures 62 milliseconds before the number came out as well. This same early trading nonsense happened last month ahead of the consumer credit number. It has also happened on a few occasions this year before the EIA natural gas report came out. The former case (consumer credit) is a case of batting the beehive ‚Äî high frequency traders using quotes to get everyone in the market to show their positions. The latter, according to Nanex, is more likely a case of someone getting information early. The CFTC has said before that they do not see investigating trades on information that are early by such small fractions of a second as "an area of focus," the WSJ reported. But they still make an impact. This time, as CNBC's Eamon Javers reported, the CME was forced to halt trading for 5 seconds in the eMini (electronically traded futures), and on September 10th and 30th Treasury futures. That means the trades triggered a circuit breaker. Check out two charts of the action below, from Nanex: Nanex chart And here's the circuit breaker getting triggered: Nanex
REUTERS/Jaime Saldarriaga Good afternoon, stocks posted big gains on a solid jobs report. Here's what you need to know. First the scoreboard: Dow:†15,253.57, +212.95 pts, +1.42% S&amp;P500:†1,644.40, +21.84 pts, +1.35% NASDAQ:†3,470.87, +46.81 pts, +1.37% BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Forensic Weather ConsultantsFINANCIAL DISTRICT ‚Äî A maintenance firm that services¬†Goldman Sachs' headquarters left a cleaner high and dry in the wake of¬†Hurricane Sandy, firing him after he worked to secure the building from the epic storm and forcing him to walk home to Staten Island through chest-high flooded streets, a new lawsuit charges. Mefit Zecevic, 42, claims after being booted from his job site by a boss he says was drunk, he suffered through a bone-chilling 13-hour odyssey to get home, fearfully wading through murky waters in the Financial District and slogging across the Brooklyn Bridge and the¬†Verrazano Bridge. Zecevic is now suing his former employer, ABM Industries Inc., for $10 million, accusing the firm of wrongfully terminating him over allegations he stole $100 from a co-worker and ignoring his pleas for shelter after kicking him out of Goldman's 200 West St. building. "I have been practicing law for over 25 years, and thought I had seen it all in terms of mistreatment from employers," Zecevic's lawyer, William Perniciaro, wrote in a letter to ABM. "However, your company has the dubious distinction of the worst abuse of human dignity that I have ever witnessed." An employee for 11 years, Zecevic reported to work on Oct. 28, the day before Sandy struck the city, and helped stack sandbags along the building and move key equipment to higher floors. For the next two nights, he and his co-workers slept in the building because it was too dangerous to leave and all the major crossings had been shut down. The lawsuit claims that on the morning of Oct. 30, as most of the Financial District was submerged in water, Zecevic's manager had gotten drunk off booze from a Goldman Sachs restaurant and ordered him to clean a storage area on the seventh floor and retrieve a co-worker's shirt. At 9:40 p.m. that¬†evening, as Zecevic swept the lobby of Sandy, his manager ‚Äî still reeking of liquor ‚Äî told him he was fired because his co-worker had accused him of lifting $100 from the shirt, according to the lawsuit filed Thursday in¬†Manhattan Civil Supreme Court. Zecevic begged his boss to let him stay as the surrounding streets were flooded, and the lower half of Manhattan was without power, the lawsuit says. He pleaded for a room and even asked to stay under a stairwell in the building, but his boss allegedly said no. When he started his walk home, Zecevic said a cop car spotted him walking to an overpass at West Street. The officer took Zecevic back to the Goldman's building and told the manager that the decision endangered him, but the boss still said no, the lawsuit claims. After the officer left, Zecevic was forced to slog through frigid chest-high water on West Street in darkness ‚Äî¬† all while fearing downed electrical lines, hidden dangers from excavation work and disease from sewage.¬†¬† He eventually made his way to City Hall and over the¬†Brooklyn Bridge, then headed south to the Verrazano Bridge. There a police car escorted him across the span. On the other side, he walked the final 4 miles to his Oakwood home. "He spent the next hours shivering in his home and in pain from stiffness and exhaustion," the lawsuit says.¬† Due to the experience, Zecevic now suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder and has had contemplations of suicide, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit also claims that the Department of Labor later ruled that Zecevic did not commit any misconduct and granted him unemployment benefits. Zecevic lawyer, Perniciaro, said a Goldman Sachs managing director even wrote a letter to ABM, lobbying for the firm to reinstate Zecevic. "Goldman loved the guy ‚Äî a managing director reached out personally wrote on his behalf," Perniciaro said. ABM did not respond to a request for comment.
AP ImagesBillionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen, who runs the super-secretive hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors, has a reputation on the Street for being one of the most successful traders. Cohen launched his Stamford-headquartered hedge fund in 1992 with only $25 million. Today the fund has $14 billion assets under management and employees around 900 people globally.¬† During the late 1990s and early 2000s, Cohen came into prominence as a powerful Wall Street trader for his grand slam returns.¬† He's been in the spotlight for a different reason.¬† Late last year, he was¬†identified as "Portfolio Manager A" in the latest insider trading case against former CR Intrinsic (a subsidiary of SAC) portfolio manager Mathew Martoma.¬†The New York Times recently reported¬†that Cohen and others at the firm also received subpoenas to testify before a grand jury in the case.¬† It's well-known that Cohen is the ultimate target of the government in their crackdown on insider trading. ¬† While he has been implicated in the latest insider trading case, it's important to keep in mind that he has not been charged with any wrongdoing. ¬†In fact, he may never be charged.¬† He's maintained that¬†he acted appropriately. ¬† Now let's get to know Cohen better. ¬†
WikimediaThe federal budget deficit has fallen $220 billion in a year-over-year period, according to the latest monthly budget estimate from the Congressional Budget Office released Friday. According to the CBO, the federal government has run a budget deficit of $627 billion over the first eight months of the fiscal year. That's almost $220 billion less than the same period ‚Äî May through October ‚Äî of 2012. The CBO has not changed its overall deficit forecast, which is still projected to remain at $642 billion this year. That estimate, which came in May, was significantly down from an $845 billion projection in February. The CBO says that the falling deficits are due to federal revenues rising by 15 percent. Meanwhile, federal spending has seen an increase of less than 1 percent. One of the main drivers of the increase in revenues is a 16 percent hike in individual income and payroll taxes ‚Äî including a 10 percent increase in payroll taxes, which coincided with the¬†expiration of the payroll tax cut in January. The report comes at a time when there is renewed debate over fiscal austerity in the United States. The¬†liberal Center for American Progress released a report Thursday calling for a reset to the "entire fiscal debate."
Flickr / iujazUPDATE: April consumer credit data are out. Total credit expanded $11.06 billion ‚Äì or 4.7% from a year ago ‚Äì in April to $2.82 trillion after rising an upward-revised $8.37 billion in March. Economists were looking for a $12.9 billion advance. Revolving credit ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì rose $700 million, or 1.0% from a year ago, to $849.8 billion. Nonrevolving credit ‚Äì student loans, auto loans, and the like ‚Äì rose $10.4 billion, or 6.4% from a year ago, to $1.97 trillion. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
China Photos/Getty ImagesStarting a company or joining a startup is the new hot option for business school graduates. According to Curalate founder and CEO Apu Gupta, who has Wharton MBA, that's reason for startups to beware.† "I'm not one of these people where I'm clear cut I hate MBAs or love MBAs. I think unfortunately there are a lot of MBAs that have herd mentality and they just gravitate to what's hot," Gupta says. "I really hate that because it feels to me like you're just sort of blowing in the wind." Gupta says he got a lot out his MBA program, notably financial training, but little about how to build a startup.† "I think the notion that you can go to business school to learn to be an entrepreneur is a misnomer," he says. "I've always found it odd that people go to business school and study entrepreneurism. If you want to study entrepreneurism, you need to go be an entrepreneur."† There are going to be MBAs who don't fit that mold, who can be great entrepreneurs, but it takes an extra filter to find them.† "Whenever I get a rÈsumÈ from a person that is an MBA it does raise my eyebrows and I look a lot more closely, and I'm a lot harder on the candidate," Gupta says. Business schools aren't blind to these problems. That's why many are giving students resources to try things out for themselves, offering startup accelerators, competitions, and classes where the end result is a company. When we profiled students at Harvard and Stanford's business schools, many came into school having already started or even sold a business already.†Others are working on startups creating everything from retail analytics software to mobile advertising. Nevertheless, MBAs have to prove that they aren't just following the herd.
Robert Johnson/Business InsiderInside Dar al-Salam.I recently visited one of Cairo's most desperate slums. Before I got to Egypt, I had never heard of the place, which is called Dar al-Salam. And I was only able to venture into it because I was accompanied by a member of an organized crime family. I learned about Dar al-Salam from a man named Sonny, whom I met one night in Cairo's violent Tahrir Square. Sonny had done what few Egyptians could manage: He had escaped Egypt. After growing up poor, he had become a mechanic, run a successful business, met a Japanese woman, and emigrated to Japan. He had only now braved a return trip to Egypt to visit family and friends.† Sonny invited me for dinner at his family home in Dar al-Salam.†It was Easter. At dinner, Sonny talked about growing up in Dar al-Salam and living next door to one of the most powerful organized crime families in the area. Some of these family members would end up being our guides through the neighborhood. Without their approval, I was told, my excursion and photography would not have been possible.†
During a down week in the market, ETF issuers iShares and ProShares both filed paperwork with the SEC to add more funds to their already successful portfolios. With ProShares focusing on creating eight new funds for the purest way to play credit default swaps (CDSs) and iShares expanding its corporate term ETFs with four new funds, this fall may see a number of new options for ETF investors [see ETF Database Launch Center]. ProShares¬†is looking to grow its portfolio with new CDS ETFs focusing on both North American and European credit risk through investment grade and high yield issues. The specific differences between all eight funds are outlined in the¬†SEC filing¬†[also check out the¬†Visual History Of The Dow Jones Industrial Average]. iShares, one of the largest issuers with almost 300 ETFs on the market, is looking to expand its already large portfolio with the creation of four new target maturity corporate bond ETFs, detailed in its¬†SEC filing. Earlier this year iShares launched its first round of corporate maturity funds, which together have brought in over $200 million in just a month and a half [also see Which Ex-U.S. Country Bond ETF Offers The Lowest Risk]. Follow me on Twitter @lynpaintzall [For more ETF analysis, make sure to sign up for our¬†free ETF newsletter¬†or try a¬†free 14-day trial to ETFdb Pro.] Disclosure: No positions at time of writing. Click here to read the original article on ETFdb.com. ¬† Read more posts on ETF Database ¬ª
Saudi Arabia‚Äôs Prince Alwaleed bin Talal is suing business magazine Forbes over claims it underestimated his fortune by $9.6bn (¬£6.1bn). Prince Alwaleed, owner of London‚Äôs Savoy hotel, said in March that he would sever ties with the publication after its annual rich list valued him at $20bn, not enough to place him in the coveted top 10. Despite being pronounced the richest man in the Arab world, Prince Alwaleed accused Forbes of "intentional biases and inconsistencies" and insisted his real value was nearly $30bn. He has now filed a defamation claim in London‚Äôs High Court against Forbes‚Äòs publisher, its editor, Randall Lane, and two of its journalists. Forbes said it stood by its story. Forbes said that its estimate was based on its belief that the true value of Prince Alwaleed‚Äôs investment company, Kingdom Holding, is much lower than its share price suggests. The 58-year-old grandson of the founder of Saudi Arabia owns 95pc of Kingdom with the remaining 5pc floated on the Saudi Tadawul exchange. Its market capitalisation comes to $19.9bn, but Forbes used its own valuation of $10.6bn. Forbes said it was concerned that for several years Kingdom‚Äôs share price had risen sharply over the period when it collected its valuation data. It quoted an unnamed analyst who claimed that the Tadawul ‚Äúis incredibly easy to manipulate‚Äù, and added that Kingdom is a particularly easy target because it only has a small free float. Forbes also quoted a former Kingdom executive who said that making plays on the exchange is ‚Äúthe national sport‚Äù because ‚Äúthere are no casinos. It‚Äôs the gambling site of the Saudis‚Äù. In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph in March, Prince Alwaleed said Forbes was "accusing me of market manipulation‚Äù. ‚ÄúThis is all wrong and a false statement. We will fight it all the way against Forbes.‚Äù He stressed that it isn‚Äôt his position on the list that angers him, but rather the way it has been calculated. ‚ÄúI am not pursuing it because of my wealth, but because they are accusing Saudi Arabia of being manipulated because we have no casinos. This is unacceptable,‚Äù he said. Prince Alwaleed made his money by investing in global brands at a time when their share prices were depressed. Along the way he has built up significant stakes in trophy assets such as Apple, Citigroup, Disney and the Savoy Hotel in London. His portfolio spans the globe and he likes people to know it. 
Flickr/I Believe I Can FryBangkok resident¬†Badin Rungruangnavarat raised some red flags with the SEC when he bagged more than $3.2 million on a stake in Smithfield Foods right as the U.S. pork producer announced its $4.7 billion takeover by a Chinese company, reports Jean Eaglesham at the Wall Street Journal. Badin opened an account with the brokerage firm Interactive Brokers on May 10, at which point he began buying up Smithfield equities like he owned the place. The Commission used¬†Rungruangnavarat‚Äôs Facebook friend list to, like, totally see who he'd been hanging out with, according to the Journal. That resulted in a link between Rungruangnavarat and the associate director of a Thai investment bank that advised a possible rival suitor of Smithfield. The SEC froze Badin's brokerage account late Wednesday while investigating the alleged insider-trading scheme. Which once again brings up that age old reminder: If you have to inside trade, keep it off Facebook.
Courtesy of Daniel StockerEditor's note: Daniel Stocker is a car nut who loves taking photos. He shared some photos and memories from his trip to this year's Villa d'Este Concorso d'Eleganza with Business Insider. You can see more of his work here. This year I attended the¬†Villa d'Este Concorso d'Eleganza, an exclusive auto show on the shores of Italy's Lake Como, for the third time. The first day of the¬†Concorso takes place in the gardens of the beautiful Villa d'Este Hotel, and is open¬†only to press and invited guests.¬†On the second day, the cars are moved to Villa Erba, a nearby park, so they¬†can be presented to the public. The extensive parkway is by no means inferior in beauty to¬†the smaller one at the Villa d'Este.¬† In addition to the show, RM Auctions held an auction at Villa Erba, and made¬†a few wealthy car collectors and investors very happy. But it's not just the cars that make this event so beautiful and unique: It's a mixture¬†of the scenery, the sounds of yesteryear's finest racecars, and the scent of 1930s Rolls-Royce¬†leather upholsteries.
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include the May Nonfarm Employment report. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  I've now updated this commentary to include the May Nonfarm Employment data released this morning. This indicator has shown steady (although frustratingly sluggish) improvement from its trough in February 2010. Since the trough, excluding four consecutive month-over-month declines triggered by the 2010 employment blip of temporary census workers, the index has not had a negative MoM in 39 months. The long-term, multi-decade slowing of US employment is evident in the year-over-year employment chart in the appendix (click here to view). But even with the ongoing technological advances that reduce employment needs, the current YoY growth at 1.58% is higher than at the onset of both 21st century US recessions. The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four and simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the percent cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. The latest data point is for the 47th month. In addition to the four indicators, I've included an average of the four, which, as we can see, was influenced by the anomaly of the Personal Income data points, which reflect 2012 year-end income increases, at the expense of early 2013, as a tax management strategy. The Nonfarm Employment data has taken on special significance because of the Fed's focus on the unemployment rate as a key factor in determining its policy of monetary stimulus through quantitative easing. Today's news of May's 175K increase in Nonfarm Employment came as a relief, since the ADP and TrimTabs data on Wednesday came in a bit light. The Briefing.com consensus had been for 159K new jobs, although other forecasts were for 170K (Investing.com and Briefing.com's own estimate). The uptick in the unemployment rate from 7.5% to 7.6%, small as it was, was even smaller than the standard representation of the rate. To two decimal places it rose from 7.51% to 7.56%, and that rise can be attributed to a 0.12% increase in the labor force participation rate (driven by a 420K increase labor force participants). ¬† ¬† My next update will be on June 14th when the Fed releases its May Industrial Production report. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries). ¬† ¬† The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively). ¬† ¬† And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income. ¬† ¬† History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators. ¬† ¬† The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS). ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) spliced with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that was date mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splice of two seasonally adjusted series tracked by the BEA. The 1967-1996 component is SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) based and the 1997-present is NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) based. The data are available from the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Tables 2AU and 2BU. The FRED economists use the Real Retail Sales above for their four-pack. However, ECRI appears to use this series as their key indicator for sales. Note that the Manufacturing and Trade Sales data is updated monthly with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release, but the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬†  Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart.
Global economic growth hasnít been terribly inspiring so far in the first half of the year, but many investors have nevertheless been inspired to pour more assets into the equity markets, some of which have surged to record highs. As we hit the mid-year point, now seems like a good time to take a pulse check of emerging markets and assess our prognosis. Several emerging and frontier marketsóincluding the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam in Southeast Asiaóhave seen strong returns in recent months. And there are several other notable emerging market performers where positive local macroeconomic developments have attracted strong investment flows. Given that yields on some assets seen as ìsafeî are close to record lows, the attraction to potentially higher-yielding, but riskier assets such as emerging-market equities has continued to grow. Of course, weíve seen some disappointments too. Some larger emerging markets like South Africa, South Korea, Russia, China and Brazil have lost ground year-to-date through April. Reduced GDP growth forecasts certainly didnít help and commodity-heavy markets took a double hit as reduced growth projections depressed commodity prices at the same time indications of rising production costs pressured individual mining and energy companies. In addition, sentiment in South Korea suffered amid threats from North Korea and fears Japanís moves to depress the yenís value would hurt South Korean exporters. In China, the authorities responded to rising property prices with measures to tighten monetary policy and restrict property purchases. In addition, some political and market developments in Brazil, India and Russia suggested that policy development was moving in a less shareholder-friendly direction.† For example, in Brazil, the government has initiated major tax claims against some large companies.† In my teamís opinion, many of these issues that held back the performance of major emerging markets in recent months are likely to have little long-term impact. Tensions on the Korean peninsula tend to fluctuate over time, and we believe an escalation of the current situation into actual conflict is highly unlikely. We also think yen weakness is unlikely to be a permanent drag on South Korean export performance. And, Chinaís moves to cool property markets should be seen in the context of strong ongoing growth and moves to rebalance the economy toward more sustainable growth models. Some policy moves that came with short-term costs could ultimately bring long-term benefits, such as anti-corruption measures that led to reduced demand for luxury items during the Chinese New Year. In Russia, shareholder rights issues are balanced by what we see as exceptionally cheap equity valuations. Meanwhile, the overall direction of policy in both India and Brazil remains market-oriented. Most importantly, we believe recent commodity weakness does not represent a long-term trend. The Case for Emerging Marketsí Growth Despite a recent moderation in short-term global GDP growth forecasts, we still anticipate a likely reacceleration of growth in 2013 and in subsequent years, with 2012 expected to mark a low point. Moreover, we expect growth generally in emerging markets in 2013 and beyond longer term to be much stronger than in developed markets and believe such strong growth could not only drive rising demand for commodities, but also feed into corporate profitability and valuations over time. Industrialization and urbanization in emerging markets are likely to further increase commodity demand, which could push prices ahead over the long term. In many emerging economies, commodities, exports and infrastructure development could continue to be leading growth drivers, but we believe going forward, overall growth is likely to arise increasingly from domestic sources. Expanding consumer wealth is creating an increasingly large and discriminating body of middle class consumers across emerging markets, and their demand is in turn creating increasingly significant domestic economic activity. Furthermore, emerging markets have far lower levels of consumer indebtedness than is common in developed markets, giving their consumers commensurately greater capacity to ramp up demand. In addition, demographic factors are more favorable in many emerging markets than in most developed markets. With a relatively high proportion of the population in emerging markets moving into the workforce and a relatively low proportion of dependents, demographics are acting to reinforce consumer demand. Even in markets like China, where demographics are less clearly favorable, productivity gains from moves out of agriculture and into manufacturing and service industries have still provided a positive influence on growth and domestic demand. Frontier Markets ñ Emerging Markets of the Future These so-called ìemerging markets of the futureî have enjoyed strong growth from low base effects, abundant natural and human resources, the availability of easy gains from market reforms and injections of technology into relatively low-wage economies. Compared with more mature emerging markets, frontier markets are relatively under-researched, and we believe that this lack of familiarity could lead to undervaluation and pricing anomalies that we could seek to exploit through our extensive research resources. We are finding many opportunities in frontier markets globally, but with an especially dense pack of opportunities, we think Africa in general represents an investment destination all its own and one we are eyeing with particular interest. We remain aware of risks to all markets, including emerging markets, arising from the fragility of global growth, indebtedness, and a number of geopolitical risks, notably in Korea, the South China Sea and the Middle East. However, while we take account of macroeconomic considerations as part of our investment process, our central aim is to build portfolios from those stocks our research leads us to believe are most underpriced relative to their long-term potential. My prognosis: Some markets do appear to have a weak pulse right now, but any number of catalysts could act as a jump start. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª

Markets have been watching closely for signs of the Fed taper. The taper has been the new buzz word in the financial community and refers to the Fed slowing down its $85 billion asset purchase program that is intended to lower long-term interest rates.Now, Jon Hilsenrath, whom Stephen Roach joked was the real Fed chairman, writes that Fed officials "are likely to signal" they're on track to pull back in their June meeting. Hilsenrath writes that this comes after today's jobs report came in "good-but-not-great". From Hilsenrath: "Federal Reserve officials are likely to signal at their June policy meeting that they're on track to begin pulling back their $85-billion-a-month bond-buying program later this year, as long as the economy doesn't disappoint. "A good-but-not-great jobs report Friday ensured officials wouldn't want to act right away and would instead want to see more data before taking a delicate step toward winding down the program.
"Top city" lists can be pretty subjective, and none more so than "greenest" city lists.¬† These tend to measure things like number of green-oriented events¬†or "percentage of people who think and act in an eco-conscious way."¬†¬† But new data from¬†National Renewable Energy Laboratory¬†give us some hard facts showing the actual greenest cities in America,¬†as represented by the percentage of customers voluntarily buying into their local utility's green power program. Here's the list (by utility): ¬† Interesting to note the low percentages here. Some might also wonder why there are so many small-ish Wisconsin towns on here (we did).¬†So we called up Mike Noreen, the conservation and efficiency coordinator for River Falls, Wisc., (#8 on the list) to ask why. He told us that the high customer participation rates in the state are thanks in part to a company called WPPI Energy, which¬†sells renewable power sourced mainly from wind farms in Iowa at bulk rates. The company has gotten strong buy-in from residents in River Falls and the other two towns that round out the list. In the case of River Falls, Noreen said, Mayor Dan Toland asked the town of 15,000 to get on board, with the municipality reciprocating by converting many of its facilities to renewables. ¬† Noreen also said the town is about to construct a new solar array to power its baseball field, another demonstration of its commitment to renewable resources.¬†
PBS/NRCSouthern California Edison is decommissioning the remaining two units at a nuclear plant that powered as many as 1.4 million homes, Sky News reports.† The San Onofre facility, located just south of Los Angeles, had been shut down for the past year after inspectors discovered a leaking tube inside a steam generator. But by April costs of the shutdown had soared to $553 million, Sky reports. In a release, SCE said it will have to report a charge of up to $450 million after tax as a result of the move. Energy analyst Stephen Schork tells us the decision will likely cause chaos in western power markets: You've lost one of your cheapest sources of baseload nuclear generation. In the northern part of the state, very limited snow-melt is already affecting hydropower, so they're constrained on their two cheapest sources of energy. So the region is going to be susceptible to spikes in natural gas [prices]. California may have to go back to importing power from Arizona, he added, and both states are expected to see more record temperatures this summer. The EIA also expects prices will rise: Replacing the power from a low-cost source of generation like [San Onofre] already has changed wholesale electricity prices in [California]. Rising natural gas prices are likely to increase that effect in 2013. In its†annual report, CAISO noted that 2012 wholesale power prices were higher than prices in the previous three years even when adjusted for the lower 2012 natural gas prices. In addition, the unusually large†spread in wholesale electricity prices†between the northern and southern portions of the state indicates system congestion. It's also another setback for the nuclear crowd, Schork said, creating a trifecta of recent bad headlines along with Fukushima and questions†over renewing New Jersey's Indian Point plant. The LA Times says 1,100 workers will now be laid off. San Onofore's second and third units were completed in 1983 and 1984.†Unit 1, which began operating in 1967, was shuttered in 1992.
ReutersChinese interbank rates surged ahead of the three-day Dragon Boat festival next week.† The overnight Shibor, or the Shanghai interbank offered rate, surged to 8.29% on June 7, from 5.98% on June 6. The seven-day Shibor rose to 6.66%, from 5.14%. This is an interest rate used among banks, and it's considered a useful proxy for liquidity in the Chinese credit markets. What could have caused the spike in Shibor? First, Demand for cash rises ahead of Chinese holidays like the Dragon-boat festival, New Year holiday, Golden week holiday. Second, Bank of America's Ting Lu doesn't think this doesn't suggest major problems with the financial system. "In our view, most likely the PBoC failed to anticipate and then failed to respond swiftly to a sudden fall of liquidity supply and seasonal rise of liquidity demand," he writes. Third, Lu argues that interbank liquidity was squeezed on account of a decline in speculative activities after the government tightened FX curbs. He also cites two other key reasons.Fourth, one off demand for U.S. dollar, because of State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE's) regulations on foreign exchange inflows and banksí Forex position management. Fifth, it could be because of the crackdown on illegal bond trading. " But because itís not banned for the banks to trade bond between its different accounts, banks may have to find trade counterparties in the interbank market and frictions could arise resulting in rate volatilities." Lombard Street ResearchWhat are the implications? Diana Choyleva at Lombard Street Research thinks this is symptomatic of a bigger problem. She argues that China's current account surplus fell to 2.6% of GDP in 2012, down from 10% in 2007 and that "this means that capital flows have become a more important driver of domestic liquidity conditions in Chinaís managed exchange rate system." In fact, she expects China to see more capital outflows than inflows. If Beijing decides to go for another stimulus, which analysts say is highly unlikely, Choyleva writes that the economy will see "inflation and bubbles rather than sustainable growth" and this could cause capital and current account outflows.† And if it tries to ease capital controls further and opens up the capital account fully, "outflows in search of higher return amid weaker and more volatile Chinese growth are likely to outweigh inflows." Bank of America's Ting Lu however doesn't think that the Shibor spike and liquidity squeeze suggest major problems with the financial system. "In our view, most likely the PBoC failed to anticipate and then failed to respond swiftly to a sudden fall of liquidity supply and seasonal rise of liquidity demand," he writes. The central bank injected 160 billion yuan into the system this week but he thinks it is unlikely that they will continue multiple open market operations to inject liquidity next week if the Shibor stays high. Lu and Choyleva also differ on how the central bank might react. Lu doesn't think reserve requirement ratio cuts are likely, because they don't want to "send policy easing signals." Choyleva thinks liquidity pressures could well force their hand. She also thinks they could raise deposit rates. Societe Generale's Wei Yao has already warned that China is approaching it's Minsky moment. While some argue that the government controls the state-owned banks and could intervene in case of severe stress, she does think, "the emergence of such stress tells us a lot about the state of the economy and the banks and the likely outcomes for asset markets.
Google FinanceThe tone is decidedly "risk-on" today after better-than-expected May employment figures were released earlier this morning. Equity indices are trading at their highs of the day. The Dow is up 1.3%, or 200 points, while the S&amp;P 500 is 1.2% higher and the NASDAQ is up 1.1%. The U.S. dollar is also trading near its high of the day against the Japanese yen at levels around ¬•97.55, currently up 0.6%. Meanwhile, gold is trading at its low of the day around $1378 an ounce, down 2.7%. 10-year Treasury futures are also trading right off their lows at levels around 129'050, down 0.5% on the day. The yield on the 10-year Treasury is 7 basis points higher at 2.15%.
After selling off a load of his position in Japanese equities last month, George Soros is buying them up again, the WSJ reports. Unless you've been under a rock for the past few weeks, you noticed the serious selloff in Japanese stocks. The Nikkei has lost 21% since its intraday peak on May 23rd and now the Abe government is pushing for Japan's institutional investors to jump back in the action. Soros' money will definitely help Abe out. The hedge fund manager runs $24 billion of his own money and made $1 billion from positions in the Japanese yen and Japanese stocks earlier this year. A person familiar with the situation told WSJ that Soros is buying up everything from big blue chip Japanese companies to mid-cap growth stocks. So consider that.
Earlier today, we learned that U.S. companies added 175,000 new jobs in May. However, the unemployment rate ticked up to 7.6% from 7.5% a month ago. This discrepancy can be explained by an increase in the civilian labor force, which climbed to 155,658 million from 155.238 million a month ago. You see, when job prospects are improving, more people decide that they want to look for work (i.e. enter the labor force). Still, the labor force has largely moved sideways since the recession, even as the population has been growing. This is why everyone always freaks out about the falling labor force participation rate. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite discussed this in a note to clients earlier this week: ...Typical post-recession recoveries have seen the labour force grow by 1.6% p.a.. However, the labour force has barely risen since the recession ended in mid-2009. One should perhaps not expect a sudden acceleration in the labour force due to the ageing of the baby-boomer population, but we do expect a modest increase. For this reason, our fixed income strategy team believe that a 61‚ÅÑ2% unemployment rate would not be reached until mid-2015. Here's Garthwaite's chart of showing how the labor force climbed following the last 10 recessions: Credit Suisse
flickr: David BerkowitzNot winter, but you get the idea.The beauty of losing a presidential election is that you have a bunch of free time to invite your closest friends in business and politics to an awesome retreat at an exclusive resort in Utah. The Washington Post reports that this week, Mitt Romney hosted high-powered retreat for lawmakers, investors, business leaders and the like at the five star Stein Eriksen Lodge. Romney is¬†"increasingly" managing his son Tagg's private equity firm, Solamere, WaPo says, and he wanted to get all the investors together. Problem is, he also wanted to get all of his political friends together to talk about the issues facing the country. So what is a busy man to do? Overlap the two conferences of course. The political conference was billed as a Romney-style Aspen Ideas Festival and called, The Experts and Enthusiasts (E2). According to the Post, business leaders that came for the Solamere conference, often ended up staying for the end of E2. And why not? When speakers include David Axelrod and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, and yoga sessions are led by Cindy Crawford, you've gotta stay another day. And of course, hedge fund SkyBridge Capital founder Anthony Scaramucci was there (from WaPo): ‚ÄúThey tied it into Solamere, they‚Äôre raising another fund,‚Äù Anthony Scaramucci, the New York investor who organizes a popular hedge fund schmoozefest known as the SALT conference, said as he sank into a leather couch. ‚ÄúThere was a micro business thing ‚Äî Solamere; a macro business thing ‚Äî managerial leadership.‚Äù For the full piece head to Washington Post&gt;
Yesterday we discussed Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff's rationale for why you should sell your home now.† It comes down to rates: they're going to keep rising thanks to still-constrained supply hitting pent-up demand. So if you're in the trade-up market, it'll be more expensive to buy a home at a given price down the road than now. Redfin has actually calculated exactly how much you can expect to save if you punch out today: Redfin And here's their explanation (emphasis ours): You can see that even though this homeowner would make $61,000 more by waiting to sell, the new house is $64,000 more expensive too, a difference of $3,000 in favor of moving up now. But thatís not the complete picture. The monthly payment, which is driven by interest rates, will be lower for those who move up now vs. later. Just in the next 12 months,†the Mortgage Bankers Association expects rates to rise to 4.4%, which would mean a $130 higher monthly payment. And thatís a conservative estimate. A typical interest rate, if you look at the past 20 years, is more like 6.5 percent, which is about $500 more per month, or an additional $6,000 per year out of pocket for the move-up buyer who waits. They also have a handy calculator:  With inflation still pretty subdued, you could do a lot with an extra $6,000 a year.
bytemarks / FlickrThis week Zynga shuttered three offices, leaving 520 employees at the gaming company out of a job. Even though the job market has slowly been improving, layoffs are still a perennial fear in this economy. And some companies have announced massive job cuts as they try and cut costs. These big cuts have weighed on employment figures for the past year. We looked at¬†Bloomberg data to highlight the 17 biggest layoff announcements in the past year.
chrisl_D7000 / FlickrIn the week ended June 5, Treasury bond funds saw their biggest outflows ever ($2.6 billion, or 0.9% of assets under management). So did high yield bond funds, which lost $6.6 billion (1.7% of AUM). And so did mortgage-backed securities funds, which shrank by $0.8 billion (0.9% of AUM). Combining these asset classes, bond funds as a whole saw a staggering $12.5 billion of redemptions ‚Äì the second biggest weekly outflow ever, behind only October 2008 when global financial markets descended into crisis. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flows, via BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett: Flows by Asset Class  Bonds: massive $12.5bn redemptions (second largest weekly outflows on record; record was back in Oct'08)  Equities: $6.2bn outflows (largest in 2013) Precious metals: $1.6bn outflows (17 straight weeks = longest on record) MMF: $3.9bn inflows (3rd straight week) Flows by Fixed Income Sector Record $6.6bn outflows from HY bond funds Record $2.6bn outflows from govt/tsy funds Record $0.8bn outflows from MBS funds $1.0bn outflows from TIPS (2nd largest on record) $1.5bn outflows from EM debt (6th largest on record) $1.2bn outflows from munis (largest since Dec'12) Floating-rate debt bucks trend with 50th straight week of inflows ($1.1bn) Tiny outflows from IG bond funds (first since Feb'13) Flows by Equity Region $5.5bn outflows from EM equity funds = largest weekly outflows since Aug'11 Note that lion's share of outflows via GEM ETF's (EEM, VWO) Another $12-15bn outflows over next 2 weeks will trigger contrarian ‚Äúbuy‚Äù signal¬†from our EM Flow Trading Rule Modest outflows from US ($0.5bn) and Europe ($0.3bn) (outflows in 13 out of¬†past 14 weeks) Japan eke out small inflows ($0.4bn) despite rout in markets First outflows from real estate funds ($0.6bn) in 16 weeks; first outflows from financials ($0.3bn) in 6 weeks Earlier this week, Morningstar estimated that PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw $1.32 billion of redemptions in May, the first outflow since 2011.
Bloomberg TVIn a quick note blasted out to clients, Jefferies strategist David Zervos expresses the same read on today's jobs report as we did earlier, that this was "Goldilocks" a not-too-hot, not-too-cold report that was idea for the market. He writes: If someone asked me to put together a fake jobs report that would be the most soothing to a frazzled market, it would have read pretty much as just released. The tick up in the u-rate, on a slightly higher participation rate, was a work of art. It moves us further away from the Evans rule trigger of 6.5, and more importantly the theoretical taper trigger of 7.1/7.3. Also, it adds a bit of job-seeking optimism to the mix as more folks are looking for work in better economic conditions.¬† Then we add the 175k on payrolls - not too hot, not too cold. It shows that Fed policies are continuing to work nicely to create a sustainable recovery, but worries about QE "overheating" are way off the mark. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub --&gt;
Public Domain"Itís time to hit the reset button on the entire fiscal debate." That's according Michael Linden, the Managing Director for Economic Policy at the liberal Center for American Progress, in his new report calling for an end to fiscal austerity in the United States. Linden has, until now, been part of Washington's pro-deficit reduction consensus. Just six months ago, CAP put out a report that opened like this: "There are very few things everyone in Washington can agree on these days. But the one notion that will get heads nodding across the political spectrum is that todayís fiscal policies simply are not sustainable." Linden was one of its co-authors. He's still arguing for deficit reduction in the medium term, but now he's emphasizing that it can come later ó now, the key objective is to make sure the government doesn't choke off the recovery.
Manufacturing output continues to rise. But the jobs are still missing. Today's non-farm payroll report from the BLS shows the U.S. manufacturing sector lost 8,000 jobs in May, the fourth-straight monthly decline. Here's the chart from BLS since 2010, which shows we've now plateaued for about a year at the 12-million payroll level: BLS
New York-based hedge funder Christopher O'Neill is marrying Swedish princess Madeleine tomorrow in a ceremony at the Royal Palace chapel in Stockholm, the Associated Press reports.¬† O'Neill, 38, is a partner and head of research at Noster Capital, a value investing hedge fund.¬† He's originally from London and holds a dual U.S.-U.K. citizenship.¬†He graduated with his bachelor's degree in international relations from Boston University. He holds an MBA from Columbia.¬† Princess Madeline, the Duchess of H√§lsingland and G√§strikland, met O'Neill when she moved to New York City's Upper East Side after breaking off her engagement with Swedish attorney¬†Jonas Bergstrom back in 2010. She was in a relationship with Bergstrom for several years and called off their wedding when media reports surfaced that¬†he cheated on her with a Norwegian handball player.¬† O'Neill and the princess first emerged as a couple back in 2011. ¬†They got engaged in October 2012. ¬† Here are details of the wedding weekend from the press release (via Google Translate):¬† Wedding weekend of 7-8 June 2013 The wedding ceremony between H.K.H. Princess Madeleine and Mr. Christopher O'Neill takes place on Saturday, June 8 at. 16:00 in the Royal Chapel at the Royal Palace in Stockholm. June 7 Wedding celebration starts on Friday 7 June with a private dinner for invited guests. Location: Grand H√¥tel, Stockholm Host: The Royal Couple June 8 The ceremony will take place on Saturday, June 8 at. 16:00 in the Royal Chapel. After the wedding ceremony will salute of 21 shots with five seconds between each shot from Skeppsholmen. The bridal couple will travel in a procession by horse and carriage from the Royal Palace to Riddarholmen. Motorcade runs along the Outer Courtyard, Castle Hill, wharf, Str√∂mbron, Power Street, North Bridge, Castle Quay, Myntgatan and Wrangel hill to Evert Taube terrace Riddarholmen. From Evert Taube terrace Riddarholmen sailing for the couple, and the invited guests by¬†boat to Drottningholm Palace for dinner. O'Neill won't become a prince after tomorrow, though, according to a royal press release (via Google Translate).¬† Mr. Christopher O'Neill is and will remain a U.S. citizen, and he intends to continue its business as before after he has married HRH Princess Madeleine. The royal family policy should be a member of the Royal Swedish Academy. The house be a Swedish citizen, and not hold a position of responsibility in business. This means that Mr. Christopher O'Neill - according to those principles - can not bear the title HRH Prince of Sweden and Duke of Gastrikland and H√§lsingland.¬† With reference to these demands, Mr. Christopher O'Neill respectfully requested to remain a private citizen and not bestowed royal dignity. Either way, best wishes to both of them!
.Ruby Tuesday. / FlickrThe May jobs report was just released at 8:30 AM ET, and the numbers came in better than expected. The change in nonfarm payrolls was 175,000, better than the 163,000 expected by market economists. The unemployment rate, on the other hand, edged up to 7.6%, versus expectations for an unchanged reading at 7.5%. Markets were volatile in the wake of the report. Gold and Treasuries initially plunged when the headlines crossed, but then spiked past pre-release levels. Now, however, gold is really getting slammed. The shiny yellow metal is trading around $1382 an ounce, down 2.4% on the day. Meanwhile, stocks are rising. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading around 1633 versus levels around 1626 prior to the release, and are now up 0.6% on the day. 10-year Treasury futures are trading down 0.4%, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury is 6 basis points higher at 2.13%. And the yen is sliding against the dollar. Click here for all the details of today's jobs release &gt;
This morning we learned that the U.S. economy added 175,000 jobs in May.¬† And the unemployment rate ticked up to 7.6 percent. Overall, the jobs report was better than expected. However, it continues to reflect a labor market that remains incredibly weak almost four years into the economic recovery. Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the current jobs recovery into perspective. "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. Business Insider
This jobs report clarified nothing-everything-added confusion to the debate.† You may pick your preferred poison. There is a little more suggested weakening in manufacturing and some negative tone in hospitality. Essentially, we continue the slow growth, modest recovery trend.† It is not enough to change Fed policy or accelerate tapering.†† It is not enough to delay a Fed policy change. On balance, we would call todayís report right in the middle of the pack. We remain fully invested and our bias is for a prolonged period of these very low interest rates.† In our bond accounts we will be opportunistic.† John Mousseau will be publishing on the muni market shortly. We also see the market reaction to Japan as an over reaction in extreme.† We believe the yen will be weaker and Japanese stocks higher.† And we believe the ìcarry tradeî related to the yen will continue and expand. More later.
Wikimedia CommonsKusunoki MasashigeThe Japanese stock market has been tanking since May 22. In the past few days, losses have slowed a bit ‚Äì Friday, it closed down only 0.2%. However, we witnessed a big unwind in the long U.S. dollar/short Japanese yen trade yesterday, with the currency pair falling below ¬•95.54 overnight from levels around ¬•99.46 just a day before. Following the release of today's jobs report in the U.S. ‚Äì which came in better than expected ‚Äì the dollar initially tanked against the yen, making a new low of ¬•94.98. However, the losses were short-lived, and the dollar is now trading around ¬•96.85 to the yen versus levels around ¬•95.66 just prior to the release. Meanwhile, Nikkei futures are spiking and are now up 0.3% from the previous close after being down prior to the report. Click here for all the details of today's jobs release &gt;
Charactercontrol via YouTubeThe jobs report for May just came out. Job creation was solid at 175K. That's ahead of the 163K that we got last month. And yet the unemployment rate rose to 7.6%. The previous month was 7.5%. That's partially because the labor force participation rate actually increased. This is great news for the market. You get solid job creation, meaning the economy is on track, and yet there's no tightening in unemployment, which would force the Fed's hand on quickly tapering QE Futures are jumping. For more jobs report details, see here &gt;
Library Of CongressIt's a beat! The change in nonfarm payrolls in May's jobs report came in at 175,000, better than expectations for 163,000. Last month's number was revised down to 149,000 from 165,000. The unemployment rate actually edged up from 7.5% to 7.6%. The change in private payrolls was 178,000, which beat expectations for a 175,000 gain. Last month's private payrolls number, however, was revised down to 157,000 from 176,000. Manufacturing payrolls fell by 8,000. Economists were predicting a gain of 4,000. Average hourly earnings were flat in May after rising 0.2% in April. Economists were looking for another 0.2% rise. This is kind of perfect for the market. The job creation was solid, and yet the unemployment rate stays elevated so no pressure on the Fed to tighten soon. Stocks are rising while bonds and gold take a hit in the wake of the release.
Screengrab via YouTubeThe whole world is watching today's May U.S. jobs report, which will come out at 8:30 AM ET. The most closely watched numbers are usually the nonfarm payrolls added and the unemployment rate. But the "hours worked" figure will be heavily scrutinized this time around. First of all, there's the sequester, which put many workers on furloughs and reduced hours rather than sending them to the unemployment line. And then there's Obamacare. "Now there is watering hole speculation that employers are cutting "hours worked" to make workers look more temporary and slip under Obamacare taxation," said UBS's Art Cashin earlier this week.¬† "It's any interesting arbitrage that we may explore further. From the start of 2014, employers with more than 50 employees will be fined $2,000 per employee, if they fail to offer full-time employees health insurance. Workers are considered to be full-time if they work over 30 hours a week.¬† This is a trend that Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth recently addressed in a note to clients. File this one under unintended consequences.
FlickrThe average†Twitter†prediction for today's non-farm payrolls report is 149,000. The median estimate is 148,000. The standard deviation from the mean is 48,000. These figures are based on 105 Twitter submissions using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:15 AM ET. Wall Street economists forecast today's headline non-farm payrolls number will come in at†163K new jobs. We will have the jobs data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET &gt;
Shorting the yen has been one of the huge trades of the year, thanks to massive monetary easing and "Abenomics." In the last two days, that trade has reversed violently. Via FinViz here's how the dollar has fallen from around 100 against the yen to below 96 in about 2 days. FinViz
Reuters/NSA handoutGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
It's jobs day. The Non-Farm Payrolls report comes out at 8:30 AM today. Analysts expect 165K new jobs. It's the most exciting day all month. Want proof? Katie Martin tweets this chart from Nomura, which shows how traders burn more calories today than on the rest of the month. Genius. Nomura
Societe GeneraleNo one has a higher estimate.The May jobs report is coming up at 8:30 AM ET. According to Bloomberg, the consensus estimate for nonfarm payrolls added in May is 165K. The most bullish economist among those surveyed is Societe Generale's Brian Jones. "Nonfarm payrolls likely expanded by 210,000 in May, while the civilian jobless rate dipped to 7.4% ñ the lowest reading since December 2008," says Jones. Here's more from Jones: Non-agricultural concerns probably added 210,000 net new workers in May, eclipsing the 196,000 average posted over the prior four months. Fundamental and technical factors point to a significant pickup from the 165,000 workers added in April. The average number of persons filing initial claims for jobless benefits reversed course over the five weeks leading up to the May establishment survey period, falling by 21,000 to 341,000 and completely erasing the rise over the lead-up to the April canvass. Meanwhile, the number of persons receiving state and federal jobless benefits contracted by roughly 25,000 between sampling spans, moving below the 4.85-million level for the first time since the November 2008 survey period. At 63.2% in April, the breadth of hiring across private industries over the latest three months ñ a leading indicator of prospective payroll growth remained well above the 50% breakeven mark. In contrast to the cooler conditions prevailing in March and April, temperatures climbed in May, with population-weighted heating degree days falling below the 159 norm for that month. Our forecast assumes that the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather was little different from the 53,000 average posted in May over the past decade. On the technical side, five weeks elapsed between the April and May surveys for the first time since 2008. The failure of the BLSí estimated seasonal adjustments to adequately account for the longer interval should provide an added lift to the reported job count.
The Japanese yen is showing some incredible strength, moving 1.2% against the U.S. dollar today. According to the FT's Chris Adams, this is a two-month high against the dollar. These moves have got to be rough for investors, consumers, and corporate managers. Here's a chart of this morning's yen moves against the U.S. dollar via Bloomberg.com: Bloomberg
CNBCThe May jobs report is coming up at 8:30 AM ET. According to Bloomberg, the consensus estimate for nonfarm payrolls added in May is 165K. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna thinks NFP will miss expectations and come in at 125K. "May nonfarm payrolls tend to surprise the financial markets to the downside," said LaVorgna. "Our best guess is that there is something fluky with the seasonal adjustment factors from the Bureau of Labor Statistics which in turn produces a May employment change that runs counter to the underlying fundamentals. Over the last 25 years, the consensus has over-estimated May nonfarm payrolls 16 times (64%) with an average forecast miss of 99k." In addition to the bad long-term history, the short-term history seems to be pointing to a disappointing report in his opinion. "Recent history has been right in line with the longer term pattern, as the consensus over-predicted May nonfarm payrolls in each of the last three Mays by an average of 98k," he said.¬† "Given the spate of generally soft economic data over the past month‚Äîretail sales, industrial production, housing starts and ADP‚Äîcombined with the tightening of the budget sequestration‚Äîthere are also fundamental reasons why May payrolls could disappoint yet again." Having said that, LaVorgna thinks we shouldn't freak out about a bad report for three reasons: Follow the jobs report live on Businessinsider.com.
Bloomberg TVPrices are up here. Values are down here.All eyes are on the May jobs report, which will get released at 8:30 AM ET. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian says that "a lot is riding on U.S. jobs data" in his latest piece in the FT. "With global equities selling off, tepid job creation would end up creating more turbulence and uncertainty," he writes.† "And reaction to something else, that is a number on either side of the distribution of possible outcomes, depends in large part on the faith that investors retain in the unquestioned powers of central banks." El-Erian has long argued that liquidity unleashed by the world's central banks has caused asset prices to disconnect from asset values based on fundamentals (see El-Erian's hand gestures). But the market sell-off seems to be bringing prices back to reality. It also shows that investors are becoming less willing to "ride the central bank policy wave," to use El-Erian's words. All of this comes as the Fed has begun to talk about "tapering" quantitative easing, which could cause interest rates to start rising. "The next 3-4 U.S. monthly employment reports will have a big say on how the majority view evolves from here," said El-Erian, who offers three nonfarm payroll number scenarios. Here they are from FT.com: Specifically: Economists expect 165,000 today. That's right in line with El-Erian's tepid outcome / greater anxiety scenario. Read El-Erian's whole piece at FT.com.† Follow the jobs report live at BusinessInsider.com.
Business InsiderSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co lost $12 billion in market value on Friday, hit by brokerage downgrades that have underscored concerns about slowing sales of its flagship Galaxy S4 smartphone. The share slide of more than 6 percent comes after it recently introduced two stripped-down versions of the S4, fanning worries that profit margins for its mobile business will suffer. It also follows a report that arch-rival Apple will begin a trade-in program for iPhones. The new stripped-down S4 models will help it widen its lead in the global smartphone market and fend off Chinese competitors, but some fear that the South Korean tech giant is trading in profits for volume. Analysts say sales momentum for the high-end version of the S4, which became its fastest selling smartphone since its launch in late April, has slowed. "Sales of high-end handsets are lagging behind expectations, while low- to mid-end handsets are selling briskly worldwide," said Kim Young-chan, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. "As the portion of low- to mid-range handsets is expected to increase in Samsung's overall mobile phone business, this has also sparked concerns about thinning margins and lower growth." APPLE ANGST Apple will start a program this month to allow users to trade their older iPhones for the newest model, Bloomberg news agency cited people familiar with the plan as saying, a first for the company as it prepares to introduce a new version of the smartphone. "With Apple widely expected to announce an older iPhone trade-in program and also a new cheaper iPhone, overall growth prospects for (Samsung's) smartphone business have dimmed," said Kim Hyun-yong, an analyst at E*trade Securities. "Second-quarter results will be solid but we have to see whether the trend can be sustainable going forward." Shares in Samsung finished down 6.2 percent at their lowest level in four months, wiping out 14 trillion won of value to bring its market cap to 210.2 trillion won ($188 billion). It was their biggest daily percentage drop since late August when the stock tumbled more than 7 percent following a U.S. jury verdict that it infringed on Apple's patents. Samsung, which represents nearly 20 percent of the main bourse's market value, helped send the main stock index 1.9 percent lower, while suppliers of smartphone components were also hammered. DOWNGRADES Brokerage downgrades this week included a 4.8 percent cut in Samsung's price target to 2.0 million won from Woori Securities. It cited weakening profit growth for Samsung's mobile business, which generates around 70 percent of its total earnings. It also cut 2013 and 2014 earnings per share forecasts by 9.2 percent and 11.7 percent respectively. JPMorgan slashed its earnings estimates and said monthly orders for the S4 have been cut by 20-30 percent to 7-8 million from July due to weak demand in Europe and South Korea. Among smartphone component suppliers taking a battering, camera module maker Partron tumbled 11 percent, printed circuit board maker Interflex dived 10.6 percent and camera lens manufacturer Digital Optics shed 12 percent. Ratings agency Fitch Ratings also said on Thursday it was not planning to upgrade Samsung's A+ rating in the medium term due to its heavy reliance on the fickle consumer electronics market, in particular handsets. "Samsung has yet to prove its 'creative' innovation, that is, launching a product or a market segment that has not existed before in addition to prowess in manufacturing technology," Fitch said. ($1 = 1115.8500 Korean won) (Additional reporting by Hyunjoo Jin and Joyce Lee; Editing by Edwina Gibbs) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Pensiero / FlickrStrategist Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading has a section of his latest note describing the "bearmageddon scenario" for stocks and the Fed. He doesn't say that this is his base case, but he thinks it's worth pondering a possible path forward that sees the economy weaken, and the futility of QE exposed, boxing in everyone. He writes: The Bearmageddon Scenario is one where the economic data rolls over and turns negative.† The reason we are mentioning it today is that this week we have received a sub-50 ISM Manufacturing report.† The last two major bear markets coincided with consecutive monthly sub-50 ISM prints.† That has yet to occur, but it is something to be cognizant of.† Although we donít have confidence in ADP, if it is signaling weakness in tomorrowís report, it would be a problem.† A Non-Farm Payrolls print around that 100,000 or less level about which investors are concerned would be a real problem.† After 18 months of multiple expansion, modest earnings growth driven by buybacks and full throttle monetary policy, a substantive weakening of economic data would be disconcerting to investors.† With zero interest rates and $85 billion a month in QE, how would the Fed respond to new weakness in the data?† More QE?† New weakness would just expose QE3 as a failure.† It would also confirm the Fed has wasted the past couple of years relying on QE.† We do not doubt Chairman Bernankeís ability and creativity to devise a strategy to tackle weakness, but it would take some time as it did in 2008.† In the interim, markets would re-price significantly.† In an environment being driven by Central Banks, finding out they have no clothes would be a scary proposition.† The 14% year to date gain for the S&amp;P 500 is supposed to be discounting economic improvement.† If that improvement turns out to be weakness, it means many market participants are off sides.† Chilling stuff. Meanwhile, this prospect only pumps up the significance of today's jobs report. See Goldman's preview here ---&gt;
Flickr/ElvinCiti's currency guru Steven Englander has a great note out taking the 10,000-feet view of what the heck has been happening in world currency markets lately. Currency markets have seen a lot of volatility, as we're seeing big notable moves in the Japanese yen (strengthening again), emerging markets (getting clobbered), and the dollar (on a strong uptrend, but very weak yesterday). So what's going on? Englander isolates 4 big themes: 1) abundant liquidity and low yields, 2) disappointing growth in Emerging Markets and G10-exUS 3) the beginning of the US pullback from QE 4) positioning This is a nice, sweet, short list, and it pretty much tells the story. The last one, positioning, refers to the way investors are making near-uniform bets, such as everyone being short the Japanese Yen, or long the US dollar, thus creating a market environment prone to big swings and squeezes. And the focus on the eventual us QE pullback is one reason why today's jobs report is such a big deal.
Goldman SachsGoldman's Jan Hatzius makes the same point about today's jobs report that we've been making, that it's a biggie. From a note put out yesterday: From a market perspective, Friday's report looks even more important than usual given the increase in volatility since Chairman Bernanke's Congressional testimony on May 22. However, payrolls are only one input into the decision whether to taper QE, and there are still three more reports to come before the September FOMC meeting. A strong report would not guarantee tapering in September, and a weak one would not preclude it. Our baseline forecast for the first reduction in purchases remains the December FOMC meeting. As for Goldman's call on the report: We expect a 175,000 increase in nonfarm payrolls (with risks tilted to a weaker report) and a stable 7.5% unemployment rate (with risks tilted to a decline). As far as payrolls are concerned, our forecast would be a bit stronger than the March and April report but weaker than the 3- and 6-month moving average.
At the end of the day business hiring comes down to one thing ‚Äì will hiring more employees help the firm leverage its operations in order to generate greater profits? ¬† The answer to that question involves many variables, but none is more important than sales. ¬†A firm that doesn‚Äôt generate sustainable long-term revenue growth will be forced to reduce hiring, layoff employees or find other sources of cost cuts. ¬†Revenue is ultimately the key to any good business model. So, when I look at the chart below there‚Äôs really only one conclusion ‚Äì because sales are stagnating it‚Äôs likely that businesses will protect their margins by cutting costs (the largest of which just so happens to be the workforce). ¬†With sales at 1.7% year over year we‚Äôre starting to get to a point where the bottom line is going to start suffering due directly to top line sluggishness. ¬†That means most businesses are unlikely to look at this environment and feel confident about expansion in hiring. ¬†Instead, they‚Äôll either remain cautious or actually begin laying off workers if the trend persists. ¬†Either way, it‚Äôs hard to imagine that the labor market is about to pick up a huge amount of momentum when the most important part of the corporate income statement is sending such a clear caution sign‚Ä¶. I have no idea what this morning‚Äôs job report will say and most of the people who play the NFP guessing game are just throwing darts blindly. ¬†But this longer-term trend does not bode well for the labor market. Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Pragmatic Capitalist
Flickr/gregw66Good morning! It's Jobs Day! At 8:30 AM ET, the BLS will release the Non-Farm Payrolls report (AKA: The Jobs Report) for May. Analysts expect somewhere on the order of 165K new jobs created, a number that's come down in recent days as data has been weak and pessimism has grown. In the meantime, markets aren't doing much. Japan had a virtually unchanged day. US futures are down a hair. Europe is up a hair. For now, things are calm.
By most economic measures, Europe is still ailing. The euro zone remains in its longest recession since the introduction of the single currency in 1999, and many EU member nations continue to struggle under the weight of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. But in an interview with The Financialist, Credit Suisse Chief Economist Neal Soss offers reasons to be optimistic about the continent, including Spain, which suffered a severe economic downturn. In fact, Soss thinks a number of the EU‚Äôs peripheral countries could see economic growth resume later this year or next. Among the factors that could help usher in a long-awaited European resurgence: a continuing shift away from fiscal austerity, the European Central Bank‚Äôs demonstrated commitment to supporting the euro, and favorable import/export balances in peripheral countries such as Spain. 
