Reuters/ Lucas JacksonAdvisor Perspectives welcomes guest contributions. The views presented here do not necessarily represent those of Advisor Perspectives.  In addition to commenting on his high-profile current investments, Pershing Square Capital‚Äôs Bill Ackman in a recent interview with Value Investor Insight describes the general company traits he looks for in both active and passive investments, why a high public profile is an important element of his strategy, whether his thesis on J.C. Penney has evolved, what lessons he‚Äôs learned from a few prominent mistakes, and why his short conviction on Herbalife is as high as ever.  Starting at a basic level, how would you characterize your investing strategy? We rely on concentrated research to identify great businesses that are trading at highly discounted valuations because investors have overreacted to negative macro or company-specific events. That‚Äôs the time-arbitrage part of the strategy, taking advantage when the market reacts to short-term factors that have little impact on long-term intrinsic values. Our greatest competitive advantage, though, comes from using our stake in a company to intervene in the decision-making, strategy, management or structure of the business. We don‚Äôt like waiting for the market to be a catalyst. Why is Warren Buffett willing to pay 20% above the highest price at which H.J. Heinz stock has ever traded, even after it‚Äôs had 20 quarters of great results? The answer is that control is very valuable. Not just for the bragging rights, but because you can change strategy, you can redo the cost structure, you can change the tax structure, you can sell off underperforming assets or hidden assets. The control premium is really telling you that the current management team and board are not optimizing the value of the business. For a financial buyer, which is essentially what Buffett is in this case, you‚Äôre buying it because it‚Äôs a great business and because you believe you can make the price paid end up looking cheap. That‚Äôs very similar to what we try to do: Buy high-quality businesses at a price that is not reflective of the intrinsic value of the business as it is, and certainly not reflective of what the intrinsic value would be if it were run better. That allows us to capture a double discount. That‚Äôs a benefit we can have over private equity. They can buy a company and run it better to extract incremental value, but they‚Äôre typically paying the highest price in a competitive auction, so they don‚Äôt get that first discount. We don‚Äôt get full control, but because we have a track record of making money for other investors, we can often exert enough control to make an impact. With Canadian Pacific Railway [CP], we won a proxy contest and with our 14% stake were able to appoint 8 of the 14 directors and recruited one of the best railroad executives of all time, Hunter Harrison, to be CEO. That has created a lot of value. How do you define a great business? We like simple, predictable, free-cash-flow generative, resilient and sustainable businesses with strong profit-growth opportunities and/or scarcity value. The type of business Warren Buffett would say has a moat around it. We‚Äôve done almost nothing in energy or other cyclical businesses. We avoid healthcare because of all the regulatory uncertainty. We‚Äôve done nothing active in financial services, except on the short side with MBIA. When you‚Äôre putting 8%, 12% or 15% of your money in something, it‚Äôs not a day trade. You have to focus first and foremost on high-quality businesses that can‚Äôt blow up and should grow in value over time. Read the rest of this interview at Advisor Perspectives &gt;
"Herbalife‚Äôs business practices have recently come under intense investor scrutiny, and NCL is now calling on federal regulators to examine both the claims lodged against Herbalife and Herbalife‚Äôs responses," wrote the NCL in a press release. The recent scrutiny was triggered by Bill Ackman and his hedge fund Pershing Square Capital. Ackman has accused Herbalife of being an illegal pyramid scheme, and he's convinced the stock will go to $0. Pershing Square was quick to file its response, which Business Insider has obtained. Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. Issues Statement Regarding National Consumers League‚Äôs Call for FTC Investigation into Herbalife  NEW YORK, March 12, 2013//-Pershing Square Capital Management, L.P. (‚ÄúPershing Square‚Äù) today released the following statement regarding the National Consumers League‚Äôs request for the Federal Trade Commission to investigate Herbalife as a potential pyramid scheme. ‚ÄúWe are pleased that the National Consumers League, the nation's oldest and one of the most respected consumer protection organizations, has requested that the FTC launch an investigation of Herbalife. We believe that a thorough investigation of Herbalife will reveal it to be a pyramid scheme that has harmed millions of consumers in more than 80 countries around the world.‚Äù The National Consumers League‚Äôs letter to the FTC can be seen here: http://www.nclnet.org/images/PDF/ftc%20letter%20on%20herbalife.pdf The National Consumers League‚Äôs press release regarding the letter can be seen here: http://www.nclnet.org/newsroom/press-releases/750-national-consumers-league-calls-on-ftc-to-investigate-allegations-against-herbalife Please go to www.factsaboutherbalife.com to learn more about the company.
A Bush-era payroll tax cut expired in 2012, and economists continue to worry about how it will impact consumer spending.† After all, personal consumption continues to account for around 70 percent of GDP. The January retail sales report reflected a modest increase in consumer spending.† However, economists reminded us that most Americans probably didn't get their lowered paychecks until halfway through the month. As such, February will be the first month where Americans will feel the full impact of the payroll tax hike. But that's not the only thing that will affect the number "The Census Bureauís advance report on retail and food services sales will be the marquee event of the week in the US," said Societe Generale economist Brian Jones.† "Our analysis suggests that nominal outlays on goods and services gathered considerable steam in February, but a gasoline-led jump in retail costs likely resulted in yet another modest uptick in real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) during the reference period." Indeed, higher gas prices are bad news for non-gas spending. However, any gas headwind will be at least partially offset by a tax refund tailwind. In case you missed it, the last-minute dealing of the "fiscal cliff" forced the IRS to begin tax filing season two weeks late.† As a result, Americans have been getting their tax refunds later than usual. And UBS economist Kevin Cummins notes that the tax refunds have accelerated. "The IRS has more than made up the initially sluggish pace of refunds issued," said Cummins in a new note to clients. "For the first 28 days of this yearís filing season (thru Mar 8) versus the 28 first days of last yearís season (thru Feb 23), refunds are running a cumulative $140 bil versus $109 bil last year." So the February retail sales report will be impacted by the payroll tax hike, high gas prices, and delayed tax refunds. But there's one more wrinkle: the sequester. While the sequestration budget cuts won't directly impact February sales, the uncertainty and impact on consumer sentiment might. "The Feb data have been impressive but I still think March data will be decisively slower," wrote Bank of America's David Woo in an email to Business Insider.† "The Rasmussen daily consumer confidence is down nearly 10 points from mid-Feb and the impact of the sequester will start to show up in the next 2-3 weeks (CBO is forecasting 750K job looses this year from sequester implementation)." So, even if Wednesday's February retail sales report is good, the March report will almost certainly be uglier. We'll just have to wait and see.
We've been writing for months about the housing comeback. Prices are up. Housing starts are up. Construction jobs are up. Home-builder stocks have been surging. But if you're not interested in "charts" and "data" which say that the U.S. housing market is coming back, then this video is for you. It was posted on Calculated Risk, and it shows a "frenzy" at an open house in California. You can just feel it. Americans love houses again. In addition to the sheer volume of people coming into the house, the host of the video has fascinating commentary about owners of these houses getting tons of offers right away, with the final winning bid coming in WAY above listing prices. 
UBSThe "fiscal cliff" drama that closed 2012 resulted in a last-minute deal that included, among other things, the expiration of a a payroll tax cut. However, Washington's fiscal brinksmanship also forced the IRS to delay the beginning of the tax filing season by two weeks.¬† As a result, Americans got their tax refunds on a lag. Indeed, some Wal-Mart executives thought they had a revenue disaster on their hands until they realized what was going on with the tax refunds. The good news is that those tax refunds are coming, and they're coming quickly. From UBS's Kevin Cummins: Another favorable development is that consumers are now (finally) benefiting from an increasing pace of tax refunds. So far in 2013, total year-to-date refunds are running a cumulative $141 bil (through Mar 8) versus $159 bil through Mar 8 a year ago (-11% y/y). However, the difference stems from a delayed filing season this year. The IRS officially began the filing season on January 30 this year versus January 17 last year due to the changes in tax code as part of the fiscal cliff deal. Thus, there have been about 10 fewer days of refunds issued this tax season versus in 2012. However, the IRS has more than made up the initially sluggish pace of refunds issued. For the first 28 days of this year‚Äôs filing season (thru Mar 8) versus the 28 first days of last year‚Äôs season (thru Feb 23), refunds are running a cumulative $140 bil versus $109 bil last year. While that comparison is not perfect either, the daily pace of refunds has recently picked up noticeably. Importantly, what appears to have been a headwind for the consumer in late-Jan/early-Feb has now turned into a tailwind as refunds have picked up. On Wednesday at 8:30 AM, we'll get the February U.S. retail sales number.¬† This tax refund is likely to cause some noise in the report.
It's really hardly anything, but given that the Japanese market has only seemed to go up lately, two straight down days in a row is noteworthy! Yesterday the market fell about 0.3%. Today so far it's off by the same scale. Nikkei.com
Oaktree CapitalHoward Marks, the head of Oaktree Capital Management, is one of the most well-respected alternative asset managers in the business. According to this week's Barron's cover story, he is followed closely by other legends including Warren Buffett, Seth Klarman, and Joel Greenblatt. Marks has been making the rounds at exclusive financial services conferences, and he has been giving a presentation titled "Investing in Uncertain Times."† He gave it at the Credit Suisse Financial Services Forum in February and the Oxford Private Equity Institute Private Equity Forum earlier this month. "The world seems more uncertain today than at any time in my experience," he opens. He identifies the global economic "black swans, landmines and long-term problems," but he also provides a framework in which investors should be investing. "My bottom line: move forward, but with caution," he says. NOTE: Thanks to Oaktree Capital Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
The film,¬†Oz: The Great and Powerful, the prequel to¬†The Wizard of Oz, premiered last week. The story of how the wonderful wizard overcame the risks and prevailed worked its magic on moviegoers and proved popular with a strong box office showing. In the same week, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (Dow) proved popular with investors as it powered its way to a new all-time high, as it overcame many risks to reach the fourth anniversary of the start of the current bull market from the low point on March 6, 2009. The Dow stands 115% higher than it did four years ago. However, if we do not disregard the stocks behind the curtain of the great and powerful Dow, we see that this time the index no longer holds the stocks of AIG, Citigroup, and General Motors (among others) as it did at the prior peak on October 9, 2007. The many changes to the 30 companies that make up the Dow make it worthwhile to take a look at the stock market defined by broader indexes like the NASDAQ and S&amp;P 500. Figure 1: This Is the Second-Best Four-Year Rally Ever S&amp;P 500 Index Performance During All Bull Markets Since WWII ¬†LPL Financial Source: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 03/09/13 What is next for the bull market? The good news is that since WWII, only two of the six bull markets that made it to their fourth anniversary failed to make it to a fifth. Each of those five bull markets that extended through a fourth year posted a double-digit return in the year leading up to the fifth anniversary¬†[Figure 2].¬† Figure 2: Powerful Rally S&amp;P 500 Bull Markets Begin End After 1 Year After 2 Years After 3 Years After 4 Years After 5 Years Duration (Months) 6/13/49 8/2/56 42.1% 59.0% 79.9% 75.8% 110.9% 86 10/22/57 12/12/61 31.0% 43.7% 36.8% 75.7% - 50 6/27/62 2/9/66 31.3% 54.9% 57.9% - - 43 10/7/66 11/29/68 32.9% 41.7% - - - 26 5/26/70 1/11/73 43.7% 59.7% - - - 32 10/3/74 11/28/80 38.1% 67.3% 55.3% 64.7% 76.0% 74 8/12/82 8/25/87 58.3% 61.5% 83.2% 137.6% 224.5% 60 12/4/87 7/16/90 21.4% 56.9% - - - 31 10/11/90 3/24/00 29.1% 45.4% 71.1% 77.9% 127.3% 113 3/11/03 10/9/07 38.2% 49.9% 60.1% 75.2% - 55 3/9/09 current 68.6% 95.1% 102.6% 129.3% ¬† 48 Average ex-current 36.6% 54.0% 63.5% 84.5% 134.7% 58 Source: LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 03/09/13 The current bull market is not likely to be over, but the bad news is that we may need a pullback to sustain it. Of the 18 pullbacks of 5% or more over the past four years, the current rally, at 114 days without a 5% or more pullback, is one of the longest of the bull market¬†[Figure 3]. Figure 3: Stock Market Increasingly Due for a 5% or More Pullback Number of Trading Days Since a 5% or More Pullback in S&amp;P 500 Since Market Low on 3/6/09 LPL Financial Source: LPL Financial, S&amp;P 500 Index Alert 03/09/13 Rather than a sign of weakness, pullbacks are often the pauses that refresh the bull market. When the market has avoided pullbacks for an extended period, the bull market has tended to be shorter and result in a bear market when the decline eventually came. For example, the long bull markets of the 1980s and 1990s had dozens of 5% or more pullbacks with many of 10% or more, whereas the much shorter four-year 2003‚Äì2007 bull market did not have a single pullback of 10% or more and ended by erasing the entire bull market gain. Therefore, pullbacks do not have to be viewed as wicked; instead we should cheer them, since they help to sustain the bull market and provide opportunities for investors to put money to work at a discount. IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES The opinions voiced in this material are for general information only and are not intended to provide specific advice or recommendations for any individual. To determine which investment(s) may be appropriate for you, consult your financial advisor prior to investing. All performance reference is historical and is no guarantee of future results. All indices are unmanaged and cannot be invested into directly. The economic forecasts set forth in the presentation may not develop as predicted and there can be no guarantee that strategies promoted will be successful. Stock investing involves risk, including the risk of loss. Index Definitions The Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs 500 Index is a capitalization-weighted index of 500 stocks designed to measure performance of the broad domestic economy through changes in the aggregate market value of 500 stocks representing all major industries. Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA): The Dow Jones Industrial Average Index is comprised of U.S.-listed stocks of companies that produce other (non-transportation and non-utility) goods and services. The Dow Jones Industrial Averages are maintained by editors of The Wall Street Journal. While the stock selection process is somewhat subjective, a stock typically is added only if the company has an excellent reputation, demonstrates sustained growth, is of interest to a large number of investors and accurately represents the market sectors covered by the average. The Dow Jones averages are unique in that they are price weighted; therefore their component weightings are affected only by changes in the stocks‚Äô prices. The NASDAQ Composite Index measures all NASDAQ domestic and non-U.S. based common stocks listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The Index is market-value weighted. This means that each company's security affects the Index in proportion to its market value. The market value, the last sale price multiplied by total shares outstanding, is calculated throughout the trading day, and is related to the total value of the Index. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. This research material has been prepared by LPL Financial. To the extent you are receiving investment advice from a separately registered independent investment advisor, please note that LPL Financial is not an affiliate of and makes no representation with respect to such entity.
China‚Äôs recent economic boom has inevitably seen a sharp rise in the number of wealthy people choosing to spend their newfound wealth traveling abroad. The sight of large groups of Chinese tourists wearing color-coordinated hats, gathering around a megaphone- and flag-toting tour guide, has become all too familiar in many countries in Europe and beyond. However, not all Chinese tourists are following the typical trend of quick-stop tours to snap a few photos and pick up a souvenir or two before being whisked off to the next destination. Switzerland has always proven a popular destination for Chinese tourists, as it is often associated with quality goods, whether they be chocolate, luxury watches, or knives. This concept of Swiss quality has resonated with many wealthy Chinese, who are now looking at long-term investments in many aspects of the country, ranging from boarding schools to banks, creating in the process a brand new elite market ‚Äî and one that has captured the attention of several cutting-edge businesspeople. Xu Junhua is one of four founding members of Swissna, a company established in April 2012 that caters to the various needs of wealthy Chinese interested in investing in, rather than simply traveling to, Switzerland. As Xu told Jing Daily,¬†‚ÄúWe offer services ranging from private banking and real estate to immigration advice, luxury tourism and even anti-aging programs.‚Äù Switzerland is well-known in China as a world leader in anti-aging and beauty treatments, all of which are in high demand from China‚Äôs wealthy elite. (Who have spent millions in countries like South Korea in recent years on so-called ‚ÄúMeditel‚Äù packages.) Xu mentioned that Swissna offers something totally unique, in the sense that tourists are able to fully customize their visits to Switzerland and enjoy a truly niche experience. ‚ÄúWe organise trips to many cities across the country, where tourists can indulge in typical high-end leisure activities,‚Äù Xu said. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs skiing, power shopping, trips to hot springs and golf.‚Äù Given many wealthy Chinese‚Äôs obsession with luxury and quality living, Xu believes it is no surprise that Switzerland offers a large market.  Beyond leisure and health activities, Xu also indicated that Switzerland‚Äôs most famous industries are enticing many rich Chinese to pull out their checkbooks. Added Xu,¬†‚ÄúThere are people who are looking at building ski resorts, with one guy even wanting to get involved with the manufacturing of a certain Swiss chocolate brand and eventually export the product back to China.‚Äù Commenting on the acclimatization of Chinese businessmen in the Swiss market ‚Äî one very different from China ‚Äî Xu emphasized that it¬†was one of the many services that¬†Swissna offers its clients. ‚ÄúWe have partnerships on all sides which ensure not only tourists, but also businessmen, are given smooth operations here,‚Äù Xu noted, adding, ‚ÄúThree of the four partners of Swissna are in fact financial advisors and know the business workings of the country better than anyone.‚Äù Given the growing presence of Chinese tourists and businesspeople in international environments, many industries have had to adapt in order to cater to the new market, and Switzerland is no different. Xu told us, ‚ÄúThere are certain hotels, restaurants and luxury goods shops that have around 80-90 percent Chinese speaking staff, so in many ways these Chinese tourists are being made to feel as comfortable and at home as possible. Switzerland has had to reinvent itself to accommodate for China.‚Äù When asked whether¬†China‚Äôs economic slowdown gives him restless nights regarding the future of his industry, Xu remains upbeat. ‚ÄúEvery year we see new rich people emerge from China, so the demand will never run out,‚Äù Xu says. But does he believe Beijing‚Äôs recent clampdowns on lavish government expenditure, and its attempted revival of traditional non-materialistic ethics, could provide a headache for such businesses in the future? Xu doesn‚Äôt think so. ‚ÄúI believe that future generations of these rich folks will also strive for the same luxuries their parents and grandparents had,‚Äù Xu holds. ‚ÄúIf a child was educated abroad in a top-quality boarding school, they‚Äôre sure to want their kids to have the same.‚Äù Amid a seemingly¬†countless array of holiday companies that arrange smooth passage for Chinese tourists during their stays in European countries like Switzerland, it seems that Swissna has taken the initiative by also seeking out the market of wealthy Chinese looking to make solid future investments in the country. Whether it be buying property, looking at immigration or simply wanting to plan a unique high-end holiday experience, Swissna‚Äôs services perhaps reflect what we can expect more of from China‚Äôs wealthy elite in the near future.
He visited them just Monday, telling them they should be prepared to deal "deadly strikes." The†last skirmish, in 2010, was an exchange of artillery from both sides, one fit to blot out the sun. Those a bit closer to the action seem to think a skirmish is more likely after American exercises are over.
ShutterstockThe government (left), and you. In case you thought that you had grown up enough that you don't have to be treated like a three-year old anymore, we have depressing news for you: Your government thinks you haven't. The clucking nannies at the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have ruled that Tweets must contain "the fine print," Shira Ovide and Danny Yadron of the Wall Street Journal report: Whether it is including the average effectiveness of a weight-loss shake or noting that a celebrity was paid to push a product in a Twitter post, marketing firms need to apply the same standards to online ads as they long have to older media, according to guidelines released Tuesday by the Federal Trade Commission. The new guidelines are important because they suggest the grounds on which the agency might open an investigation. The report expands the FTC's more than decade-old rules on Web ads to the world of social media and smartphones. The commission doesn't handle criminal investigations but can issue civil penalties if it finds misleading advertising. The regulators defended this absurdity by saying that some befuddled consumers might go straight from Twitter to the store and therefore might not learn that they had just been brainwashed. If you've ever listened to a radio ad or seen the Viagra-spot warnings about erections lasting more than six hours, you'll know that the fine print usually takes up more than 140 characters. So you might think that the silver lining is that companies won't be Tweeting at you much anymore. Nope. They've already figured out how to do the fine print in tweets: Disclosures must be clear enough that they aren't "misleading a significant minority of reasonable consumers," the FTC said. Marketers could flag Twitter ads by including "Ad:" (three characters) at the beginning of the post or the word "sponsored" (nine characters). Twitter has found ways to incorporate disclosure requirements into short Twitter ads. In 140-character ads for political candidates or other direct political ads, Twitter designates them with a purple box and when a user hovers his mouse over the box, it shows a disclosure about who paid for the ad. That setup is intended to hew to requirements of the Federal Election Commission. Read more at the Journal &gt;
The American spirit is rooted in the belief of a better tomorrow. Its success has been due to generations of men and women who toiled, through both hardship and boom times, to make that dream a reality. But at some point over the past several decades, that hope for a better tomorrow became an expectation. Or perhaps a perceived entitlement is more accurate. It became assumed that the future would be more prosperous than today, irrespective of the actual steps being taken in the here and now. And for a prolonged time ñ characterized by plentiful and cheap energy, accelerating globalization, technical innovation, and the financialization of the economy ñ it seemed like this assumption was a certain bet.† But these wonderful tailwinds that America has been enjoying for so many decades are sputtering out. The forces of resource scarcity, debt saturation, price inflation, and physical limits will impact our way of life dramatically more going forward than living generations have experienced to date. And Americans, who had the luxury of abandoning savings and sacrifice for consumerism and credit financing, are on a collision course with that reality. Like the grasshopper in Aesop's fable, they have partied away the fair seasons and winter is now on the way, which they are not prepared for. The prudent thing to do here would be to have an honest, adult-sized conversation with ourselves about our level of (un)readiness and how best to use the resources and time we have left while the system still works more or less the way we're used to. There are certainly strategies and steps we can take in the here and now to best match priorities to needs, and meet the future as prepared as possible. But you won't find this discussion in the national media. Our politicians insist on charting a course of more of the same, no matter how unsustainable, adamant not to touch any political third rails ñ for fear of not pleasing the electorate and/or donors. Major media outlets have abandoned the investigative journalism that once held the mirror of truth up to power, and instead, run superficial puff pieces that conclude with platitudes ñ for fear of not offending viewers and/or sponsors. The message is clear: The future will be better as soon as economic growth returns. Or oil prices come down. Or the iPhone 6 comes out. Or whatever the magic bullet du jour. So it's up to the concerned and critical-thinking among us to look at the math, the hard data underlying the headlines, and construct what we can best calculate to be true.† And the truth is: The three adult generations in the U.S. are suffering, and their burdens are likely to increase with time. Each is experiencing a squeeze that is making it harder to create value, save capital, and pursue happiness than at any point since WWII. At that point, we were a creditor nation with an economy exploding into dominance on the world stage. Now, however, the U.S. is the largest debtor nation and our economic hegemony is increasingly at siege across a number of fronts. A continuation of the status quo is a decision to sleepwalk face-first into the constraints hurtling towards us. Instead, shouldn't we stop fooling ourselves and ask: What should we be doing differently? We'll address that after we walk through the numbers. In the late 1970s, the 401k emerged as a new retirement vehicle. Among its touted benefits was the ability of the individual to save as much as s/he thought prudent for his/her financial future. Companies loved the new private savings plans because they gave them a way out of putting aside mandatory savings for worker pensions. For a long time, everyone thought this was a big step forward. Three decades later, what we're realizing is that this shift from dedicated-contribution pension plans to voluntary private savings was a grand experiment with no assurances. Corporations definitely benefited, as they could redeploy capital to expansion or bottom line profits. But employees? The data certainly seems to show that the experiment did not take human nature into account enough ñ specifically, the fact that just because people have the option to save money for later use doesn't mean that they actually will. First off, not every American worker (by far) is offered a 401k or similar retirement plan through work. But of those that are, 21% choose not to participate (source). As a result, 1 in 4 of those aged 45-64 and 22% of those 65+ have $0 in retirement savings (source). Forty-nine percent of American adults of all ages aren't saving anything for retirement. Of those with retirement savings, the numbers are not good. Over half of US retirees have less than $25,000 in savings:  (Source) Most planners advise saving enough before retirement to maintain annual living expenses at about 70-80% of what they were during one's income-earning years. Medicare out-of-pocket costs alone are expected to be†between $240,000 and $430,000†over retirement for a 65-year-old couple retiring today. The gap between retirement savings and living costs in one's later years is pretty staggering: As for Medicare, the out-of-pocket costs could easily soar over retirement. The Wall Street Journal reports that the current estimate of Medicare's unfunded liability now tops $42 Trillion. Such a mind-boggling gap makes it highly likely that current retirees will not receive all of the entitlements they are being promised. And the denial being shown by baby boomers entering retirement is frightening. Many simply plan to work longer before retiring, with a growing percentage saying they plan to work "forever".† But the data shows that declining health gives older Americans no choice but to leave the work force eventually, whether they want to or not. Years of surveys by the Employment Benefit Research Institute show that fully†half of current retirees had to leave the work force sooner than desired due to health problems, disability, or layoffs. Add to this the nefarious impact of the Federal Reserve's prolonged 0% interest rate policy, which makes it extremely hard for retirees with fixed-income investments to generate a meaningful income from them. The number of Americans aged 65 years and older is projected to more than double in the next 40 years:  Will the remaining body of active workers be able to support this tsunami of underfunded seniors? Don't bet on it. To borrow from another fable, U.S. policy is doing its best to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs. Bottlenecked between retirees and the younger "millennial" generation is the current "productive peak" working class. As government, mired in debt and budget deficits, grows desperate to boost tax receipts and keep interest rates on its debt manageable, it is increasingly both siphoning capital and stealing purchasing power from those generating income. History shows that this cannot continue indefinitely. Eventually you exhaust the incentive for working and your productive class goes on strike. How close are we to that breaking point? It's not hard to find a litany of articles on the Internet these days warning that it's coming soon: Personal Incomes &amp; the Decline of the American Saver If we put all of this together we can see a picture of the average American.† The chart below shows the annual change in personal incomes combined with the annual change in personal expenditures.† What is clear is that consumption has been supported by rising transfer receipts (welfare) and a drop in the personal savings rate which is now at the lowest level since just prior to the last recession.† The consumer is clearly struggling to maintain their current standard of living and all indications are that they are going to lose this battle. Consumer Spending Drought: 16 Signs That the Middle Class Is Running out of Money Is "discretionary income" rapidly becoming a thing of the past for most American families?† Right now, there are a lot of signs that we are on the verge of a nightmarish consumer spending drought.† Incomes†are down, taxes are up, many large retail chains are deeply struggling because of the lack of customers, and at this point nearly a quarter of all Americans have more credit card debt than money in the bank.† Considering the fact that consumer spending is such a large percentage of the U.S. economy, that is very bad news.† How will we ever have a sustained economic recovery if consumers don't have much money to spend?† Well, the truth is that we aren't ever going to have a sustained economic recovery.† In fact, this†debt-fueled bubble of false hope†that we are experiencing right now is as good as things are going to get.† Things are going to go downhill from here, and if you think that consumer spending is bad now, just wait until you see what happens over the next several years Looking from a bird's-eye view, real wages have been falling in the U.S. for decades. The below chart includes numbers based on the officially reported Consumer Price Index (or CPI, the methodology of which has been changed many times to make the output "kinder and gentler"), as well as those from ShadowStats, which applies a standardized and less fuzzy methodology to try to get to a truer picture. You can see that according to ShadowStats (the dark blue line), real wages have been plummeting in recent years as the Federal Reserve has been running the money-printing machines at full tilt:  Meanwhile, the cost of living has soared as the Fed's liquidity has found its way into the commodities markets and driven prices of essentials higher:  So today's worker is enjoying paying for substantially costlier goods with a materially devalued income ñ that is, if they are fortunate enough to have an income. Unemployment in the U.S. is still painfully high. Even the recently-celebrated declines are due to a jump in part time jobs as workers take on multiple jobs to simply get by. Full-time jobs are actually on the decline.  At the same time, in pursuit of greater efficiencies, U.S. corporations are investing more than ever in automation. Many of the less-skilled jobs lost during the Great Recession are simply not coming back, as human labor is increasingly replaced by robots and intelligent machines. And yes, while the stock market is up nicely in the past year, the wealth gains from this are hyper-concentrated within the top 10% ñ really the top 1%, as this excellent video visualizes. (Warning: viewing this may make the blood boil.) The mean U.S. household currently only has about $50k in savings (and that average is skewed upwards by the super-rich).  These workers have also been whipsawed over the past decade by several asset bubbles blown by central banks that have knee-capped their efforts to amass wealth. The S&amp;P 500 stock index has just returned to price territory last seen in 2001 and 2007, and housing prices are only slowly beginning to rise again in the aftermath of the vicious correction begun in 2007. Sadly, it seems that new bubbles in stocks, bonds and housing are being inflated once again ñ sure to take a large swath of wealth from these workers when they burst. Perhaps the arriving cohort of younger workers will be able to support their elders once they hit their peak earning years.† We can hope. But again, the prospects do not look encouraging. Pity the recent college graduate. The cost of higher education has been far outstripping inflation for years, largely due to that fact that most colleges have no exposure to their students' ability to repay their loans. So universities actually have an incentive to continue to raise tuition and other fees as high as the market will possibly bear.  The average graduate student has a student loan balance of†over $27,000†(not including credit-card or other types of debt that many students also have). This puts them into a hole early in their adult lives that delays their ability to create families, buy a first home, or start businesses. This challenge to capital formation is compounded by the frighteningly high unemployment rate of approximately 12% for those under 30. Not only are companies still hiring conservatively, but given the factors mentioned above, younger workers find themselves competing with older ones for entry-level positions to an extent not seen in living memory. It's no wonder there's a growing perception that going deep into debt for a college diploma isn't a smart trade-off. A number of today's graduates will be finally paying off their balances around the same time their own children are heading off to college. And along with the joys of debt-serfdom, younger workers are realizing they can't count on: ...and a number of other elements of the "American promise" that preceding generations were able to take for granted. It's no surprise that millions of young workers are giving up on searching for work. Of course, the big danger for this generation's members is that the longer they go without work experience, the less appealing they become to employers when hiring does begin to pick back up. Tomorrow's new college graduates will be hired for entry-level positions, leaving many of today's unskilled seekers "unemployable" ñ a lost generation. In summary, if we're being honest with ourselves, the current narrative of recovery being pushed by Wall Street and the mainstream media doesn't make any sense. The American experience of rising standards of living and general prosperity have always rested upon a deep and healthy middle class. That middle class, by mos any available economic or financial measure, is steadily losing ground as a direct consequence of Fed and DC policies. By forcing the stock market higher, the Fed has simply made a small minority of the country better off †By funneling endless amounts of free money to the biggest banks, the Fed has enriched the banking system. The Fed truly seems to believe that this is the right course of action: that a stable and profitable banking system coupled to rising stock prices will somehow generate the necessary confidence within the middle class required for them to once again go on a borrowing binge. Because that's what the system has devolved into, for better or worse: our economy is founded on credit and borrowing, not earnings and savings. The problem is, outside of the manufactured statistics of government and the manufactured stock prices of the Fed, the median family has far less earning power this year than last. And it knows in its heart of hearts that DC will tax more and return less as time goes on, and that job security no longer exists as corporations ruthlessly pursue bottom line results. Quite rationally, many families are realizing that's not an appropriate environment for taking on more debt. More profoundly, the big picture numbers just don't add up. A nation that's collectively in hock to the tune of 373% of GDP ñ  not including entitlement liabilities† which launch that figure to more than 1000% ñ  needs to seriously face the fact that it cannot make good on its current promises, let alone entertain making them larger. And yet here we are, with every outlet of the current power structure vigorously promoting that "all is well" while minimizing or completely ignoring those who would seek to open a dialog about the wisdom, or lack thereof, of ramming asset prices higher and supporting historically ruinous levels of deficit spending by printing money out of thin air. As dire as the trends look, there is much that can be done to ameliorate their impact ñ†and enter the future with grace and optimism ñ if as a society we have the courage to do it. There's no doubt that simply continuing along the status quo is a vote for digging ourselves deeper as the constraints of the future arrive. Behavior change is necessary in order to improve our chances. At the core of the needed change is redefining prosperity. In modern society, it has largely come to be defined by material possessions, usually assuming that the more (and the more expensive), the better. In the future, we'd do much better to define it by: In sum, all things that were once valued much higher in our culture. It's important to realize that when the cheap energy and associated cheap-credit era arrived, the work of all those energy and liquidity "slaves" allowed us to disassociate ourselves from centuries-old customs and live a much more isolated, materialistic life. While freeing in ways, perhaps, we are beginning to realize that those values and norms evolved for a reason. We'll be on a journey of rediscovering their worth as we start†trending back towards more historic baselines.† The good news is the list of prudent behavior to adopt is long, and it's growing as we (here at PeakProsperity.com and related sites) work together to identify those with the most promise. This is by no means an exhaustive account, and I look forward to active discussion and additions in the Comments section below: There are other prudent behaviors to add to this list, but this is a pretty good start.† And a good start is what we need, as a country and a global community: to stop denying the reality around us and start getting on with how we want to deal with it.
One of the scariest words in economics: stagflation. That combination of a crappy economy and surging prices. That's the dismal situation being used to characterize the UK in the top story of Wednesday's FT. FT
The Automatic EarthArtwork: Ilargi for the Automatic EarthDuring the Italian election weekend two weeks ago, I watched all three Godfather films on a local station. Very convenient, since they can teach you quite a bit about Italy, even if you've seen them a dozen times already in the past. The abdication of the pope sort of rounded off the history lesson, and I was thinking: OK, now I'm good to go. After the results came in and Beppe Grillo and the Five Star movement (M5S) became the single biggest "party", I was going to simply repost my February 10 article Beppe Grillo Wants To Give Italy Democracy, in which I wrote about my meeting with Beppe and the ideas we talked about which I took away from that. He had won big, but it was clear that most people still had no idea who he is. But after reading through the lazy sloppy "journalism" in the international press in the days following the elections, it was obvious that wouldn't have been sufficient anymore. Hardly anyone seems to know who Beppe Grillo is, and more importantly, they don't seem to care. In their minds, because everybody else does it, they are fine calling him a clown, a dictator and (Italian paper Gazetta Del Sud) a "foul-mouthed rabble rouser". Much easier, because it doesn't require any research. At the very least, whether you work for a major international news organization or a national paper, if you want to stay on the safe side, since deep down you know you haven't done your homework, "populist" looks like an acceptable sort of name-calling. Now, one of the definitions of populist is someone who opposes elites, which certainly applies to Grillo, but these days you can't use the term without implying someone who appeals to the base instincts of the IQ challenged part of the population. And that definitely does not apply. If only because in Italy, Berlusconi's got that demographic covered. The name of the game seems to be that Grillo is bad news because he "unnerves" markets and investors. For one thing, he himself would be only too happy with that. Not because he wants mayhem, but because he thinks that what there is now is not working. Grillo's first and main objective is to rid Italy of the corruption it has been suffering from for ages (which is why the Godfather series is enlightening), so if you want to understand or perhaps even judge him you will first need to look at that whole chapter. And yes, it's true, he sees the entire political system in Rome as an integral part of that corruption, and so it will have to go. As he put it: "Who makes up a criminal conspiracy? If you go and look, [you'll find] they are made up of bankers, politicians, judges and, just perhaps, once in a while, a criminal." What is happening in Italy as a consequence of its relationship with the EU and the Eurozone is in Grillo's eyes also the result of the corrupt system (since it's all been agreed to by the career politicians who sit in parliament, for all sides of the spectrum). Therefore, he questions the benefits for the Italian people of the existing situation. That's all. And that's enough for both Brussels and Rome to vilify him. Nobody is supposed to question the glory of Europe and the Euro, and hardly anyone does, certainly not the press, presumably because nobody wants to unnerve the markets. But if you ask me, if anything needs to be questioned, it's that one-dimensional religion that says the Euro is the only way to achieve fulfillment. Grillo, who's been given the anti-Euro label by the press, puts it this way in a Time Magazine interview: Do you think Italy should leave the euro? I've never said I want to be in or out of the euro. I said I want correct information. I want a Plan B for survival for the next 10 years. And then, with a referendum we decide. The costs and benefits, letís know what are they are. But first you need to inform. If you just hint that you want to leave the euro, you're crazy. Thereís no dialogue. Just hint, and youíre a demagogue, youíre crazy, you want to drag Italy to default, youíre irresponsible. Just because you say, letís think about this, what would really happen? For the Europhiles, the Merkel Monti Draghi Van Rompuy clan, there is no Plan B. Or perhaps I should say it's the plan whose name shall not be mentioned. And that's untenable; you can do that sort of thing as long as you throw enough bling at people, but when you start taking it away from them, they'll come looking for answers and explanations. There simply comes a point when unnerving the people will trump unnerving the markets. First, let's get up to date with Italy's economy, to get a better idea of the backdrop against which the Five Stars have risen. On Friday, Fitch downgraded Italian debt. President Napolitano has until March 15, the new parliament, to start pressuring for a new government. Since he's about to resign, he can't call new elections. Beppe Grillo has called for his long term supporter, Nobel literature laureate Dario Fo, to be appointed the new president. Grillo has rejected calls to close a deal with Bersani's existing left wing coalition, as he always said he would. Napolitano could try to get a new technocrat government in place (Corrado Passera, Monti's industry minister is named as a new PM), or he could call on Bersani and Berlusconi to work together. Ironically, the main reason for Italy to have a government would be to make sure the Troika austerity demands keep being met, and if that doesn't work, to file for a new bailout. Whichever choice Napolitano makes, it appears certain it will be short-lived. "Italy is a nation of tricksters. Yesterday I was in Rome. I got on a bus and stamped my ticket: 'Click. Clack.' The driver turned round and said: 'What the fuck's that noise?!'" The Italian economy contracted 2.4% in 2012, almost twice as much as Spain. Italy's public debt is Ä2 trillion, or $2.6 trillion, predicted to rise to 130% of GDP this year, the highest level in 100 years. Also in 2012, more than 360,000 Italian businesses folded as a result of what business lobbying group Confindustria labeled a "credit crunch": on the one hand banks refuse loans, on the other Monti's tax increases and spending cuts squeeze like a vice. Italyís official unemployment rate hit a 11.7% record in January, the government said last week, with youth unemployment rising to 38.7%. And that's just the macro numbers; the real story lies beneath the surface. Like here: More than 65% of Italian families struggling More than 65% of Italian families cannot make it to the end of the month with their current salaries, a report by the Bank of Italy said on Tuesday. The alarm launched by the country's central bank said that those hardest hit are young families and renters whose monthly income is not sufficient to cover living expenses. Also, in Italy a huge number of young adults live with their parents, like for instance over 70% of men and 50% of women between 25 and 29 years old, and more than half between 18 and 34, lived "at home" in 2010. While part of that is due to stronger family bonds than in other countries, it's much more importantly an indication of just how poorly the economy is doing. In comparison, in France just 10% of the same age group live with their parents. Of course you can glaze over these numbers, they're just more of the same. Where it gets interesting is when you try to see what's comings next. The Italian economy is bad and getting worse, and the only answer the troika has ever had is double or nothing, in other words: more austerity, more cuts and higher taxes. And that will have to stop somewhere; it should certainly not come as a surprise that Italians vote for someone who says it can be done differently. It seems clear that no matter what government is tinkered together, Italy will have new elections relatively soon, perhaps late this year. But even before then, Beppe Grillo will demand changes. He will demand a clean-up of parliament, prosecution of the corrupt part of society, and a clean and clear vote of the people in issues like the Euro. More ominously for the Italian and European status quo, he will launch a nationwide discussion about what to do with the 130% of GDP, $2.6 trillion debt. He's made clear that in his (accountant) mind, restructuring and default should be on the agenda, in correlation with large scale nationalization of the banking industry. That is the time bomb that has started ticking in Europe when the election results came in. The idea is simply what I've said earlier about Greece: if you know you're going to be miserable whatever you do, you might as well make sure it's your own misery, and under your own control. At this point it's hard to say what's more likely, Grillo being murdered and renditioned or more Grillo's raising their heads in other European countries. The more time he gets, the more he will get done. And others will see that and try to copy it. And he's right, the internet does open a whole new set of democratic opportunities. That may be perceived as more urgent in Italy's corruption-rotten state, but why would Spain, Greece and Portugal not follow? Because they have no angry comedians? The EU meanwhile needs to deal with Cyprus, a hard nut to crack, since Dutch, German and Finnish taxpayers must be forced to bail out Russian oligarchs who have billions in funds stashed in bankrupt Cypriot banks. What's been below the surface thus far is that Brussels has a next case to contend with: Slovenia's government fell last week over economic issues, and it's a - small - Eurozone country. Bulgaria's government is also gone, but they're "only" EU, not Eurozone. Nothing like a perfect storm to unnerve financial markets. Which brings me to the Dow. Which is setting records. And I find that peculiar: while pundits try to make us believe these records stem from an economic recovery stateside, when I look at this graph, part of a presentation by Jim Boswell, I just don't see it: As is obvious from this graph, trading volume on the NYSE is so low it feels like some kind of singularity is upon us. Itís down at least 50% from the average of the preceding years, and last year doesnít even have a temporary peak anymore. But prices set records? Really? What other assets are there for which prices go up as trade goes down? Well, yeah, scarcity can do that perhaps, but that's not the case here. It all looks very volatile to me. It's easier to prop up prices at low volumes, but they can fall much faster too when whoever it is that still remains in the market goes away. Because he's found out to hold mainly zombie money, for instance. So to answer the question what's more important to you: I sure wouldn't pick the Dow. That records thing could be over tomorrow. Beppe Grillo's new democracy, though, has a long way to go. The more the owning class tries to squeeze, the more the debt slaves will demand a vote. They don't even need to gather in streets and squares anymore, they have representation in parliament. From that same Time interview: Are you afraid that if you donít succeed, the same energy that pushed you up could push up darker forces? If we fail, [Italy] is headed for violence in the streets. But if we crumble, then they come. Everything started in Italy. Fascism was born here. The banks were born here. We invented debt. The mafia, us too. Everything started here. If violence doesnít start here, itís because of the movement. If we fail, weíre headed for violence in the street. Half the population canít take it anymore. I think he may just be right. That movements like this are the only remaining chance at solving this peacefully. That alone should be worth a lot more than keeping a contraption like the Eurozone together. The problem is, it's not the ruling religion. Anyone know any German comedians? Do they even have any? Life has become a show at which we are the audience ñ and have to buy a ticket.  Beppe Grillo
Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, is getting a $6 million bonus on Friday, according to a new SEC filing the company made. Let's just say this: He earned it. Sure, Schmidt hardly needs the cash, thanks to his gigantic stake in Google, which is worth more than $6 billion after the stock's recent run-up. (He's planning to sell about 42 percent of those shares over the course of this year.) But when he stepped down as CEO two years ago, Schmidt took a new position focusing on Google's relationships with governments around the world‚Äîincluding the United States. Google recently settled an antitrust dispute with the Federal Trade Commission that could have seriously threatened its business. It got away with a surprisingly light agreement. The company had a very good year, besides the resolution of the antitrust matter, and other bonuses reflected that. Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, got the next biggest bonus at $3.3 million. Google's CFO, Patrick Pichette, and sales chief, Nikesh Arora, got $2.8 million apiece.¬†
YouTubeCarl Icahn just upped the ante in his war against hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. According to an SEC filing, Icahn bought 322,716 more shares of Herbalife at $41.45 a share. Herbalife has been a battleground for hedge fund managers since last December, when Bill Ackman announced that he was shorting the stock and would donate the profits of his short to charity. Ackman claims that Herbalife, a nutrition firm with a multi-level marketing business model, is actually a pyramid scheme. Earlier this year, Icahn jumped on the other side of Ackman's trade. 
Congressman Ryan laid huge egg today with his budget. Whatís wrong with this guy? Canít he count votes? The proposal by Ryan is to end Obamacare. While there might be some merit to that notion ñ it ainít going to happen. The Senate is controlled by the Democrats, and Obama would veto anything that came close to scrapping the cornerstone of his administration. So donít even bother to read the budget that the Republicanís have put up. It will not see the light of day. It was just a show pony for Ryan. I went right to Ryanís numbers for Social Security. How much of a reduction in benefit payments is he calling for over the coming decade? ZERO. ZIP. NADA. How to describe this obvious political dodge of responsibility: Gutless? Weak? Spineless? Chicken-hearted? Cowardly? Wimpy? How about pusillanimous (lack of courage)? Ryan spent two of the 90 pages of crap on happy talk about Social Security. He wants to strengthen it. But he doesnít say how, or even why. He even had the balls to quote FDR on SS. His proposal is to establish a ìPresidential Commissionî. Screw that idea; we did that three years ago. Nothing came from it. The Ryan plan got the heave-ho from the Congressional Budget Office. I was amazed to see that the folks who are tasked to look at significant proposals basically said they were too busy.† Bruce Krasting The Republican jerks have squandered an opportunity to come up with anything that is even remotely feasible. Next up will be the Democratic version of Utopia. I suspect that the Senate version of a budget will be similarly out of touch with reality. When will S&amp;P say ìenough-is-enoughî, and drop the US credit rating another notch? Given that there is no leadership at all, the folks at S&amp;P must be thinking about how to respond.† Last time it did not matter a damn that the rating was dropped. I donít think the country will be so lucky the second time around.
If I were a dividend, I‚Äôd fire my press agent. I‚Äôd be jealous and feel neglected because stock prices get a lot more attention than they deserve. The only time dividends make headlines is when they get reduced, because dividend cuts (or omissions) often go hand in hand with stock price declines. The stock is a victim; the dividend is the bad guy. But if I were a dividend, I‚Äôd be more upset because I never get the credit I deserve. Over the past century dividends delivered close to half of all stock market returns. Think about that. If you were fortunate to be alive for the past 100 years and had your money invested in the stock market, half of your returns would have come from dividends. However, the above statement needs an important clarification: It sometimes takes decades for investors in broad stock market indexes to obtain ‚Äúaverage‚Äù returns. Historically, the stock market has gone through exciting phases of above-average returns (secular bull markets), which were usually followed by less satisfying phases of below-average returns (secular sideways markets), each lasting about a decade and a half. I have written about why my research leads me to believe we are in a long-lasting sideways market. During the past three sideways markets, dividends were responsible for more than 90 percent of stock market returns. Yet the current dividend yield of the S&amp;P 500 index is only 2.1 percent, less than half of what stocks yielded, on average, over the past century. A few months ago a client asked my firm if we could come up with a defensive stock portfolio that would yield more than 7 percent. In an environment in which the Federal Reserve has let loose a jihad on interest rates and carpet bombed anything even remotely resembling yield through its purchase of riskless (or near-riskless) instruments of all durations, I thought it was not doable. Most stable, income-producing assets (I am not even talking about bonds), such as real estate investment trusts, yield a miserable 3 percent or so and are likely to be candidates to short, not buy, in the long run. Read the rest at InstitutionalInvestor.com &gt;
Apple! A year ago analysts were tripping over themselves to raise their price targets. This year, they're tripping over themselves to lower their price targets. A year ago, the stock was flying to the moon. This year the stock has taken a serious tumble back to earth. A year ago, it was the brand that could do no wrong. This year, it's a company for old people, and it's at risk of being the next Motorola ó a one time high flyer who defined the mobile phone, but crashed when people moved on to the next thing. What happened to Apple that it's been so thoroughly tarnished? We'll do our best to explain it here. We believe there are three fundamental reasons for the shifting perceptions of Apple. We're going to focus on the last point, because we think it helps to explain why the first two points are hurting Apple more than they probably should be. We also think it helps explain why the hype for Samsung, and even Google's projects, has gotten so out of control lately. And that hype has contributed to the growing notion that Apple is a has-been. Let's start with some simple facts about Apple. Last quarter, Apple sold 48 million iPhones, which was a record for the company. Apple's revenue was $54.5 billion. Net profit was $13.1 billion. All three of those numbers were staggeringly huge and records for Apple. For some context, Google's revenue was $14.42 billion during the same period. That's only $1.3 billion more than Apple's profit. In other words, the cash Apple is keeping is almost as much as the cash Google generates overall. However, Apple's numbers, as good as they were, were well short of Wall Street's expectations. Worse, Apple's guidance, or what it says it will do this quarter, was considerably below what analysts and investors were expecting. Apple even sort of hid the fact that its earnings per share (EPS) would fall on a year over year basis this quarter. According to Apple's guidance, EPS will fall a startling 17 percent to 25†percent this quarter. Compare that to Apple's 2011 March quarter when EPS was up 92 percent. Last year Apple released the iPhone 4S in China during the March quarter, which sent its EPS to the moon. This year, Apple released the iPhone 5 in China at the end of the December quarter. As a result, this year's March quarter won't be as lucrative as last year, and thus we'll see negative EPS growth. A product timing transition is normal. And rather easily explained. But there's more to it than the timing of an iPhone rollout. This is where we will blur the line between fact and image. And this is where Apple most misses Jobs. Apple has been getting hammered on numerous reports that it's cutting back orders for iPhones based on supply chain chatter. The company is also reportedly cutting down its overall iPad orders. Tim Cook did his best to kill these rumors on Apple's earnings call, saying Apple has a lot of suppliers, so don't pay too much attention to the reports. But everyone pretty much ignored Cook. As a steady stream of reports about Apple cutting iPhone orders leaked out, the conversation shifted to 'what's wrong with Apple?' And the answer to that question quickly became: It makes small-screened phones that have been equaled and, in some cases, leap-frogged by the competition. The tech press, for example, has argued that Samsung is killing Apple. It's not like that's a crazy theory. Samsung is now the world's biggest smartphone seller. But Samsung actually doesn't have a single model of phone that outsells the iPhone. The iPhone 5, Apple's newest phone, was the best selling phone in the world last quarter. Strategy AnalyticsThe iPhone 4S, which is a year old, was the second best seller. It outsold Samsung's top of the line Galaxy S III by two million units. If Samsung phones are so superior to Apple's, then why would people choose a one-year old phone with a tiny screen over a cutting-edge big-screened phone? This is where Apple is missing Steve Jobs dearly. Perhaps better than anyone in history, Jobs understood how to craft and deliver a message. He understood how to control the conversation and change the topic. Either on the record, or behind closed doors, Jobs would have told a marvelous story about how Apple's products are transcendent and the competition's blow. And people would have believed him. In the early eighties, one of Apple's early engineers, Bud Tribble, told a new employee, "Steve has a reality distortion field." Tribble got the term from Star Trek, said Walter Isaacson in his biography of Jobs. "In his presence, reality is malleable," said Tribble. "He can convince anyone of practically anything. It wears off when heís not around, but it makes it hard to have realistic schedules." Tribble was talking about a product release schedule. But the term stuck. Inside and out of Apple Jobs' powerful charisma got people to believe in just about everything he said. Without Jobs, there is no one at Apple with the charisma to beat back the stories about Samsung's rise and Apple's fall. There is no one to explain what's happening with the iPhone business. There is no one to artfully drop hints about future products and massacre the products of rivals. One of the many great moments of Jobs' three-decade reality distortion field around Apple happened when he jumped on an earnings call in 2010. At the time the iPad was still new and rivals were releasing smaller tablets. Investors and Apple fans were worried that these new tablets would hurt the iPad. Jobs didn't resort to the anodyne demurrals or corporate-speak that CEOs normally defer to when discussing competitors' products. He straight up destroyed all the tablets that were coming into the market. After ticking off six reasons why these new tablets would fail against the iPad, Jobs closed with, "These are among the reasons we think the current crop of seven-inch tablets are going to be DOA, Dead on Arrival. Their manufacturers will learn the painful lesson that their tablets are too small and increase the size next year, thereby abandoning both customers and developers who jumped on the seven-inch bandwagon with an orphan product. Sounds like lots of fun ahead." Apple, of course, later released its own smaller tablet, the iPad Mini. And the iPad Mini is now the best-selling tablet in the world. But at the time, Jobs speech was so perfectly constructed it was difficult to argue with what he said. Even more importantly, the perception Jobs created became reality. The first wave of tablets totally failed to topple the iPad.† Now that Jobs is dead, his reality distortion field is gone. There's no one at Apple who can artfully spin what's happening in the smartphone market. There is no one to scoff at concerns that Apple hasn't released a new product category since the iPad, or explain why that doesn't matter. There's no one at Apple forcefully pointing out that there hasn't been a single major technological innovation that Apple missed that came from a rival in the last ten years. Tim Cook tries. But it comes out flat. In a cruel irony, Apple now appears to be the victim of a reality distortion field, with the world perceiving the company and its products in a worse light than they actually are. Ben Bajarin wrote in Time Magazine that, "Apple is the most profitable company, canít make enough products to meet demand and is the most admired by its peers. Yet Wall Street and media fanatics are claiming Apple is doomed. The reality distortion field is in full effect." Imagine if Steve Jobs were alive now and running Apple. Do you think he'd have something interesting to say about Google Glass? Do you think he'd have a surgical, devastating critique of Samsung? Of course he would. And what he would say would alter the broader conversation about Apple and its brand. So, yes, Apple's growth has slowed and its stock has tumbled. But those are just facts. What has really gone wrong at Apple is the loss of Jobs' reality distortion field.
In an amended complaint filed late Monday in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, Greenberg's Starr International Co said it is now seeking damages over Maiden Lane III LLC, a vehicle designed to rid banks of toxic debt underlying transactions with AIG. The claims are in addition to claims that Starr previously asserted over the government's taking of a 79.9 percent stake in AIG in September 2008, which was eventually swapped for 562.9 million common shares. In the amended complaint, Starr said it is seeking to recover, on behalf of shareholders and the company, $23 billion over the government's 79.9 percent stake, plus as much as $32.5 billion of collateral it said was given away through Maiden Lane III. It is also seeking unspecified damages related to AIG's 1-for-20 reverse stock split in June 2009. Starr said the various actions constituted an illegal taking that violated the 5th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. AIG in January refused to help Starr pursue the lawsuit, and on Tuesday reaffirmed that refusal. In an earlier version of the complaint, Starr estimated total damages as being "in no event less than $25 billion." This phrase does not appear in the new complaint, which was also filed by Greenberg's lawyer David Boies of Boies, Schiller &amp; Flexner LLP. Prior to the bailout, Starr had held a 12 percent AIG stake, making it the largest shareholder of what had been the world's largest insurer by market value. A U.S. Department of Justice spokesman was not immediately available for comment. Robert Dwyer, a partner at Boies, Schiller &amp; Flexner, declined to comment. CLASS-ACTION LAWSUIT Starr filed the amended complaint a few hours after U.S. Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler awarded class-action status to two groups of shareholders, which the judge said could number in the tens of thousands, challenging the $182.3 billion AIG bailout. Maiden Lane III, named for the downtown Manhattan street where AIG is based, was created by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to repurchase from AIG counterparties more than $62 billion of assets linked to collateralized debt obligations. Starr said the repurchases, sometimes done at 100 cents on the dollar, was a "backdoor" bailout for Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Societe Generale SAand other banks that had entered more than $400 billion of credit default swaps with AIG. "Without any budgetary, regulatory, or other authority, FRBNY and its agents took or illegally exacted 79.9% equity and voting interest from AIG in September 2008, (and) gave away AIG's legal rights and $32.5 billion of its collateral through the Maiden Lane III transaction," the amended complaint said. Starr is separately appealing the November 2012 dismissal of its related lawsuit against the New York Fed. U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in Manhattan at the time said he found nothing to suggest that AIG directors were coerced into accepting the bailout, which he called the result of "corporate desperation. AIG OPPOSES GREENBERG AIG decided on January 9 not to join Greenberg's lawsuit, citing potential harm to its reputation. Some politicians and voters had recoiled at the prospect that AIG might sue the same government that had rescued it from collapse. Starr attacked this decision, saying it stemmed from government coercion and justified its lawsuit on AIG's behalf. "The United States indicated it would wage a negative public relations campaign against AIG and its directors, terminate any cooperative relationship with AIG, and heavily scrutinize AIG's SEC, tax, and other filings," Starr said in the complaint. Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman, said the board is standing by the decision and opposes the lawsuit by Greenberg, who had led the insurer for nearly four decades before his 2005 ouster. "AIG will neither pursue these claims itself nor permit Starr to pursue them in AIG's name," he said. "AIG will move to dismiss the derivative claims asserted by Starr in AIG's name." On March 1, AIG eliminated the government's last financial stake by repurchasing warrants from the Treasury Department. The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Phil Berlowitz) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The horror continues.¬† Thousands of dead pigs are still turning up in Shanghai's Huangpu river, after hundreds of carcasses were initially discovered there last Thursday. The number of dead pigs is now up to 5,916, authorities said Tuesday, according to Chinese news agency¬†Xinhua. That's more than double the number reported on Monday. The possible sources of the carcasses are still under investigation. Clean-up workers are moving fast to remove the dead animals to prevent water pollution. Most of the dead pigs are whole, which is good because it means the inside parts aren't falling out into the water. The Huangpu river is a critical source of drinking water for Shanghai's 23 million residents. Authorities are conducting hourly water quality tests, according Shanghai's official website,¬†and say the city's tap water is still safe to drink, despite the rising death toll. Officials found a¬†virus in a water sample called porcine cirovirus, Xinhua reported, but that virus has not been known to infect or cause disease in humans.¬† Tags on the pigs' ears show that the animals came from¬†Jiaxing, a neighboring province of Shanghai. This suggests that the corpses were dumped into local rivers by farmers.¬†It's not clear what the pigs died from to begin with. There's no evidence that they jumped in the river and drowned. Jiaxing authorities said that the pigs were dumped, but the tags only point to the animals' birthplace, Xinhua reported.¬† In recent years, China has moved toward larger, industrial pig farms in order stabilize pork prices. Between 2009 and 2010, the country produced somewhere between 490 million and 618 million pigs, according to¬†the Food and Agriculture¬†Organization of the United Nations.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Recent Stock Market Rally Is 'Causing Some Indicators To Flash Yellow' (Advisor Perspectives) BlackRock's Russ Koesterich writes that despite the recent rally in U.S. stocks, investors should be cautious.¬† "While there‚Äôs still lots of money on the sidelines that could theoretically support the rally going forward, the magnitude of US stocks‚Äô advance is starting to cause some indicators to flash yellow. "1. Volatility is once again closing in on multi-year lows. 2. While the US economy is healing, US earnings are not advancing as quickly as market averages. 3. Most of this year‚Äôs gains have been driven by higher valuations, rather than higher earnings. 4. Valuations, though still cheap relative to bonds and cash, aren‚Äôt as compelling as they were last fall. US equities now trade at a little more than 14x next year‚Äôs estimated earnings, versus just about 12.5x last fall." Strong Training Programs Are The Best Way To Attract New Talent (The Wall Street Journal) A survey by Charles Schwab showed that the best way for financial advisors to attract new talent is through an intensive training program. For instance, those surveyed said they don't think brokerages should have all their trainees start at the same time.¬† Cornerstone Wealth Advisor's residency program for instance has a new class of residents every 18 months. This gives advisors at the firm time to focus on clients as new residents can train the next batch, yet giving new hires time with advisors that helps close "a gap in the advisory career path". Others like Yeske Buie use something called "succession planning". They like to hire people fresh out of school so they start with a blank slate and work their way up the organization. Hedge Funds Cash Levels Fell To 4.6% (Bank of America) Hedge funds cash levels fell to 4.6 percent in Q4 2012, down from 5 percent the previous quarter. This is below the historical average of eight to 10 percent. "Hedge Funds are fully invested," writes Bank of America's Mary Ann Bartels . BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, LionShares Gartman: I'm Staying Out Of Stocks Because I'm Worried About Insider Selling (The Gartman Letter) Dennis Gartman exited all his bullish positions in the stock market back in February. Since then stocks have hit all-time highs. While he acknowledged he was wrong about stocks, Gartman says insider selling is keeping him on the sidelines. "We are, and we have been, concerned about insider selling; we are and we have been concerned about the rising level of confidence in a steadily rising equity market amongst those who were only a few weeks ago were convinced of the same markets inherent weakness; we are and we have been concerned about the lack of volume on the upside and these concerns seem not to go away.¬† "However, what truly concerns us is the fact that as insider selling has risen, corporate buying of those same securities has also risen. We have to wonder aloud why it is to be considered bullish of shares when corporate insiders are selling their shares even as they mandate that their corporations buy shares on the open market?¬† This bothers us, and it bothers us greatly. In that environment, the sidelines seem even more inviting." Richard Russell Is Telling Investors To Buy Stocks (King World News) Uber bear Richard Russell has changed his tune. In his latest newsletter he is recommending buying stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.¬† "Yes, I know that this market is uncorrected during its long rise from the 2009 low, and I know that there are risks in buying an uncorrected advance that is becoming uncomfortably long in the tooth, but my suggestion is that my subscribers should take a chance (after all, Columbus took a chance) and take a position in the DIAs.¬† If you buy the DIAs, I suggest that you place a mental stop loss 8% below your purchase price.¬† Losses in investing are inevitable, but losses should always be limited. "‚Ä¶I really believe that subscribers should take a flyer on this market.¬† After all, after weeks of flirting with a new high in the Industrial Average, the Dow finally confirmed the previous record high of the Transportation Average.¬† With the Industrials and the Transports both in record high territory, I think being in the market is justified under Dow Theory."
They‚Äôve seen yields tick up, heard the warnings of Pimco‚Äôs Bill Gross¬†and have watched Warren Buffett issue $2.6 billion in long-term debt despite Berkshire Hathaway‚Äôs¬†mountains of cash. All point to a bond market bubble reaching its breaking point. Investors don‚Äôt know exactly when that bubble will burst, but most seem to agree that bond prices¬†simply cannot go much higher. But what could a bear market in bonds actually look like and how do¬†investors take advantage of it? While the last 30 years have been generally bullish for bonds, they have experienced intermittent bear¬†markets, defined here as a 15 percent price decline from peak to trough, several times. Indeed, since¬†1980, seven such bear markets have occurred with the first starting in 1980, then repeating in 1981,¬†1984, 1987, 1994, 2000 and 2009. These bear markets typically manifest themselves in two different ways: One where the Federal Reserve¬†sparks the selloff by raising rates to cool an overheated economy and one in which the market itself¬†starts the selloff with no Fed action on rates until later, if at all. Both have very different results for¬†nearly all asset classes. The Market Led Selloff (The Likely Scenario Now) In a big bond market selloff not caused by the Fed raising rates, the yield curve steepens and long-term bond prices plummet. Stocks and other ‚Äúrisk‚Äù assets, on the other hand, typically skyrocket in this¬†scenario. During the three periods when the market sparked the selloff, the S&amp;P 500 rallied an average¬†of 26.33 percent. The biggest stock surge came in 2009 when the S&amp;P 500 rallied 44.8 percent, but it¬†also increased by double digits in 1984 and 2000. Around the globe, stocks rallied as well. The Stoxx, a key European stock index, rallied an average of¬†24.72 percent during market-led bear markets and the Japanese Nikkei stock index averaged 26 percent¬†returns during those periods. Commodities also benefitted as higher interest rates typically meant higher inflationary expectations¬†and a corresponding uptick in the GSCI Commodity index. During these types of bear markets, the¬†commodity index rose an average of 26.23 percent. Meanwhile, the response by world government¬†bond markets, as reflected in the WGBI index, weakened right along with the U.S. bond markets. Given the Fed‚Äôs recent statements about keeping rates low through 2015, this scenario is most likely¬†in the next bear market. Indeed, many believe bond prices could fall as much as 25 percent this time¬†around. Fed Led Selloff When the Fed sparks a bond selloff, bond prices tend not to fall as far and the corresponding rise in¬†equities is less pronounced. Tight Fed policy reduces inflationary expectations and the rise in yields¬†mostly occurs in short-term bonds. This is best illustrated in the period October 1993 through January¬†1995, when the yield curve flattened dramatically. The reason for this is simple: The Fed typically¬†encourages a bear market in bonds when it believes the economy is overheating and it wants to tame¬†inflation. In some cases, such as in 2005, Fed policy actually diminished inflationary expectations so¬†much that bond yields decreased just as the Fed raised short-term rates. In such cases, the Fed‚Äôs move¬†wasn‚Äôt even enough to spark a bear market in bonds. When the Fed was the first to move, the rise in stocks was much less dramatic than a market led selloff¬†in bonds. Under this scenario, the S&amp;P 500 averaged a gain of just 1.92 per cent, the European STOXX¬†index dropped an average of 0.95 percent and the Nikkei rose 12.43 percent. Meanwhile, with the Fed¬†actively trying to slow economic growth, commodities gained an average of 12.78 percent. Global government bonds, on the other hand, actually strengthened while their U.S. counterparts¬†continued to head south. Capitalizing on the ‚ÄúBear Market‚Äù in Bonds This time around, it‚Äôs fairly clear that the market, not the Fed, will lead any near-term bear market in¬†bonds. The Fed has said it will maintain a policy of low interest rates to spur growth and employment,¬†a policy that seems to be working, albeit slowly. Given this case, smart investors should aggressively¬†buy ‚Äúrisk‚Äù assets such as U.S. and global stocks, especially in emerging markets where credit quality¬†tends to improve during these times. Commodities, and other assets denominated in dollars, including¬†real estate should also perform well. Foreign bonds, just like U.S bonds, will be losers, but playing for a¬†steepening long-term yield curve in the U.S., and the rest of the world, is also a strategy that will yield¬†benefits. While it might seem too early to put on such positions because the bond market is not yet in bear¬†territory, the question is when it will get there. The dreaded ‚ÄúSequester,‚Äù continued weakness in the¬†Eurozone and questions surrounding China‚Äôs ability to continue its pace of economic growth could all¬†slow the economy down. But the likelihood is that bonds are in the midst of a bear market and prices¬†could easily fall more than 20 percent. The day will come when the Bernanke Fed will not only stop buying bonds but will also begin to sell all¬†the bonds they‚Äôve accumulated over the past four years. The 30-year Treasury bond is already more¬†than six percent from its highest price and the Chinese and other foreign investors will soon grow tired¬†of paltry coupons, a weakening currency and endless supply. Maybe it is time they increase their stock¬†and commodities holdings instead, and sell those bonds before nobody is left to buy them. Jay Feuerstein is the CEO ad Chief Investment Officer of 2100 Xenon, an investment firm based in¬†Chicago. He has held senior investment positions at Bear Stearns &amp; Co., Kidder Peabody and Drexel¬†Burnham Lambert.
It was an epic tug of war. But in the end, new all-time high in the last seconds of the day thanks to this tiny jump up. Bloomberg
US Army IMCOM / flickrStocks were in the red for most of the day.† But in the final few seconds, the Dow squeaked out a gain. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,450, +2.7 pts, +0.0 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,552, -3.7 pts, -0.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,242, -10.5 pts, -0.3 percent And now the top stories:
The U.S. economy added 236k jobs in February and the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent. As slow as hiring has been, small businesses have been hiring far less than the big corporations. From TD Securities' Millan Mulraine: Labor market underperformance: The small business sector has generally been a key source of employment growth in the US economy, accounting for close to 55% of all the private sector jobs created between mid-2003 and the beginning of the last recession. Its overall contributions has fallen dramatically in recent years, accounting for a miserly 33% of the jobs created since the economic rebound. This disappointing performance has been reflected in the massive divergence between the plans to hire sub-component of the NFIB and its composite employment counterpart. Mulraine writes that part of the problem is limited access to credit. "Indeed, while overall credit conditions have been on the mend, access to credit has generally been identified as a sour point for small business owners," he writes.† "Consequently, the proportion of businesses indicating a willingness to increase capital spending has held steady at around 20%, which is well below the 30% average prior to the recession, suggesting that credit access has remained a binding constraint for both hiring and capital spending decisions." TD Securities, EcoWin
Bloomberg via YouTubeHousing experts have been raising their home price forecasts lately.¬† Both Bank of America and Capital Economics are calling for an 8 percent rise in 2013. In a new note, Bank of America's Michelle Meyer writes that while gains were driven by the supply side of the equation last year (i.e. declining inventory), home prices are expected to be driven by increasing demand this year. Meyer notes that the market is still "far from normal." In this backdrop, she points out four important conversations on housing that investors need to watch.
Apple is going to do something with its cash this spring, says Gina Chon at Quartz. "Apple is leaning toward additional dividends or a share buyback program as part of its effort to return more cash to investors, according to sources," reports Chon. This means, of course, that it is not going with hedge fund manager David Einhorn's iPrefs, which were a special class of stock that paid a perpetual dividend. She also says Apple was working on its dividend/buyback plan before Einhorn started kicking up a fuss. However, Apple might have decided to bump higher the size of its dividend thanks to Einhorn. For what it's worth, Apple has already acknowledged that it's looking into doing something with its cash. Since it fought the iPrefs idea, the only other real options are doing a dividend or a buy back. And since the Spring is almost here, this all makes sense. Unfortunately, we don't have any specifics on what Apple is really going to do. We don't know the size of its plan, and we don't know if will be a buyback or a dividend or both. For what it's worth, we think a buyback makes more sense ...
Aswath Damodaran, the legendary NYU finance professor and world-renown valuation expert, was on CNBC's Fast Money Halftime Report to discuss the state of the financial markets. "Are stocks still cheap?" asked CNBC's Scott Wapner. "I don't know whether they're cheap," he responded.¬† "But I'm not surprised they are where they are now.¬† In a sense, the market's in a sweet spot.¬† When you think about the four dimensions in which the market worries, things are looking good.¬† 1) Companies are returning record amounts of cash flow; I think if you look at the collective dividends and stock buybacks, last year's going to set a record.¬† 2) You have robust earnings growth without economic growth or the economy overheating. 3) You have low interest rates.¬† 4) And risk premiums seem to be coming down." Of course, Damordaran also considers the risks. "One of my biggest worries is that economic growth comes back," he said. "Interest rates will go up.¬† No matter what the Fed wants to believe it can do, if economic growth comes back, interest rates will go up" Damodaran clarified that the rise in rates would have to be pretty rapid. "It's not whether rates go up but how quickly they go up," he said.¬† "There is that possibility that rates could explode out of the box.¬† Sometimes when rates start to go up, it's almost like you can't stop the momentum. If it happens gradually, we might be okay.¬† But if it happens within a few months, we might be in trouble."
Mayor Bloomberg has vowed to fight a judge's order that thwarted his controversial ban on supersized sodas. But Bloomberg's efforts will likely be futile, attorney Stephen Preziosi told Business Insider. "Although I think the mayor has a good idea, I don't think he's going to prevail on appeal," says Preziosi, who specializes in civil and criminal appeals. New York state judge Milton Tingling's withering opinion that came down Monday found the ban on soft drinks larger than 16 ounces "eviscerated" the separation of powers. (He also found the ban, which applied to movie theaters and fast food chains but not grocery stores, was "arbitrary and capricious.") New York City's board of health ó which the mayor appointed ó adopted the large soda ban without ever going through the city council. The judge got it right when he ruled that the board of health exceeded its authority when it adopted the soda rule,†Preziosi says. As USA Today reported, the judge ruled the board of health can only regulate food when the public faces "imminent danger from disease." Bloomberg pushed for the soda ban to combat obesity. "Although it [obesity] is a danger, it's certainly not an imminent danger," Preziosi said. "I think Judge Tingling got it right on the law." The appeals process in New York typically takes 18 months, but Preziosi said Bloomberg could have the process expedited and get a decision in a matter of weeks. It just probably won't be in his favor.
The S&amp;P 500 is near an all-time high.† But everyone's wondering if the current bull market will last. Sam Stovall, the market historian at S&amp;P Capital IQ, says yes. In his latest note, he argues that while there may still be a dip or two, a year from now we'll all be celebrating the bull market's fifth birthday. First, though, he says we shouldn't have been surprised we made it to year four: If the bull market had to worry about infant mortality in year three, the fourth year bull benefited from the law of aging. If one makes it to age 65, they have a great chance of making it to age 75. And the same goes for bull markets. Make it past year three and you have a great chance of celebrating your fourth birthday. The average price increase during the fourth year of a bull market since 1947 was a shade below 13%, and only one of the eight bull markets that celebrated their third birthday failed to celebrate their fourth. In addition, only one did not post a positive price performance in year four. As for year five, not only is it coming, but it may be one of the best birthdays ever: Since WWII, the S&amp;P 500 turned on the after-burners in year five, with the remaining bull markets averaging a 21% increase in price -- four of which were in double digits. In addition, four of the five bull markets went on to celebrate their sixth birthday. In closing, Stovall says we can expect a a pullback in the next few months if we hit a new all-time high.† However, we should also prepare to bring presents in 2014.
Walmart In February, emails circulating among Wal-Mart Stores executives leaked to the press. The emails described February sales figures as a "total disaster," and the executives placed the blame on the payroll tax cut expiry that went into effect on January 1. Everyone was worried about how increased taxes and rising gas prices were hitting the consumer, so the emails came at just the right time to stoke fears over a consumer slowdown even more. Bloomberg reports that during a presentation at an industry conference today, Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley said that the slowdown in sales they observed in late January was actually "not disastrous," and that sales normalized by the end of February. Holley went on to say that the slowdown was primarily due to delayed tax returns, an explanation flagged by analysts as soon as the leaked emails hit the tape that was later backed up by Wal-Mart itself in its quarterly earnings filing. Furthermore, according to Holley,¬†Wal-Mart has not seen a slowdown in U.S. sales based on the expiry of the payroll tax cut. This is welcome news for those worried about a big slowdown in consumer spending for tax reasons.
BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Mary Ann Bartels is out with her quarterly hedge fund monitor this week, taking a look at what the funds did in Q4. The biggest takeaway, according to Bartels: "Hedge Funds are fully invested with cash levels down to 4.6% in 4Qí12." All in. Below is the key section from the BAML report: Based on the quarterly 13F filings and estimated short positions of the equity holdings of 895 funds, we estimate that hedge funds raised net exposure by 10% to $418 billion notional in 4Q12 ñ setting a new record. Percentage-wise, we put equity net exposure at 55% at the end of 4Q12, compared to the 2Q07 peak of 59%. Gross exposure rose by 1.8% to $1150bn notional in 4Q12. Percentage-wise, gross exposure stayed at about 150%. Meanwhile, cash holdings fell to 4.6% from 5.0%, below the historical average of 8-10% but above the 2007 trough of 4.3%. The chart below shows cash holdings, which keep inching downward: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, LionShares
Wikimedia CommonsIn his new budget plan, Paul Ryan says: Today, we‚Äôre enjoying historically low interest rates because the Federal Reserve is buying large amounts of our debt, and investors have retreated to U.S. securities amid global turmoil. But our growing obligations may shake their confidence. In return, they might demand compensation for that higher risk. Foreigners own almost half of our publicly held debt. So we‚Äôre particularly vulnerable to a sudden shift in foreign-investor sentiment. In addition, over one-third of our total marketable debt will mature over the next 24 months. So we will have to roll over much of our debt in the next two years‚Äî when interest rates might be higher. This is actually not the case that rates are so low because the Fed is buying or "monetizing" the debt. In a recent speech, Bernanke revealed the real reason for ultra low rates. The rate on the 10-year bond can be broken down into 3 factors. One is expected inflation. One is the expectations of the path of short-term interest rates (which the fed does control). And the other factor is term premium, how much compensation investors demand to buy longer-term debt. As this Bernanke chart makes clear. Inflation expectations are muted. There is expectation of the Fed keeping short rates low for a long time. And actually term premium is negative, reflecting desire to hold Treasuries as a hedge. The actual Fed QE is not the story here. Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve
Remember, first of all, the Dow is a marketing tool That is to say, I donít blame the Wall Street Journal for crowing about a new arbitrary number on their Index, as the Dow is, after all, all about marketing.† The Dow Jonesí upward move provides a marketing opportunity for the News Corporationís media property and its media affiliates.† No criticism there. What is a shame, however, is that the plurality of the investing public who follow the market may not realize that the new high on the Dow means as much as an Onion article about 1. What really happened historically in the stock market, 2. Whatís going to happen in the future, and 3. What you should do, investing-wise, about it. Fortunately, you have your best friend, me, to give you the answers to these three questions, one at a time. What really happened historically in the stock market The recovery of broad stock indices to their previous highs of 2007 was inevitable, following the crash of 2008 and early 2009.† I do not mean to claim that I could have told you at the lows of four years ago ñ March 2009 ñ whether the recovery of broad stock indices would happen by 2011 or 2015.† Just like you, I had no idea, and Iím still agnostic about the short term direction of stocks now.[1] What I really mean is that to assume anything other than inevitable growth in the nominal value of a broad stock index ñ over the medium to long run ñ is to assume a far-out scenario that has never yet occurred in modern times. And to assume itís anything other than inevitable is to place your tin hat firmly upon your pointy head and shut down your sensory gatherers to the data inputs of real life. In the past one hundred years weíve seen two World Wars, Depressions, small recessions, Great Recessions, Holocausts, Genocides, Earthquakes, Tsunamis, and the rise of RenÈe Zellweger as a bona fide movie star.† Any one of these alone should have been enough to knock the equity markets permanently sideways, if such a thing were possible. The fact is all of these occurred and the Dow moved from a high of 94 in 1913 to break new highs above 14,254 last week, one hundred years later. The point is not to notice the new highs ñ although thatís what the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex wants us to notice ñ but rather to notice that an index proxy for large stocks returned 15,000%[2] over a period of just a hundred years. To choose a shorter 40 year time-frame ñ approximately the investing lifetime of todayís retirees ñ equity indices like the Dow nominally returned over 1,400%+ in that stretch.† A stretch that included the tail end of Vietnam, Mid-East energy crises, Stagflation, the Cold War, 9/11, two Mid-East Wars, two separate decades of treading-water equity markets (1972-1982, 2000-2010), and of course the rise of Justin Bieber. Any of those events alone appeared at the time to be reasons to sell and take all of oneís money away from any type of risky equities, or so the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex would have us believe at the time.† Throughout the last 40 years, the Dow moved from 900 to above 14,000.† The lesson: Itís awfully hard to keep a diverse pool of public market corporations down for very long. Like I said, I have no idea whatís happening in the short run and medium run, and I really donít care.† I also have no particular strongly held belief in any one company or any one industry, as Iím really not a stock market guy at all.† In the long run, however, I know the rise of broad market equity indices to be inevitable. Coming up next: New Highs in the Dow Part II ñ Whatís going to happen in the future? New Highs in the Dow Part III ñ What should I do about it? Also ñ This logorithmically adjusted picture of the DJIA since 1900 is cool.† Clicking on it allows you to see it in all its glory. [1] Although it was clear enough just a few months ago that base-case momentum would likely lead us to some medium-term ërecoveryí mode, which made me lament, in anticipation, the passing of the Great Recession. [2] Or 150X your original amount, depending on how you like your percentage-growth-over-time presented. Post read (103) times.
JCPenney shares were surging today after rumors floated around Twitter that CEO Ron Johnson was leaving his post at the helm of the struggling retailer. The company ended up having to issue a statement about Johnson's status at the company. It denied all the rumors in a statement to Bloomberg News: ìRon Johnson is not quitting or resigning from J.C. Penney and he has no plans to do so,î a spokesman said. ìThe rumors are false.î So, that's that. What started all these rumors? It seemed to be spurred by earlier reports that the board was considering ousting Johnson after terrible numbers over the past year. Former JCPenney CEO Allen Questrom voiced his support for the removal of Johnson very publicly as well.  On top of all that, big investor Vornado Realty Trust announced that it was trying to dump a chunk of its stake, and JCPenney's credit rating was downgraded by S&amp;P. "The mere fact that it had to shoot down the chatter is another bad sign for Johnson," noted Tom Bemis at Marketwatch.
Those wealthy enough to own a private jet can now appreciate it even while at the office. We just received this email advertisement from Arizona-based Factory Direct Models, a maker of miniature aircraft and ships. For $400, the company will build an exact replica of any plane. The Premium Plus Custom Model can be ordered for any airplane or helicopter, and it comes mounted on a mahogany pedestal with an inscription plaque. Jet owners can send in a photo to make sure everything is right, from the registration number to the paint scheme. Even the interior of the jet (visible through the model's windows) is made to order. The model can be as wide or as long as 17 inches. FDM lists the Premium Plus replica with a $499.95 MSRP, but the factory direct price is $399.95. The Premium Custom Model (with painted windows) runs for $299.95; the smaller classic model costs $249.95. Here's a full ad: Factory Direct Models
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is making record highs, knocking the 2007 peak off its pedestal, but investors aren‚Äôt celebrating. Since the Dow hit its March 2009 low, many sage market players followed the stimulative monetary and fiscal policies, ignored the noise of pundits predicting doom and gloom, and invested heavily in equities. Only in retrospect can their bold calls be recognized as wise. I often look to social sciences and psychology to help investors understand the importance of the collective genius. In one of my favorite books, The Wisdom of Crowds, James Surowiecki points to statistics scientist Norman L. Johnson‚Äôs maze experiment as one of many illustrations of intelligent group decisions. Johnson sent groups of people one-by-one through a maze, recorded their paths and timed the results. Do participants take a left or a right? How many steps does it take to make it through? Then, he calculated how many total steps each individual took to reach the end of the maze. The average ended up to be 12.8 steps, but the group collectively did much better, taking only nine steps. More importantly, ‚Äúthere was no way to get through the maze in fewer than nine steps, so the group had discovered the optimal solution,‚Äù wrote Surowiecki. Time and time again, Surowiecki found evidence of collective decisions to be superior to individual results, whether researchers asked people how many jelly beans are in a jar or how much an ox weighs. The ‚Äúcollective guess was very accurate, and was better than the vast majority of individual guesses.‚Äù This collective wisdom theory was also used to predict the winner of elections. Nate Silver of The New York Times‚Äô FiveThirtyEight blog analyzes data on state and national polls along with economic information, including GDP, jobs and inflation. His interests in playing poker and writing about baseball made him adept at studying statistical means, odds and probabilities, and his prediction model results are phenomenal. During the 2008 presidential election, Silver correctly predicted 49 out of 50 states correctly. And in last fall‚Äôs election, he correctly forecasted the electoral outcome in all 50 states. Surowiecki notes that the wisdom of crowds is not a natural idea to many of his readers. Rather, it is counterintuitive because people are wrongly led to believe that ‚Äúwell-informed will be outweighed by the poorly informed, and the group‚Äôs decision will be worse than that of even the average individual.‚Äù I believe Americans feel that investing in the stock market today is counterintuitive because of unemployment statistics, dysfunction in Washington and ongoing negative news about the U.S. economy. When discussing the Dow‚Äôs all-time high, The New York Times indicated that investors aren‚Äôt pouring Champagne like they would have in past years. ‚ÄúThe stock market‚Äôs volatility has scared retail investors for several years. A total of $556 billion has been taken out of mutual funds focused on American stocks since October 2007, according to the Investment Company Institute. That is an enormous pot of money that largely missed out on the market‚Äôs recovery,‚Äù says The Times. Take a visual look at what investors may be feeling. On our new infographic, using data collected by zerohedge.com, you can see some of the reasons investors have thrown in the towel. It costs about a dollar more for each gallon of gas. Over 6 million more Americans are unemployed, fewer people are in the labor force and almost 50 million are using food stamps. Consumer confidence is vastly different today than it was back then.¬† The U.S. financial situation is also different. The economy is growing much slower, the size of the balance sheet is ballooning and debt has skyrocketed. It‚Äôs no wonder that gold was about $750 per ounce back in 2007; now, it‚Äôs double that. But it cannot be disputed that the Dow doubled from its 2009 low. The market noise of today will not be going away. However, investors can gain confidence in following the wisdom of the crowd. As famous investor Benjamin Graham said, "The individual investor should act consistently as an investor and not as a speculator.‚Äù US Funds See more investor favorites like this infographic from Frank Holmes and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team by clicking here. ¬†You can also sign up to receive the free weekly Investor Alert, get emails on new blog posts, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds.  U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds  All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a price-weighted average of 30 blue chip stocks that are generally leaders in their industry.
The Senate Banking committee held a confirmation hearing for two agencies ó the SEC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ó this morning, and as you may have guessed, the standout cross-examination was from Elizabeth Warren. Warren had a ton of praise for Richard Cordray, who has headed the CFPB without being confirmed for over a year. Those who oppose his confirmation, it's worth noting, say it's because the CFPC is an imperfect organization and not because of his personal record. Warren, of course, thinks that's bunk. "From the way I see how other agencies are treated, I see nothing here but a filibuster threat against Cordray," said Warren. "The delay in getting him confirmed is bad for small banks, small credit unions...bad for anyone with an honest product... I hope you get confirmed, you have earned it Dr. Cordray." SEC nominee Mary Jo White, or more specifically, the SEC, did not get such gentle treatment from Warren. She went right for the jugular, comparing the SEC's progress (or lack thereof) on rule writing with the CFPB's. She pointed out that the SEC has missed about half of its rule writing deadlines so far.† "The SEC has not yet written rules for... credit rating agencies that took money to sign off on risky deals that crashed the economy and still operate with big conflicts of interest... still no rules from the SEC to deal with derivatives that were at the heart of the finical crisis... still no rules to protect the towns and...† still no rules to disclose CEO pay... I hope those are the top of your list," Warren said to White. In the midst of pointing out all these old mistakes, Warren did manage to tell White something new she'd like to see at the SEC. "What are the costs of people being cheated," Warren asked. "How do you make sure that the costs of under enforcing regulation are measured?" It's an interesting question because what Warren is asking White to do is take into account what an entities actions are costing (and could continue to cost) the American people before charging them with wrongdoing. For the most part White agreed, saying the SEC should pursue quantitative analysis wherever possible. Numbers do tend to put things in perspective.
The FT's¬†Arash Massoudi, Gregory Meyer and Jamie Smyth report InTrade founder John Delaney failed to adequately report $2.6 million he received from the company, citing documents the company recently filed. Yesterday InTrade announced it was suspending all operations.¬† Auditors flagged¬†‚Äúsignificant financial irregularities‚Äù in payments made to Delaney, who died on Mount Everest in 2011, the FT says.  The documents also show Paul Tudor Jones and Stanley Druckenmiller were shareholders in the company as late as 2011 ‚Äî as was a trust connected to Christopher Hehmeyer, the current chairman of the National Futures Association. Read the full report on FT.com &gt;
Missouri Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill weighed in on the brewing internal conflicts within the Republican Party Tuesday, slamming newly-minted Republican Senator Ted Cruz for pushing the GOP to the extreme right.† "We've got good news ó on the other side, it's a mess," McCaskill said on MSNBC's Morning Joe. "They've really got a civil war within the party."† "You've got people who are willing to compromise and understand the beauty of compromise in democracy," she continued. "And then you've got people like Ted Cruz and some of the others who just think they want to drive as hard as they can off the right edge of the world."† McCaskill went on to suggest that the GOP's rightward shift would help Democrats win elections in red and purple states, pointing to her own 2012 win against Missouri Republican Todd Akin, who sunk his Senate bid with his infamous "legitimate rape" remarks.† "It's the reason I could win, because, frankly, they nominated a flawed candidate who was so extreme," McCaskill said. "But it wasn't so much what Todd Akin said, it was what he believed ó and that is the base of the Republican Party right now."† Watch the video below, courtesy of MSNBC:†   Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
LinkedInThe UK risks entering a triple-dip recession as new economic data comes in horrible. Today's industrial production data was frightful. The British pound is one of the most hated currencies in the world. The UK was recently stripped of its AAA credit rating for the first time ever. Current Prime Minister David Cameron came to power with an agenda of austerity. But now economists regard the UK as an experiment in what not to do when you're in a huge slump. All of this is unfortunate for the country, and it's people who have to suffer through this. But what's interesting is that when David Cameron took power in 2010, he was widely praised for pursuing a brave austerity agenda. Cameron was particularly popular among non-ideological "centrist" pundits, who liked his tough approach to getting ahead of a future debt crisis, and preserving UK's creditworthiness. Here are a few Examples. The New York Times' David Brooks, who published†a column called "Britain Is Working" back in May 2011. Here's a cut: Prime Minister David Cameron is a skilled politician who dominates the scene. His agenda doesnít merely touch his partyís hot buttons, but moves in many directions at once. † His austerity program includes tax increases as well as spending cuts. Heís vigorously protecting the foreign aid budget as he cuts almost everywhere else. He has aggressively reformed welfare and education while retreating on health service reform. † By balancing his agenda, by conveying a sense of momentum, by insisting on fiscal responsibility, heís remained popular. His party did well in the recent local elections, even amid the fiscal pain. To be fair, this was apparently the last time Brooks wrote in praise of Cameron. The Economist's "Bagehot" page†explained†its dream scenario in a Tory-led coalition just prior to the 2010 election results: What would Britain look like after a few years of Tory government? It would be living through a necessary period of austerity, as (after a gentle start) Prime Minister Cameron and George Osborne, his chancellor of the exchequer, battled to slash the deficit. With luck they would have met their pledge to protect Britain's credit ratings and avert a steep rise in interest rates. This aspect of the Tory platform is cherished and promoted by the state-shrinking wing of the high command. Of course, the UK's credit rating was†not†maintained. Reuters' BreakingViews founder Hugo Dixon also extolled the "sacrifices" Britain was about to make in November 2010 to get its fiscal house in order, etc. etc.: During the boom, many ordinary people ó whether in Ireland, Greece, Britain, Spain or the United States ó did, too. World leaders, especially Mr. Obama, have failed to adequately indicate that sacrifices have to be made across the board. In Europe, the strongest disciplinarians have been David Cameron of Britain and Angela Merkel of Germany. It is fashionable to criticize them. But the criticisms are largely misguided. Mr. Cameron is said to have gone in too hard with his austerity. But his country has earned praise from the markets by doing so. Finally, around the same time as Dixon, The Atlantic's Clive Crook wrote this†ó though with a kick-save caveat: The new coalitionís most pressing challenge was economic policy, and again Cameron was brave. Rather than waiting for financial markets to dictate the terms of the countryís needed fiscal correction, the coalition announced tax increases and spending cuts at the high end of what was feasible, kicking in faster than many economists think wise. Bottom line. People extolled Cameron's bravery, but today the credit rating is lower, the pound is cratering, the economy is weakening, and people believe that the only way out is to reverse austerity and spend more.
Every week, BofA equity strategist Savita Subramanian provides an update on what her clients are doing in the market. According to Subramanian, "private clients" (individual investors) just sold the most stock since late December, when fears over the fiscal cliff were weighing on markets. Meanwhile, hedge funds are buying. "Hedge funds were net buyers of all three size segments last week, while institutional and private clients were net sellers of all three," writes Subramanian. Below is Subramanian's take on the activity among private clients last week: BofAML private clients‚Äîwho have been the sole net buyers of US stocks this year‚Äî have begun to take profits as the S&amp;P 500 continued its ascent. This group has now sold stocks in three of the last six weeks, after near-record net buying earlier this year. As private clients have been the biggest net sellers of US stocks post-crisis, and tend to have stickier flow trends, we continue to monitor their flows to determine if they have truly re-entered the market or will once again become net sellers of stocks for an extended period. The chart below shows total flows into and out of the stock market in 2013 based on client type. (The green line shows private client flows, while the blue line shows hedge fund flows.) BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge Below are the sectors that hedge funds bought last week. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge Subramanian notes, "Hedge funds‚Äô net buys of Consumer Discretionary and net sales of Utilities last week were the largest in our data history."
Owen Thomas, Business Insider I got to try on some Google Glass(es) the other day! Very cool. The time just hangs there in front of you, as though it's projected on a windshield. It's also cool to be able to take pictures of what you're looking at (although there's an annoying lag). If/when Google gets the Google Glass(es) price down to ~$100-~$200 and makes Google Glass(es) look like normal glasses, I could see normal folks wearing them. I might even wear them in certain situations! But here's the thing: The main interface for Google Glass(es) right now is talking to them. You can also stroke and tap them, but that looks and feels pretty dorky, and if you're going to stroke and tap something, you might as well stroke and tap your phone--a gadget that can do everything Glass(es) can do plus a whole lot more. So, absent stroking and tapping, if you want to do anything with your Google Glass(es), you have to say, "Okay, Glass!" and then tell them what you want to do. You can say, "Take a picture!" for example. Then, after a short but annoying lag, your Google Glass(es) will snap a picture for you. That's kind of a cool party trick--something that's fun to try once, or something that's good for amusing the kids for a few minutes, like Apple's Siri. But as the primary interface to your glasses, it's lousy. Why? Because unless you're all by yourself--such as when you're driving, for example--you don't want to talk to your glasses. At least I don't want to talk to my glasses. Especially when I'm talking to someone else, who is already going to be annoyed that I'm wearing a device that basically says "I'm only partially here with you, and you're so boring that I need this conversation to be augmented--because anything is more interesting than talking to you." I don't want to interrupt an already fragile conversation like that to say, "Take a picture!" And I also don't want to wander around museums or streets or restaurants saying, "Take a picture!" I'd rather just take the picture myself, with a phone. Also, I don't need to know what time it is every single second of the day. And I don't find it all that inconvenient to look up at a baggage-claim screen to figure out which carousel my suitcase is on--I don't need my Glass(es) to do that for me. It would DEFINITELY be cool to take pictures of people without they're knowing that I was taking pictures of them (nice journalism tool!), but that would probably be unethical, and I also couldn't do it without saying "Take a picture!" or stroking and fondling my glasses. So it wouldn't be practical. Bottom line, that's my biggest issue with Google Glass(es) right now. I don't hate the idea of wearing them, as long as they eventually look like normal glasses. I just don't want to talk to them. SEE ALSO: Here Are Some Problems Google Is Having With Its Self-Driving Cars
Getty ImagesRepublican House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan introduced his latest budget plan Tuesday ‚Äî his third in three years ‚Äî kicking off another round of debate over the government's spending priorities.¬† Although Ryan's 2014 fiscal plan is largely the same as the one he offered last year, one notable difference is that the new proposal would balance the budget in just 10 years. Ryan projects that the federal government will spend $4.6 trillion less over the next decade.¬† But in order to get to this balanced budget, Ryan relies on deficit reductions that were pushed through by President Barack Obama over loud protests by Ryan and his House GOP colleagues.¬† First, Ryan's budget will keep the $716 billion in Medicare cuts included in Obamacare as a way to balance the budget. So Ryan keeps the savings, but gets rid of the reform part. As First Read notes, Ryan campaigned vigorously against the Obamacare Medicare savings at the Republican vice presidential candidate last year, and even attacked the cuts in his convention speech.¬† Ryan's budget also assumes all of the revenue from the fiscal cliff deal, which raised income tax rates for individuals earning more than $400,000 per year. That measure is estimated to raise about $600 billion over 10 years, according to various estimates. And those too are tax increases that the GOP opposed. At the very least, this looks like Ryan is trying to have his cake and eat it too ‚Äî a fact that his critics are likely to harp on as budget wrangling picks up with the unveiling of the Senate Democrats' budget Wednesday.¬†
So, here ‚Äôs the real puzzle: How did these two hedge funds,¬†which have fewer than one hundred employees each, make as much¬†money as Apple Inc., which relies on the hard work of its nearly¬†30,000 U.S. employees (and the incredibly hard work¬†of another 700,000 workers and contractors¬†globally)? Hint: Produce nothing tangible for the real economy. Don't¬†waste your time inventing or manufacturing stuff. In the hedge-fund game, you don‚Äôt make‚Äîyou take. And for good reason. Making things or providing services¬†to large numbers of people is a complicated business. You have to¬†have a marketable idea, probably a brilliant one. You have to hire¬†workers. You have to manage them. (You may even have to deal¬†with a union, God forbid.) You need to build a spirit of cooperation¬†and a culture that values high quality and customer service.¬†And don‚Äôt forget the R and D you‚Äôll need to keep the innovationflowing. Of course, you also have to compete in a crowded global¬†marketplace, create an entirely new niche, or both. It ‚Äôs the kind of¬†work that keeps you up at all hours. The sweat in sweat equity is¬†real. No way do you want to go near this game when you could¬†run a hedge fund instead. Better to enter the mystical world of money managing, as¬†described by Daniel A. Strachman, who has written several¬†informative books on hedge funds. He believes that hedge-fundmanagers deserve to make so much with so little labor because¬†they are simply more brilliant than those plebeians who worry¬†about making cute little gadgets. Strachman is absolutely awed by¬†hedge-fund billionaires: "These individuals are some of the brightest investment managers¬†of all time, possessing unique skill sets that have made¬†them extremely successful at managing money and exploiting¬†market opportunities.... In essence, they are capable of seeing the¬†markets in ways that most of us simply cannot imagine, and it is this¬†rare vision that allows them to determine whether opportunities have¬†value, thereby creating infinite windows to make money.¬†That is what makes them great hedge fund managers."¬†(Strachman 2008, 16) I have no doubt that these hedge-fund guys are very bright fellows¬†and that the ones who make it to the top possess intelligence,¬†foresight, and obscure knowledge. But really, are these hedge-fund¬†guys so much brighter than those who create and manufacture everythingwe use? Is their ‚Äúrare vision‚Äù so superior to that of the¬†late Steve Jobs and his associates? And just what are those ‚Äúinfinite¬†windows‚Äù that ‚Äúmost of us simply cannot imagine‚Äù? We all know how Apple earns its keep. It invents, manufactures,¬†and markets products that the world voraciously consumes.¬†(It also profits by using regimented workers in China who live in company dorms, wear identical company uniforms, get paid little,¬†and work around the clock whenever Apple needs them.) The¬†iMac, iPod, iTunes store, iPhone, and iPad have driven Apple‚Äôs¬†net profit from $4.8 billion in 2008 to $8.2 billion in 2009, to¬†$14 billion in 2010, and a stunning $26 billion in 2011. Meanwhile, Tepper‚Äôs Appaloosa hedge fund probably took in¬†$20 billion, racking up an incredible 117 percent return for its¬†investors in 2009. Doing what, exactly? Where ‚Äôs their iPad? Here ‚Äôs what the financial website HedgeFundBlogger.com says¬†about how Tepper made his billions: "[Tepper] did so by betting that the recession would not last as¬†long as many analysts and public officials predicted and taking¬†big stakes in struggling firms like Bank of America and Citigroup. Tepper understood that the government would¬†not nationalize these banks and when many were unsure of¬†the two banks‚Äô futures his fund was buying up shares which¬†he believed were significantly underpriced. By purchasing¬†these shares and stakes in other smaller banks and financial¬†lending institutions, Appaloosa Management LP was able to¬†turn a $6.5 billion profit in 2009." ‚ÄúIt was crazy,‚Äù says Tepper, a Pittsburgh native. ‚ÄúIn¬†February and early March, people were in a panic‚Äù (Wilson 2010). If this report is correct, Mr. Tepper made almost as much as Apple¬†by betting that we taxpayers would bail out, but not nationalize,¬†Bank of America and Citigroup. And, of course, we did. Citigroup got the Federal Reserve‚Äôs rock-solid guarantee for more¬†than $300 billion in toxic assets then rotting on the company ‚Äôs¬†balance sheet. Without our bailouts, both banks would have folded‚Äîand a slew of other banks and hedge funds would have toppled¬†like dominoes. (These two banks also took advantage of billions¬†of dollars in hidden Federal Reserve loans provided at negligible¬†interest rates.) Yet Tepper was also shrewdly betting that the government¬†would never play hardball with the big banks. Washington, he¬†sensed, would not nationalize these failing banks, a move that¬†would wipe out its shareholders. No, he saw that the political¬†establishment was too afraid of another Great Depression‚Äîand¬†of spooking global markets‚Äîto risk letting the big banks fail.¬†Besides, the government ‚Äôs perceived interests had become completely¬†entwined with Wall Street‚Äôs. The revolving door between¬†Wall Street and Washington was spinning fast, with all of the key¬†economic positions in both the Bush and the Obama administrations¬†held by Wall Streeters.  These high finance recidivists temporarily¬†running the government shared the same worldview as¬†their Wall Street colleagues: big banks should not be nationalized.¬†Instead, as Tepper apparently guessed, Treasury Secretary Henry¬†Paulson (under Bush) and then Timothy Geithner (under Obama)¬†would put the power of the government behind those banks so¬†that they could go back to making sizable profits for their¬†shareholders, who would be protected and bailed out. As Tepper noted, many other investors panicked, either because¬†they did fear nationalization, or because they‚Äôd been forced to sell¬†securities to raise cash and cover other losses. Those wary investors¬†dumped their banking securities, creating a delicious buying¬†opportunity for Tepper. He jumped in with both feet. Ironically, Tepper was betting against free market ideology,¬†which preaches that you ‚Äôre rewarded when your investment succeeds¬†and punished when it fails. When investments succeed, shareholders¬†are rewarded with dividends and rising share prices. When they fail,shareholders lose their money. Citigroup was a financial toxic dump in the fall of 2008, and¬†Bank of America wasn‚Äôt far behind. Under idealized ‚Äúfree market‚Äù¬†capitalism, both banks would have gone under, entirely wiping out shareholders‚Äô equity. Bondholders probably would have¬†received pennies on the dollar for their loans. Too bad. To paraphrase¬†the drunken baseball manager played by Tom Hanks in the movie A League of Their Own, there ‚Äôs no crying in capitalism. Tepper‚Äôs big bets suggest that he knew this quaint form of capitalism¬†was long gone. So, while most investors were fleeing financial¬†stocks in terror, Tepper had the cojones to buy them up cheap.¬†Cojones‚Äîliterally. According to the Wall Street Journal , Tepper¬†‚Äúkeeps a brass replica of a pair of testicles in a prominent spot¬†on his desk, a present from former employees. He rubs the gift¬†for luck during the trading day to get a laugh out of colleagues"¬†(Zuckerman 2009). Tepper reminds me of George Washington Plunkitt of¬†Tammany Hall, who also had cojones. Said Plunkitt in 1905:¬† "There‚Äôs an honest graft, and I ‚Äôm an example of how it works.¬†I might sum up the whole thing by sayin‚Äô: Just let me explain by examples. My party‚Äôs in power in¬†the city, and it ‚Äôs goin‚Äô to undertake a lot of public improvements.¬†Well, I ‚Äôm tipped off, say, that they ‚Äôre going to layout¬†a new park at a certain place. I see my opportunity and¬†I take it. I go to that place and I buy up all the land I can in the neighborhood. Then the board of this or that makes its¬†plan public, and there is a rush to get my land, which nobody¬†cared particular for before.¬†Ain‚Äôt it perfectly honest to charge a good price and make a¬†profit on my investment and foresight? Of course it is. Well,¬†that ‚Äôs honest graft. . . .¬†It ‚Äôs just like lookin‚Äô ahead in Wall Street or in the coffee or¬†cotton market. It ‚Äôs honest graft, and I‚Äôm lookin‚Äô for it every¬†day in the year. I will tell you frankly that I ‚Äôve got a good lot¬†of it, too."¬† Let me make this perfectly clear to any litigators present: I am¬†not suggesting that Tepper traded on insider information about¬†impending government moves or that he received any ‚Äúgraft‚Äù of¬†any kind. (You‚Äôre not going to make your next million off me.)¬†I‚Äôm only saying that like Plunkitt of Tammany Hall, Tepper¬†knew that business and government were of a piece. So when, on cue, Washington came to Wall Street‚Äôs rescue, Tepper cashed in¬†on his bet. That‚Äôs how he alone earned almost as much in one year as Apple and its tens of thousands of employees did. Does that mean Tepper has our bailout money in his pocket? Indirectly, yes. By buying shares of Bank of America and¬†Citigroup, Tepper became a part owner. Fine and dandy.¬†But his shares had real value and gained in value only because of the billions in federal cash, the billions in federal asset guarantees, and¬†the billions in cheap federal loans those banks collected from¬†taxpayers. We didn ‚Äôt write a check and put it in Tepper ‚Äôs pocket. We¬†didn ‚Äôt have to. He just ‚Äúseen [his] opportunities and . . . took ‚Äôem.‚Äù The key point to remember is that if Tepper had bet wrong¬†and the Fed hadn‚Äôt ridden to the rescue, then his hedge fund‚Äîand¬†most hedge funds‚Äîwould have lost billions. In fact, the bailouts¬†saved the entire hedge-fund industry from utter collapse.
Here's something we're not used to seeing too much lately. The S&amp;P 500 is selling off today! In the last few minutes, the stock market went red, and the index is now off about 0.3 percent. The technology sector, down 0.7 percent, is leading the broader market lower. Financials are down 0.5 percent. On the other side of the coin, basic materials, up 0.3 percent, is the most resilient sector in today's session. The chart below shows today's move on the far right. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
REUTERSThe New York Post's Page Six reports Tiger Woods' ex-wife Elin Nordegren is now dating a 53-year-old coal magnate. West Virginia native Chris Cline¬†is said to be worth ¬†$1.2 billion.¬† He made his fortune betting that Illinois coal would some day be worth more than Appalachian deposits. Forbes says his firm, Foresight Energy, produces 20 million tons of coal a year and controls a total of more than 4 billion tons, ¬† According to a Bloomberg Markets magazine profile, Cline owns a 164-foot yacht called "Mine Games"¬†¬†that boasts five staterooms and a two-person submarine. His 34,000-square-foot home in Florida is around the corner from Jack Nicklaus'. The subdivision is also said to be where he met Nordegren, the Post says. Woods and Nordegren had a "friendly reunion" this weekend as the four-time Masters winner went on to win the WGC-Cadillac Championship¬†at Doral, according to reports.
eschipul at www.flickr.comAs part of Paul Ryan's plan, the top tax rate would be substantially reduced. Currently the highest tax bracket is 39.6%. These bullet points are from Paul Ryan's plan: For more from the plan, see here &gt;
Paul Ryan unveiled a new plan to balance the budget today. He says he can balance the budget within 10 years. The basic gist: At his press conference announcing his budget plan, Paul Ryan says that this is the image that should "scare" everyone. Basically it's his famous scare chart from the last few years showing debt exploding if nothing is done. Speaker.gov
Pippa Middleton was caught kissing her tall, handsome, blue-eyed Deutsche Bank boyfriend, Nico Jackson, on the slopes in Switzerland.¬† Middleton, 29, who reportedly met Jackson during a ski trip, was there for a cross-country ski race. Jackson, 25, works as a stockbroker for Deutsche Bank in London. Check out a screenshot of the photos obtained by E! News of the couple:¬† E! screencap Now watch the video from E! via New York Daily News:¬†  Middleton seems to have had a thing for finance guys.¬† She¬†ended things with her financier beau Alex Loudon¬†back in 2011. Since that relationship ended, she has been spotted with¬†Thomas Kingston, who works at Schroders private bank, and¬†James Spencer Matthews, the CEO of¬†Eden Rock Capital Management.
Bloomberg TVLegendary GMO fund manager Jeremy Grantham sits down with Charlie Rose for a long-form interview tonight on Bloomberg TV, and if the preview is any indication, it's bound to be interesting. The preview shows a two-minute clip from the interview, which has already been recorded. In this part of the discussion, Grantham talks about the national debt and why it's not an appropriate focus. "What it does is it distracts us from the real world," he tells Charlie Rose. Below are Grantham's comments: The economy is extremely difficult. The debt, in the long run, is not as significant as people think. How you manage debt is an art form. Whether you do it this year or next year, whether you spread these things out, how high is too high ‚Äì I have not spent my career on those areas. I feel ‚Äì I guess ‚Äì that it's substantially too high. I guess that you shouldn't try to make it low in a hurry, but you should have a 20-year plan to chip away. We've gotten ourselves into a bit of a rathole, and we should be careful getting out of it, but it is not the overwhelming thing that will dominate our future. What it does is it distracts us from the real world. Debt is an accounting world. It's paper. The real world is the quantity and quality of your people and the quantity and quality of your capital spending. Are you building new machines? Are you being inventive? Are you training your people? Is your high school system delivering the same education that it used to relative to the South Koreans and relative to the Norwegians? No, it's not. We should worry more about the real world and less about the paper world. And somehow we're in this death grip that only paper things matter. And so there's much too little attention spent on education, training, capital spending ‚Äì finding a way to beef it up. And also, I'd rather stimulate the economy directly through government spending than I would like to play games with the monetary system and games with the interest rate, inflicting great wounds on retirees and so on, and transferring wealth to people who won't spend it. We're transferring wealth from the poor to the rich by keeping interest rates low. I'm not even sure the economy gains at all by a low interest rate, and furthermore, no one has established convincingly that it's a good idea. It's a tradition that it's a good idea. And that's not the same. We've had lots of traditions, like that the market would look after itself ‚Äì that people wouldn't be crooks because economic theory assumes that they're not. But they often were crooks, and greedy, and short-term oriented, and willing to dance until the music stopped ‚Äì although, as Soros said, the music had actually stopped long before. View the preview below. ¬†
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesWe spent most of last summer documenting the incredible drought ravaging America's heartland. It was too soon to know just how bad it was going to be, since the harvest would come a few months later. The Illinois' Department of Employment Security has now weighed in, and they make a pretty extreme call: The twin effects of surging costs and lost income for farmers could make the drought the second most expensive "weather event" in history, after Hurricane Katrina. Nope, were not paraphrasing: The 2012 summer drought could¬†become the second most expensive¬†weather event ever, behind only Hurricane Katrina. Here's how they reckon it: Crop farmers not only had a terrible 2012 harvest but now find their soil fried for this year. Drought-resistant seeds are more expensive, the study notes. The poor harvest sent prices skyrocketing. Between 2012 and 2013, food prices are expected to rise up to 4 percent. Livestock farmers were probably the hardest hit, since most crops end up as feed, followed by ethanol and biodiesel fuel refiners.¬† And many livestock workers will probably lose their jobs, the study notes: With corn and bean prices high, livestock producer margins will decline the more that those prices rise. More livestock will be slaughtered if feed is priced high or feed is not available. So short-term meat industry employment is expected to increase, but it is expected to decrease in the longer term. And the inflation will not only be felt in the U.S., but in many emerging economies who depend on importing American food. The price increases could thus force labor costs in those countries' importing sectors higher. That ‚Äî and possible panic buying ‚Äî could in turn lead to costly political instability there. Finally, low water levels may impact tourism and recreation along the Midwest's waterways,as well as stiÔ¨Çe commercial barge trafÔ¨Åc. The drought has caused the Mississippi River level to be at its lowest level in decades. The report's author, Dr. Dave Bieneman, doesn't put a total dollar figure on the disaster.¬† But it's pretty clear this was a total wipeout, even if wasn't overnight. (h/t Chicago Magazine)
AP Photo/Mike GrollNew Orleans Saints cornerback Tracy Porter (22) reacts as he returns an interception 74 yards for a touchdown against the Indianapolis Colts during the second half of the NFL Super Bowl XLIV football game in Miami, Sunday, Feb. 7, 2010.Attorney Mary Jo White will testify before the Senate Banking Committee today as the nominee to head the SEC. It's also the confirmation hearing for Richard Cordray, the head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. You can expect serious questioning from the usual cast of outspoken anti "too big to fail" politicians ‚Äî Elizabeth Warren, Sherrod Brown and, David Vitter. Especially David Vitter. The Republican Senator from Louisiana has made it clear that he plans to question White about some work she did for the NFL on last year's "Bountygate" scandal, according to Nola.com. After a storied career in the public sector (White was the first female U.S. Attorney in Manhattan), White joined the massive law firm Debevois and Plimpton. In 2012, she was hired by the NFL to investigate the "Bountygate" scandal. The NFL was trying to find out if, from 2009-2012, players on the New Orleans Saints were paid "bounties" to harm other players. White said that they were, and supported sanctions against players. Four current and former New Orleans Saints players were suspended as a result. Of course, now we know that in December of last year the NFL vacated the suspensions that it had placed on New Orleans Saints players. From Nola.com: "The factual basis for the sanctions is strong in my opinion," White said during the May conference call with reporters." White also said that Anthony Hargrove, a Saints defensive lineman, was shown saying, "Bobby, give me my money," after it was believed he had knocked Vikings quarterback Brett Favre out of the NFC Championship game in January 2010. But later, Goodell cast doubt on the allegation, saying "I am prepared to assume - as he apparently stated publicly - that he did not" make the "give me my money" statement. Vitter said he's troubled by White's findings. "If Mary Jo's work on the SEC is anything close to her botched work for the NFL, folks who want to protect their investments, like the victims of the Stanford Ponzi scheme, are in trouble," Vitter said. He was alluding to the many investors from Louisiana and elsewhere who lost millions of dollars from their investments with Allen Stanford, who is now serving a 110-year sentence for fraud. The SEC has acknowledged it took too long to investigate Stanford. So just so you know, this is going to be a tough one.
Paul Ryan is back! He says he can grow the economy and get to a balanced budget within 10 years. The basic idea? He says the plan -- which still remains somewhat vague -- even in the over 90 page document below would secure $4.6 trillion in deficit reductions over the next 10 years. Here's the trajectory of spending under his plan. Paul Ryan And here's the plan which will be announced at a press conference at 10:30. Fy 14 Budget by  
WASHINGTON, March 12 (Reuters) - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is experimenting with punishments that more closely fit the wrongdoing at issue in a bid to give its enforcement cases more bite. Criticized for its traditional practice of a broad ban on wrongdoers breaking securities law again, the SEC is testing injunctions that specifically bar certain behavior, such as giving advice to pension funds or profiting from presenting investment seminars. Critics of the SEC's typical broad prohibitions say they are ineffective and not well enforced. Customized injunctions could also be a more precise tool than the blunt instrument of barring an individual from being a company officer or director. "We want to use all of the tools available to us to specifically discourage repeat misconduct and go beyond the injunctions we traditionally obtain," George Canellos, the SEC's acting enforcement director, told Reuters in an interview. In the past year SEC lawyers have slowly started seeking injunctions that bar defendants from specific types of conduct, even if that conduct is itself legal. They are relying on authority derived from the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley investor protection law that makes explicit courts' authority to follow through on the SEC's recommended injunctions. "We are actively exploring ways to invoke that authority more creatively toward the goal of creating remedies tailored to the misconduct at issue," he said. The new push comes as former top federal prosecutor Mary Jo White is poised to take over the agency. She is expected to win confirmation from the Senate and plans to tell lawmakers on Tuesday that she will bring a "bold and unrelenting" enforcement program to the agency. Canellos previously worked under White as a federal prosecutor in the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan, and could stay on at the SEC in a senior enforcement role. TURNING A PAGE As securities regulators turn their attention away from the financial crisis cases that have absorbed their attention for the past five years, and look to cases around market structure issues and high frequency trading, they are exploring tools they haven't used much in the past. In September, for example, the SEC settled an older case against a salesman who hosted investing classes the SEC alleged to be misleading. In settling the case, the SEC convinced a federal court to bar the defendant from receiving compensation for developing, presenting, or marketing investment classes. And in May, when the SEC filed its corruption case against former Detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and other top city officials, it sought to bar them from participating in any decisions involving investments in securities by public pensions. Kilpatrick was convicted on Monday on two dozen federal charges of corruption and bribery, and the SEC's case remains pending. Former SEC lawyers said the model could potentially apply to cases against larger institutions. A company that misstated earnings, for example, could face an injunction barring them from ever misstating earnings in the future, a scarier prospect than a generic ban on violating the securities laws. But lawyers also said such a prospect would be fought hard by the defense bar, and it is unclear how aggressively the SEC would pursue such bans. "What is the limiting principle?" said Daniel Nathan, a former SEC lawyer now in private practice at Morrison &amp; Foerster. "For a conduct-based injunction, when do you do it, and when not? It's very hard to draw the line." For an insider trading case, for example, Nathan said, it would be difficult to tailor a punishment that would bar an individual from trading, or bar a tipper from speaking to certain individuals. Canellos likened the strategy to harassment cases, where courts not only impose bars on future harassment, but also limit the ability for the defendant to even approach a victim. Courts "draw a bright and easily enforceable line, ordering the accused ... not to get within 100 feet of the victim. This way, there's no future debate in court about whether approaching or talking to the victim constitutes harassment," he said. The SEC pursued a similar remedy in its case against a former executive of Colonial Bank, which failed in 2009 as a result of a major fraud scheme. In that case, the SEC barred the executive, former vice president Catherine Kissick, from not only serving as an officer or director of a public company, but also explicitly banned her from serving in any senior position at a mortgage firm or financial institution. (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Tim Dobbyn) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellFamous Dow Theorist Richard Russell has been bearish on stocks for as long as we can remember. But in his latest newsletter, he shocked us by recommending that his followers should buy stocks via the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Here's an excerpt via King World News: Yes, I know that this market is uncorrected during its long rise from the 2009 low, and I know that there are risks in buying an uncorrected advance that is becoming uncomfortably long in the tooth, but my suggestion is that my subscribers should†take a chance†(after all, Columbus took a chance) and take a position in the DIAs.† If you buy the DIAs, I suggest that you place a mental stop loss 8% below your purchase price.† Losses in investing are inevitable, but losses should always be†limited. By taking a position in the market, you'll be casting yourself on the side of the optimists, and you'll also be casting your vote on the side of Ben Bernanke and the Feds.† Besides, it's fun to be able, for once, to place yourself on the cheerleaders side of the US markets, and it makes sense to be on the side of America's Federal Reserve.† Russell believes that stocks will go up as long as Ben Bernanke is running things at the Federal Reserve.† Furthermore, he believes there will be plenty of warnings before the Fed decides to tighten. Even Russell recognizes how unexpected this call is. "Wait, I didn't mean to place a sarcastic overtone on the above," he writes.† "I really believe that subscribers should take a flyer on this market.† After all, after weeks of flirting with a new high in the Industrial Average, the Dow finally confirmed the previous record high of the Transportation Average.† With the Industrials and the Transports both in record high territory, I think being in the market is justified under Dow Theory." So there you have it.† One of the stock markets biggest bears just flipped. Read more at KingWorldNews.com.
WikipediaAdriana Ferreyr Back in 2011, Brazilian soap opera star Adriana Ferreyr¬†filed a $50 million lawsuit against her ex, billionaire hedge fund legend¬†George Soros, claiming he renegged on a $1.9 million apartment he promised her. The details of Ferreyr's suit were shocking when it came out. Ferreyr said they dated for five years and she was dumped in 2010. She was 27 at the time and he was 80. ¬†¬† During a romantic reunion, she said Soros whispered that he gave the apartment he allegedly promised her to another woman. She claimed that he slapped her across the face and attempted to choke her, according to the New York Post's report¬†citing court documents. The suit also claimed Soros attempted to stike her with a glass lamp, but missed and she ended up cutting her foot. Now Soros is countersuing the Brazilian beauty for defamation and assault, the New York Post reports. According to the report, Soros claims that it was Ferreyr who threw the lamp and hit him on the forearm. He also claims that he did not hit her and that she cut her foot on a shard of glass on the floor from the broken lamp.¬† Last fall, Soros, 82, got engaged to his 40-year-old girlfriend, Tamiko Bolton.¬†Bolton is the woman Soros had given the apartment to, according to the Post.¬† We all know Soros, so now let's get to know Ferreyr better. She's famous for her star role on "Marisol", a popular Brazilian soap opera. ¬†
American Museum of Finance, NYCThere are a lot of pretty cool trading desks out there, as we've shown on our site previously. But you might say it's not the size of your monitor that matters, but how you use the information on it. We wanted to go back to see how trading was done before you could even compare your Bloomberg to anyone else's. That is, before Michael Bloomberg was even born. With the help of images from the Museum of American Finance in New York, we put together a brief, visual history of trading technology, from ticker tape to the present.¬†

BloombergSean DarbyAs the stock market closes in on its all time high, some of Wall Street's strategist have been waving their caution flags. But a few of the bravest have reiterated their "Buy" calls, and some have even raised their year-end targets. Jefferies Sean Darby falls into that latter category. This morning, Darby cranked up his year-end S&amp;P 500 target to 1,673, making him the most bullish strategist on Wall Street. Here's a summary of his rationale: We are lifting our year-end index target for the S&amp;P 500 to 1,673 from 1,565 last calculated on December 17, 2012 (see exhibit 21). Better-than-expected 4Q earnings and forward guidance, a broadening in the earnings base, ongoing share buybacks and continuous rotation out of fixed income ought to keep US equities well bid. We expect the 2013 earnings integer to be closer to 122 versus 111 forecast. We remain Bullish on US equities within our global asset allocation - a view unchanged since end-2011. While US housing has bottomed out, in our view, the leading drivers for the US equity market have been a restoration of competitiveness and more recently signs that capex spending has started to recover. We have held a non-consensus view over the improvement in the cyclical outlook for US stocks. The Federal Reserveís aggressive monetary policy has been accompanied by huge political headwinds which we have felt has kept investors trapped in fixed income. The main risk to our view is an unwinding of corporate credit spreads and a change in the pace of monetary expansion. While we acknowledge that the economy is ëwork in progressí and equity valuations are trading slightly above fair value, the improvement in the earnings picture coupled with subdued bond yields ought to allow equity prices more room to inflate. Currently, the range of year-end targets are as low as 1,390 (Wells Fargo) to 1,615 (Citi).
sindorella / FlickrOn the subject of what Apple could do with its cash, here's some new analysis from Barclays: Based on our detailed analysis around borrowing, we believe Apple has the potential to double its level of capital returns if the company makes complete use of its balance sheet. First, we believe Apple could sustainably boost its dividend to more than$14.75, which would put the dividend at a 3.5% yield based on current price. We believe this yield would be attractive considering it would take Apple's yield above that of Cisco and other bellwethers. Second, we believe Apple has the capacity to increase its buyback program at the same time by $30 billion over three years (up from the existing $10- billion share repurchase program).
moneyshow.comBack in February Dennis Gartman, publisher of The Gartman Letter announced the he was exiting all his bullish positions and rushing to the sidelines. Now stocks have been hitting all-time highs. In an interview with CNBC, Gartman said he was wrong on stocks, "wrong 3 percent", but that he's going to stay on the sidelines. In his latest note, he explains why he is sticking to his decision to stand down: "We are, and we have been, concerned about insider selling; we are and we have been concerned about the rising level of confidence in a steadily rising equity market amongst those who were only a few weeks ago were convinced of the same markets inherent weakness; we are and we have been concerned about the lack of volume on the upside and these concerns seem not to go away.† "However, what truly concerns us is the fact that as insider selling has risen, corporate buying of those same securities has also risen. We have to wonder aloud why it is to be considered bullish of shares when corporate insiders are selling their shares even as they mandate that their corporations buy shares on the open market?† This bothers us, and it bothers us greatly. In that environment, the sidelines seem even more inviting." When he announced that he was exiting his bullish positions, Gartman's rationale was there was a shift in "tectonic plates" in "all of the capital markets". It hinged on a technical breakdown in markets and on the Fed's "punch bowl" being taken away. Gartman said he would buy stocks again after a six - seven percent correction.
Getty Images / Feng LiFor nearly two decades, we've counted on China to be the perpetual growth machine that would power the world's economy. But as many have observed, that era is slowly coming to an end. Jefferies recently published a massive 426-page report that boils down what we can expect in this next phase of China's development. CLICK HERE TO SEE THE PRESENTATION &gt; Here's a portion of the bank's summary of the presentation, called "Jeffries China 2025: A Clear Path to Prosperity": Academics have already pointed out that China has hit ëa Lewis turning pointí (China has run out of cheap labor) and/or growth will eventually slow since the economy has ëless catch-up leftí as technological limits are appearing (Solow Growth Model). Equally, China will need to begin developing its own technology rather than importing innovation. This can be costly and far more difficult to achieve success. It is very difficult for a country to invest over 50% of its GDP productively ... [And] demographics will begin to work against the economy as the 15 to 24 cohort falls by 20% over the same period. Jefferies asked its top China analysts to come up with "megatrends" that will define the Middle Kingdom. They came up with seven: urbanization, consumerization, slowing trade, slowingfixed asset investment, financial reform, information mobility and service sector development. We have summarized their projections here.
REUTERS/Henry RomeroGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Wikimedia CommonsToday at 10 AM, Paul Ryan will unveil his plan to balance the budget within 10 years. Nomura has a little preview of the general budget politics going on. Attention will likely focus on the US today as fiscal policy debates continue to rise to the fore. House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan will be releasing his FY2014 budget proposal, ìThe Path to Prosperity: A Responsible, balanced budget,î at a press conference this morning. Mr Ryanís proposal will seek to balance the budget by 2023 with $4.6trn in spending cuts. In contrast neither the Senate proposal (expected to be released tomorrow) nor President Obamaís proposal is expected to set a target date for a balanced budget. The White House yesterday noted that its proposal will aim for ìsensible, balanced deficit reductionî toward a ìfiscally sustainable path,î rather than looking to explicitly balance revenues with spending. Following the White House press conference, House Speaker John Boehner took aim at Mr Obamaís ìdefinition of the word [balance],î as the gap between the parties portends the risk of an extended and contentious debate ahead. The idea of a "balanced budget" sounds nice linguistically, but it's actually a pointless goal. If reducing debt-to-GDP is what the US desires, then the US only needs to have annual deficits that are smaller than nominal GDP growth. In fact, we're already basically at that point. The deficit has stabilized (although it's expected to grow in the future, thanks to entitlements). So expect the Democrats to take a lot of flak for not offering a plan to "balance" the budget. But that really needn't be a goal.
As we just noted, the UK just came out with a bad new round of data. And down goes the pound. FinViz
The UK is now considered to be the real sick economy of Europe, as the sterling has been hammered all year on bad data, and expectations of future easing. Fresh numbers out today only confirm the mess. Bad #UK eco data: Industrial output -1.2% (forecast +0.1%); factory output -1.2% (forecast no change) UK Manufacturing Production y/y (Jan) Actual: -3.0% Survey: -1.0% Prior: -1.5% Week before Budget appalling industrial production numbers.Not sure what else could go wrong for Osborne? From FinViz: FinViz
Sebastian Scheiner-Pool/Getty ImagesThe reason that the ECB isn't doing more to stimulate growth in Europe, and the reason that leaders are moving very slowly (if at all) to moderate the destructive austerity policies is that Germany has things so good. It'd be one thing if Germany were feeling some pain, but all indications continue to suggest that they're in the sweetspot. German unemployment is ultra-low. Its exports are picking pack up (mostly to the rest of the world). And inflation, the thing that Germans seem to hate the most, is on the decline. CPI has now hit its lowest level in 2 years. From Bloomberg: The annual inflation rate in Germany, calculated using a harmonized European Union method, dropped to 1.8 percent from 1.9 percent in January, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. The outcome was in line with the median estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Every indicator is going the right way for Germany. So things are slow to change.
Amidst one of the world's great oil booms, Hugo Chavez caused the Venezuelan oil industry to decline, chasing out talent and investment, leading to a collapse in production. In a new note, Morgan Stanley worries that this chart -- the long-term decline in Venezuelan oil production -- will take a long time to reverse. Morgan Stanley Venezuelan oil prospects still dim in a post-Chavez era. We caution against expectations of a phase shift in Venezuelan oil production, despite some bullishness in the market. Oil supply growth requires material investment, technology, and long lead times. The brain drain of Venezuelan oil engineers over the past decade and reports that only 6 kb/d of new Orinoco crude production started last year (of 195 kb/d expected) confirm our suspicions. IOC investment vital, but hard to justify without time-consuming reform. PDVSA is already saddled with debt and 43% of its 2011 production was not paid in cash, making foreign investment crucial. Granted, a post-Chavez Venezuela is likely more conducive to foreign investment. However, we doubt IOCs will invest without material, time-consuming economic and structural reforms, especially given Chavezís entrenched bureaucracy. We have heard anecdotal evidence of languishing pipeline approvals, which has capped production growth. But even with every reform in place, production will still lag investment by years.
Eventually, there's only so much an economy can deteriorate before the downward momentum starts to fade a little bit. Barclays has a note which basically says that the Greek economy -- although ugly and although getting worse -- is seeing a moderation in its downturn. And for the first time, actually, a slight sequential improvement in some numbers. Elstat released preliminary Q4 12 GDP data. The seasonally adjusted real GDP series contracted by -4.3 q/q (-5.6 y/y) in Q4 12. The cumulative output contraction since the beginning of the crisis has been about 20%, by far the sharpest among euro area economies. Interestingly, when looking at the output composition, investment showed a mild increase in Q4 12 (+1.5% q/q) after a cumulative contraction of 63% (peak-to-trough) since the beginning of the crisis (LHS chart below). We also saw a slight improvement in economic sentiment indicators in Q4 12 (eg, the sentiment indicator published by an independent local research institute, IOBE, was up by 11.1% y/y). Elstat also released last week the unemployment data for December 2012, which was down to 26.4%, from 26.6% in November (municipal employment programmes that started in December were the main driver). Barclays
jimmyharris via flickrEveryone's getting excited about tomorrow's retail sales number for February? Why, because this will be the first full-month's reading that has digested the impact of the end of the payroll tax holiday. SocGen calls it the marquee even of the week, which we think is underselling it a tad. This is a crucial datapoint at a crucial time. Anyway, expectations are high. Here's the preview from SocGen's Brian Jones More consumers were working than expected in February, yet the question remains whether they were willing to part with some of their hard-earned cash? We expect the Census Bureau‚Äôs advance report on retail and food services sales to reveal that they had no problem opening their wallets last month. Fuelled by widespread increases in non-automotive purchases, retail sales probably climbed by 0.9% in February ‚Äì the largest gain since last September. Perhaps most important, retail ‚Äúcontrol‚Äù ‚Äì the portion of the Census Bureau‚Äôs canvass that excludes automotive, building materials and gasoline purchases and is used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct nominal goods spending estimates ‚Äì is forecast to jump by 0.8%,four times the reported January gain. Our analysis suggests that nominal outlays on goods and services gathered considerable steam in February, but a gasolineled jump in retail costs likely resulted in yet another modest uptick in real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) during the reference period.
viZZZual.comShocker! The hottest market in the world, Japan, actually fell last night. The Nikkei's winning streak was stopped at 8 sessions, as the index fell 0.28% in a late day dive. In the meantime, US futures are down a bit, and Europe is going nowhere. It's unlikely to be a big news session for the market. Expect the day to be dominated by news from the Conclave, which gets underway today, and the release of Paul Ryan's budget at 10 AM ET.
