The Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Commission has released the latest report on Traffic Volume Trends, data through December. Travel on all roads and streets changed by -2.9% (-7.0 billion vehicle miles) for December 2012 as compared with December 2011. The 12-month moving average of miles driven increased only 0.34% from December a year ago (PDF report). And the civilian population-adjusted data (age 16-and-over) has set yet another post-financial crisis low. Here is a chart that illustrates this data series from its inception in 1970. I'm plotting the "Moving 12-Month Total on ALL Roads," as the DOT terms it. See Figure 1 in the PDF report, which charts the data from 1987. My start date is 1971 because I'm incorporating all the available data from the DOT spreadsheets. ¬† ¬† ¬† The rolling 12-month miles driven contracted from its all-time high for 39 months during the stagflation of the late 1970s to early 1980s, a double-dip recession era. The most recent dip has lasted for 55 months and counting ‚Äî a new record, but the trough to date was in November 2011, 48 months from the all-time high. Total Miles Driven, however, is one of those metrics that should be adjusted for population growth to provide the most revealing analysis, especially if we're trying to understand the historical context. We can do a quick adjustment of the data using an appropriate population group as the deflator. I use the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Civilian Noninstitutional Population Age 16 and Over (FRED series CNP16OV). The next chart incorporates that adjustment with the growth shown on the vertical axis as the percent change from 1971. ¬† ¬† Clearly, when we adjust for population growth, the Miles-Driven metric takes on a much darker look. The nominal 39-month dip that began in May 1979 grows to 61 months, slightly more than five years. The trough was a 6% decline from the previous peak. The population-adjusted all-time high dates from June 2005. That's 90 months ‚Äî over seven years ago. The latest data, for December 2012, is 9.00% below the 2005 peak, a new post-Financial Crisis low. Our adjusted miles driven based on the 16-and-older age cohort is about where we were as a nation in January 1995. Here is a closer look at the series since 2000, which gives a better look at 2012, a flatline that rolled over in the second half of the year. ¬† ¬† About that Population Adjustment... I've frequently been asked why I use the CNP16OV data for the population adjustment, often with the suggestion that it would make more sense to limit the population to licensed drivers. For openers, I don't know of a valid source for the driver-licensed population. Moreover, the correlation between license holders and actual drivers is not a reliable one. Many license holders in households do not drive, especially in their older years. According to Census Bureau data on gasoline sales (courtesy of Harry Dent's research on demand curves), dollars spent on gasoline peaks for people in their late 40s and falls off rather quickly after that. In fact, I think there's a good case for using the Census Bureau's mid-month estimates of total population (POPTHM) rather than civilians age 16 and over for the population adjustment. The reason is that a portion of total miles driven is specifically to support children's needs (day care, schools, children's activities, etc.) and the needs of elders who might have licenses but no longer drive. Ultimately the division of miles driven by either population group (CNP16OV or POPTHM), while not a perfect match with drivers, is a consistent and relevant metric for evaluating economic growth. Here is the same population-adjusted chart, this time with the total population for the adjustment. In the total-population adjusted version the latest data point of -7.67% also a post-recession low. ¬† ¬† What about the impact of volatile gasoline prices? How much of a factor has that been in the trend? I'll close with an overlay of the population-adjusted miles driven and gasoline prices since the early 1990s. ¬† ¬† As is readily apparent, the correlation is fairly weak over the entire timeframe (+0.30). And, despite the volatility in gasoline prices since the onset of the Great Recession, the correlation since December 2007 has been even weaker (-0.28). There are profound behavioral issues apart from gasoline prices that are influencing miles driven. These would include the demographics of an aging population in which older people drive less, continuing high unemployment, and the ever-growing ability to work remote in the era of the Internet. One particularly interesting trend was highlighted in a recent study on "Transportation and the New Generation" by the Frontier Group. The DOT "miles driven" metric is also interesting to study in the context of gasoline volume sales, which I also update monthly:
Courtesy of Tea Party ExpressNEW YORK, N.Y. ó Speaking to a meeting of influential conservatives here Monday night, Kentucky Senator Rand Paul criticized his fellow Republicans in Congress for lacking a unified leadership on the upcoming sequestration.† "We announce our surrender before we get started on every battle," Paul said. "That literally is our problem."† "We need to say over and over againÖthat the sequester was [Obama's] idea, that he's the one who's laying people off, we aren't, and that we have an idea to fix the sequester in a way that avoids any layoffs," he added.† Noting that Senate Republicans have not yet coalesced behind a plan to deal with the impending across-the-board budget cuts, Paul, a libertarian and Tea Party favorite, called on his colleagues to get behind his own plan to fix the sequester. That plan ó which has gained little traction, even among conservatives ó would achieve the same among of budget cuts as the sequester by implementing a federal hiring freeze; reducing federal employee compensation and travel; repealing the Davis-Bacon Act, which requires the federal government to pay workers the local prevailing wage; cutting military research; and slashing 50 percent of the foreign aid budget. † Paul also said that he would prefer that Republicans use debt ceiling talks, rather than the budget debate, to extract spending cuts from Democrats.† "If [the Senate] doesn't vote for a continuing resolution, the government will shut down ó so there is a downside," Paul said. "The debt ceiling was the place to lay down the gauntlet, and it still is. But there's a vacuum somewhere, and there's not enough leadership to do that."† As another example of the lack of Republican Senate leadership, Paul pointed to the decision to back off a filibuster of Chuck Hagel, Obama's embattled nominee for Defense Secretary.† "To announce after we got a filibuster that we are already giving up, when we didn't even get a piece of paper or anything ó what a waste of time!" Paul said. "That is people who don't know what the hell they're doing."† Paul said that he is not sure whether he will vote to confirm Hagel. He added that he is more concerned about Obama's nominee for CIA director, John Brennan, given Brennan's involvement with the White House's drone program.† "I know people are hot and heavy on the Hagel thing ó I'm more hot and heavy on the Brennan thing," Paul said.†
ShutterstockGoldman Sachs recently released its "Hedge Fund Trend Monitor," a massive report detailing the fourth quarter investment moves made by the world's biggest hedge funds. The report included a list of "most concentrated" stocks.¬† These are the companies for which huge shares of their outstanding stocks are owned by hedge funds. Goldman found that these stocks tend to do very well in upward trending markets, but they also do poorly in downward trending ones. From the report: The ‚Äúmost concentrated‚Äù stocks lagged for most of 2007 and 2008, but significantly outperformed in 2009 (81.4% vs. 26.5%) and 2010 (15.9% vs. 15.1%). Our ‚Äúmost concentrated‚Äù basket underperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 391 bp in 2011 (-1.8% vs. 2.1%) but outperformed by 814 bp in 2012 (24.1% vs. 16.0%). We pulled the 20 stocks with the largest hedge fund ownership stakes according to Goldman's report. All stocks listed have between 19-36% of their outstanding shares owned by hedge funds.¬†We also included the names of the five hedge funds with the largest stakes.
Robert JohnsonThe tiny monarchy of Bahrain is struggling to hold on during a time of unrest and constant regional tensions.†Thankfully, they've got some help. Bahrain is home to America's 5th Fleet, which extends a decisive presence through the region. Last fall I was invited to take part in international mine clearing exercises in the Arabian Gulf. It was an†opportunity to step inside a place full of contradictions, from luxurious developments built with oil money ó to the squalor of immigrant workers who built them ó to cordoned-off military zones.
China is arguably the most important engine of economic growth in the world. It's the second largest economy in the world, and its GDP is growing in the high single-digit range.¬† This makes it an incredible consumer of imported goods, especially commodity products which it needs to build out its infrastructure. Some countries need rely on China more heavily than others. Bloomberg BRIEF economist Michael McDonough just tweeted this chart breaking down the countries whose export industries rely immensely on China. @M_McDonough
Executives from Macy's testified today at New York State Court in Manhattan about how Martha Stewart allegedly broke an exclusive deal with the retailer, opting to sign with rival department store JCPenney. It became immediately apparent that this is a very personal fight.† Macy's CEO†Terry Lundgren and Stewart were friends†ó or so he thought. "I was completely shocked and blown away," Lundgren said about the call he received from Stewart informing him that she signed a deal with JCPenney. "I was literally sick to my stomach." Stewart said that it'd be a good deal for Macy's, but that's when Lundgren couldn't take it anymore. "The thought that it would be good for Macy's is so far from anything I could comprehend," said Lundgren. "I'm upset right now talking about it." He hung up on her. It was the first time he'd hung up on anybody, assured Lundgren. "I don't have a personal relationship with Martha Stewart," said Lundgren.†"I haven't responded to her since that phone call and I don't intend to." Ouch. And it's not just the big boss who's mad at Stewart. Macy's merchandising EVP of home Laurene Gandolfo got emotional when she testified, according to Women's Wear Daily. ìI really put myself out there for these people,î she said. ìNobody told me to train their designers, nobody told me I had to take them to our factories. I trustedÖthe people I was working with [at Martha Stewart].  "I was trying to help and felt like they stabbed me in the back,î she continued. Gandolfo sent an email to her colleagues that summed up her anger:†ìIt is my personal goal to show these traitors that we will not miss a beat in their business.î Last Thursday, the longtime president of Macy's merchandising group Leonard Marcus testified.†He set off some fireworks too. ìWhen I heard about it, I was shocked, I was angered, I was ticked off,î said Marcus.†ìThe first thing that went through my mind was, ëI cannot believe [it], this is exactly what I was afraid of when we did this contract, that we were going to do a deal and then somehow weíre not going to have the exclusive rights.í I was flabbergasted.î
BofA Merrill Lynch technical analyst MacNeil Curry notes today that investor sentiment toward gold is at its lowest level since November 2008. (Just before that, in October 2008 ñ amid market chaos in the wake of the Lehman Brothers collapse ñ gold tumbled 27 percent.) The bottom panel of the chart below shows the sentiment indicator (click to enlarge). BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG Curry, who is bullish on gold (BAML's technical analysis team sees gold's "longer-term upside potential into the $2100-2300 to $3000 range")†thinks the sentiment reading is a positive sign. In a note to clients, he writes: While Gold has taken a significant hit as of late, it remains above the pivotal 1522/1533 17m range lows. Against here the larger bull trend remains intact. Note that sentiment has now reached its LOWEST LEVELS SINCE 2008. From the perspective of contrarian opinion analysis, a bottom and bullish turn in gold is close at hand. The sentiment indicator BAML tracks seems consistent with the latest CFTC data, which revealed that fund managers have placed their biggest bets against gold since at least June 2006.
Citi's currency guru Steven Englander weighs in on what we just saw in Italy. This is the first European election in which voters didn't do the right thing. Instead they gave surprising support to politicians who reject austerity and, in some cases, the euro. This could become a major problem if it proves contagious. The feel-good from the runup in Italian asset markets was not enough to offset the feel-bad from austerity, low growth and unemployment. If all it would take to fix this was an ECB rate cut, they would do so immediately, but euro zone politicians may need to ease fiscal constraints† and find ways to quickly stimulate growth. Elections are more problematic than market scares or sentiment shifts as they can't be undone by printing money. Still the outcome does not seem so dire that a bit of growth and ECB flexibility could not turn it around. Meanwhile, SocGen currency analyst Sebastien Galy titles his note: "Instability Cubed." He writes: EUR crosses came under pressure as Italian polls suggest a split vote with each chamber held potentially by a different party, whereas laws need to be approved by both chambers. Rising FX volatility has not yet mutated into a full blown correction, though the correction is deep. USD/JPY remains a buy on the 90 handle and EUR/USD should hopefully hold above 1.30. Nonetheless, gyrations in FX and now in equities are increasingly severe. Such tendency for sharp corrections seen as opportunities to buy on dips are similar to the market behavior in 2007 as we advanced every deeper into the subprime crisis. The next key test will be the sequester decision in the US which does not seem to be going in an encouraging correction.
Sprengben / FlickrAsian markets are open, and they're down. Japan's Nikkei is down 1.8 percent. Korea's Kospi is down 0.8 percent. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is down 1.3 percent. This is coming as Japan's yen surges against the euro. On Monday, Italy wrapped up its general election.¬† The initial exit polls showed that Pier Luigi Bersani won big, which is what the market wanted.¬† With Bersani came the expectation that Italy's ongoing reforms to manage its massive debt load would continue. However, as more votes were counted, it became apparent that the race was actually much closer than expected with Silvio Berlusconi and his party getting much more voter support than anyone expected.¬† At this point, it's looking like gridlock with no clear winner.¬† "Berlusconi getting traction puts some of Monti's austerity measures and moves at risk," said Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz.¬† "This reverses the confidence the capital markets have in Italy debt." As these headlines rolled out, the euro tanked against the yen. Today's sell-off in Japan is erasing yesterday's massive gain.
Kim Bhasin / Business InsiderSeveral top U.S. companies, including Macy's and Saks will be posting earnings before markets open tomorrow.  Early in the trading session, there are two major U.S. economic indicators that are scheduled to be released‚Äîconsumer confidence and new home sales. Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
Leonard Riggio, the founder of Barnes &amp; Noble, wants to buy back a slice of the bookseller he founded more than 40 years ago. But he doesn't want anything to do with the Nook ó just the stores and website. So, what's the Barnes &amp; Noble retail arm actually worth? By some measures, Barnes &amp; Noble's retail business may be worth "virtually nothing,"†Michael J. De La Merced at DealBook reported. The overall company is valued at around $863 million and its total enterprise value is about $1.3 billion, according to S&amp;P's Capital IQ. In 2012, Microsoft and Pearson bought a 23 percent chunk of the Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook division last year, which valued it at nearly $1.8 billion. Obviously, Barnes &amp; Noble won't just chuck its retail division away to its founder for free. It has nearly 700 stores and an e-commerce business. But will it be able to sell it at a decent price?
Do you feel like you are paying too much for gasoline? At least you did not have to fill up for the Daytona 500. The special ethanol-blended fuel that NASCAR drivers put into their tanks at the race on Sunday cost more than twice the national average for regular unleaded. And at about 18 gallons per tank, that comes to about $150 a fill up in a car that gets single-digit miles per gallon! Even so, you are paying more. The U.S. average retail price of regular gasoline has risen to $3.75 per gallon, up 16 cents from last year at this time. The national average price has seen double-digit increases two out of the last three weeks and is up 45 cents since the beginning of the year. The race higher in gasoline prices is worth watching closely. In each of the past two years, we have tracked 10 ‚Äúspring slide‚Äù indicators that helped us to predict the stock market pullbacks that took place during the second quarter of each year. Energy prices were one of 10 that accurately predicted a market slide each year. In each of the past two years, energy prices began to climb sharply in February, two months ahead of the peak in the stock market. Danger ZoneWatching the Daytona 500 from the ‚Äúdanger zone,‚Äù where cars whip by at high speeds of around 175 to 200mph‚Äîbut can also burst through the walls in a crash ‚Äî can be a thrill. But gasoline‚Äôs ‚Äúdanger zone‚Äù may be just plain scary. At $3.75, retail gasoline prices are nearly back in the ‚Äúdanger zone‚Äù marked by the highs of around $3.85 to $4.10 per gallon seen over the past five years, as you can see in Figure 1. This range has marked a ‚Äúdanger zone‚Äù for market participants. When gasoline prices reached this range in the past, it preceded the stock market slides experienced in 2008, 2011, and 2012. While high gasoline prices were certainly not the driving factor in the 2008 U.S. financial crisis-driven plunge in the stock market, the high prices did add to stress on the economy as they did again in the springs of 2011 and 2012, when concerns over a European financial crisis rattled investors. Again in the fall of 2012, high energy prices weighed on investor sentiment and helped to fuel a pullback driven by the election and fiscal cliff concerns.In short, high energy prices can make the economy and markets more vulnerable to a negative event that drives stocks lower. LPL Financial Factors Driving Gasoline PricesThree major factors have combined to drive the surge in gasoline prices this year: oil prices, gasoline margins, and refinery outages. A factor that is often misunderstood, but likely did not contribute to higher prices was the surge in exports. The United States has become a net exporter of gasoline. The turnaround in U.S. gasoline net exports is remarkable after about five decades of being a net importer, as you can see in Figure 2. But that has not come as a result of undersupplying the U.S. market. LPL Financial U.S. demand for gasoline has declined, but solid global demand has allowed refineries to export gasoline produced using capacity that would otherwise have been taken offline. Over 80% of U.S. exports of total gasoline are produced and shipped from the Gulf Coast, while U.S. gasoline is generally imported along the East Coast. Given the Jones Act (which effectively limits the ability to ship oil from one U.S. port to another), infrastructure constraints, and costs of transporting gasoline around the U.S., were U.S. gasoline exports to be constrained, global gasoline supply would likely decline and U.S. gasoline consumers, especially in the Northeast, would face higher prices. Avoiding the Danger ZoneHopefully, gas prices can avoid the danger zone. There are indications that gasoline prices may soon ease. However, the seasonal increase in demand, which typically begins in the spring, could keep upward pressure on prices. If prices again enter the danger zone, we will be watching this spring slide indicator along with the others closely for signs of an impending stock market slide. We will provide an update of all of our spring slide indicators in an upcoming Weekly Market Commentary.
Darden Restaurants, the owner of Red Lobster, Olive Garden, and LongHorn Steakhouse chains, announced last spring that it was investing in the world's first commercial lobster farm in Malaysia. † In an analyst conference today, the restaurant operator explained that it "sees global demand for lobster exceeding supply." † Since there isn't a limitless supply of lobsters in the wild, growing lobsters in captivity will increase the supply. The company hopes this will drive down prices for consumers and provide a buffer against the rising cost of seafood. † According to the Orlando Sentinel's†Sandra Pedicini, Darden has partnered with a† Malaysian group on a 23,000-acre aquaculture park.† "After several years of†research and investment in hatchery technology, we†selected Malaysia as the site, as we intend to grow a†species of spiny lobster known as panulirus ornatus†indigenous to the region. While weíre excited about†the prospects for this initiative, it will be several years†(2017) before itís operational and even longer (2029)†before production is expected to reach scale," Darden said in a 2012 report.† Spiny lobsters, also known as rock lobsters, are distinguished by their lack of claws and short spines.†In comparison to true lobster (Maine lobster), it's more mild and bland. By 2029, the company plans to produce up to 40 million pounds of spiny lobster with annual revenue of $ 1 billion, according to the Wall Street Journal. †
IMDBStill from Away With Her where Julie Christie's character struggles with Alzheimer's.The number of American's diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease is expected to almost triple to 13.8 million by 2050 from 5 million now. And this "epidemic" will add pressure on advisors and their practices, writes†Mary Beth Franklin in Investment News. As cognitive functions decline people with Alzheimer's struggle with financial tasks. "One of the first skills to decline is the high-level function required to accomplish financial tasks such as paying bills, balancing a checkbook or reading a brokerage statement," Franklin writes.† Advisors that have clients with Alzheimer's face legal and ethical problems. Some say that a written policy will help advisors avoid such problems. Steve Starnes with The Monitor Group says advisors should do a few things if they notice their client's cognitive functions are deteriorating. These steps include updating the client's legal documents and estate, encouraging them to see a doctor, and helping them pick an advocate. Read the entire piece at Investment News &gt;
Moazzam Brohi via FlickrRome, Italy ‚Äî Since the middle of last year, the Eurozone has done a good job of quieting its crisis. The ECB stepping in with a promise to buy debt has reduced sovereign borrowing costs, and there's very little tension on the financial system. Furthermore, mainstream leaders across virtually all parties in all countries support the existence of the Eurozone in its current form. There's always been one risk, however: Voters. There's always been the chance that somewhere (Spain, Greece, Italy, etc.) would have a vote, where the pissed off voters came through with a rejection of the status quo, installing politicians completely at odds with the game plan. Italy hasn't quite gone there, but it's close. Tonight the voters have stated -- in the worlds of one official from the leftist party -- a rebellion. They've given huge numbers to both Berlusconi (whom the rest of Europe can't stand) and Beppe Grillo, the euro-skeptic, comedian populist. It remains unclear how things will shake out, except we know that at best Italy has a very fragile government, that no longer has the momentum to continue on any existing reform path. For more Italian election results, see here &gt;
Speaker.govHouse Speaker John Boehner†did not sound optimistic when asked if he foresaw a solution to avert the across-the-board cuts known as the sequester, which are set to begin kicking in this week. But "hope springs eternal," Boehner said, echoing Obama's words late last week. Boehner criticized Obama for "campaigning" and not offering a serious solution to cutting spending, charging him with using service members as "props." Obama will travel to Virginia on Tuesday in his push to urge Congress to avert the cuts. "Mr. President, you got your tax increase," Boehner said, referring to the deal to avert the fiscal cliff. He accused Obama of having a "spending addiction." Boehner said that it was "time for the Senate to act," putting the onus on Senate Democrats. They plan to push a bill to the floor later this week. Boehner's press conference comes a day after the White House warned of the state-by-state effects of the cuts, which are set to start kicking in this week. The White House placed much of the blame on Boehner and other Republican leaders. "Republicans racked up a lot of frequent flyer miles heading to Virginia during the election to campaign about how horrible these cuts would be to our defense and to try to score political points against the President," White House senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer said.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 4 Defensive Strategies For Investors Looking To Protect Their Gains (Advisor Perspectives) With a few market risks on the horizon, namely Italian elections, the sequester, slowing U.S. economic growth and so on, Blackrock's Russ Koesterich says there are four defensive strategies for investors looking to protect their gains. 1. Don't overpay for defensive sectors like consumer staples and utilities. 2. Instead of focusing on sectors, think about strategies like minimum volatility. 3. Know where to get more fixed income. 4. "Know when to consider adding to Treasuries with a twist". Investors can do this by buying TIPS in the event of a crisis. Why There Will Be No Bond Bear Market (Gluskin Sheff) In his latest report David Rosenberg writes that "the era of consumer frugality ostensibly never went away despite a 125 percent four-year rally, in the equity market". The recent payroll tax hike has delivered an 8 percent blow to discretionary spending for those making $40,000, and this is causing 46 percent of the population to curb spending, according to the NRF. "With all this, and knowing that there is over an 80 percent correlation between booths Fed policy and underlying inflation and the direction of bond yields, I fail to see the bear case for the fixed-income market, and find the argument that the reason to be negative is because rates are so low to be highly unimpressive. Like anything else, motion will be caused by some force. And I don't see the secular forces that brought yields to where they are today to be changing anytime soon." Whistleblower Sues Morgan Stanley And Finra (The Wall Street Journal) Morgan Stanley whistleblower Mark Mensack has revised his case against the firm and has filed a lawsuit in a New Jersey federal court. Mensack is also suing Finra. He accuses Morgan Stanley of intentionally hiding information and abuse of process among other. Mensack said he was forced to leave Morgan Stanley after he discovered an "illegal pay-to-play scheme involving assets in retirement accounts.¬† Previously, arbitrators ruled that Mensack had to repay his bonus money and cover Morgan Stanley's legal fees. A Frustrating Stock Market Trend Is Still Frustrating Bears (Business Insider) When stocks are flat or increasing as earnings decline valuations rise in what is known as multiples expansion. That means stocks are getting expensive and bears that have bases their these on falling earnings have a hard time reconciling this. Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker shows that earnings growth expectations have been declining and are expected to continue to fall. Morgan Stanley ¬† Advisors Need To Prepare For Coming Alzheimer's Epidemic (Investment News) The number of American's diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease is expected to almost triple by 2050 to nearly 13.8 million this will add pressure on advisors. Thomas West a financial advisor with Signature Estate &amp; Investment said, "as we move to a fiduciary standard, this is a gigantic bull's-eye". Some say that a written policy will help advisors avoid ethical and legal challenges. Steve Starnes with The Monitor Group says advisors should do a few things if they notice their client's cognitive functions are deteriorating. These steps include updating the client's legal documents and estate, encouraging them to see a doctor, and helping them pick an advocate.
Already you know that markets around the world are getting clubbed thanks to the shock split vote in Italy. If you wanted to digest it all in one chart, it might be this one: A chart of the VIX -- aka "The Fear Index" -- which measures how much people are trying to buy protection against a big downside drop using options. It went ballistic today. This is raw fear, as people buy protection against a big drop. Via Stockcharts.com: stockcharts.com
Giampaolo Macorig / FlickrCastel Sant'AngeloHuge swings in the Japanese yen, euro, and U.S. dollar came in the wake of some wild news out of Japan and Italy. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,784, -216.4 pts, -1.5 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,487, -27.7 pts, -1.8 percentNASDAQ: 3,116. -45.5 pts, -1.4 percent And now the top stories:
AP Photo/Anil DayalLast week, gold came under heavy fire from the sellers. The shiny yellow metal fell below the $1600 mark for the first time in a while, and it even hit the "death cross" ‚Äì a technical indicator formed when the 50-day average gold price dips below the 200-day average ‚Äì indicating rapidly deteriorating sentiment. After all of that, gold is rebounding nicely today. Right now, it's trading up around 1.4 percent against the dollar at $1595 per ounce. Nonetheless, Goldman Sachs, which has put out some of the most bearish calls on gold we've seen from the Street recently, is lowering its price targets on gold again after last week's selloff. The working thesis of the bank's commodity team is that real interest rates have been driving higher gold prices. Now that those real rates have started to normalize, they think the jig is up for gold. However, something else has happened in the gold market very recently that has Goldman piling on the bad news. Goldman commodity analysts Damien Courvalin and Jeffrey Currie write today in a note to clients that an important shift in the market not¬†driven by real rates has also occurred (emphasis added): Interestingly, the last leg lower in gold prices over the past two weeks has occurred with real rates remaining unchanged. As a result, our modeling of COMEX net speculative positioning suggests that the current level of net length is consistent with a 10-year TIPS yield closer to -40 bps rather than its current -55 bps level. Further, our modeling suggests that the current level of COMEX net length is too low relative to real rates even when taking into account that expectations for the size of QE3 ‚Äì which we believe impacts net speculative length ‚Äì have come down with the hawkish interpretation of recent Fed communication. While likely excessive in that respect, we believe that this latest move in gold prices has nonetheless exposed an important shift in gold positioning at the ETF level. Specifically, the latest collapse in gold ETF holdings stands in sharp contrast to our assumption that ETF positions were likely driven by longer-term allocation rather than short-term trading¬†(Exhibit 4). Instead, ETF holdings are increasingly exhibiting a strong inverse correlation to¬†real rates, a pattern that we now expect will continue going forward. This is an important¬†shift to our assumptions, as a continued decline in ETF holdings driven by rising real rates¬†precipitates and accelerates the decline in gold prices that we had expected later this year. In other words, in addition to rising real interest rates, those holding gold are getting hit with another tailwind now ‚Äì people dumping their ETF holdings, which in turn is helping to drive prices lower. The two charts below tell the story (click to enlarge): Goldman Sachs Courvalin and Currie write, "Moving forward on our real rate recovery path, lowering the fiscal risk premium embedded in our forecast and shifting to expect that ETF gold holdings will continue to decline in 2013 leads us to lower our 3-, 6- and 12-mo gold price forecast to $1,615/toz, $1,600/toz and $1,550/toz from $1,825/toz, $1,805/toz and $1,800/toz. Note that Goldman's updated three-month and six-month targets still remain above today's prices.
Lauded as JCPenney's savior after his time at Apple, JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson was brought in by the board of directors to completely transform the business. And the board compensated him greatly, to the tune of†$52.7 million in restricted stock.† Since then, JCPenney has struggled as it slowly transforms its stores to a new "shops" models, and sales numbers have been miserable every quarter. So, what has the board been doing this whole time? Dana Mattioli at The Wall Street Journal dug up some interesting nuggets†about the JCPenney board, which The WSJ reported: Is Johnson worried about any of this? "I think Bill's concerned with his investment. I think Steve's concerned," he told the WSJ. "I'm concerned with everyone's investment." Ackman has been patient thus far, but he mentioned on CNBC last month that his patience has a limit. "If three years from now, Ron Johnson is still struggling to turn around JCPenney, then he's probably the wrong guy," said Ackman. When pressed on whether he would actually wait three years, Ackman replied,†"The answer here is:†JCPenney's going to make progress. I expect it will and Ron expects it will as well." "Again, no company survives down 25 percent comps over three years that's not happening," he continued. "Ron is going to work to solve the problem."
Eyeglass company Warby Parker is on fire.¬† The company is expanding all over the U.S. and taking on Luxottica, the behemoth that currently controls much of the world's eyewear.¬† Now, Warby Parker has gained a very powerful ally: J. Crew CEO and "merchant prince" Mickey Drexler, Michael J. De La Merced at DealBook reported. He has invested in the company and has been giving its founders advice on expanding into retail.¬† Drexler is the ultimate retail endorsement because he's credited with changing how America dresses. He turned Gap into a global brand and also turned around business at J. Crew.¬† ‚ÄúHe was excited about some of the exciting retail stuff we were doing,‚Äù Warby co-founder Neil Blumenthal told DealBook. ‚ÄúWhen it was time to raise money, we wanted to get him formally involved.‚Äù The fact that Drexler is invested in the company bodes well for Warby. He's been referred to as "the man who dressed America" and his business sense of notoriously keen.¬† His endorsement means that Warby Parker has serious potential as a global brand.¬† The company is also rumored to be working¬†with Google to make its high-tech glasses more aesthetically pleasing.¬†
We mentioned earlier that the yen was rallying sharply, but wow, it just continues. Basically, in the risk-off move (which seemed to be a result of the destabilizing Italian election), people are zooming back into the safe-haven yen. Check out this move of USDJPY. The dollar is just plummeting against the yen. FinViz Given that a weak yen has been a big driver of a strong Japanese market, watch out when the Nikkei opens tonight. It could get really clubbed on this yen strength.
Stocks continue to head lower this afternoon. The S&amp;P 500 is now trading around 1498, down 1.1 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is now down 100 points. It's not just stocks, though ‚Äì the yen is surging against the dollar, even while the euro tanks. In other words, this is risk-off. Earlier this morning, initial results looked like the market-friendly center-left candidate was ahead in the Italian elections, but new reports are projecting former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's center-right party in the lead for the Senate race. The Dallas Fed's monthly index of regional manufacturing activity also came in weaker than expected. The chart below shows the steep dive the S&amp;P 500 took after 10 and how brutal it's been ever since: Thinkorswim
The currency markets are going bananas today. Overnight, the big story was that Japan was reportedly sending an uber-dove to head the Bank of Japan.¬† The yen immediately got slammed when the foreign exchange markets opened. But since then, the yen slowly and then quickly came back. The other big currency move of the day has been the euro, which totally tanked against the dollar and the yen.¬† The sell-off comes amid an Italian election that is proving to be much closer than what anyone hoped for. Here's an intraday look at the US dollar versus the yen via FinViz: FinViz
Getty / Brendan HoffmanRome, Italy ‚Äî It's still unclear who is going to win the Italian election. It's a tight race between liberal Pier Luigi Bersani, conservative Silvio Berlusconi, and even the populist Beppe Grillo. But the loser is clear: Elite Europe. The bankers, central bankers, and German politicians who were hoping for an easy continuation of reform and austerity have lost big. Their man, Mario Monti, got destroyed. He's not even in the picture, as he's taking around 10% of the vote. No matter who emerges up top, we know that Merkel, Draghi, the IMF, the banks, etc. lost, as voters rejected austerity and Brussels. Click here to see the full election results &gt;
Benny Lam for the Society for Community OrganizationOver the past few decades, Hong Kong has become one of the world's most important cities and a global financial hub. However, increased prosperity hasn't trickled down to everyone. According to the Gini co-efficiency, which measures inequality, Hong Kong is the least equal city in the developed world. Local advocacy group Society for Community Organization says that hundreds of thousands of people are still living in caged homes and wood-partitioned cubicles. What's worse, the number of people living this way appears to be increasing, as economic migrants arrive in the city from mainland China. To highlight the struggle, SoCO took shots of the homes to show just how tight these living quarters are. The apartments were so small that they had to be photographed from the ceiling to capture them.
Unless Washington can pull off a last minute deal, the sequestration budget cuts will begin on March 1. Sequestration is the series of $85 billion worth of spending cuts that'll ripple across the U.S. government. And across the U.S., some states are likely to get hit worse than others. Wells Fargo's Mark Vittner and Michael Brown took a closer look and build a map.† From their report: In order to assess the potential regional impact of these budget cuts, we have identified those states that have the greatest exposure to federal funding cuts. We utilize the metrics calculated by the Pew Center on the States for federal spending as a percentage of state GDP.††† We then identify those states that are most susceptible to defense and those most susceptible to nondefense spending cuts. Even a cursory review of the data shows that the process of budget sequestration will harm certain states disproportionally. In general, the greater Washington, D.C. area and southern states will be the hardest hit, while states in the Midwest and along the West Coast will likely be impacted to a lesser extent. Here's their map: Wells Fargo
This Great Graphic comes from the CME.¬† We tend not to see the increase in the yuan's deposits in Hong Kong as the same as its internationalization.¬† After all, Hong Kong is part of China and is just as much, we have argued of the Sino-ification of Hong Kong.¬†¬† At the same, time, the graphic shows a stabilization of the yuan on deposit in Hong Kong.¬† That said, there the ability to use the yuan in Hong Kong (CNH) for on-short investments is gradually increasing amid mild liberalization steps.¬† In terms of a reserve asset, the Chinese yuan is almost non-existent.¬† To the extent central banks have diversified away from the dollar and euro, they have moved toward the Canadian and Australian dollars, not the yuan.¬† ¬† CME Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Bottle service is a staple of the New York nightlife scene, and a lucrative business for clubs. But Mayor Michael Bloomberg's large-soda ban could affect the models-and-bottles lifestyle as we know it. Not only will sugary sodas that are often served as mixers be banned from the tables, but cranberry juice will be too, according to The New York Post. Only water and 100 percent juice will be unlimited, and going against the ban could cost a club $200 per violation. There's no word yet on how NYC's nightclubs will supplement their mixers, but given that cans of Red Bull are already available at certain bottle service tables, perhaps the carafes of soda will be replaced by cans. Or clubs will simply turn to diet soda, which is not restricted under the ban. The Post says fruit smoothies with no added sweetener and coffee drinks or milkshakes made with 50 percent milk are safe as well. Of course, that does little to appease the city's wider worries over the Bloomberg ban. Among the main complaints: that Domino's will no longer sell its 20 ounce sodas, and there will be no more pitchers of sugary drinks at restaurants or bowling alleys.
The euro is getting destroyed, as it appears that Italy's election will come in with an ugovernable deadlock. FinViz
Sears tested its products and printed the famous catalog in the complex just outside Chicago.  But in 1974, the company moved to the Sears Tower and these buildings were left deserted for 30 years. In that time, Sears went from being on top of the world to being one of the most distressed American brands.¬† While developers used some of the site to build the Homan Square area in Chicago, some buildings still remained empty and are considered historical landmarks.¬† Local photographer Martin Gonzalez took eerie photographs from inside the old headquarters. Despite the decay, many signs of the office life remain.¬†
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderPD Vice-President declaring that voters have "rebelled"Rome, Italy ó We're live from the Casa dell'Architettura in Rome, where the center-left Partito Democratico is hosting its election day activities. Over 7 hours after the polls have closed, things have turned to chaos. Markets around the world are plunging, as we have seen a split vote. The markets were hoping for the liberal leader Pier Luigi Bersani to win easily, allowing him to form a coalition government with technocrat leader Mario Monti. This would have paved the way for more unpopular austerity and reforms that the rest of Europe has been very happy to see. But the voters had a different idea tonight. As Emmanueal Letta -- the second in command of the left party -- just explained to a packed room of reporters, the voters have engaged in a "rebellion" and the country appears to be ungovernable. That rebellion is a huge share of the vote for Berlusconi and Beppe Grillo, the populist comedian. That rebellions represents a big stick in the eye to the EU, Brussels, Angela Merkel, and everyone else who was happy about Italy's reform path. It does appear that the left has won (very narrowly) the lower house of Parliament, but thanks to a quirk in the voting, Silvio Berlusconi's party will deny the left a majority in the Senate. The government will likely be hung, and there's talk of another election in a matter of weaks or months. All this news has caused markets to quake. US stocks tanked. Fear has surged. The Euro has fallen. Gold spiked. And the Japanese yen had a gigantic day. How this shakes out over the coming days will be critical, and markets will be on a knife's edge over the return of European political risk. Here's a look at the scene inside Berseni election night HQ, a place that was expected to be a victory center, but where Bersani never showed up. Media throng massive now at Bersani election night HQ. vine.co/v/bgTQuv7EJmQ
Rome, Italy ó The Italian election appears to be heading to a chaotic outcome, as the Italian lower house is almost a 3-way horse race between the left (PD), the right (PDL) and the rebellious 5-Star movement (lead by Beppe Grillo). Should you be surprised by this turn of events? Not really, here's why. A few days ago we told you that we had seen the "scariest chart in Europe." It was a chart conducted by a private polling company, showing a major surge for Beppe Grillo in the final days of the campaign. In the two weeks ahead of the vote it's illegal to publish polls, so we couldn't actually bring you the real chart, but rather noted that it resembled a Google Trends search for the name "Grillo," which was surging by the day. Anyway, now that voting is over, we can show you the chart. Check out the incredible surge for the 5-Star Movement just over the last several days (purple line). It appears the momentum continued to today. LSPO
Some people get flack at their jobs for taking too many days off, or perpetually coming in late. Those things are common, so when they happen no one bats an eye. There are other people, however, who get in huge trouble (or even fired) at their jobs for seriously bizarre reasons. On Wall Street, those incidents become legend ‚Äî the stories get passed around trading floors, become lessons for newbies, and if we're lucky, get leaked to the media. Business Insider collected a dozen ways that Wall Streeters have gotten in some seriously hot water in the workplace. Take note. Seriously.
Flickr/poptechHeather Knight is the founder of Marilyn Monrobot. It's hard to make microbes, telescopes, and math calculations appear sexy. But we found 50 scientists who pull it off fabulously.¬† These aren't your typical lab coat-wearing, messy-haired brainiacs ‚Äî with the exception that they're all pretty brain-y. ¬† Some of the people who made our list are rising stars. Others are already well-established in their field. All of them are making a difference (or on their way to) by improving our lives through research and new discoveries. We thought this was important, to highlight the brains along with the beauty. But, they're not bad to look at, either.¬†
Native Americans on an oil-rich North Dakota reservation have been cheated out of more than $1 billion by schemes to buy drilling rights for lowball prices, a flurry of recent lawsuits assert. And, the suits claim, the federal government facilitated the alleged swindle by failing in its legal obligation to ensure the tribes got a fair deal. This is a story as old as America itself, given a new twist by fracking and the boom that technology has sparked in North Dakota oil country. Since the late 1800s, the U.S. government has appropriated much of the original tribal lands associated with the Fort Berthold reservation in North Dakota for railroads and white homesteaders. A devastating blow was delivered when the Army Corps of Engineers dammed the Missouri River in 1953, flooding more than 150,000 acres at the heart of the remaining reservation. Members of the Three Affiliated Tribes 2014 the Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara 2014 were forced out of the fertile valley and up into the arid and barren surrounding hills, where they live now. But that last-resort land turns out to hold a wealth of oil, because it sits on the Bakken Shale, widely believed to be one of the world's largest deposits of crude. Until recently, that oil was difficult to extract, but hydraulic fracturing, combined with the ability to drill a well sideways underground, can tap it. The result, according to several senior tribal members and lawsuits filed last November and early this year in federal and state courts, has been a land grab involving everyone from tribal leaders accused of enriching themselves at the expense of their people, to oil speculators, to a New York hedge fund, to the federal government's Bureau of Indian Affairs. The rush to get access to oil on tribal lands is part of the oil industry's larger push to secure drilling rights across the United States. Recent estimates show that the U.S. contains vast quantities of oil and gas. As fracking has opened new fields to drilling, and the U.S. has striven to get more of its energy from within its borders, leases from Louisiana to Pennsylvania have been gobbled up. Now the pressure is increasing on one of the last sizeable holdouts 2014 lands owned by Native Americans. A review of tribal and federal records as well as lawsuit documents reveals a dizzying array of lowball, non-competitive deals brokered by numerous companies, often entwined with the tribal council and with individual landholders on the reservation. But at heart the alleged practices are simple: Tribal leaders and outsiders set up companies to buy drilling rights cheap and flip them later for spectacular profits 2014 in one case earning as much as a 200-fold return in just four years. "Hundreds of millions of dollars were lost," said Tex Hall, the current chairman of the Three Affiliated Tribes, in an interview. "It's just a huge loss and we'll never get it back." At the center of that particular alleged scheme, according to one of the suits, was Spencer Wilkinson, Jr., longtime manager of 4 Bears Casino, a time-worn warehouse of slot machines, swirling cigarette smoke and stained carpets that serves as the reservation's entertainment nexus and its financial hub. Wilkinson also sat on the board of the tribe's development corporation, where he was charged with finding new opportunities to enhance the economy of the reservation. According to interviews with tribal members, former employees of the Three Affiliated Tribes, and a class action lawsuit filed in federal district court in Bismarck, ND against Wilkinson and others, Wilkinson used his access to casino funds 2014 and to the development corporation 2014 to gain influence and craft an oil deal that would leave him one of the richest men on the reservation. In 2006 he became an owner of a company, Dakota-3, with Richard Woodward, a white consultant who, records show, was receiving more than $20,000 a month from tribal funds for his work at the development corporation. Together, the suit and other legal filings allege, Wilkinson and Woodward planned to raise money and buy up rights to much of the remaining land not yet slated for drilling, all the while maintaining their work with the tribes and employing Wilkinson's relationship with the council to help get the oil leases approved. Leases for oil rights generally work like this: A company purchases the right to drill for oil underneath an acre of land by paying a one-time upfront payment, called a bonus, and a percentage of the profits earned on the well, known as a royalty. On Indian lands additional laws also apply, dictating who can negotiate for whom and how the government has to oversee the agreements. Wilkinson declined to comment and Woodward could not be reached. Wilkinson has filed a motion to dismiss the case. The suit alleges that Wilkinson and others aided and abetted the U.S. government in failing to fulfill its fiduciary responsibility to the tribes; Wilkinson's motion argues, among other things, that the government had no such responsibility. Woodward has not yet filed a response to the suit in court. Many details of Dakota-3's deals remain murky. There is limited transparency into tribal government affairs, no public access to documents, no annual reporting on accounts, and limited communication about what tribal council members discuss in their meetings. But, according to separate lawsuits and records filed with the North Dakota Secretary of State, Dakota-3 partnered with an Oklahoma-based oil speculator named Robert Zinke and his company Zenergy to buy leases and form additional joint venture companies. Documents from two law suits mention the involvement of the New York based hedge fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group but do not specify the firm's role. The hedge fund is publicly traded and, according to its web site, has more than $33 billion under management. A spokesman for Och-Ziff declined to comment, and Zinke did not return a telephone message. The interlinked companies, the documents show, purchased drilling rights to some 42,500 acres of lands owned by individuals and families through dozens of separate small deals. Those rights were ultimately controlled by Dakota-3, which also purchased from the tribal council drilling rights to another 44,000 acres of lands managed by the council. Altogether, Dakota-3 accumulated rights to about a fifth of the 420,000-odd acres of leasable land on the reservation, having bought much of those rights for as little as $50 per acre and royalties of around 18 percent. At about the same time, records and interviews show, other companies were purchasing drilling rights to land on and near the reservation for $300 to $1,000 per acre plus royalties as high as 22.5 percent. One of the lawsuits alleges that the difference in the one-time bonus payments, plus the difference in royalty payments, "could mean billions of dollars" over the life of the oil field. In late 2010, an Oklahoma-based oil production company, Williams, bought Dakota-3 for $925 million. At the time of the purchase, Dakota-3 was pumping a small amount of oil, but the bulk of its assets were the drilling rights. Two lawsuits allege that by buying Dakota-3, Williams effectively paid more than $10,000 per acre for those rights 2014 as much as 200 times what Dakota-3 had paid for the leases. At issue is not just the question of how Dakota-3 managed to win the tribal council's approval for the deal, but whether the federal government should have stepped in to ensure that the tribes were paid higher rates. Reservation lands are still held in trust by the U.S. government. As a trustee, the Department of the Interior has responsibility for overseeing the development of oil and gas on tribal lands, and for ensuring that any leases or sales of that land are made in "the best interest" of the Native Americans. When it comes to leases to drill for oil 2014 even those negotiated directly between the tribal council and the oil industry 2014 the Bureau of Indian Affairs is required to make sure the leases meet this standard. The bureau did not respond to a list of written questions, but according to interviews and documents obtained by ProPublica, the bureau approved the leases even though some Interior Department staffers expressed misgivings. Other documents show that tribal members appealed to high-level Interior Department officials and others to reject the leases and step in on their behalf. "Mr. Secretary, this company, Dakota-3, like the other companies in the oil business will turn around and sell the lease," wrote Russell Mason Sr., a tribal elder, to the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs in a December, 2007 letter. "We are making a plea to you that you exercise your trust responsibilities." "The United States has uniformly failed in its duties to the Indian landowners," states one lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, D.C. that was brought by tribal landowners seeking restitution for the Dakota-3 leases sold to Williams. The Dakota-3 deals are not the only controversial ones. For example, a company called Black Rock Resources purchased drilling rights to about 12,800 acres of land for $35 per acre and a 16.7 percent royalty. It later sold those rights to Marathon Oil for about $42 million, according to financial documents that describe the deal. Messages left for multiple Black Rock Resources officials were not returned, and Marathon Oil did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment. The Bureau of Indian Affairs approved the Black Rock deal, and documents obtained by ProPublica reveal the sometimes-contradictory advice the Bureau of Indian Affairs received from its own staff and other federal officials. When Black Rock first offered to buy up reservation leases for $35 per acre beginning in 2005, some bureau staff justified the rates saying the cumbersome regulations and past problems with leasing on the reservation had driven down demand. "Unfortunately," wrote one staffer in a department letter, $35 per acre "is what the market will bear." But in a review dated November, 2005, an expert at the Bureau of Land Management wrote that the offered price "appears to look low compared to those offered recently at both BLM and North Dakota State competitive oil and gas lease sales in the area." He cited other sales that same month for as much as $370 an acre. An Interior Department lawyer in Washington sent a letter to North Dakota BIA officials expressing similar concerns. Even at the time, the tribe received higher offers. Jerry Nagel is a tribe member, businessman and former program analyst for the tribe who has been outspoken against leases he thought were being sold for too little. In an interview, he said that he financed a venture in 2006 that offered the tribe $140 per acre plus a royalty rate more than twice as high as the tribal council was offered for the big leases it ultimately signed. It's unclear why the tribal council didn't take that offer, but Nagel claims it's evidence that the council gave preferential treatment to certain suitors. The tribal council's office did not immediately respond to questions about why the council passed over Nagel's offer. Kyle Baker is a tribe member, geologist and former environment official for minerals and energy for the tribe. He said that his family struck deals to lease its acreage on and near the reservation for as much as $700 per acre around the same time as the Black Rock deal. "Companies will come and find your weaknesses and then drive themselves in," Baker said on a recent wintery morning in his living room overlooking Lake Sakakawea. "Our laws, our setup wasn't ready for it." Companies and the U.S. government have long known that the Ft. Berthold reservation lay in the heart of the oil-rich Williston Basin, a reserve thought by some to contain as much as 20 billion barrels of oil. But previous efforts to lease and drill on the Indian lands stalled in the 1970s, and again in the late 1990s, thwarted by a dense bureaucracy and a tangle of laws governing leasing on reservations. Only after the advent of modern fracking 2014 and after Congress passed a handful of laws to ease corporate access to the Ft Berthold reservation 2014 did companies begin to invest seriously in drilling there. Today it's estimated that the three tribes and individual Native American landholders are receiving some $50 to $80 million a year from the drilling leases and royalties, compared with revenues of about $5 million a year before the boom began in about 2006. But that money has brought allegations of sweetheart arrangements that have left a few tribal members with disproportionate profits from oil development. In 2011 a team of elders audited the tribal council's activities. They found widespread financial inconsistencies that they said indicated systemic misconduct. "We saw millions of dollars going out and hardly anything coming back" to the Three Affiliated Tribes, said Tony Foote a forensic auditor who chaired the team. "We're not just talking about cash. It's rooms, food, travel, donations, and there's only a handful of people that can get all this stuff." Hall, the tribes' current chairman, had previously held that post from 1998 until 2006. He didn't deny that there had been corruption, but he said that since he came back into office in 2010 he has focused on reform and on making sure that the oil revenues benefit the broader tribal community. He said he has formed tribal entities to directly control a pipeline and refinery project, set up a $100 million trust fund for the tribes, and begun to sign lease agreements that are more favorable to the Native Americans on the reservation. He also demoted Wilkinson, who is now an administrative officer at the casino, not its CEO. "I was called back because people were concerned about sweetheart deals, so we have totally changed the dynamic," he said.
This just in from Reuters, Goldman Sachs is about to begin a fresh round of job cuts. They could begin as early as next week and will hit the equities business harder than fixed income. Goldman usually cuts the fat from its firm around this time of year, but that number is usually at around 5%. According to Reuters, this year's cuts are supposed to be bigger. Perhaps Wall Street should have seen this coming. Back in January Goldman COO Gary Cohn told Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker: I've never had a day at Goldman Sachs where i thought the firm was perfectly sized. At the bottom of the market you feel too big, at the top you feel way to small, and in the middle you're trying to gauge not only what's happening today but also what's happening tomorrow. Based on where we are today we feel like we're in a pretty go position, but I can change my opinion on that tomorrow. 2013 has already been pretty ugly for Wall Street. Morgan Stanley already cut 1,600 workers and cut compensation by about 9% since last year. JP Morgan, UBS and Barclays have already gotten hit as well. After this next round it will be time to do another street-wide body count to see how much closer we are to the dire prediction of 50,000 layoffs Meredith Whitney made back in July.
Zoo Wuppertal/Barbarar Scheer For the first time this year, the S&amp;P 500 closed down for the week on Friday. But the move was small. The S&amp;P fell 4 points to 1,515. Meanwhile, analysts' estimates for earnings growth continue to come down. "Since the end of the fourth quarter (December 31), analysts have also reduced earnings growth expectations for Q1 2013 (to -0.2% from 2.4%) and Q2 2013 (to 5.0% from 6.5%)," wrote FactSet's John Butters in a note published on Friday. Last week, growth expectations were -0.04 percent for Q1 and +5.1 percent for Q2. When stocks are flat or increasing while earnings come down, valuations are rising in a phenomenon called multiples expansion.¬† In other words, stocks are getting more expensive. And the stock market bears who based their theses on falling earnings are struggling to reconcile this. Here's a chart from FactSet showing stocks and earnings growth expectations. FactSet Here's a chart from Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, which shows how full-year earnings growth expectations have been coming down.¬† As you can tell from the chart title, Parker expects this downward trend to continue: Morgan Stanley
ApEconomic forecasters expect the budget cuts of the sequester and other looming political battles to hold back GDP growth to 2.4 percent in 2013, according to a survey published Monday by the National Association for Business Economics. And about 60 percent of the panelists said they expected the sequester's cuts to occur, either partially or in full, as they are set to begin kicking in this week. A whopping 95 percent of the 49 economic forecasters who participated in the NABE survey said they expected that GDP growth would be negatively affected by the "uncertainty" to come with fights over the sequester, continuing resolution, and the debt ceiling. Here are some of the other highlights from the survey: The survey comes as President Barack Obama and Republicans in Congress battle over whether and how to avert the cuts of the sequester. The White House warned Sunday of the state-by-state effects of the sequester, blaming Republicans for not working to find a solution. House Speaker John Boehner, meanwhile, is holding a press conference later today.
Right before the financial crisis hit, private equity firms were doing leveraged buyouts of companies here, there, and everywhere. After the crisis, however, some of those deals didn't go anywhere, and the turn-arounds that were intended never materialized. Now, Bloomberg reports, we may be about to see the biggest LBO deal in history go south. Energy Future Holdings Corp. (EFH) is facing bankruptcy. It was bought by KKR and TPG Capital for $48 billion in 2007, and would be the biggest LBO deal to collapse since Chrysler in 2009. The firms paid so much money for EFH because they thought that natural gas prices would rise. As we know now, they didn't. Specifically, the problem is that EFH's wholesale power unit, Texas Competitive Electric Holdings has $3.8 billion of loans maturing in October 14th. The company has already started restructuring talks, but they could very well fail. From Bloomberg: Senior lenders -- including Franklin Resources Inc., Apollo Global Management LLC, Oaktree Capital Group LLC and GSO Capital Partners -- probably would seek to seize the unit if there is a bankruptcy, said one creditor, who asked not to be identified because the process is private. ...A bankruptcy would wipe out much of the $8.3 billion investment made by buyers including KKR, TPG and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners in what was the biggest LBO in history. It would be the highest-profile private equity-backed company to go under since Chrysler was bailed out by the U.S. government in 2009. For the full story, head over to Bloomberg&gt; ‚ÄúThis deal never made sense,‚Äù Erik Gordon, a private- equity and law professor at the University of Michigan, said in an interview. ‚ÄúIt could only have been done during the times of hysterical overoptimism by everybody -- by KKR and TPG and by all the lenders who put up the money.‚Äù
John Moore / Getty ImagesThe heads of nearly every government agency have announced their plans¬†to implement sequestration, and the results aren't pretty.¬† Sequestration cuts will result in $85 billion of across-the-board budget reductions for each non-exempt government agency in 2013.¬† Every agency will have to deal with a budget reduction, but some will have to take especially brutal measures.
Rome, Italy ó While we wait for more results in the Italian election, let's take a moment to recall why Berlusconi has made this such a competitive race, much to the chagrin of world markets, Brussels, and Angela Merkel. We wrote about it here, so this post will be a cliff's notes version... As part of Italian "reform" plans, Mario Monti instituted a fairly modest tax on every home that Italians own. The tax is called the IMU. Previously the tax was only on second homes. The whole tax is not that big. The state only takes in 4 billion EUR per year. But Berlusconi made it a big deal by promising to refund the whole thing he wins. Everybody hates taxes, so this obviously is an appealing promise. Okay, you say, what politician doesn't promise to give voters free money? How is that novel? This gets to a deeper point. As some people who work for Berlusconi's party explained to me, the whole premise of the Berlusconi campaign is a rejection of Brussels imposed rules on Italy. This tax was the ultimate move where Monti went against the majority of the people (Italy has a huge homeownership rate) in order to do something that Brussels favored. By promising to refund the tax (and in recent days, promising to refund the tax via his own wealth!) Berlusconi simultaneously promised voters free money, and helped define the election as Brussels vs. non-Brussels. Very well played. If you're skeptical that reimbursing the IMU was the defining aspect of the campaign, check out the title on this Berlusconi billboard outside of his Milan HQ. Joseph Weisenthal, Business Insider † And for full Italian election results, see here &gt;
Globalization seems to be looked on as an unmitigated ‚Äúgood‚Äù by economists. Unfortunately, economists seem to be guided by their badly flawed models; they miss ¬†real-world problems. In particular, they miss the point that the world is finite. We don‚Äôt have infinite resources, or unlimited ability to handle excess pollution. So we are setting up a ‚Äúsolution‚Äù that is at best temporary. Economists also tend to look at results too narrowly‚Äìfrom the point of view of a business that can expand, or a worker who has plenty of money, even though these users are not typical. In real life, the business are facing increased competition, and the worker may be laid off because of greater competition. The following is a list of reasons why globalization is not living up to what was promised, ¬†and is, in fact, a very major problem. 1. Globalization uses up finite resources more quickly. ¬†As an example, China joined the world trade organization in December 2001. In 2002, its coal use began rising rapidly (Figure 1, below). Gail Tverberg Figure 1. China‚Äôs energy consumption by source, based on BP‚Äôs Statistical Review of World Energy data. In fact, there is also a huge increase in world coal consumption (Figure 2, below). India‚Äôs consumption is increasing as well, but from a smaller base. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 2. World coal consumption based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy 2. Globalization increases world carbon dioxide emissions. If the world burns its coal more quickly, and does not cut back on other fossil fuel use, carbon dioxide emissions increase. Figure 3 shows how carbon dioxide emissions have increased, relative to what might have been expected, based on the trend line for the years prior to when the Kyoto protocol was adopted in 1997. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 3. Actual world carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels, as shown in BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. Fitted line is expected trend in emissions, based on actual trend in emissions from 1987-1997, equal to about 1.0% per year. 3. Globalization makes it virtually impossible for regulators in one country to foresee the worldwide implications of their actions. Actions which would seem to reduce emissions for an individual country may indirectly encourage world trade, ramp up manufacturing in coal-producing areas, and increase emissions over all. See my post Climate Change: Why Standard Fixes Don‚Äôt Work. 4. Globalization acts to increase world oil prices. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 4. World oil supply and price, both based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy data. Updates to 2012$ added based on EIA price and supply data and BLS CPI urban. The world has undergone two sets of oil price spikes. The first one, in the 1973 to 1983 period, occurred after US oil supply began to decline in 1970 (Figure 4, above and Figure 5 below). Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 5. US crude oil production, based on EIA data. 2012 data estimated based on partial year data. Tight oil split is author‚Äôs estimate based on state distribution of oil supply increases. After 1983, it was possible to bring oil prices back to the $30 to $40 barrel range (in 2012$), compared to the $20 barrel price (in 2012$)¬†available prior to 1970. This was partly done partly by ramping up oil production in the North Sea, Alaska and Mexico (sources which were already known), and partly by reducing consumption. The reduction in consumption was accomplished by cutting back oil use for electricity, and by encouraging the use of more fuel-efficient cars. Now, since 2005, we have high oil prices back, but we have a much worse problem. The reason the problem is worse now is partly because oil supply is not growing very much, due to limits we are reaching, and partly because demand is exploding due to globalization. If we look at world oil supply, it is virtually flat. The United States and Canada together provide the slight increase in world oil supply that has occurred since 2005. Otherwise, supply has been flat since 2005 (Figure 6, below). ¬†What looks like a huge increase in US oil production in 2012 in¬†Figure 5 looks much less impressive, when viewed in the context of world oil production in Figure 6. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 6. World crude oil production based on EIA data. *2012 estimated based on data through October. Part of our problem now is that with globalization, world oil demand is rising very rapidly. Chinese buyers purchased more cars in 2012 than did European buyers. Rapidly rising world demand, together with oil supply which is barely rising, pushes world prices upward. This time, there also is no possibility of a dip in world oil demand of the type that occurred in the early 1980s. Even if the West drops its oil consumption greatly, the East has sufficient pent-up demand that it will make use of any oil that is made available to the market. Adding to our problem is the fact that we have already extracted most of the inexpensive to extract oil because the ‚Äúeasy‚Äù (and cheap) to extract oil was extracted first. Because of this, oil prices cannot decrease very much, without world supply dropping off. Instead, because of diminishing returns, needed price keeps ratcheting upward. The new ‚Äútight‚Äù oil that is acting to increase US supply is an example of expensive to produce oil‚Äìit can‚Äôt bring needed price relief. 5. Globalization transfers consumption of limited oil supply from developed countries to developing countries.¬†If world oil supply isn‚Äôt growing by very much, and demand is growing rapidly in developing countries, oil to meet this rising demand must come from somewhere. The way this transfer takes place is through the mechanism of high oil prices. High oil prices are particularly a problem for major oil importing countries, such as the United States, many European countries, and Japan. Because oil is used in growing food and for commuting, a rise in oil price tends to lead to a cutback in discretionary spending, recession, and lower oil use in these countries. See my academic article, ‚ÄúOil Supply Limits and the Continuing Financial Crisis,‚Äù available here or here. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 7. World oil consumption in million metric tons, divided among three areas of the world. (FSU is Former Soviet Union.) Developing countries are better able to use higher-priced oil than developed countries. ¬†In some cases (particularly in¬†oil-producing countries) subsidies play a role. In addition, the shift of manufacturing to less developed countries increases the number of workers who can afford a motorcycle or car. Job loss plays a role in the loss of oil consumption from developed countries‚Äìsee my post, Why is US Oil Consumption Lower? Better Gasoline¬†Mileage?¬†The real issue isn‚Äôt better mileage; one major issue is loss of jobs. 6. Globalization transfers jobs from developed countries to less developed countries. Globalization levels the playing field, in a way that makes it hard for developed countries to compete. A country with a lower cost structure (lower wages and benefits for workers, more inexpensive coal in its energy mix, and more lenient rules on pollution) is able to out-compete a typical OECD country. In the United States, the percentage of US citizen with jobs started dropping about the time China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 8. US Number Employed / Population, where US Number Employed is Total Non_Farm Workers from Current Employment Statistics of the Bureau of Labor Statistics and Population is US Resident Population from the US Census. 2012 is partial year estimate. 7. Globalization transfers investment spending from developed countries to less developed countries. If an investor has a chance to choose between a country with a competitive advantage and a country with a competitive disadvantage, which will the investor choose? A shift in investment shouldn‚Äôt be too surprising. In the US, domestic investment was fairly steady as a percentage of National Income until the mid-1980s (Figure 9). In recent years, it has dropped off and is now close to consumption of assets (similar to depreciation, but includes other removal from service). The assets in question include all types of capital assets, including government-owned assets (schools, roads), business owned assets (factories, stores), and individual homes. A similar pattern applies to business investment viewed separately. Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 9. United States domestic investment compared to consumption of assets, as percentage of National Income. Based on US Bureau of Economic Analysis data from Table 5.1, Savings and Investment by Sector. Part of the shift in the balance between investment and consumption of assets is rising consumption of assets. This would include early retirement of factories, among other things. Even very low interest rates in recent years have not brought US investment back to earlier levels. 8. With the dollar as the world‚Äôs reserve currency, globalization leads to huge US balance of trade deficits and other imbalances.¬† Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 10. US Balance on Current Account, based on data of US Bureau of Economic Analysis. Amounts in 2012$ calculated based on US CPI-Urban of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. With increased globalization and the rising price of oil since 2002, the US trade deficit has soared (Figure 10). Adding together amounts from Figure 10, the cumulative US deficit for the period 1980 through 2011 is $8.6 trillion. By the end of 2012, the cumulative deficit since 1980 is probably a little over 9 trillion. A major reason for the large US trade deficit is the fact that the US dollar is the world‚Äôs ‚Äúreserve currency.‚Äù While the mechanism is too complicated to explain here, the result is that the US can run deficits year after year, and the rest of the world will take their surpluses, and use it to buy US debt.¬†With this arrangement, the rest of the world funds the United States‚Äô continued overspending. It is fairly clear the system was not put together with the thought that it would work in a fully globalized world‚Äìit simply leads to too great an advantage for the United States relative to other countries. Erik Townsend recently wrote an article called Why Peak Oil Threatens the International Monetary System, in which he talks about the possibility of high oil prices bringing an end to the current arrangement. At this point, high oil prices together with globalization have led to huge US deficit spending since 2008. This has occurred partly because a smaller portion of the population is working (and thus paying taxes), and partly because US spending for unemployment benefits and stimulus has risen. The result is a mismatch between government income and spending (Figure 11, below). Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 11. Receipts and Expenditures for all US government entities combined (including state and local) based on BEA data. 2012 estimated based on partial year data. Thanks to the mismatch described in the last paragraph, the federal deficit in recent years has been far greater than the balance of payment deficit. As a result, some other source of funding for the additional US debt has been needed, in addition to what is provided by the reserve currency arrangement. The Federal Reserve has been using Quantitative Easing to buy up federal debt since late 2008. This has provided a buyer for additional debt and also keeps US interest rates low (hoping to attract some investment back to the US, and keeping US debt payments affordable). The current situation is unsustainable, however. Continued overspending and printing money to pay debt is not a long-term solution to huge imbalances among countries and lack of cheap oil‚Äìsituations that do not ‚Äúgo away‚Äù by themselves. 9. Globalization tends to move taxation away from corporations, and onto individual citizens. Corporations have the ability to move to locations where the tax rate is lowest. Individual citizens have much less ability to make such a change. Also, with today‚Äôs lack of jobs, each community competes with other communities with respect to how many tax breaks it can give to prospective employers. When we look at the breakdown of US tax receipts (federal, state, and local combined) this is what we find: Gail Tverberg¬† Figure 12. Source of US Government revenue, by year, based on US Bureau of Economic Analysis Data. The only portion that is entirely from corporations is corporate income taxes, shown in red. This has clearly shrunk by more than half. Part of the green layer (excise, sales, and property tax) is also from corporations, since truckers also pay excise tax on fuel they purchase, and businesses usually pay property taxes. It is clear, though, that the portion of revenue coming from personal income taxes and Social Security and Medicare funding (blue) has been rising. I showed ¬†that high oil prices seem to lead to depressed US wages¬†in my post,¬†The Connection of Depressed Wages to High Oil Prices and Limits to¬†Growth.¬†If wages are low at the same time that wage-earners are being asked to shoulder an increasing share of rising government costs, ¬†this creates a mismatch that wage-earners are not really able to handle. 10. Globalization sets up a currency ‚Äúrace to the bottom,‚Äù with each country trying to get an export advantage by dropping the value of its currency.  Because of the competitive nature of the world economy, each country needs to sell its goods and services at as low a price as possible. This can be done in various ways‚Äìpay its workers lower wages; allow more pollution; use cheaper more polluting fuels; or debase the currency by Quantitative Easing (also known as ‚Äúprinting money,‚Äù) in the hope that this will produce inflation and lower the value of the currency relative to other currencies. There is no way this race to the bottom can end well. Prices of imports become very high in a debased currency‚Äìthis becomes a problem. In addition, the supply of money is increasingly out of balance with real goods and services. This produces asset bubbles, such as artificially high stock market prices, and artificially high bond prices (because the interest rates on bonds are so low). These assets bubbles lead to investment crashes. Also, if the printing ever stops (and perhaps even if it doesn‚Äôt), interest rates will rise, greatly raising cost to governments, corporations, and individual citizens. 11. Globalization encourages dependence on other countries for essential goods and services. With globalization, goods can often be obtained cheaply from elsewhere. A country may come to believe that there is no point in producing its own food or clothing. It becomes easy to depend on imports and specialize in something like financial services or high-priced medical care‚Äìservices that are not as oil-dependent. As long as the system stays together, this arrangement works, more or less. However, if the built-in instabilities in the system become too great, and the system stops working, there is suddenly a very large problem. Even if the dependence is not on food, but is instead on computers and replacement parts for machinery, there can still be a big problem if imports are interrupted. 12. Globalization ties countries together, so that if one country collapses, the collapse is likely to ripple through the system, pulling many other countries with it. History includes many examples of civilizations that started from a small base, gradually grew to over-utilize their resource base, and then collapsed. We are now dealing with a world situation which is not too different. The big difference this time is that a large number of countries is involved, and these countries are increasingly interdependent. In my post¬†2013: Beginning of Long-Term Recession,¬†I showed that there are significant parallels between financial dislocations now happening in the United States and the types of changes which happened in other societies, prior to collapse. ¬†My analysis was based on ¬†the model of collapse developed in the book Secular Cycles by Peter Turchin and Sergey Nefedov. It is not just the United States that is in perilous financial condition. Many European countries and Japan are in similarly poor condition. The failure of one country has the potential to pull many others down, and with it much of the system. The only countries that remain safe are the ones that have not grown to depend on globalization‚Äìwhich is probably not many today‚Äìperhaps landlocked countries of Africa. In the past, when one area collapsed, there was less interdependence. When one area collapsed, it was possible to let cropland ‚Äúrest‚Äù and deforested areas regrow. With regeneration, and perhaps new technology, it was possible for a new civilization to grow in the same area later. If we are dealing with a world-wide collapse, it will be much more difficult to follow this model. Filed under: Energy policy, Financial Implications Tagged: account current, carbon dioxide, carbon dioxide emissions, coal, collapse, finite resources, fossil fuel, globalization, trade deficit Read more posts on Our Finite World ¬ª
The U.S. saw unusually high gas prices in February, a month not known for being a driving season. What's up? The short answer is refinery maintenance and outages mostly related to preparations for the summer gasoline blend switch, according to AAA analyst Avery Ash. Refiners appear to be †preparing for this switch earlier than usual, he said. The long answer is that worldwide demand is heating up again, according to the EIA. And the bad news for consumers is that prices historically start to tick up in the spring and don't go down until the beginning of summer.† Check out this chart from AAA. AAA So elevated prices are likely here to stay.
Niccolo Caranti Rome, Italy ‚Äî However things turn out in this crucial Italian election, this has been a HUGE day for Beppe Grillo, the populist comedian who built an anti-bank, anti-elite political movement basically via his blog. He represents a protest movement that's furious with the bad economy, and the elites from Brussels imposing austerity, while unemployment surges. All around the country, his merry band of troublemakers -- known as the 5 Star Movement -- is having a major impact, garnering between 15 and 30% of the vote in key regions. Check out the results in Sicily, where he's running ahead of the main leftist candidate, Bersani. Via @Fgoria: Fabrizio Goria
There are a mere three days remaining before the initial deadline to avoid sequestration and a fix remains unlikely.¬† One way to grasp the impact of the budget cuts is to analyze which states will see the biggest economic fallout.¬† Back in November, the Pew Center on the States released a groundbreaking report discussing how sequestration ‚Äî back then a portion of the fiscal cliff ‚Äî would impact Americans on the state by state level.¬† According to the report, these are the states most and least reliant on the federal government economically: Pew Research Center Notice that the D.C. metro area would take a big hit in the event of budget reductions, but states like New York come across relatively unscathed. According to the Pew Research Center: Cuts in federal procurement and salaries and wages could slow economic activity, and thereby adversely affect state finances by reducing state personal income and sales tax revenues and increasing demand for state-funded income support programs. Again, the effects on states would vary, based on the level of such federal spending in the state. As such, Delaware probably will not see too much pain, but the Washington D.C. metro area ‚Äî including parts of Maryland and Virginia ‚Äî is going to feel sequestration roughly four times harder than the national average.¬†
JCPenney experienced a seismic shift on corporate culture when CEO Ron Johnson took the helm of the company more than a year ago. The new guard didn't like JCPenney's old way of doing things at headquarters. Not one bit. Dana Mattioli at The Wall Street Journal spoke with JCPenney COO Michael Kramer about the company's culture and the mass layoffs at the company's headquarters. He's one of the execs brought in by Johnson, who he'd previously worked with at Apple. "I hated the JCPenney culture," Kramer told the WSJ. "It was pathetic." Senior management thought that the headquarters in Plano had become "overstaffed and underproductive" and something had to be done about it. Kramer shared an example: There were 4,800 employees at the HQ in January 2012, and in one month they had watched five million YouTube videos during work hours.†He said that 35 percent of bandwidth at HQ was used for "loafing off." One big consequence was the culling of staff. Now, a little more than a year later, 1,600 of those workers have been sent packing. Another was the total destruction of the company's old corporate culture, which led to dissent among the ranks of executives at the home office who didn't agree with the changes. Work at JCPenney HQ? What do you think about this? Shoot me an email at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
Steinhardt, a Wharton grad, is known for amazing returns and pioneering the idea that down days in the market are no excuse for poor performance. He told the WSJ that he's felt strong ties with this art because of his Jewish identity, even though he's atheist, and that he's selling because his kids and grandkids have no interest in continuing the collection. From WSJ: Sometimes I would say to myselfóand mean itó'I'd like to die broke.' Meaning that I don't have any particular desire to leave all sorts of things when I'm gone. I've a desire to leave things to my loved ones, but my kids and grandchildren have at the moment zero interest in my collecting, so it wouldn't be for them. The idea that...you died having consumed or spent or given away most of the assets that you hadóI find that an appealing concept, albeit unrealistic. Steinhardt's wife wants him to keep some of the pieces, so he's probably right about that last point.
The Italian stock market closed Monday's session up just 0.7 percent. Earlier, Italian stocks were up as much as 4 percent, but news that former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was making a comeback in the polls sent stocks reeling. They even turned negative near the end of the day before rebounding a bit. Darkhorse anti-establishment candidate Beppe Grillo garnered a significant share of the vote as well. The chart below shows how the FTSE MIB 35 turned down sharply after making big gains earlier on news that market-friendly candidate Pier Luigi Bersani was leading decisively: Borsa Italiana -------------- EARLIER:†The first exit polls from the Italian elections are out, and Italian markets are liking the news. Center-left candidate Pier Luigi Bersani ñ seen as the best outcome for markets, as well as the most likely ñ†looks set to win the election. The FTSE MIB 35 is up nearly 3 percent on the news. Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson sent out some color following the news: At 9am Et Sky News ran the headline claiming that an exit poll of Italian voters would return a Bersani-Monti coalition and probably the most market-friendly outcome. An RAI poll projects Bersani would win 38% in the senate vote against Berlusconi and would win 32%. Bersani is predicted to win 37% of the chamber vote compared to 31% for Berlusconi.Italian government bond yields were already pre-empting a positive outcome with BTPs lower by 11bps ahead of the headline. Since then, yields have doubled their decline for the session further encouraging a risk-on attitude across the continent. The 10-year yield is currently lower by 23bps at 4.216% to its lowest so far this month. Stocks in Milan immediately jumped building on an already bullish session. The FTSEMIB advanced to a 475-point gain (+2.93%) while across the region the Eurostoxx index is now higher by 2.46%. The chart below shows how stocks really just ramped up: Borsa Italiana The euro initially bumped higher but is trading back down again.
ìIím sitting on cash,î Felix Zulauf said when he was asked in an interview where he was putting his money. With decades of asset management experience under his belt, heíd founded Zulauf Asset Management in Switzerland in 1990. But now he was worriedóand has turned negative on just about everything. In Europe, growth would be weak. In the US, ìeveryoneî was expecting decent growth, but he saw the possibility of a ìgreat disappointment.î Developing nations wouldnít grow as fast as in recent years. The Chinese were taking their money out of the country. ìThey have antennas for problems at home,î he said. The markets were expecting the world economy to recover, but he suspected that neither the economy nor corporate earnings would develop as hoped. Once the distance between ìwishî and ìrealityî became apparent, ìit could cause a crash.î Timeframe? This year. Optimism might hang in there for a while; the second quarter would be more problematic. Over time, downdrafts in some markets could reach 20% to 30%. Despite the incessant insistence by Eurozone politicians that the worst was over, he didnít see ìany normalization.î The structural problems were still there, theyíve only been hidden, ìdrowned temporarily in an ocean of new liquidity.î ìLook at the economic data,î he said. ìThere is no visible improvement.î As if to document his claim, the Eurozone Purchasing Managers Index was released. It dropped again after three months of upticks that had spawned gobs of hope that ìthe worst was over.î Business activity has now declined for a year and a half. New orders, a precursor for future activity, fell for the 19th month in a row. While Germany was barely in positive territory, Franceís PMI crashed to a low not seen since March 2009 and was on a similar trajectory as in 2008ówhen it was heading into the trough of the financial crisis! Sure, the financial markets calmed down, but only because the ECB pulled the ìemergency brakeî by declaring that it would finance bankrupt states so that the euro would survive. It was a signal for the banks to buy sovereign debt. Borrowing from the ECB at 1%, buying Spanish or Italian debt with yields above 5%, while the ECB took all the risksóîa great business for the banks,î he said. As a consequence, the banks were once again loaded up with sovereign debt. ìThe problems werenít solved but kicked down the road,î he said. Politicians would muddle through. Government debt would continue to rise. But next time something breaks, the pressure would come from citizens, he said. Standards of living have been deteriorating. Many people have lost their jobs. Real wages have declined. ìWeíve sent millions into poverty!î People were discontent. And it was conceivable that ìsomeday, they could go on the street and attack these policies.î But, but, but... hasnít Chancellor Angela Merkel emphasized that the euro would be important for peace in Europe? ìThe euro doesnít create peace,î he said, ìbut discontent.î Countries were devaluing their currencies to gain an advantage. This ìrace to the bottomî could escalate to where governments would impose limits on free trade. The devaluation of the yen would hit other countries. In Germany, it would pressure automakers, machine-tool makers, and others. By midyear, he said, ìEurope will reach a point when it can no longer live with this euro.î It would have to be devalued. Franceís President FranÁois Hollande was already agitating for it. ìAnd he has to because the French economy is in a catastrophic condition. Itís no longer competitive. France is becoming the second Spain.î But didnít the ECB emphasize that the exchange rate was irrelevant for monetary policy? And wasnít the Bundesbank resisting devaluation? ìThe policies of the Bundesbank are unfortunately dead,î he said, and its representatives were only ìallowed to bark, not bite.î Monetary policy at the ECB was made by Draghi, ìan Italian.î Heíd push for the ìlira-ization of the euro,î he said, ìnot because he likes it, but because he has no choice.î It was the only way to keep the euro glued together. ìMrs. Merkel knows that too, but she cannot tell the truth; otherwise citizens would notice whatís going on.î Given this dreary scenario, what could investors do? Long-term, equities were a good choice, he said, but this wasnít the moment to buy. Gold? That it was down from its peak a year and half ago was ìnormal,î he said. Currently, gold funds were forced to liquidate, which could cause sudden drops, but it also signified ìthe end of a movement.î He expected the correction to end by this spring. ìLong-term, the uptrend is intact,î he said. Bonds? They had a great run for 30 years but were now ìtotally overvaluedîóin part due to central banks that had bought $10 trillion in debt ìwith freshly printed moneyî over the past five years. Debt markets were completely distorted, but central banks would be able to hold the bubble together for ìa while longer.î So he admitted, ìLast summer, I sold all long-term debt.î But where the heck was he putting his money now? That's when he made his sobering remark, ìIím sitting on cash.î The Fed is growing deposits far faster than banks can deploy them, or than the economy can use them. It is growing them far faster than anybody wants or needs. And now there are ìhundreds of billions of dollars of potential fuel unused,î as Bloomberg pointed out. A potential for big problems. Read.... The Fed Is Blowing A Dangerous Bank Deposit†Bubble.
Ever watchful of the stock market, research firm Nanex noticed some weird, early trading on the weekly Energy Information Administration (EIA) Natural Gas. The report comes out at 10:30 a.m. on Thursdays. Last month, Nanex noticed that someone had started trading on the report 400 milliseconds early. This, after the SEC announced that it would not investigate trades on information that are early by such small fractions of a second. Basically, Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader is saying that this strange activity happened again last week, but this time the milliseconds are even shorter. Here's how he can tell: In the chart below, you see trading fire off in the Natural Gas ETF (UNG) 10:29:59.984. That's 16 milliseconds before the report is supposed to come out. What you'll also notice, is that futures trading (for the¬†March 2013 Natural Gas Futures contract) starts exploding at the right time, 10:29:59.999. Nanex LLC One explanation for this disconnect is that the clocks at all the exchanges were not properly synchronized. However, because trading in the futures contracts doesn't start until the right time, it doesn't look like that was the case. "For UNG to move, and the futures stand still, that's free money to anyone who can arbitrage," Hunsader told Business Insider in an e-mail. "It's very rare to see that. I think whoever trades in Nat Gas futures was concerned about the regulators investigating any more early moves in the futures. But the ETF (UNG) is regulated by the SEC, which hasn't indicated it's capable of looking at this." In the chart below you can see when the trading in the nat gas futures starts up. http://www.nanex.net/aqck2/4120.html
There are two big categories of customer: One is comprised of individual consumers. The other is government. We tend to think of the government as a direct employer ‚Äî of teachers, fire fighters, civil servants. But government is also a major customer of the private sector. It buys school supplies, pharmaceuticals, military equipment, computers. It hires private companies to build roads and bridges, dredge ports, manage data. One out of every five Americans works for a company whose customer is the government.¬†¬† Here‚Äôs the problem: Both categories of customer are buying less.¬† Individual consumers are buying less because they have less take-home pay. Their wages are dropping (the median wage is 8 percent below what it was in 2000, adjusted for inflation). And their taxes have gone up. The expiration of the Social Security payroll tax cut will shrink the typical paycheck by more than $1,000 this year. Less take-home pay is causing 45.7 percent of consumers to pull in their belts, according to a¬†survey¬†released Thursday by the National Retail Federation. A quarter of consumers are putting off big-ticket purchases. A third are cutting back on eating out. A fifth are spending less on groceries. This is why January‚Äôs retail sales rose at their smallest rate in three months. What about the other big customer ‚Äì government? It used to be that when consumers spent less, government stepped into the breach and spent more in order to keep people employed. That‚Äôs what we were supposed to have learned from the Great Depression. No longer. Government is cutting back, too. Deficit hawks and government-haters are insisting on it. Last year, President Obama agreed to $1.5 trillion of spending cuts, which have already begun. Unless Republicans and Democrats reach a budget agreement before next Friday, another $85 billion of spending cuts go into effect this year. They‚Äôll begin almost immediately.¬† With consumers and government both spending less, businesses won‚Äôt hire more workers; they‚Äôll fire more workers. That‚Äôs likely to happen in coming months. Anyone with half a brain should be able to understand all this. But apparently many in Washington don‚Äôt have half a brain. Read more posts on¬†Reich's website ¬ª
The New Year holiday ended on a polluted note as smog enveloped China during the Lantern Festival (China Daily): The authority issued a yellow smog alert at 10 am. Yellow is the second lowest level in China's four-tier color-coded weather alert system. Thick fog, lowering visibility to less than 1,000 meters, shrouded central and northern parts of Jiangsu and areas in Zhejiang early Sunday morning. Smog choked southern Beijing, and parts of Shanxi, Henan, Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces, according to NMC monitoring data. Beijing acted to reduce fireworks as air worsened (Bloomberg) and while this year's pyrotechnics were noticeably inferior to previous years', Beijing air on Sunday was horrible, as you can see in this picture of the Central Business district I took at 1:30 PM. But when the air is clear Beijing can be stunning. Here is a picture I took Friday afternoon on a visit to the Lama Temple. That beautiful Beijing blue sky is not the result of any filters on my phone. China Daily thinks Japanese Prime Minister Abe's visit with President Obama was not a complete success. The paper today writes that Abe fails to get full US backing over islands:  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe fell short of achieving his key goal, getting Washington's unequivocal support for Tokyo's stance over the Diaoyu Islands, as he concluded his visit to the US capital on Sunday... But Obama did not mention the islands in his brief remarks after his meeting with Abe. Abe sees a strong alliance with the US, which he said had been damaged by the previous Japanese government, as a key part of keeping China and the DPRK in check, Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun said on Sunday. But a Japanese government source said the US decided not to touch upon the issue during the summit to avoid irritating China unnecessarily, it reported. Kenneth Lieberthal, a senior fellow in foreign policy and global economy and development at the Brookings Institution, said despite the US-Japan alliance, it's up to China and Japan to work it out themselves. Any readers know if the US or Japanese governments would agree with this analysis? The New Year holiday may have been good for Bo Xilai, as John Garnaut of Fairfax Media writes in support for Bo grows before China's 'trial of the century':  The purge of Bo Xilai is in danger of losing momentum as the maverick political star remains defiant and associates question the fairness of keeping him in jail while other tainted leaders remain free. Support for the charismatic and polarizing leader has grown over the Spring Festival break as powerful princelings visit one another's families and gather to share opinions and information, several princelings and close observers have told Fairfax Media. One lifelong associate of Mr Bo said the handling of the case was a challenge for the Communist Party rather than Mr Bo, whose political execution was not in doubt... Difficulties in staging what promises to be China's ''trial of the century'' have been compounded by a Reuters report on Thursday night that Mr Bo has grown a chest-length beard and gone on a hunger strike, requiring him to be taken to hospital. Sources with connections to the Bo family questioned the veracity of the report but confirmed he had been unwell and broadly uncooperative. A milquetoast approach to the Bo Xilai prosecution would be a very bad sign for those who believe Xi Jinping has the will and the political capital to at least rollback some of the more egregious corruption and push through difficult economic reforms. Today's Links: THE ESSENTIAL EIGHT  Chinese general Luo Yuan‚Äôs battle on Weibo | Offbeat China - Just as netizens on Weibo were about to conclude that Luo was finally edged by netizens to insanity, Sina Military channel stood up in Luo‚Äôs defense and announced that Luo‚Äôs Weibo account has been hacked, and that all the self-praising remarks were not from Luo himself. Not only did netizens not believe the clarification, they even further made fun of Luo: ‚ÄúIn my opinion, if general Luo cannot even protect his own Weibo account, it‚Äôs simply bullshit that he is capable of protecting our country.‚Äù Judging from the development so far, Luo‚Äôs hope to win over public favor has been crashed completely. Weibo continues to show Chinese officials that the war of public opinions isn‚Äôt one that‚Äôs easy to fight. Luo is not the first nor the last to be defeated in the battlefield of China‚Äôs social media.  Xi rallies the 'Second Generation Red'- The Age - another interesting piece from John Garnaut//--Mr Xi enjoys natural prestige among the ‚ÄúSecond Generation Red‚Äù because he is one. His father, Xi Zhongxun, helped establish the revolutionary bastion of Yan‚Äôan in the 1930s.Mr Xi‚Äôs first 100 days in power, which he reached on Thursday, has been marked by high-profile campaigns against corruption, pomp and conspicuous consumption among the Party and military elite. He has adopted a more nationalistic and militaristic tone in pursuing territorial claims against Japan and making repeated high-profile visits to military commands.¬† Less visibly, in internal speeches and oblique public references, Mr Xi has elevated the prestige and legacy of Chairman Mao Zedong and held himself out as a leader who has the courage to fight to save the regime - in explicit contrast to Mikhail Gorbachev in the Soviet Union.  Words of caution for China bulls | FT Alphaville - The consensus is for growth of a touch more than 8 per cent this year, roughly in line with what Beijing itself is forecasting. Yet Zhiwei Zhang and Wendy Chen, economists at Nomura, argue this is too bullish, and offer five reasons why they think 7.7 per cent is more realistic, with growth slowing to 7.3 per cent in the second half of 2013.  Analysis: China central bank takes lead in economic reform push | Reuters - Central bank insiders interviewed by Reuters say the People's Bank of China (PBOC) is the country's most potent force for reform in the face of powerful vested interests, echoing sources with leadership ties who last week said Zhou would keep his job despite reaching the mandatory retirement age of 65. Keeping Zhou ensures that the PBOC will remain a trusted instrument through which China's leaders can enact financial reforms designed to boost free markets and private enterprise, rebalance the economy, reinvigorate growth and ultimately heal a socially divisive rift between the country's rich and poor.  Rhodium Group ¬ª Chinese Investment: Europe vs. the United States Chinese direct investment in the United States and Europe has grown fast since 2008. In the past two years, Europe has attracted twice as much investment as the US as Chinese investors seized commercial opportunities arising from the European crisis. Flows to the US can be expected to remain strong on the back of the US economic recovery and growing Chinese interest in high tech and modern service assets. However, policy and politics have become important factors for investment in sectors like infrastructure and high tech, and they will become even more critical for future deal making.  China‚Äôs New Leaders Plan First Government Overhaul in Five Years - Bloomberg - The scandal-hit Ministry of Railways will be merged into the Ministry of Transport, while the Ministry of Civil Affairs may widen its responsibilities over social management, Caijing magazine reported yesterday. The changes will also include nationwide reform of food safety and more responsibility for the State Oceanic Administration, according to a report on the magazine‚Äôs website. New York-based Duowei News, which accurately predicted in July that the Politburo Standing Committee would be reduced to seven from nine members, said in a Feb. 21 report on its website that the transport ministry will take over responsibility for railway construction and network planning, while the railway ministry‚Äôs operational units will be separated into a new company.Official suspended after outbreak of airport rage -- Shanghai Daily - huge play on Weibo// A MINING company official in southwest China was suspended yesterday after a video showing him flying into a rage at an airport was posted online [A must watch Youtube. And you wonder why there is a sense a lawlessness...].¬† Yan Linkun also faces punishment as the member of Shizong County's political advisory body in Yunnan's Qujing City. Repeated cases of outright lawlessness at Chinese airports. China needs to start sending these people to jail, as the US would if people were dumb enough to behave this way in American airports these days.The cyber age demands new rules of war - FT.com--Zbigniew Brzezinski - But to make that process productive, the US itself ‚Äì while resisting the temptation to do to others what America condemns others for doing ‚Äì must make certain that its vulnerabilities are not easily exploited by adversaries that are difficult to identify. It is perplexing that the US, which apparently is able to use computers to inject undetectable viruses into sensitive foreign targets, seems so vulnerable and so uninformed regarding foreign hacking into its assets. Calm and determined deterrence ‚Äì including intensified efforts credibly to identify perpetrators as well as readiness‚Äâin effect to retaliate in kind ‚Äì must be the point of departure for new and genuinely reciprocal rules of the game. The need for such rules is becoming urgent.
Anastasios†"Tommy" Belesis's brokerage firm John Thomas Financial has drawn regulatory scrutiny and could face disciplinary action from FINRA, Bloomberg News' Zeke Faux reports. FINRA records show that Belesis received a Wells Notice from the self-regulatory organization in January. FINRA claims that Belesis' JTF "willfully or recklessly sold a substantial portion of a firm proprietary position while failing to execute customer orders to sell shares of the same stock, at prices that would have satisfied the unexecuted customer orders" and "used manipulative, deceptive and/or fraudulent means to artificially inflate the price of the stock," among other allegations.†† If you're not familiar with Belesis, you might recognize him as the managing director to Shia LeBouf's character†in†Oliver Stone's "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps." He's also the guy who†organized a rally to†"put the pride back in Wall Street"†a couple of years ago. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani also named him the "Bronx GOP Man of the Year" in 2009. Anyway, here's what Bloomberg News' sources†said†it's like to work at Belesis' John Thomas:† John Thomasís 40,000-square-foot offices on the 23rd floor of 14 Wall St., the pyramid-topped former headquarters of†Bankers Trust, are decorated with a statue of a bull, big-screen televisions and a vending machine stocked solely with†Red Bull. Some brokers rub the statue for luck as they walk in at 7:30 a.m., then practice their sales pitches with one another while speakers blast music from the ìRockyî movies. Everyone wears suits. Brokers who show up with stubble are sent to the bathroom, where a bow-tied attendant dispenses razors, cologne and candy. Belesis, bald and muscular, sometimes seeks to inspire his predominantly male staff with speeches about how theyíre entering a ìwar zoneî before the calling starts in earnest. He walks the floor, patting people on the back and calling them ìbuddy.î Some days, executives from small publicly traded firms pitch their stocks to the brokers. Working from printed lists or index cards, junior brokers dial again and again as they hunt for potential customers. The senior brokers shout and talk about weight lifting, cars and watches. The junior brokers, who are told to make about 500 calls a day, donít have computers and are required to stand. Their bosses tell them that standing makes them sound more animated, and their pitches more compelling to customers. JTF insists that it does not have a boiler-room atmosphere. Read more of this dramatic account at Bloomberg &gt;
APMarkets have turned red on news that Silvio Berlusconi is doing much better than expected in the Italian election, at least based on Senate polls. Analyst Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus just IMd a very simple explanation of what's going on† and why it matters. Berlusconi getting traction puts some of Monti's austerity measures and moves at risk.† This reverses the confidence the Cap Markets have in Italy Debt.† They sell Italy Debt - 2 things happen:† Flight into US Treasuries (Natural Rotation) and EU Financials hit (Loaded up w/ PIIGS debt).† Dollar jumps as EUR gets hit, causing Natural Headwind for Commodities.† Ultimately the "Risk Off" environment storm weighs on the SPX For full coverage, see here &gt;
mugley / FlickrThe S&amp;P 500 is coming off of its first negative week of the year. However, U.S. markets are opening strongly in the green. This week is loaded with market-moving events. So, let's get right to it. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update So, U.S. stocks continue to be right near their highest levels since late 2007. Some market strategists like JP Morgan's Tom Lee believe that stocks are looking a bit stretched and that a correction is due. Others like NYU's Nouriel Roubini believe that stocks will continue to go up as the world's central banks continue to employ extremely easy monetary policy. "An equity correction may clarify a key issue: What‚Äôs been driving equities ‚Äì loose monetary policy, or expectations of better macro and earnings?" say Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack.
Rome, Italy ‚Äî The Italian stock market rally has completely collapsed. It looks like Silvio Berlusconi is doing very well in the race to control the Italian Senate. if this hold, it will be a big screw you to Brussels, which has wanted Italy to keep along the stable center-left reform path. The market had been up nearly 4%. Now: flat. For fuller, LIVE results, see here &gt; Borsa Italiana
The buyout would be paid for in cash and would exclude the Nook and college books businesses, according to Kevin Orland and Cotten Timberlake at Bloomberg.† Barnes &amp; Noble has reported net losses for two years, and its Nook business failed to gain the traction†it needed to make money. The bookstore chain is also struggling as people move to electronic books.† But Riggio could help save the brand, David Strasser, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott, told Bloomberg.† ìHe knows the book business like the back of his hand,î Strasser said.†ìTurns out lots of people like books still. Nook is tougher and needs funding. E-readers have also hit a kind of wall at current penetration.î Barnes &amp; Noble said in a statement today that it would consider the proposal. Riggio currently owns about 30 percent of the company's stock.† The closing of bookstores selling print books could be hurting the sale of E-books, according to a recent New York Times article.† Many shoppers go into bookstores to find titles they're interested in going home and ordering, wrote David Streitfeld. Without physical stores, the book business as a whole could suffer.† If Riggio can turn around Barnes &amp; Noble, the publishing industry as a whole would benefit.
Flickr / doug_wertmanThe Dallas Fed manufacturing survey fell to 2.2 in February. Analysts polled by Bloomberg were looking for the general business activity index to decline to 3.0, from last month's reading of 5.5. Click here to refresh &gt; The news orders index was positive for the second straight month but fell to 2.8, from 12.2 the previous month. Meanwhile, the production index fell to 6.2, from 12.9. The Dallas Fed survey takes a close look at Texas' manufacturing sector. Other regional indices of manufacturing activity have been mixed this month. The Philly Fed was down to -12.5, while the Empire State manufacturing Fed survey surged to 10.04. Here is a breakdown of the sub-indices: Dallas Fed ¬† Below is the full text from the release:  Texas factory activity expanded in February, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, fell from 12.9 to 6.2, suggesting growth continued but at a slower pace. Other measures of current manufacturing activity also indicated slower growth in February. The new orders index was positive for the second month in a row, although it fell from 12.2 to 2.8. The capacity utilization index declined from 14.0 to 5.4, suggesting utilization rates increased less than last month. The shipments index plunged almost 20 points but stayed in positive territory, indicating slightly higher shipments in February. Perceptions of broader economic conditions improved a bit in February. The general business activity index was positive for the third month in a row, although it dipped from 5.5 to 2.2. The company outlook index was also positive for a third consecutive month, but it fell from 12.6 to 6.3. Labor market indicators were mixed in February. Hiring slowed with the employment index moving down to 2.0, and about 17 percent of employers reporting hiring and 15 percent noting layoffs. The average workweek index dipped into negative territory with a reading of ‚Äì3.0, suggesting hours worked declined. Price and wage pressures diminished in February. The raw materials price index came in at 15.8, down from 27.8 in January. The finished goods price index dropped from 10.2 to 4.6. The wages and benefits index fell to 12.9, indicating wages rose at a slower pace. Still, the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. Looking ahead, 42 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 23 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions continued to reflect optimism. The index of future general business activity edged up from 9.2 to 10.8. The index of future company outlook remained unchanged at 20.1. Indexes for future manufacturing activity fell, but remained in solid positive territory this month. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected Feb. 12‚Äì20, and 95 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been seasonally adjusted as necessary.
Quick Italy update. Tension is growing in the press room here, and people are gathering around monitors, as some polls show Berlusconi leading in some Senate races here. Perhaps the initial polls were too skewed in favor of Bersani. Lots more to come. Here's a shot of reporters gathering around a TV screen, which shows how reporting really gets done. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider
An early candidate for Chart Of The Day: EUR vs. GBP. The euro is surging against the pound. What's the story? The euro is loving the election results in Italy, which appear to support a government of stability and reform. The pound is getting destroyed on the downgrade Friday. Combo: Euro killing the pound. FinViz
APJack LewIt's not uncommon for a U.S. Treasury Secretary to have served on Wall Street, but what's interesting about this next one is that his bank gave him a pretty significant financial incentive make the leap. The Senate Finance Committee will vote Tuesday on President Obama's nomination of White House Chief of Staff and former Citi executive Jack Lew for the top job at the U.S. Treasury. Lew left Citi in 2009 to become the Deputy Secretary of State. At Lew's recent confirmation hearing for Treasury Secretary, an interesting detail about his employment contract with Citi emerged: a bonus meant to keep him at Citi ñ meaning he wouldn't get it if he quit ñ would still be granted on the condition that he left the bank for a "high level" position in the federal government. Bloomberg News columnist Jonathan Weil, who tracked down a copy of Lew's employment agreement, put it bluntly, writing, "The wording of the pay provisions made it seem, at least to me, as if Citigroup might have agreed to pay Lew some sort of a bounty to seek out, and be appointed to, such a position." At the hearing, Senator Orrin Hatch asked Lew, "Now is this exception consistent with President Obamaís efforts to 'close the revolving door' that carries special interest influence in and out of the government?" Lew basically brushed the Hatch off without answering the question directly. Weil, after seeing a few pages of the contract ñ which he has made available online ñ wrote in his column: Lew was†named†a deputy secretary of State in 2009, Office of Management and Budget director again in 2010, and then became President†Barack Obamaís chief of staff in 2012. Now heís up for Treasury secretary, where he would play a critical role in overseeing the U.S.ís financial industry and rescuing it should another crisis ensue. Citigroup couldnít have planned this better if it tried, which raises the natural question: Did it try? For its part, the bank told Weil, "Citi routinely accommodates individuals who wish to leave the firm to pursue a position in government or nonprofit sector." Needless to say, this isn't the type of thing that inspires confidence in the Wall Street-Washington D.C. nexus.
Hewlett-Packard has announced that it will begin selling a $169 tablet computer in April. The tablet will have an 7-inch screen, which is the same size as Google's well-reviewed Nexus 7 and Amazon's Kindle Fire.† This screen is about 1-inch smaller than the screen on Apple's latest tablet, the iPad Mini. HP's tablet, the Slate7, will run Google's Android operating system, which is a big blow to Microsoft, HP's long-time operating system partner. Microsoft just introduced a fancy new operating system designed specifically for tablets, so the fact that a major PC maker is giving it the heave-ho is bad news for the Windows giant. More importantly, the tablet will set a new low mark in the tablet pricing wars, one that will undercut almost every tablet in the market, especially Apple's iPad Mini. Apple's Mini is priced at $329. This means that HP's new tablet will cost only half as much. Apple fans will quickly argue that the iPad Mini is "much better" than HP's tablet (they'll argue this regardless of how good HP's tablet actually is--we don't need to see HP's tablet to know that). And Apple's Mini will probably, in fact, be better than HP's tablet. But that's not the point. The point is that HP has now established a new low mark in tablet pricing, one that will continue to put pressure on tablet prices across the board. This is great news for consumers. Sub-$200 pricing makes buying a tablet almost a no-never-mind, and it will accelerate the day in which most households have several of them just lying around--for use by whoever is within reach. Or the day in which everyone has a tablet that they carry around everywhere. But this is not great news for Apple, which generates a mind-boggling profit margin on hardware sales. HP makes its money from hardware sales, too, but HP is correctly realizing that if it isn't hyper-aggressive on tablet pricing, it will have almost no chance of clawing its way back into the tablet (and, eventually, presumably, smartphone) markets. So HP is likely selling its new tablet at or below cost, just to get itself into the game. Will all prospective Apple iPad Mini buyers decide to save half their money and buy an HP, Google, or Amazon tablet instead? No way. As we've already seen, many Apple fans are dedicated enough to the company--or locked in enough to the company's content and software ecosystem--that spending $329 on a small tablet is worth it.† And, for many buyers, it will continue to be worth it. But as the gap between Apple pricing and Android-based tablet pricing widens, more and more buyers will begin to step back and say, "Wait--why am I shelling out all this money again? What am I really getting?" And for a lot of them, the answer will be, "Not enough to spend twice as much on an Apple product." Those who think Apple will be able to maintain its high prices need to realize how significantly the market has changed from a few years ago. A few years ago, Apple was both the quality leader and the price leader in the tablet market. Apple's first iPad and iPad 2 were both considerably better than the competition, and they also cost considerably less. That was an extremely unusual and powerful position for Apple to be in. That was the position that Apple held in the smartphone market for several years, and this positioning enabled Apple's iPhone to become the most profitable product in the world. This position, importantly, was very different than the position that Apple held back in the late 1980s and 1990s, when it lost its leadership and nearly went bankrupt. In those days, Apple was not the price leader. It was the quality leader, at least in some observers' eyes, but its products cost considerably more than the alternative. And, eventually, as the PC market grew beyond early adopter fanatics, Apple's high prices doomed it to becoming a niche player. Importantly, this is exactly the position that Apple now finds itself in in the tablet market. The company has sacrificed its price leadership in an attempt to maintain its staggering profit margin. This decision has given competitors like Amazon, Google, and now HP an opportunity to radically undercut Apple on price, and thus eat away its market share. If the tablet market were merely a "gadget" market, market share would not be so critical. But the tablet market, like the PC market of the 1980s and 1990s, has become a "platform market"--third-party companies are building products and services on top of smartphones and tablets. In a platform market, market share is critical: Developers want to reach as many potential customers as possible, so they eventually prefer to build for the platform with the greatest market share. This dynamic helps the platform market leader--in this case, Android--further increase its market share, while putting pressure on smaller players. Apple still has a huge advantage in the tablet and smartphone markets: Apple's installed base of customers have now built large app and content libraries within iTunes and iOS. Apple users will be loathe to write off those investments, so there's a barrier to switching platforms. This advantage, combined with the quality of Apple's products and Apple's amazing store distribution system, is enabling Apple to continue to sell a lot of tablets, even though there are now many cheaper, high-quality options. But as tablet prices continue to fall, Apple's premium prices will seem increasingly unjustifiable. And if Apple doesn't respond by cutting those prices, perhaps radically, more and more smartphone and tablet buyers will likely conclude that they'll get better value over the long haul by cutting the Apple cord. SEE ALSO: HP To Launch New $169 Tablet In April
Waiting for Japan‚Äôs economy to make a strong recovery has been an ongoing game since 1990. Shall we play that game one more time? There have been many false dawns in Japan over the past 20 years. Struggling with a combination of crushing debt and deadly demographics, Japan‚Äôs economy has stubbornly refused to make progress, despite numerous government efforts that range from currency devaluation to endless public works projects. None of this was enough, however, to prevent further declines in the country‚Äôs fertility rate, for example, which only exacerbated deflationary pressures on the economy. Nor were the collective set of policy measures enough to boot capital flows away from the bond market, as Japan‚Äôs savers simply kept on saving. For the past twenty years, value investors have probed the individual names in the Nikkei for cash rich insurance companies, debt-free manufacturing companies, and for rock-bottom low P/E names, all in the hopes of riding a broader recovery higher. Alas, no sustainable recovery in Japan‚Äôs economy or stock market has ever unfolded. One can only smile at the reaction that more senior, experienced Japan recoverists must now be feeling as they watch a new generation succumb to the excitement of the latest resurrection of Japan‚Äôs economy. That the Nikkei is up by 25% in just 90 days has triggered all sorts of congratulatory commentary, even from Nobel Prize winners like Paul Krugman, who also is swept up in the latest round of recovery fever: Krugman explains that one of the problems with modern central banking is that people believe they‚Äôre¬†too credible in their desire to stamp out inflation when it starts to pick up. So in other words, the Central Bank may say it will let growth and inflation run hot for awhile (so that nominal GDP can catch up to trend) but nobody believes that they‚Äôll actually do that. What Japan may be in the process of doing ‚Äî by having the Bank of Japan take orders from the Ministry of Finance and the new Prime Minister ‚Äî is solve this problem, by having the bank commit to being irresponsible. Thankfully, Japan‚Äôs latest attempt to recover by aggressive devaluation is almost assured to provide resolution to its generational quagmire. But the outcome will not look anything like recovery. Instead, Japan has entered the terminal phase of its long, reflationary road.  Culturally, the frustration and exhaustion at the country‚Äôs lack of progress has unsurprisingly led to this important juncture. The Japan recoverists are correct that the latest round of monetary policy ‚Äúis not like the others.‚Äù However, the results are likely to provide a real-world test case of the limits of Keynesian policy at a time when the world faces scarce resources. This final chapter will be spectacular. So in a lurid sort of way, we should be thankful that Japan has now crossed the threshold and is ready to proceed to its denouement. Students of ecological economics should pay close attention. Japan is about to add itself as a test case. Ecological Economics is a thesis of elegant simplicity. Simply put, the economy is a subset of the environment ‚Äì and not, as neoliberal economists would have you believe, the other way around. Economies can ‚Äúgrow‚Äù up to the limit of the natural resources which they can extract, or acquire. In a time of cheap resources, when the cost of inputs is extremely low, the importance of these inputs tends to be ignored. Thus, we can see the most obvious implication of environmental economics is that extraordinary profits can be harvested when the price of resource inputs is low and the purchasing power of consumers in the market place is high. This is exactly the condition that allowed post-war economies like Japan to reap gigantic capital windfalls during their post-war industrial phase. Additionally, it is also critical to point out that the prices of energy inputs in the post-war era were so cheap that it was not necessary for countries like Japan to own any such resources domestically. Indeed, as it‚Äôs well known, Japan is nearly barren of any large deposits of energy resources. Countries like Sweden, South Korea, and Japan during the 1945-2000 period essentially engaged in a kind of resource arbitrage: sourcing energy inputs from abroad and using them to manufacture high quality goods for export. If the resource-curse explains how countries rich in oil, copper, iron ore, and coal often wind up in a place of stagnation and corruption, bereft of innovation and diversity in their economies, then a country like post-war Japan received a kind of resource-poor blessing. Short of raw materials, Japan‚Äôs only choice was to become expert in using raw materials to get rich. And rich, indeed, did Japan become. But all things must pass. The greatest gains from Japan‚Äôs industrial arbitrage were harvested from after the war up to 1990. It would be impossible to exaggerate how much capital the country extracted from the world economy during this time. It would also have been impossible, given the tidal wave of that capital, for Japan to have avoided the asset bubble, whose bursting, just a decade before the new millennium, would prove so crippling. By the time Japan had hobbled into the year 2000, new low-cost manufacturers like Mexico, China, and other Asian countries had appeared on the scene to essentially imitate Japan‚Äôs post-war triumph. Economies consume natural resource inputs, produce useful services for people, and generate waste. Fed a steady diet of affordable energy, the global economy grew and produced waste for most of the post-war period. Until, of course, the energy shock of high oil prices and the bursting of the credit bubble halted growth, in 2008-2009. The results were unsurprising, and best articulated by the global output of CO2 emissions in the chart below: Gregor.us Global carbon dioxide emissions fell as expected during the crisis of 2008-2009, as global industrial output crashed. Since that time, the world has built GDP on the back of electricity supply ‚Äì not oil supply ‚Äì as the transition to natural gas and coal continued and moderate growth resumed. Japan fits into this picture in a very intriguing way, because of its new call on coal and natural gas in the wake of the Tohoku Earthquake. But here Japan has run into serious problems. Problems which will not ameliorate, but instead will worsen. After WWII, Japan followed precisely the kind of thesis laid out in Peter Diamandis‚Äô book Abundance. In the view of Diamandis, history shows that humans are so amazingly innovative and productive that scarcity of natural resources is no barrier to successful economies. Diamandis argues that history shows that over time many natural resources are substitutable, or expandable in their supply. And that human-created technologies trigger revolutions in resource allocation and availability. Many of the enormous gains that Diamandis forecasts for the world in the next 20 years were captured by Japan after the war, as it ingeniously imported metals, rubber, silicon, oil, and other resources to make cars, electronics, and other highly engineered equipment. Indeed, Japan no doubt gave the world a number of energy-saving devices as its own economy became a hyper-efficient user of energy in its own right. Japan consumed its own products, as well, and became one of the lowest per capita users of energy while maintaining one of the most powerful industrial complexes in the world. The fifty years between the war and the new millennium was a time of price stability in global energy prices. Oil averaged, on an adjusted basis, at roughly $15 per barrel. Coal, increasingly rejected by industrial economies, was also cheap. And no other industrial economy took better advantage of these fertile conditions than Japan. Using a population not much bigger than Britain, Japan bulked up to become the third largest economy in the world with extraordinary industrial output. Those TVs, stereos, and of course automobiles, were manufactured using cheap imported coal, and oil. It is not a coincidence that Japan also seized the nuclear opportunity, starting in the early 1960‚Äôs. Yes, coal was still cheap, but Japan‚Äôs economic security demanded that a country naked of domestic energy resources look to securing its future. And that is how Japan seized both the miracle and the nightmare of nuclear power. Japan‚Äôs hyper-efficient, energy-conserving economy was not completely shielded from the new millenium‚Äôs price revolution in oil. That said, Japan has done an extremely good job of bringing oil down to 40% of its total energy consumption mix. Japan can be still be thought of as a substantial user of oil, but, an even heavier user of electricity sourced from imported LNG, imported coal, and its own nuclear power. | see: Japan Total Energy Consumption 2010, source EIA Washington: Gregor.us But the shock of the Feb 2011 Tohoku earthquake peeled back the risk on nuclear power in Japan. The problem, which I outlined in Returning to Simplicity (2012) is that dependency on nuclear power is synonymous with dependency on a tightly-coupled system. And, tightly-coupled systems are not robust. Rather they are fragile, and vulnerable to systemic failure. Worse, the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami arrived in Japan at the precise moment in the country‚Äôs history when debt levels, global demand for automobiles, demographics, slow growth in the OECD, and price levels for energy resources were all conspiring to merge. And not in a way beneficial to Japan. The nasty reality for Japan is that its cost of inputs are rising at the same time demand for its goods continues to soften. We must emphasize that Japan is an island, and so major upside surprises in new natural resource discoveries is highly unlikely. Except for its ability to lock in the price of inputs through large hedging programs, it is fully exposed to present and future prices of LNG, coal and other essential commodities. Indeed, Japan is the largest importer of LNG in the world, and global suppliers take advantage of this fact. In Part II: The 10 Next Predictable Steps to Japan‚Äôs Unfolding Disaster we focus on that what‚Äôs important to realize here: Japan‚Äôs economy is going to fail. And when it does, the outcome will have spectacular implications for many global assets, ranging from real estate, to stock markets, to oil and gold. There is a progression of increasingly likely events that will happen as Japan‚Äôs troubles mount. Investors looking to protect capital will do well to learn and watch for them (as well as those with appetite to find opportunity in crisis) For all others, this story is important to understand because Japan also serves as a bellwether for the other OECD countries, many of whom face similar macro headwinds of excessive debts and increased global competition for key commodities. As Japan goes, so very well may we all. Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access). Read more posts on Gregor.us ¬ª
Rome, Italy ‚ÄîThe first wave of election polls are out, and the good news for international markets is that it looks like center-leftists Pier Luigi Bersani is going to win. But here's a stunning number. Check out the collapse in support for Mario Monti, the technocrat, Brussels-approved Prime Minister who came in in late 2011 to help calm markets and pass reform. This is a huge rejection of his austerity and Brussels. He's getting totally demolished. And if his support is too low, he might not enter government at all, potentially throwing everything into chaos. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider
RealtyTracRome, Italy ó It appears at first blush that left candidate Pier Luigi Bersani has won the Italian election. But these are just exit polls. And beyond that, there's still some question about the Senate. Everyone is watching the Lombardy region, which people even know there as the "Ohio Of Italy", because of its outsize roll in selecting the next government. According to polls, it's still a dead heat between Bersani and Berlusconi. If Berlusconi could pull it off, then there's some question about who will control the Senate. We'll have more updates. And for full Italian election results, see here &gt;
CBSSen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, said Congress must "get something done" to avert the looming, across-the-board cuts of the sequester set to start kicking in later this week. "Iíve been surprised some of these Republican leaders have said they donít want to negotiate ó no eleventh hour deals," Warner told CBS' Charlie Rose on "This Morning." "I donít think the public realizes how stupid these cuts are. In many places we will end up cutting things that will cost the taxpayer more money than the cuts." Warner is one whose state the White House warned would be disproportionately affected by the cuts.  Jason Furman, the deputy director of the Obama administration's†National Economic Council, told reporters on a conference call Sunday that the cuts could compromise some military readiness in Virginia.†About†90,000 civilian Department of Defense employees†would be furloughed, and maintenance on 11 ships could be canceled, Furman said. Warner gave three examples of how he said the cuts would affect his state ó "975 separate line items" would be cut. It would also have to cut some long-term contracts with ship- and plane-builders, which Warner said would end up costing the state more. And it would have to cut back some National Institute of Health grants, meaning the price of meat could rise. Warner urged Congress to take up the Senate's plan, which was introduced two weeks ago. It replaces 10 months of sequester cuts with an equal mix of new revenues and spending cuts, including the implementation of the so-called "Buffett Rule." "Limping from one budget crisis to another doesnít do anything for this economy," Warner said. Here's a clip of Warner's appearance, courtesy of CBS: 
Flickr/dustpuppyDeutsche Bank, long coddled by the German government, is mired in a swamp of costly ‚Äúmatters,‚Äù such as the Libor rate-rigging scandal or the carbon-trading tax-fraud scandal that broke with a televised raid by 500 police officers on its headquarters. It‚Äôs writing down assets and setting up reserves to settle these allegations. Co-CEO J√ºrgen Fitschen insinuated more gloom was to come. The bank, he said, would ‚Äúbe confronted with more developments in these and other matters‚Äù [The Putrid Smell Suddenly Emanating From European¬†Banks]. And now, one of these other matters seeped to the surface: the bank had known for years about the impact of commodities speculation on food prices and the havoc it wreaked on people in poor countries. And it had lied to the German Parliament about it. On June 27, 2012, David Folkerts-Landau, head of Deutsche Bank‚Äôs DB Research, educated a parliamentary commission about the dire consequences of food price inflation‚Äîand what didn‚Äôt cause it. ‚ÄúIn developing countries where often up to 90% of the income must be spent on food,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúprice increases of wheat, corn, and soybeans in the years 2007-2008 and 2010-2011 had devastating consequences.‚Äù Volatility made it worse. ‚ÄúEven spikes of only a few months are a serious threat to food security.‚Äù While the volume of options and derivatives in agricultural markets had been ballooning in recent years, ‚Äúprimarily in search of higher yields,‚Äù he said, there was ‚Äúhardly any sound empirical evidence‚Äù for the assertion that any of it ‚Äúled to price increases or higher volatility.‚Äù He cited the big players. The US Commodity and Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) had received ‚Äúno reliable economic analysis‚Äù that showed that excessive speculation influenced the markets. US Department of Agriculture came to the same conclusion in 2009. And the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) pointed out as early as 2007 that there was ‚Äúno convincing causal relationship‚Äù between speculation and price increases. That the BIS would say that makes sense: it groups together 58 central banks, including the most prodigious money printers. On its board: Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, NY Fed President William Dudley, ECB President Mario Draghi, etc. etc. Thus inspired, Folkerts-Landau concluded that ‚Äúcommodity prices are primarily determined by fundamental demand and supply factors,‚Äù not speculation. Alas, foodwatch, an independent non-profit, has obtained four studies by DB Research and two studies by German insurance and finance conglomerate Allianz that showed that both companies had known for years that commodity speculation‚Äîone of their major business activities‚Äîdrove up food prices. In September, 2009, a DB Research study pointed out: ‚ÄúSpeculation has also contributed to price increases.‚Äù A year later, DB Research found that speculation could be ‚Äúdistorting the normal functioning of the market,‚Äù which ‚Äúcan have grave consequences for farmers and consumers and is in principle unacceptable.‚Äù It argued that it was important for the proper ‚Äúfunctioning of the food chain‚Äù that commodity derivatives serve their original purpose of price discovery and hedging against volatility. And it suggested that more regulation of derivatives would ‚Äúbe helpful in avoiding excesses.‚Äù In January, 2011, DB Research‚Äîshocked that high food prices had at least in part triggered social unrest in a number of countries in Latin America, Asia, and Africa‚Äîadmitted that ‚Äúin some instances speculation might have added to the price movement.‚Äù Two months later, DB Research acknowledged that in developing countries where ‚Äúconsumers spend over 50% of their income on food,‚Äù price increases can be devastating and ‚Äúhollow out the right to food.‚Äù While there was no consensus on the role of derivatives, the study nevertheless fingered speculation: ‚ÄúWhen speculation drives prices to a level that is no longer consistent with fundamental data, this can have serious consequences for farmers and consumers.‚Äù Hence another scandal: large banks have known for years that commodities speculation and related products that they sold to their clients caused immense damage to people in developing countries and hurt people even in rich countries. foodwatch points out that even short price spikes can cause permanent damage to already mal-nourished children‚Äîand can lead to death. Yet banks ‚Äúdeceive the public, even lie to Parliament, to continue without scruples to profit at the expense of those who are starving.‚Äù But the banks are just a link in the chain. Central banks have cranked up their printing presses and flooded the world with speculative capital, causing asset bubbles left and right. Their stated policy goal is to cause inflation, but when food-price spikes wreak havoc around the world, it‚Äôs of course someone else‚Äôs fault. Deutsche Bank is flailing to get this under control. There have already been noisy demands that it remove those financial products from the markets that bet on price changes of agricultural commodities. But the bank is the bedrock of the German economy, and Germany must soldier on. All hopes rest on it: its vibrant economy teeming with globalized, ultra-competitive, export-focused companies is supposed to drag France and other Eurozone countries out of their economic morass. But then, there‚Äôs an ugly reality. Read.... ¬†What If Germany Gets Bogged Down Too? Or Has It¬†Already?
Disgraced IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn is taking legal steps to stop a controversial new book by Argentinian-born Marcela Iacub detailing their liaison, his lawyers said on Monday. In "Beauty and the Beast," due to be released on Wednesday, Iacub says she had a relationship with Strauss-Kahn from January to August 2012, in the midst of the scandal over accusations he sexually assaulted a New York hotel maid the previous year. She doesn't name Strauss-Kahn in the book, but she told Le Nouvel Observateur magazine that it was about him, while admitting that she had mixed fiction with reality. Strauss-Kahn's lawyers said they will on Tuesday seek the seizure of the books after suing Iacub and her publisher Stock for an attack on his private life. If that is not allowed, they will seek for every copy of the book to carry an insert, lawyers Richard Malka and Jean Veil said, without giving details on what they want it to say. Strauss-Kahn, who has called the book an "abomination", is seeking 100,000 euros ($132,300) in damages and compensation from Iacub and Stock, and a similar amount from Le Nouvel Observateur. Lawyers for Stock and Le Nouvel Observateur declined to comment on the suit, which will go before a Paris judge from 0900 GMT on Tuesday. The book touches on the incident in New York and the cases in France against Strauss-Kahn, as well as his relationship with Anne Sinclair, his fabulously rich wife of 20 years who announced last July that she had split from her husband. Iacub's new work is the latest in a long line of books, plays, TV shows and movies on the spectacular fall from grace of a man who was once tipped to become France's next president. The Socialist politician in December agreed a financial settlement with the hotel maid whose 2011 allegation of sexual assault forced him to resign from the International Monetary Fund. But the silver-haired 63-year-old is still being investigated in France as part of a probe into allegations he procured prostitutes for sex parties in Europe and in Washington. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
flickr: Truck NightWall Street is an easy place to pick up the habit of overeating. Think about it: It's a place that embraces taking clients out to lavish dinners, working long days and sometimes splurging on meals to make up for those miserable hours. And then there's the time honored tradition of the Wall Street eating contest. Eating contests are the product of bankers ‚Äî competitive by nature ‚Äî having down time during their long days at the office. All of the sudden, someone decides to bet someone else that they can't eat the entire contents of a vending machine... or 60 hamburgers... or 500 Starbursts. So you can see how bankers may start thinking it's okay to stuff themselves to the brim. It's not. Overeating can be addicting, and that addiction can make you depressed and spur disease.
Russia could find itself on the expat radar screen after its government relaxed immigration laws this month The changes will particularly make it easier for wealthy investors to relocate to Russia with the introduction of an investment visitor visa that is valid for five years. But it also spells good news for less affluent expats following the announcement made by Russiaís Federal Migration Service (FMS). The Russian temporary residency, which currently ran for three years, will be now be the first stage to the five-year permanent residence visa. Russia is keen to attract global talent but has a reputation for bureaucracy that puts off many potential expats from relocating there. A spokesman for the FMS said: ìThe changes are being introduced to help meet Russiaís skilled migration and foreign labour needs. ìThose businesses which are looking at undertaking assignments in Russia should also prepare for further changes as further new immigration laws will be introduced.î For wealthy investors, they will no longer have to wait for an invitation letter from the FMS but can apply directly to a Russian consulate for the investment visa. Stuart Moir, a former British expat who worked in Russia, said: ìIn the past it was very complicated to live and work in Russia and not many people would have considered it. But it sounds like that could all be about to change which is good news as the country has a lot to offer expats.î However, one strict rule change will require all foreigners to register with Russiaís tax authorities within three days of arriving in the country. Meanwhile, expats already living in Moscow are downgrading their accommodation according to the latest study by property experts Penny Lane Realty. A spokesman said: ìIn the last few years, about 70 per cent of foreigners who sought to rent luxury apartments through Russian real estate agencies normally named their top prices at $15,000 (£10,000) per month. But from the middle of 2012 this started changing. "We get more and more requests from foreigners for apartments with a rental rate of less than $10,000 (£6,600) a month.î It attributes this to budget cuts made by European companies affected by austerity measures sweeping the region. However, the study showed that demand for luxury apartments from Russian citizens was on the rise. "The main reason is the improving welfare of the country. So many top managers have moved to Moscow," the report added. 
BloombergUnless Washington can surprise us with a last minute deal, the sequestration budget cuts will begin on March 1. Sequestration is the series of $85 billion worth of spending cuts that'll ripple across the U.S. government. Most agree that the sequester is bad news. However, the actual impact of the sequester is deeply misunderstood, write UBS economist Maury Harris and Kevin Cummins. "For instance, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has sponsored digital ads in 27 congressional districts represented by House Republicans who are thought to be vulnerable on the issue of large sequestration-related defense spending cuts in their districts," they write.¬† "In these ads it is stated that 700,000 jobs nationwide are at risk. And that is just a third of the 2.1 million job loss projected in an input/output study commissioned by the Aerospace Industries Association." "Our view is that investors should not over-react to these typical large estimates, which are publicized/headlined whenever specific economic sectors are either threatened by government spending cuts or angling for more government funding." Here are three key clarifications Harris and Cummins provide in their latest report to clients (verbatim): 1. Actual near-term spending cuts in fiscal 2013 will be only around half of the ‚Äúsequestered‚Äù $85 billion in budget authority. Outlays lag budget authority, which is the concept embodied in the sequestration process. 2. The defense industry for some time already has been adjusted its headcount for the prospects of multi-year defense spending cuts. In thinking about such companies‚Äô near-term horizon, it is worth noting that the sharp drop in Defense Department contract awards so far this year was preceded by a spike late last year. 3. Likely periodic government worker furloughs of just a few days per month will ‚Äúspread the pain‚Äù via a lower workweek versus severe outright job cuts of affected government employees. There still is a potentially meaningful diminution of such workers‚Äô purchasing power, although their actual spending will reflect their individual views about whether there will be a temporary or permanent pay check reduction. As far as the consumer is concerned, confidence has been notably resilient. "So far consumer confidence has held up better than during the debt ceiling debate in the summer of 2011, when headlines trumpeted the possibility of a US government debt default," they write.¬† "Perhaps this reflects the public not being as aware of the sequester.¬† However, considering the ‚Äúfalse alarms‚Äù during the past two years in the ongoing budget battles in Washington DC, the public might be increasingly discounting whatever is stated and projected by our politicians."
Rome, Italy ‚Äî People are feeling optimistic that the Italian election will result in a stable government. At least it would seem so from the market. With just over an hour to go until first exit polls (see here), the FTSE MIB (Milan stock exchange) is up 2.1%! FTSE MIB
Market's are up across Europe.† Italy is doing particularly well, up 2.3 percent. This rally comes as Italians vote in their general election.† Polls close at 9:00 AM ET.† As BI's Joe Weisenthal reports, "There are worries that strong performances today by either Silvio Berlusconi or Beppe Grillo (the anti-bank populist comedian) will create chaos." For now, markets seem to expect the election to go in their favor. Here's an intraday look at Italy's FTSE MIB via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Jason Merritt / Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.

BloombergUBS economist Paul Donovan summarizes today's biggest global market moving news in four succinct bullets.¬† Here they are verbatim from UBS.com:
Investing veteran John Mauldin spoke on a panel at the California Resource Investment Conference held February 23 &amp; 24 in Palm Springs. Mauldin shared an anecdote of the time he had a four hour dinner with Speaker of the House John Boehner.¬† Apparently it was a dinner with lots of wine. He said to Boehner that it must be tough working with Harry Reid on the debt ceiling. And Boehner responded. "Boehner looks at me and says 'Harry?! Harry ain't the problem. It's Obama. The man can't make a decision. He's got balls made out of marshmallows." Here's the video: 
Let‚Äôs face it folks global markets have turned into the Truman Show. In other words, much, if not, everything is pretty much fake.¬†¬† An artificial housing recovery based¬† on repressed interest rates and the effective nationalism of the mortgage market and an artificial stock market rally based on quantitative easing.¬†¬† The artificial wealth is, once again, creating, albeit just barely,¬† fake and temporary demand. Most of the private sector, twice burned by the stock and housing bubbles,¬† can see right through it and refuse to expand capacity. ¬† Witness tepid economic growth, at best,¬† even with the enormous fiscal and monetary stimulus. Did you ever think in your wildest imagination that the printing money would become virtuous?¬† That in our zero interest rate world one of the fast growing group of millionaires would be retired government workers with defined benefit pensions (present value of retirement payments)? So with that introduction and Anne Hathaway taking home the Oscar tonight for best actress in a supporting role we repost a piece from a few years back. ******************************************************************************* Does Anne Hathaway Drive Berkshire¬†Stock? Posted on March 19, 2011 by macromon MacromonWe posted last October our suspicions that algo/robo traders were driving the almost tick-for-tick correlation between the Australian dollar and the S&amp;P500.¬† Remember those days of great fun? Now, the Atlantic suspects that algorithms may, and we stress may,¬† have been written and programmed to buy Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-A) stock when Anne Hathaway is mentioned in the news!¬†¬† Alexis Madrigal of The Atlantic writes, A couple weeks ago, Huffington Post blogger Dan Mervish noted a funny trend: when Anne Hathaway was in the news, Warren Buffett‚Äôs Berkshire Hathaway‚Äôs shares went up. He pointed to six dates going back to 2008 to show the correlation. Mervish then suggested a mechanism to explain the trend: ‚Äúautomated, robotic trading programming are picking up the same chatter on the Internet about ‚ÄòHathaway‚Äô as the IMDb‚Äôs StarMeter, and they‚Äôre applying it to the stock market.‚Äù The idea seems ridiculous. But the more I thought about the strange behavior of algorithmic trading systems and the news that Twitter sentiment analysis could be used by stock market analysts and the fact that many computer programs are simply looking for tradeable correlations, I really started to wonder if Mervish‚Äôs theory was plausible. Madrigal checked in with John Bates, former Cambridge computer whiz whose company Progress Software writes algo strategies for hedge funds to ask, ‚ÄúIs this at all possible?¬† Bates, to his surprise, answered ‚ÄúMaybe.‚Äù We come across all sorts of strange things in our line of business, strange correlations,‚Äù Bates told me. ‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôve had a lot of interest in this for a long time because it‚Äôs really often the secret source for certain hedge funds.‚Äù Companies are trying to ‚Äúcorrelate everything against everything,‚Äù he explained, and if they find something that they think will work time and again, they‚Äôll try it out. The interesting, thing, though, is that it‚Äôs all statistics, removed from the real world. It‚Äôs not as if a hedge fund‚Äôs computers would spit the trading strategy as a sentence: ‚ÄúWhen Hathway news increases, buy Berkshire Hathaway.‚Äù In fact, traders won‚Äôt always know why their algorithms are doing what they‚Äôre doing. They just see that it‚Äôs found some correlation and it‚Äôs betting on Buffett‚Äôs company. Algo/robo trading appears to becoming not only more bizarre, desperate and reaching the level of the absurd. ¬† Imagine a program, for example,¬† written to sell 10K S&amp;P500 futures contracts in illiquid market on the news of a report of a butterfly flapping its wings at home plate at Wrigley Field momentarily interrupting¬† a Cubs game.¬† The selling drives the index down 2 percent.¬† Another program written to sell several thousand¬† contracts when the index moves down 2 percent in, say,¬† a 45 second time period then kicks in, driving the index down another 3 percent.¬† Several thousand other programs are written to sell¬† several thousand more contracts when the market is down 5 percent.¬†¬† A tornado on Wall Street set off by the flapping of a butterfly‚Äôs wings in Chicago?¬† Hey, don‚Äôt entirely discount such a scenario.¬† This is probably not far from what happened during last year‚Äôs ‚ÄúRobots Gone Wild‚Äù flash crash which was kicked off by the bank burning Greek riots. At least we have some theories behind our correlations, such as the Hang Seng as an indicator species for global risk appetite. ¬† And we did make some money once buying Callaway (ELY), the proud sponsor of Phil Mickelson, the Friday before he won his first Masters. But¬† good luck trying to trade against this type of nonsense.¬†¬† We also wonder if the robot has been reprogrammed to sell rather than buy Nike (NKE) after Tiger‚Äôs downfall when he is now mentioned in the news. ¬† As they say on the newly paved Street, just go with the flow algo! ********************************************************************************** Welcome to the Truman Show!¬† Someday Truman is going to find out he lives in a fake world.¬† Won‚Äôt that be fun? (click here if table and picture are not observable)  Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ¬ª
Jeff J. Mitchell / Getty ImagesThe UK finally lost its AAA rating on Friday. Moody's dinged it one notch. The downgrade is expected to have almost no real market impact, expect that it's temporarily slightly negative for the pound. That being said, it is a good time to take stock of the situation in the UK, which has not only been downgraded, it's also on the verge of a triple dip recession. When David Cameron came to power he won praise for pursuing an austerity agenda (unlike Obama) but it's flopped. In a great post, the brilliant pseudonymous finance twitter/blogger @barnejek, asks if Britain has finally cornered itself with its current mix of policy. He starts by noting... I would like to thank the British government for conducting a massive social experiment, which will be used in decades to come as a proof that a tight fiscal/loose monetary policy mix does not work in an environment of a liquidity trap. We sort of knew that from the theory anyway but now we have plenty of data to base that on. This idea that Britain has conducted a huge social experiment is not spoken loudly, since it's insensitive, but it's one that economists have talked about. People like that Britain has blown its recovery, because it shows that the theory behind austerity is bunk. After walking through some slightly technical economics, he goes on to argue that the only hope now is that Britain take a "stop loss" on its austerity agenda, and spend more. I do believe that Britain has finally cornered itself into a situation where there is overwhelming evidence that Mr Osborne should really start spending. He should also assume that Mr Carney will not let that spending lead to appreciation of Real Effective Exchange Rate (a bit more on that mechanism in one of my previous posts entitled ‚ÄúBe careful what you target or am I in the right church?‚Äú). That is to say that the Bank of England will keep nominal and real rates very low. In my opinion this is the only rational way of the situation that we‚Äôre currently in. Then again, I am assuming the impossible here, i.e. that the politicians know what the stop-loss is. This advice is very similar to a column by Dr. Gerard Lyons, the chief economic advisor to London Mayor Boris Johnson, and the former top economist at Standard Chartered. Says Lyons: The UK must spend, and banks must lend. Judging by the still pessimistic tone at the beginning of this year, it would seem few are expecting things to go well in 2013. Yet I just wonder whether this may be the year the economy surprises on the upside. But if it is then the UK needs three things ‚Äì to spend, lend and change. The economy is suffering from a lack of demand. There needs to be more spending by the Government on both infrastructure and construction and people and firms with the ability to spend need to be given the confidence to do so. There has to be more lending by the banks. And the supply side of the economy needs a helping hand and thus there has to be change ‚Äì which is all part of repositioning the UK in the changing global economy. The ratings downgrade by Moody's reflects concern about the growth outlook. That is understandable but we should not panic. The UK has gone from the highest to a still high rating and its borrowing rates will stay low. That's right. In the wake of a debt downgrade, David Cameron must spend more money. This is incredibly difficult, since prima facie, it would fly in the face of the downgrade. And more importantly, it would basically require him (and his finance minister George Osborne) to admit that they were totally wrong since the crisis. That's the really hard part. Perhaps even impossible. But that's what it will take.
JJ Berlin / FlickrAs gold breaks through death crosses and so forth, falling below $1600, sentiment against the precious metal is changing rapidly. People are more comfortable getting bearish on it. Dow Jones reports that, according to CFTC data, fund manager short bets are hitting record levels (via Nicola Duke). Money managers held a record number of bets on lower gold prices on the main U.S. gold exchange, according to data released Friday by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.¬†¬† Hedge funds and other investment managers tracked by the commodity regulator boosted their bets on lower Comex-traded gold futures and options by 33%, to 65,617 contracts, during the week ended Tuesday. That is the most in weekly CFTC data going back to June 2006. For more on the next direction for gold, check out this epic post from All Star Charts, examining the full gold technical analysis. And see also: Two charts that explain why gold is falling &gt;
It's the last day of the Italian election today, and results will start coming in just after 9 AM ET. Paul Krugman devotes his column today to the broader significance of the election, explaining why so many people in Europe and in financial circles care about the result. Basically, he notes, it's the first real referendum on austerity. Italy has played everything by the book, dutifully cutting spending, raising taxes, and so forth, just as the ECB and Germany have demanded. And what has Italy gotten for it? A weaker economy and the prospect that radicals, clowns, and comedians could come to power. That's note a joke. The man who managed all of the austerity, Mario Monti, is currently running in fourth place behind anti-bank comedian Beppe Grillo. Says Krugman: Outside observers are terrified about Italyís election, and rightly so: even if the nightmare of a Berlusconi return to power fails to materialize, a strong showing by Mr. Berlusconi, Mr. Grillo, or both would destabilize not just Italy but Europe as a whole. But remember, Italy isnít unique: disreputable politicians are on the rise all across Southern Europe. And the reason this is happening is that respectable Europeans wonít admit that the policies they have imposed on debtors are a disastrous failure. If that doesnít change, the Italian election will be just a foretaste of the dangerous radicalization to come. Follow Business Insider all day for live coverage of the events. SEE ALSO: 3 things that could happen in Italy today that would rock the world &gt;
It was another HUGE night in Japan. Following news that new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was likely to name a fairly dovish name to head the bank of Japan. The pound fell and the Nikkei surged nearly 2.5%. Nikkei.com
Polls close in the hotly contested national election in just under 6 hours. The reason why the whole world is watching is that Italy is Europe's largest debt market, and a turn away from the current "reform" path would be seen as significantly destabilizing. There are worries that strong performances today by either Silvio Berlusconi or Beppe Grillo (the anti-bank populist comedian) will create chaos. We'll be covering the results LIVE all day. In the meantime, Italy's FTSE MIB index is up nearly 1%, and yields on the country's borrowing costs are falling nicely. Here's the stock market rally. FTSE MIB
