It shows how the sectors of energy, agriculture, livestock, industrial and precious metals in exchange-traded products funds have changed since the first of this year. The title of the report was also interesting: The Commodity Refiner. From an age of shortage to an era of enough? The paper‚Äôs forward starts out like this, and you just might find the whole report worth a read‚Ä¶ Spring is in the air and, right on schedule, the familiar swoon in commodities has arrived. But although the price action may be familiar, the causes are less so. For the past few years sovereign debt concerns and financial market jitters have been dominant price drivers, bulldozing their way indiscriminately through markets as diverse as gold, copper and oil with little care for the subtleties of supply or the nuances of demand trends. In contrast, the factors at work recently are much more commodity-specific: investors turning bearish on gold as the prospect of an easing in Fed liquidity injections beckons; disappointing Chinese growth bringing in to question the health of base metals demand; concerns that an unusually high level of refinery maintenance is resulting in a large surplus of crude oil. And the price response, with gold leading the fall, some base metals following but others less affected and energy markets dipping relatively modestly, was suitably differentiated. Certainly, as the above commentary indicates, outside of cyclical patterns, investment in commodities has not only been driven by supply issue perceptions, but by global banking practices. Note that this viewpoint of ‚Äúenough‚Äù, while some broken records like Jim Rogers may disagree, is congruent with the ongoing overall relaxed outlook about global agricultural commodities over the past several years here at Big Picture Agriculture. This stems from increased production in the BRIC nations, increased industrial production efficiency methods, and increasing mechanization of agriculture. In addition, were it not for sudden recent demand created by biofuels policies, we‚Äôd have severe price problems, or at least far less production incentive than we find ourselves with today. As the following graph demonstrates, agricultural investments are volatile, even ‚Äúwith a rising global population‚Äù and more ‚Äúmeat eaters." ¬†Ecowin, Barclay's Research Of concern, is always the energy sector, however. All other commodities in the top graph are impacted by energy costs. The Barclays forward has this important commentary and I always like to compare the dynamics of energy supply to similar dynamics going on in the Ags; think trucks lined up in Brazil to export corn and soy recently or the southeastern U.S. importing corn from Argentina for feed use instead of purchasing it from the U.S. cornbelt this year. The quote is not very reassuring. Spare capacity and inventory buffers are still relatively low in many markets and this at a time when geopolitical risks are becoming an ever more clear and present danger, especially to energy supplies from the Middle East. The most obvious friction point at present lies in the severe infrastructure deficits that are creating choke points and preventing the smooth flow of many commodities around the globe. A lack of pipelines, storage facilities and ports of the scale required to get new supplies to where they are most needed is at the heart of the huge increase in regional oil and gas price differentials and soaring physical premiums in base metals. Distribution is becoming the new battleground for commodities and is likely to remain one for some time to come (emphasis mine). The report makes this next analysis concerning energy/agriculture. Meanwhile, perceived ethical issues, and the changing regulatory environment have affected investors‚Äô attitudes towards agricultural-linked notes negatively, which have been extremely quiet since mid-2012 and have received merely $6mn so far this year. For energy-linked investments, 2012 saw a healthy performance, attracting $1,457mn (up 30.6% y/y), thanks to the upside risk for Brent crude oil. However, as market volatility decreases while the general outlook in early 2013 remains bearish, we expect fewer energy issuances in the coming months. As for weather, the big wild-card, I see increased resilience as seeds advance and as production continues to increase in more regions of the world, the downside being increased extreme weather events associated with climate change. Also, today‚Äôs biofuels mandates could be eliminated if weather caused steep supply shortages translating to high food prices, so they potentially provide an added layer of resilience to the Ag commodity and food price system ‚Äî assuming the political will exists to respond to shortage situations.
Earlier in the session Japan was significantly lower, but it's since inched back up a bit. One thing you might have missed is that USDJPY (dollar against the yen) is back below 98, as it's still failed to reach 100, and is now notably below it. Nikkei.com
sirenmedia / FlickrThis week is the annual shareholder meeting for Berkshire Hathaway, the gigantic conglomerate run by billionaire Warren Buffett. Buffett has a way of explaining complicated finance topics so that they're fun and understandable. Carleton English of Belus Capital Advisors points us to this gem of a quote from 2008 where he takes a jab at private equity. Someone had asked the Oracle of Omaha why people sell their companies to him instead of private equity firms.† This is the type of question that you might hear later this week.† Here's Buffett's response: ìYou can sell it to Berkshire, and weíll put it in the Metropolitan Museum; itíll have a wing all by itself; itíll be there forever. Or you can sell it to some porn shop operator, and heíll take the painting and heíll make the boobs a little bigger and heíll stick it up in the window, and some other guy will come along in a raincoat, and heíll buy it." According to Bloomberg, Buffett delivered this doozy during some Q&amp;A with a 300 executives in Toronto. He's basically explaining that there is more than one way for a company to get to a certain market value. Private equity often involves a lot of debt, a lot of cuts, and usually a lot of risk before a company is turned around and sold back on the market. Berkshire and Buffett, on the other hand, often take a more passive approach.† Typically, Buffett seeks out what he considers to be undervalued, yet well run companies.† And then he just waits for them to get to their intrinsic values. Anyways, we hope this weekend's events in Omaha yield some more great quotes.
JonesTradingMike O'Rourke of JonesTrading echoes something that our Matthew Boesler was saying earlier, that the next 3 days are going to be huge for the economy. In a note out this evening he writes: "The next 3 days will be pivotal for the markets."† There are two big reasons. One is the central bank activity, both the Fed and the ECB. The other is the huge onslaught of economic data coming up. The most important economic data of the month comes out over the next three days.† Tomorrow we have ADP Employment, Auto Sales for April and the ISM Manufacturing report.† They will be followed by the all-important jobs report on Friday.† Most of the regional Fed manufacturing indices have missed forecast and today the Milwaukee and Chicago PMIs posted sub-50 readings.† Todayís Chicago reading of 49 was the weakest since September 2009.† The Chicago PMI has a tendency to run stronger than the national ISM. That means there is a better than average chance that tomorrowís ISM will miss estimate of 50.6. Already the data out tonight is weak, notably Korean exports, which are a big bellweather for world trade.
Flick/SpAvAAiMahjongChina's National Bureau of Statistics just published its April manufacturing PMI report. The headline number fell to 50.6 from 50.9 in March. Economists were looking for a reading of 50.7. Any reading above 50 signals expansion. Here's a break down of the March and April reports: † Supplier delivery times †† Business Activity Expectation 51.1 65.5 50.8 59.3 Earlier this month, we got a preliminary reading of HSBC's unofficial PMI, which unexpectedly fell to 50.5 from 51.6 in March. †The final reading of this index will come out tomorrow.
Flickr/Telstar LogisticsThe first major economic report with complete April data is out and it's a miss. South Korean exports climbed by just 0.4% year-over-year.† Economists were looking for a gain of 2.0%. Economists across Wall Street dub South Korean exports as the global economic canary in the coal mine. Korean trade data†usually comes before the first trading session of the month in Asia, which makes it the first of the world's major economic indicators to be released. Because Korea's exports are heavily exposed to China and Japan ó the world's second and third largest economies ó it is considered to have strong predictive power. "As regards exports, recent growth data from China ñ the hub of Asian international trade ñ have not been great, and so we expect export values to remain relatively subdued," notes the economists at Societe Generale. "That said, given the steep appreciation of the won over the second half of last year, the trade performance has been impressive, supporting our view that notwithstanding the loud complaints from Korean politicians, the economy is dealing just fine with the stronger won. As ever, given the extraordinary timeliness of the Korean trade data, any signal from the release will be projected onto the whole of Asia." Here's a historical chart and some commentary from Goldman Sachs' Jim O'Neill: Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Flickr/Michael PatrickWe recently did a¬†head-to-head comparison¬†of the benefits of living in California versus those for Texas. California won by a hair.¬† The impetus for the piece was the burgeoning rivalry between the two states, which heated up after Texas Gov. Rick Perry ran a series of ads touting his state's friendlier business climate. But we wanted to narrow in a bit more on all the things California has to offer that Gov. Perry may have ignored.¬† To be clear, we have nothing against Texas ‚Äî some of us are¬†products of their finest schools.¬† We just think people need to be reminded that the Golden State still has a lot going for it.
Wikimedia CommonsFour centuries ago, a whole country went completely crazy for tulip bulbs. But why do we still talk about these flower-obsessed Dutch traders. As you'll read, the story of tulipmania involves many timeless issues like behavioral biases, malfunctioning markets, inequality, and basic economic concepts like supply and demand imbalances. Dutch tulips were the first speculative asset to see prices shoot through the roof, and then quickly crash. And of course they weren't the last. With the help of historian Anne Goldgar's 2007 "Tulipmania," Business Insider brings you this unusual and enlightening story. Editor's Note: Former Business Insider writer Rob Wile contributed to an earlier version of this feature.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. May Is The Fourth-Cruelest Month For The S&amp;P [Sam Stovall]¬† S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall says that while investors seem to be barreling over all speed bumps that recent weak data has thrown at them, May trading could finally trip them up, if history is any guide. Here's his breakdown of all-time monthly returns on the S&amp;P: Stovall/S&P Capital IQ Given this, we shouldn't have been surprised at April's run. Meanwhile May's average returns are eighth-worst, at just +0.21%. Don't Bet On Big Data To Predict Earthquakes Or Long Term Economic Trends [Nate Silver] In an interview with Forbes, New York Times data guru Nate Silver owns up to the limits of his powers (or rather the power of data). "...there are a lot of fields where analytics have not come very far. I discuss earthquake forecasting in my [recent] book¬†for instance, where people have been trying for centuries. We know something -- there are more earthquakes here in California than in New Jersey -- but the ability to anticipate a particular earthquake with any precision at a particular moment in time has not gone very well at all. Even economics -- when we try to do long-term economic forecasting, it has been pretty poor for the most part." The Markets Are An Accident Waiting To Happen ‚Äî So Wait It Out [Humble Student] Humble Student of the Markets contributor Cam Hui agrees with a recent analysis by John Hussman that the roof could instantly cave in on markets given global risks. But Hui disagrees on what should be done. "If return expectations for all asset classes are low, it makes sense to focus on capital preservation and to go long opportunistically. It's a long-term investment viewpoint, much like the sort adopted by pension fund committees and fiduciaries that I used to speak to in my previous life as an institutional money manager. I understand that point of view completely."¬† The Contraction Of U.S. Federal Spending Is Almost Without Precedent [Capital Economics] Initial Q1 GDP data missed expectations ‚Äî almost entirely the result of plummeting government spending. Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth puts that plunge in perspective. "The 7% decline in real government expenditure over the past couple of years is very unusual. Expenditure did decline by 11% in the 1950s after the Korean war ended, by 7% in the early 1970s after the Vietnam war ended, and by 2% in the early 1990s after the Cold war and first Gulf war ended. Nevertheless, that makes the current decline already the joint second biggest since the end of World War II, with the sequestration cuts still to take effect." There Will Likely Be Lots Of Gains To Be Made In Retail Stocks [Morgan Stanley] Stocks climb ever skyward. Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker says that almost always means strong economic data in 2H2013 ‚Äî and therefore lots of opportunity among retail stocks. "If [the economy] does [improve], the underlying strength of the private sector will likely shine through, potentially boding well for retailers. If it doesn‚Äôt, the accelerating consensus estimates for retailers will likely need to be reset substantially lower, leading to share price disappointment. Either way, retail is an industry where there will likely be lots of alpha."  
The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index, which tracks how various economic data releases come in relative to expectations, is now below zero. That means recent economic data releases have been disappointing relative to the market consensus. Just in the past week, we've seen some nasty surprises ñ flash PMI, durable goods orders, GDP, and Chicago PMI have all come in below consensus. Yet stocks keep moving higher, and it seems like lately "good news is bad news" (in that if the economy doesn't strengthen, continued monetary easing from the Federal Reserve should keep markets afloat). In a note out last night, Mike O'Rourke of Jones Trading wrote: The US equity market has given up even the appearance of caring about economic data.† Throughout Q1, as the S&amp;P 500 garnered an impressive 10% return, high hopes were pinned on a 3.5% GDP print, then expectations retrenched to 3% before the actual print of 2.5% emerged.† The chart below illustrates that the economy continues to trudge along at a 2% year over year GDP growth rate. Not to say that a single data point like the Dallas Fed Manufacturing index merits a market move, but it is surprising when the 3rd worst print since the recession is met by another push higher in Equities.† Few would describe earnings season as anything but a disappointment.† Obviously, the Central Bank Benevolence trade continues to dominate the tape. The chart below shows the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index and the S&amp;P 500. Clearly, the two are now headed in different directions. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Flickr/Tyler HowarthThis bull market run is just unrelenting. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,839, +21.0 pts, +0.1%S&amp;P 500: 1,597, +3.9 pts, +0.2%NASDAQ: 3,328, +21.7 pts, +0.6% And now the top stories:
Robert Johnson ‚Äî Business InsiderThe USGS just doubled the amount of oil it thinks can be recovered from North Dakota's Bakken formation.¬† According to its release, the agency now puts the figure at¬†7.38 billion barrels, compared with 3.65 in their 2008 estimate.  They also¬†tripled their gas estimates for the area ‚Äî to¬†6.7 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered, technically recoverable gas and gas liquids. The revisions are almost entirely the result of adding a new section, Three Forks, to the estimates. Anne-Berry Wade told us hydraulic fracturing ‚Äî fracking ‚Äî in that section has allowed geologists to up their estimates for what is technically recoverable.¬† Here's new Interior Secretary Sally Jewell's comment: These world-class formations contain even more energy resource potential than previously understood, which is important information as we continue to reduce our nation‚Äôs dependence on foreign sources of oil. We must develop our domestic energy resources armed with the best available science, and this unbiased, objective information will help private, nonprofit and government decision makers at all levels make informed decisions about the responsible development of these resources. Peak oil: still dead.
Milken InstituteKen Griffin, the head of the Chicago-based hedge fund Citadel, is not at all pleased with Ben Bernanke. After a morning of panels at the Milken Institute Global Conference, what stands out to me most is Griffin's take on the Fed's current policies. There's a lot of worry that the central bank's actions could be inflating asset bubbles. But that's not what has Griffin worried. Instead, he fears that the zero interest rate target and quantitative easing may be backfiring, causing businesses to reduce employment rather than adding jobs. According to Griffin, low interest rates have encouraged businesses to invest in technology that reduces the demand for human labor. Meanwhile, health care reforms have increased the cost of human capitalóso it's a double whammy. "As we've all learned over the years, if you reduce the cost of capital you increase your use of fixed assets and you take out jobs. Corporate America, seeing an ever increasing cost for its employee base and extraordinarily low interest rates, is taking every step it can possibly take to reduce employment, to build factories abroad and domestically to substitute technology and automated processes for people," Griffin said. That's pretty far from standard economic thinking, for sure. But it at least tells a coherent story about why the massive increase in the Fed's balance sheet hasn't been more effective and putting us on a healthier economic path. (For more from the Milken Conference, see Real Estate Moguls Seek Riches Overseas and Surfing the Markets with Mohamed El-Erian)
Flickr / dkshots We are about to get an epic deluge of economic releases from around the world over the next three days, and we should learn a ton about the current state of the global economy. It all starts tonight with South Korean exports at 8 PM ET. This data release is referred to as the "economic canary in the coal mine" because South Korea sends a lot of its exports to China, the health of which is critical to the global economy.  Following that is the official China manufacturing PMI (Purchasing Managers Index), out at 9 PM ET. All eyes will be on this release following a lackluster set of first-quarter economic data published a few weeks ago and the recent collapse in the commodity complex, which many ascribe to fears over Chinese growth. Economists expect the index to tick down to 50.7 from 50.9 in March. Any reading above 50 on the PMIs indicates expansion, so 50.7 would signal continued, but slowing growth in Chinese manufacturing. Overnight, we will also get the latest manufacturing PMI readings from Japan, Russia, Indonesia, Ireland, the Netherlands, the U.K., and Australia. Then, Wednesday morning, we get a ton of new data on the U.S. economy. In the U.S., there are two key releases on Thursday morning, both at 8:30 AM ET: It's definitely not over on Thursday. Arguably, the best is saved for last. Friday, at 8:30 AM ET, the U.S. releases its monthly nonfarm payrolls report. Economists estimate the U.S. economy created 148,000 nonfarm payrolls in April after creating only 88,000 in March. The unemployment rate is expected to stay unchanged at 7.6%. To round out the week, March factory orders data and ISM's non-manufacturing (services) index are released at 10 AM. Factory orders are expected to have contracted 3.0% in March after growing 3.0% in April. ISM's non-manufacturing index is expected to tick down to 54.0 from 54.4 in March. So get ready. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
Warner Bros.Jay Gatsby may have been an illegal bootlegger, but his wild parties, love for Daisy, and smooth talking ways are why he is one of the most beloved protagonists in literature. And with Gatsby's return to the big screen less than two weeks away, we began to wonder what the famous '20s character would be like if he was real and living today. Since Gatsby was a bootlegger, the modern Gatsby would also come by his fortune through underhanded means. Maybe he'd be dealing ecstasy, which can bring in a surprising income in NYC, or maybe a modern Gatsby would earn his dough from good old fashioned insider trading. But nevermind how a modern Gatsby would get his money. To know how he'd live today, we have to know how he'd spend his money.¬†
At 21 years old, NYU undergrad Scott Gamm is not your typical co-ed.¬† Since the ripe age of 17, Gamm has been an avid student of all things finance.¬† He launched a blog, HelpSaveMyDollars.com, soon after the recession took hold as a way to help people his age grow into conscious, responsible spenders and savers. "You know, my parents' finances were one of the main causes of their divorce, and right after that [happened], there was the recession," Gamm told Business Insider. "Those were two reminders within a few years of each other that finance is a serious topic and it's not something I want to leave up to trial and error." Gamm released his debut personal finance book, "More Money, Please:¬†The Financial Secrets You Never Learned in School,"¬†on Tuesday. We asked him to share a few tips that every 20-something should learn to master their finances early: 1. Ignore the minimum payments on credit cards.¬† The only way you should be using a credit card is by paying off the entire balance every month ‚Äì‚Äì no matter what your minimum balance says. By paying the minimum payment, you‚Äôll wind up leaving a balance on the card and your interest rate will kick in. Minimum payments are calculated to keep you in debt. Ignore the minimum and pay the entire balance, or at least as much of it as you can.2. Use credit cards for one or two small expenses. You're young and you're just starting to build up you credit history. So use credit as a useful tool to get there ‚Äì‚Äì not as a free pass for a fancy lifestyle. Do that by picking¬†one or two small expenses each month to charge on your credit card. And try to keep your spending under $100 per month. That‚Äôs at least a manageable amount of money to be able to pay off the bill in full. A good rule of thumb: Never spend more than you earn. 3. Prepaid cards are stupid. Don't you forget it. If you‚Äôre looking to build up a solid credit history, you won‚Äôt have any luck by signing up for a prepaid debit card. Why? Because none of the activity on a prepaid card is reported to the three credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax and TransUnion). Plus, you‚Äôre going to get slammed with fees on prepaid cards like monthly fees, dormancy fees and, get this, a fee just to load money onto the card ‚Äì‚Äì that‚Äôs the entire point of a prepaid card! 4. Stop paying bank fees. The days of free checking are disappearing. And unless you maintain the bank‚Äôs minimum balance requirement, which can be $1,000-$1,500, you‚Äôre throwing away $10-$12 per month. If you‚Äôve been charged this fee before, consider switching to an online bank or a credit union. You'll find there are either no or fewer fees to deal with.5. Do yourself a favor and unsubscribe from store emails. When you get an email from your favorite store letting you know they‚Äôre having a sale, this reminds you to head over to the store. If you hadn‚Äôt received that email, the store wouldn‚Äôt have even been on your mind. Unsubscribe. The same goes for those daily deal sites ‚Äì unless you‚Äôre in the market for something specific (a trip to Europe, new shoes or a restaurant deal), being reminded of random flash sales is a sure-fire way to start spending beyond control.6. Negotiate a higher salary. Most of us are too scared to ask for a higher salary. But if you don't, you‚Äôre leaving money on the table. Negotiating on your first job out of college might be a tad risky, but don‚Äôt feel afraid to ask for more money on future job offers. Plus, negotiating reflects persistence and that ‚Äústop at nothing‚Äù attitude that employers expect. Do some research in your field to find out what someone at your level is earning, so you'll know whether to ask for more during the hiring process.7. Face it ‚Äì‚Äì 401(k)s aren‚Äôt that into you. If your employer contributes to your 401(k) (a retirement account that lets you automatically contribute a portion of each paycheck), then you should contribute, too ‚Äì up to the employer‚Äôs match. If you don't, you're basically throwing away free money. If they don‚Äôt contribute anything, you might be better off going a different route. The fees are exorbitant (employers hire large asset managers to take care of the employee‚Äôs 401(k) accounts, and that isn‚Äôt free). In fact, a survey last year from Demos showed that on average, a couple could spend $155,000 in 401(k) fees over a lifetime. Instead, take ten minutes and open up a Roth IRA online from a discount brokerage firm. This is an account where you contribute money that you‚Äôve already paid taxes on and your money will grow tax-free. Who knows where tax rates are headed (probably up), so get the taxes over with now.
Fox Business NewsFox Business Network's senior correspondent is featured in the New York Times' Diner's Journal. The Wall Street reporter dishes on how he likes his meatballs and martinis.¬† From the NYTimes:¬† How to make great meatballs¬†‚ÄúListen, I think you need good Italian bread. And you need breadcrumbs. And I think you put a little onion in it. And if you really want to kick it up, put milk, whole milk, with the bread, to soften the bread up. And here‚Äôs the thing: don‚Äôt overseason. People mess it up ‚Äî I‚Äôve noticed this with non-Italians making meatballs: too much oregano, way too much salt, and too much garlic. Those three things. Italian is, like, less. Italians from Italy use very little garlic.‚Äù We'll keep that in mind.¬† Read the whole thing here &gt;
There comes a time in a Wall Streeter's life when he or she must make a decision about how to advance their career. For many that means deciding whether to head to Business School for a Masters in Business Administration, or to take the Chartered Financial Analyst exams ó the CFA. These are two completely different ways of skinning a cat, and there are pros and cons to each. People get MBAs in specific fields ó finance, operations, etc. ó but they tend to come out of school with broad-based knowledge and a wider variety of opportunities open to them. A CFA certification is more niche. CFA charterholders are investment professionals, and the skills they pick up are super analytical. They tend to stay on Wall Street and head to a hedge fund, private equity firm, or bulge bracket bank. A full time MBA program generally consists of two expensive years surrounded by one's peers studying various aspects of business from management, to operations, and finance. The CFA, on the other hand, is a grueling, individual journey. There are three levels, and it can take years to get through all of them. You'll have to decide what matters to you. Cost Taking the CFA is much cheaper than getting your MBA. Each test costs between $1,000 and $1,500 depending on how early you register (the earlier, the cheaper). That cost includes a prep book, but some people elect to take a class as well, which will cost you extra, of course. So without a test prep class, you're looking at a $2,500 bill. Another thing to factor in to that cost is the fact that most people fail at least one of the three CFA tests and have to decide whether or not they want to retake it and continue on track. How many people fail? Only 37% of test takers passed December 2012's CFA Level I exam.† In June 2012, 38% passed Level I, 42% passed Level II and 52% passed Level III. As for Business School, it's no secret that Wall Streeters aim to get into the best programs in the world ó we're talking Wharton, Columbia, Harvard, Stanford, Yale. Some employers will help foot the bill for these studies, but it's still a very expensive for full-timers. Harvard Business School estimates that the year 2014 will cost $87,200 for a single person, and $121,200 for someone with a family. Columbia estimated the Class of 2013's budget at $89,243. Time The CFA Institute recommends that you study for 300 hours before you take one of their tests ó it's a big commitment, especially since CFA candidates rarely quit their jobs. All exams are offered in June, and Level I is offered in December. That means that at a grueling pace you could finish a year and a half. Since most people fail at least one test, it usually takes longer ó between 2.5 and 3 years. Most Business School programs are two year programs. If you're doing it part time, it could be longer. Job Prospects To get a better idea of where an MBA or a CFA can take you, Business Insider contacted some Wall Street recruiters working at ground zero. We're told that while the CFA Institute is growing its network, Business School is still better for those who want to find new opportunities and widen their prospects. "An MBA can take you into all sorts of industries," said Skiddy von Stade, CEO of financial recruiting firm OneWire. "A CFA is for a stock picker that really wants to be an analyst. The CFA carries a lot of weight with asset managers. It's an analytically driven test." Not only are the skills CFA charterholders posses more niche than those you get from MBA training, but they're also more expensive for employers. That's why, according to Jesse Marrus, founder of job placement firm StreetID, Wall Street may be showing a temporary preference. "We're seeing more demand for MBAs," said Marrus. "Mostly I see it as a sign of the times as people cut costs. CFAs are more seasoned candidates... you have to pay them more than MBAs. That's more sell-side, though. Buy-side seems more interested in CFAs if they can get them." So if you know you want to be an analyst, or work at a hedge fund, you may want to go CFA on this one. If you want to be able to dip into a wider range of fields in finance, a MBA may be better for you. Compensation It's important to know what, on average, holders of these certifications/degrees make. To get that info, Business Insider contacted compensation research firm PayScale for the numbers. Here's the break down (YE means years of experience): PayScale As you can see, people that are only CFA charterholders tend to make $27,000 more than people that only have a MBA, and $13,000 more than people that only have a MBA in Finance. If you really want to kill it though, get both. "The combination is phenomenal," said von Stade. "It's like a 1-2 punch." Getting both probably feels like one too. What you should think about Ultimately, whether or not you get your MBA or take the CFA depends on what you want to do. If you want to network and take a broad set of skills to the business world, consider taking the expensive leap into Business School. However, if you know that you want to be an analyst, go for the CFA. You can take those skills to say, Disney's corporate development department, but for the most part this test is for Wall Street lifers. And they'll get compensated handsomely for it.
Don SynstelienAccording to both Bloomberg and WSJ, Apple is raising a total of $17 billion in the largest ever non-financial corporate bond offering in history. By all accounts, the offering is massively oversubscribed, as the demand for safe investible paper is enormous. According to Bloomberg, the company is borrowing at 10-years at a rate that's 75 basis points above US Treasuries. The US 10-year yields just under 1.7%, so Apple will be borrowing at around 2.4%. For more on why demand is so huge, see here &gt;
Since goldís bull run began a decade ago, many people have asked me whether the metal was in a bubble, despite the fact that there were many drivers in place for gold. Hereís another comparison that answers this classic question. Research firm Commerzbankís strategists recently compared the price of gold starting in 2002 to the price of Brent crude oil starting in 1998 and the NASDAQ Composite from 1990. Immediately following each indexís record highs, oil and tech stocks declined sharply. Within nine months, tech stocks had halved in price, while it took only three months for oil to lose half its price, says Commerzbank. You can see the dramatic rise and fall of each index on the chart below. In contrast to oil and tech, gold has been level-headed over the past decade. Nearly 20 months after its peak, gold has fallen only about 25 percent, and its path remains in line with Brent and the NASDAQ after their bubbles burst. In Commerzbankís opinion, a comparison between the current situation in gold and the former bubbles is superfluous at best. Download a copy of Whatís Driving Gold now. The Nasdaq Composite Index is a capitalization-weighted index of all Nasdaq National Market and SmallCap stocks.
The most recent episode of CBS's crime drama "Person Of Interest" featured a fictitious Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund VAC Capital being investigation for insider trading by the SEC, New York Post's Kaja Whitehouse pointed out.† According to a clip, the show's plot focuses on a hedge fund trader, Brandon Boyd, who dumped a pharmaceutical company's stock based on a tip about a failed drug trial from a doctor.† The clip also shows a screencap of VAC's website that says the hedge fund, which is based in Stamford and has $13.5 million AUM, was founded in 1990 by Vincent Cochran. † This sounds strikingly similar to Steve Cohen's Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital. Back in November, former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was charged with an†insider trading scheme involving information in pharmaceutical companies. According to the complaint, prosecutors allege Martoma received confidential negative drug trial information from a doctor. †The fund then dumped the stocks and avoided $276 million in losses, the complaint said. † SAC recently agreed to pay a record $602 million to settle the charges with the SEC. †Martoma has pleaded not guilty.†Cohen has not been accused of any wrongdoing. † Check out the "Person Of Interest" clip below:† 
REUTERS/Mike StoneOne of the hottest trades in the world is shorting the yen. The idea is that the new government is eager to stimulate (both through fiscal and monetary policy) and that the yen will weaken. It's been a good bet since last autumn. Last week on CNBC Mark Cuban said that he's taking on the bet in a big way. He said: ...in early December, I went and took every penny of debt that I had ñ with the Mavericks, and personal debt, and everything ñ and converted it to a yen loan, when I think [the yen] was in the mid 80s [against the dollar]. So, I've been really happy with it. The key thing to bear in mind is that borrowing in a given currency is like shorting it, because you win if it goes down (because then you have less that you have to pay back). If the currency strengthens, then you lose money. So we followed up with Cuban to ask him more about his big bet, and why. Via email he simply explained the logic: The Central Bank of Japan wants to create inflation and push the value of the yen down. Given what is at stake for them, I thought they would be able to at least have some directional success,which would provide me a return. In addition the actual interest rate on the note was lower than what I could borrow in dollars. We asked him, in a followup, how long he will hold onto the "trade," and whether he's done something like that before. He writes: Yes, I would anticipate keeping it in Yen until/unless there is a fundamental change in the yen.††† And this is the first time I have borrowed in a foreign currency, but not my first big play . Right after the financial meltdown I went huge in Australian Debt. I told my wife if this went against me we were moving to Australia, but it worked.† It was 85 I believe and now its 103 or so. But most likely I will just hold till maturity of the debt and convert. If there is a fundamental change, I can hedge, which I can do with the Yen as well. †† I don't want to sound like a currency expert. I'm not. I don;t trade in and out of currencies at all. I do believe that there is a ton of unquantifiable risk that is introduced by stock exchanges and dark pools that doesn't exist with currencies.
BloombergTVBillionaire private equity tycoon Steve Schwarzman is doing something really patriotic. Today, he announced that Blackstone Group will hire 50,000 military veterans. These hires will be made within Blackstone's portfolio of companies over the next five years, the firm said in a release. ¬† Here's the full press release:¬† Blackstone (NYSE:BX) today announced it has partnered with The White House to support veterans and military families. ¬†Led by First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden, ‚ÄúJoining Forces‚Äù is a national initiative to encourage private sector hiring of America‚Äôs veterans. Blackstone plans to hire 50,000 veterans across its portfolio of companies over the next five years.¬† ‚ÄúVeterans embody many of the skills, talents and personal attributes we look for in employees. They have high integrity; they are collaborative, hardworking and they are able to adapt to dynamic situations,‚Äù said Blackstone Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder Steve Schwarzman. ‚ÄúVeterans are reliable, motivated and trustworthy employees ‚Äì the type of people that will help Blackstone‚Äôs portfolio companies succeed and grow. We are proud to partner with the President and Mrs. Obama, Vice President and Dr. Biden to do our part to help the men and women who have served our country develop successful careers following their military service.‚Äù¬† Blackstone also plans to put in place support structures, including a management trainee program, which will help veterans transition into their new private sector careers. Steve Schwarzman added, ‚ÄúTraining and mentoring can help cultivate skills and ease the transition to civilian life.¬† We want to help veterans build life-sustaining careers after their service to this country has ended.‚Äù [Hat Tip: Dan Primack]
Finance giant Leon Black spoke at the "New Directions in Private Equity" talk at the ongoing Milken Institute Global Conference. Steve Case, the founder of AOL, tweeted this bearish quote from Black: "Market is pricey...great time to sell...so we're selling everything that's not nailed down" Apollo's Leon Black #2013GC @milkeninstitute

APValleywag's Nitasha Tiku reports former U.S. forces commander David Petraeus has been talking to private equity firms about joining their ranks. From Tiku: He has been making the rounds at a number of New York-based venture capital and private equity firms and one very knowledgeable source said Petraeus is slated to announce a relationship shortly. The source wouldn't name the firm, but someone familiar with the deal pointed us toward the private equity sector and¬†KKR &amp; Co¬†in particular. Petraeus has also spoken with the¬†Carlyle Group. After serving as lead officer in Iraq and then Afghanistan, Petraeus worked as CIA director for a little over a year. He resigned in November over an extramarital affair. Tiku says a formal announcement will be coming "shortly." Read the full story at Valleywag &gt;
There are certain things we have gotten used to counting on each spring: the season changes and the weather warms, baseball games bring fans to the stadiums, the economy weakens, and investors ‚Äúsell in May and go away.‚Äù The old Wall Street adage ‚Äúsell in May and go away‚Äù refers to the seasonal tendency of stocks‚Äô performance to weaken in the spring until the fall. In recent years, this spring slide in the stock market was driven by the arrival of a spring soft spot in the economy. This soft spot has emerged again‚Äîfor the fourth year in a row. Will the stock market react as it has in the past? We think so. The selling effect actually began in April of each of the past three years rather than waiting until May. In early 2010, 2011, and 2012, run-ups in the stock market, similar to this year, pushed stocks up about 10% for the year as April began. Specifically, on April 23, 2010, April 29, 2011, and April 2, 2012, the S&amp;P 500 made peaks that were followed by 10‚Äì19% losses that were not recouped for more than five months. In the United States, the first quarter of this year presented a modest bounce back from the fourth quarter's flat economic performance.¬† However, the emerging trend in economic data both here and abroad suggests that the economy may once again be entering a soft spot as it did in the spring of each of the last three years: Employment ‚Äì Job growth in March was very disappointing. This week‚Äôs April employment report may show that even for those with jobs, hours worked are shrinking in response to the sequester. Manufacturing ‚Äì Durable goods orders were weaker than expected in March 2013. The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) Manufacturing Index for March 2013 dropped to its lowest level since December 2012, and the flash report for April 2013 came in below expectations. Retail sales ‚Äì Retail sales fell in March 2013 and continue to decelerate on a year-over-year basis. Foreign demand ‚Äì The Eurozone recession is now well over a year old and is deepening and infecting the core northern countries like Germany and France. China‚Äôs recent gross domestic product (GDP) for the first quarter of 2013 came in below expectations, as the pace of growth slowed from the fourth quarter of 2012, despite concerns of an overheated property market. Corporate earnings ‚Äì The earnings reporting season for the first quarter of 2013 has revealed that S&amp;P 500 companies are mildly exceeding low estimates of 1‚Äì2% earnings per share growth through austerity (cost cutting), not with growth. Most companies are missing revenue growth expectations of just 1% year over year. A good way to see this spring spot soft is by taking a look at the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index [Figure 1], which measures how economic data fares compared with economists‚Äô expectations and has marked the spring peaks in both economic and market momentum in recent years. The developing soft spot again suggests expectations may have become too high. The big swings in this index typically have either led or coincided with major moves in the stock market. Figure 1: Another Soft Spot Emerging Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for Major Economies LPL Financial Bloomberg Data While there are many similarities to the past few years‚Äô soft spots, as you can see in Figure 1, a difference that we noted in our spring slide indicators we published a month ago in the Weekly Market Commentary titled: 10 Indicators to Watch for a Spring Slide in the Stock Market, is that in 2010, 2011, and 2012, the soft spot materialized near the end of the Federal Reserve‚Äôs (Fed) bond-buying programs: QE1, QE2, and Operation Twist.¬†These Fed programs were later brought back or extended and the economy began to improve. This year, however, the current quantitative easing (QE) program is not expected to taper off until late this year at the earliest. While we note with a green flag that this is a positive for the economy and markets compared with prior years, a caveat is that the economy is slowing down even while QE continues unabated. If the market is looking for a boost to the pace of bond purchases, it may be disappointed. While not impossible, it would be very difficult for the Fed to expand QE beyond the current pace. Side bar: A month ago, we provided our list of the 10 indicators that seemed to precede the 10‚Äì19% stock market declines in 2010, 2011, and 2012. An update of these indicators reveal mixed signs of a potential spring slide in the stock market this year, suggesting the potential for a decline that may not be as severe as the 10‚Äì19% experienced in each of the past three years.¬† Fed stimulus Energy prices Initial jobless claims Inflation expectations Yield curve  LPL Financial Current Conditions Index Economic surprises Consumer confidence Earnings revisions The VIX The bond market has reflected the soft spot with a decline in yields that began in mid-March 2013, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury having fallen from 2.06% to 1.66%. The commodities market, as measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) as of 4/29/13, has also reacted to the slower growth trajectory with a sharp decline in prices, with copper down 8% and oil down 9% since March 27, 2013. Next, we will be watching closely if stocks join the other market and succumb to the soft spot as they have in the past.
Here at Business Insider, we're trying to let them know a little something about how real it is, and hand out some advice. This nugget comes from Anthony Scaramucci, a managing partner at SkyBridge Capital, an asset management firm with $7.1 billion under management. "The Mooch" as he's known, has admitted that he may not have been the wisest young banker when he started at Goldman Sachs ‚Äî he played "chicken" with his Series 7 exam, for example. But he survived, and with a clear idea of what he wishes he'd known then (which is key). "I wish I had read Andrew Carnegie's autobiography and not waited until my 25th year on Wall Street," he told Business Insider. Carnegie "understood human nature and tried to make a positive lasting impact." That's not all. Carnegie, in case you're not familiar, came from nothing. When he was a young boy in Scotland during the 1840s, he and his family would go to bed early to forget how hungry they were. By the 1870s, he'd immigrated to the United States and made Carnegie Steel into a powerhouse company of the Industrial Revolution. The rest is great American history. It's an inspiring rags to richest story. And perhaps Scaramucci relates, in part, because of what he was wearing during his first interview at Goldman Sachs. "I was wearing polyester everything," said Scaramucci. "Black polyester suit, a thin black Guido tie, a white on white polyester shirt, if you know what that means, and narrow Capezio cockroach killer shoes. My interviewer took me aside and told me,'You are the worst dressed kid I've met at this school...' I was mortified because I thought I looked fantastic!"
Are they aware that much of inflation‚Äôs recent improvement (IMHO) is attributable to health care costs? That‚Äôs right: The PCED medical care inflation rate was down to 1.7% in March, the lowest since April 1998. There have been significant drops in inflation rates for drugs and physician fees. Does the Fed want to see higher inflation rates in the health care industry so that people will rush to buy medical care goods and services before their prices go up? Rent inflation has rebounded during the current economic recovery, but now shows signs of peaking. The CPI and PCED data are nearly identical and show that rent of shelter is up 2.2% y/y. It was actually falling during 2010. It accounts for 17% of the core PCED and 42% of the core CPI. Do Fed officials really want still higher rent inflation? Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Low Maintenance Bull. (1) A couple of simple wishes. (2) What‚Äôs charging up the bulls? (3) Hilsenrath says it all. (4) Disinflation making a comeback. (5) Why do they want more inflation? (6) Medical care inflation falling led by drugs and doctors. (7) Rent inflation peaking? (8) Hooray for Italy. (9) ECB set to ease. (10). No bank runs in euro zone money data. (11) Consumers still spending. (12) Focusing on fun-related Consumer Discretionary stocks. (More for subscribers.)
Apple is in the process of floating the largest-ever non-financial corporate bond offerings, as it raises somewhere around $15 billion in order to fund dividends and buybacks. According to reports (and confirmed by a source we spoke to) demand for the bonds is insane. Demand is far outstripping supply. How come? It's not because people are incredibly bullish on Apple, or think the company is going to do all that well. It's because the company's balance sheet is incredibly safe (it's got a huge cash pile and it's still raking in tons of cash each quarter), and there's a shortage of safe, investible debt out there. That's right. Despite what you've heard about a world drowning in debt, there's actually a safe asset shortage, as the issuance of investible securities is down dramatically from before the crisis. This chart from Citi (via Cullen Roche) shows how total issuance of investible assets (red line) is very low, with financial bond all but disappearing, non-financial bonds remaining minimal, share issuance non-existent, and Central Banks hoovering up a lot of government debt. Citi So given the huge shortage of safe assets out there, it's no wonder that people are going insane for Apple paper.
Photo courtesy of Singapore Changi AirportCongress's¬†solution to flight delays caused by sequester-mandated budget cuts is going to cause pain in the long run. To avoid further furloughing air traffic controllers, the FAA will be allowed to draw on funds that had been set aside to improve the nation's airports. American airports aren't great to begin with, and now they won't be getting much better. To give American travelers a look at what they're missing, we've put together a list of the world's best airports, based on the 2013 World Airport Awards, announced this month by leading airline reviewer Skytrax. The awards, which include categories for best terminal, shopping, security, cleanliness, dining, and more, are determined by public opinion. More than 12 million people responded to this year's survey. As President Obama noted in a press conference Tuesday, the highest ranked U.S. airport is Cincinnati at #30. Not very impressive.
Wikimedia CommonsIain Duncan Smith, the UK's Work and Pensions Secretary, has reportedly been butting heads with the British civil service in his efforts to reform the country's large benefits system for a new austerity-led economy. It hasn't always been polite. A column published today in the Times of London revealed that when Duncan Smith heard a member of his staff being "berated" by a member of the Treasury, he grabbed the phone and shouted: "If you ever speak to my officials like that again Iíll bite your balls off and send them to you in a box.î The controversy seems to surround a key part of his benefits plan ó a pilot scheme called "Universal Credit" launched this week, which aims to use higher standards and more accurate data to ensure benefits payments only go to those that really need it. Some people at the Treasury, however, were apparently†stalling in hopes of killing off the plan ó part of the UK's cilvil service's "†institutional resistance to reform", the Times writes. In particular, complicated technical aspects to the plan may have led to the civil service dragging their feet. The Daily Mail reports that the comment is believed to have come back in 2010, though sources said that Duncan Smith did not say "bite". Duncan Smith has been a regular feature in the British press recently, after his claim that he could live on £53 ($80.60) a week led to widespread criticism and an online petition demanding he actually do it.
"Wind extinguishes a candle and energizes a fire." The first line in "Antifragile" by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. There is something about a book you read on a trip that stays with you. Probably because you are mentally and physically in flux, shifting, and the passages anchor you to a fixed point while at the same time making a deeper etch on your brain than that book you are picking up in bed instead of flipping on Letterman. On my trip across the country last summer -- having fled the overstuffed core of the Big Apple and an MSNBC news desk for a life of promoting kale, veterans, and kale-growing veterans -- I carried what I fervently believe to be a very important book in at least the past quarter century, Nassim Nicholas Taleb's "Antifragile." What's it about? Nassim says it best, "Some things benefit from shocks; they thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stressors and love adventure, risk, and uncertainty. Yet, in spite of the ubiquity of the phenomenon, there is no word for the exact opposite of fragile. Let us call it antifragile. Antifragility is beyond resilience or robustness. The resilient resists shocks and stays the same; the antifragile gets better." Everyone, from so-called risk management experts to bankers to boxers, are all repackaging and spitting out his ideas and, as a result, ideas like measured harm and exposure to potential danger (in the form of Taleb's "stressors") are infiltrating a wide variety of dialogue. My strongest criticism of Taleb -- mainly that his witty and charmingly arrogant prose makes the pursuit of measured harm and casting away of safe shores seem so important that one is tempted to forget that there will be harm in seeking measured harm. Much like reading the clear, gracefully lucid passages in "A River Runs Through It" has led to immeasurable amounts of swearing and tangled fly lines, "Antifragile" weaves a miraculously simple line of reasoning that is almost too good for the reader's good. Real creativity and progress only happen in that sweet spot that is outside of the comfort zone yet not so deep in that we are paralyzed by fear. While the Harvard Business Review likes to publish articles about it as much as financial journalists love to write about it, the reality of moving into this spot is frightening and booby-trapped with snares of doubt and uncertainty. That I read this book as I was shifting from a stressful, albeit incredibly rewarding lifestyle in Manhattan which had worn in and settled around me like an old baseball glove and intentionally cast myself into unfamiliar acreage (literally, three of them here on the farm) only served to deepen my appreciation of Antifragility. It provided no advice, nor was it a roadmap for this journey. Taleb doesn't provide answers, but his questions felt familiar and asking them myself and finding my own answers does keep me sane on some long, dark nights in the west. And for all of this what have I learned? Little so far. The wave hasn't even crested yet and already it has been a wild ride, albeit with little time for real reflection. And anyway, a wise man once said that nobody knows the winners of the most important games until years after they are played. I have joined a collaborative game and every player affects the variables. We are small pieces in a large puzzle, none of us sure of exactly where we fit, tumbling as we are through this adventure, and pulled by something that none of us quite understands. It is a blazingly brilliant trip -- but it is also sleepless nights on an upset stomach. Two things: I'm not whining about my new scars and I'm not preaching to you about the need to get outside your comfort zone. My failures and successes have been of my own doing -- except those successes that I owe to the team around me -- and I wouldn't wish the difficulty on an enemy or give away the joy at gunpoint. This is just a view from where I'm sitting and, most of the time, I'm enjoying it. I will leave you with the words of a man I suspect Nassim would appreciate. Lucius Annaeus Seneca, a man who should pop into every mind that conjures the phrase "skin in the game." "If anyone says that the best life of all is to sail the sea, and then adds that I must not sail upon a sea where shipwrecks are a common occurrence and there are often sudden storms that sweep the helmsman in an adverse direction, I conclude that this man, although he lauds navigation, really forbids me to launch my ship." Onward and Upward! Dylan Read more posts on The Huffington Post ª
When people are feeling good about the economy, you might expect the more economically sensitive (i.e. cyclical) stocks to perform a whole lot better than the non-cyclical stocks. Indeed, some stock market skeptics have noted that non-cyclical, or defensive, stocks have actually been outperformers during this rally.¬† And as such, they warn something is amiss and that the market is inherently unstable. But stock market veteran Lazslo Birinyi concludes that these worries are misplaced.¬† He took a close look at the historical data. "More than a few have grumbled (including us) over the fact that the much thought of defensive sectors (health care, consumer staples and utilities) have been the leaders this year," he wrote in his blog today. "But contrary to the current thinking it is not unusual for a defensive sector to be one of the three top performing sectors in an up market." He provides a table and some commentary: As shown below, there have been 26 years since 1982 where the S&amp;P 500 was positive.¬† In twelve of those years, health care was one of the three best performing sectors, while consumer staples was in the top three ten times.¬† Utilities have only been best six times, but it should not surprise anyone that in a low interest environment a sector with a 3.7% yield is one of the best performing. Myth debunked. Ticker Sense
APLast week, when Apple reported earnings it said it was going to go into debt, and sell bonds. It's the first time the company is going into debt since 1996. The proceeds of the bonds will be used to fund dividends and stock buybacks. The company has tons of cash, as everyone knows, but it's parked overseas, and to repatriate it would cause the company a tax hit. So it makes sense to borrow for dividends and buybacks, rather than to use its existing cash. Anyway, the offering is going to be absolutely gigantic. Reports vary, but it seems likely that this will be the largest non-financial orporate bond offering in histoory. Different reporters have different numbers. We're hearing #Apple bond size to be between $10bn to $15bn - at top end would be the biggest US corporate bond of all time Apple debt sale on track to be the largest ever for a non-financial; likely to total $15B - $18B. - source $AAPL CNBC's Kayla Tausche reported that the order book could be as big as $40 billion, meaning that the company has received at least $40 billion worth of bids for the debt. One trader we spoke to said: "Hearing AAPL deal already 2x + over subscribed." He followed that up with: "hearing $40Bn in the book now AAPL.† $15-$20bln deal expected." Good news. Apple finally has a hit on its hands.
Peter Crisp, a former managing partner at venture firm Venrock Associates, was one of the first investors to take a chance on Steve Jobs before he was Steve Jobs back in 1979. Seems like a great idea now, but hindsight is 20/20. At that time, Crisp was taking a risk. He tells his story to OneWire, an online recruitment platform that connects leading employers and finance professionals. The company recently launched an awesome video series featuring¬†leading executives, both on and off Wall Street called Open Door. Crisp's candid interview is the latest installment.  Before you check it out below, here's a rundown of what you'll see from OneWire: Can't imagine a world without Apple? Apple as we know it today may not have existed without the initial support of Venrock Associates, the venture capital arm of the Rockefeller family. In the latest installment of Open Door, an exclusive new interview series featuring leading executives, Peter Crisp, Founder and Managing Partner of Venrock, discusses how he and his colleagues decided to back Apple at its genesis. Crisp recalls, ‚Äú[The Apple team] came to New York. They arrived at the 56 th floor of 30 Rockefeller Plaza, and they asked the receptionist‚Ä¶where the men‚Äôs room was, because they were wearing their dungarees. And they came out about five minutes later with suits that they‚Äôd bought to come to New York to present to us.‚Äù Crisp goes on to divulge how he and his colleagues at Venrock decided to support Apple based mostly on gut feeling. ‚Äú‚Ä¶We talked to them‚Äîwe had nothing to go on, other than knowing that they were honest and smart. So we adjourned after about an hour and a half of talking to them‚Äîwent out into the corridor‚Ä¶we looked at each other, shrugged our shoulders and said, let‚Äôs do it. So we ended up buying ten percent of [Apple] in 1979 for $300,000.‚Äù Crisp, a pioneer in the venture capital space, also recalls what it was like to work directly with the Rockefeller family and recounts his long, eventful career in venture capital investing. The interview is conducted by Skiddy von Stade, CEO of OneWire. Peter Crisp‚Äôs interview is the most recent in the Open Door series, but there are plenty more exciting names to come, including Glenn Hutchins, co-founder of Silver Lake Partners and Edith Hunt, Chief Diversity Officer and former Head of Talent Management at Goldman Sachs. Check out Peter Crisp‚Äôs video below or visit OneWire to watch the Open Door series. [video] 
Morgan Stanley just published a massive report entitled "U.S. Manufacturing Renaissance: Is It A Masterpiece Or A (Head) Fake?" There's a lot in this collaborative piece, and we've covered some of their points ó the marginal effect of lower energy prices, the lack of jobs ó elsewhere.† Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist, pointed to an interesting chart: capacity utilization, or the amount of manufacturing production that is being done versus what could be done. His basic argument is that capacity utilization is still low.† So while we could see some manufacturing come back to the U.S., we shouldn't expect a big boost in employment or capital expenditures.† Rather, our existing capacity will just absorb it. Here are Parker's comments: Many C-level executives, economists, and investors have been mentioning for some time that one of the keys to a US economic recovery is capital spending. If a chunk of the over $1.5 trillion dollars in cash on US companiesí balance sheets can be confidently spent on factories that employ American workers than make stuff the world needs, that would be an unbridled incremental positive relative to the last couple of years. Yet, when we look across the biggest US companies, we see evidence that a big surge in capital spending is unlikely in the current environment and that an industrial ìrenaissanceî could be more muted than many expect. Why? Manufacturing Capacity Utilization  Manufacturing capacity utilization has risen sharply since the last recession but is still below both the long-term average and the highs of previous expansions. In fact, 15 out of 22 manufacturing industries have capacity utilization today below their long-term average. Recent economic data have begun to moderate, and to us, it is far from obvious that material capital spending is required or even likely in the near term. And here's the chart: Morgan Stanley Yes, it's recovered since the recession, but the trend is still very much downward. Looks closer to (head) fake.
This year, three Columbia Business School students took home $100,000 from Bill Ackman's hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital, for their long thesis on rental car company, Hertz. They were the winners of the Pershing Square Challenge, an investment thesis contest Ackman has held since 2008. And it just so happens that two of the winners of Ackman's contest are members of SumZero, an online community for buy-side investors. They were kind enough to share the winning slide deck with Business Insider. Here's the quick thesis from SumZero: We recommend investors buy Hertz shares with a 12-month target share price of $36, which represents ~52% upside to the current share price. There are four main points to our investment thesis: 1) The market significantly underestimates the impact of Hertz's recent merger with Dollar Thrifty on car rental pricing; 2) The market underestimates the levers Hertz can pull to counter the negative impact of falling used car prices; 3) Hertz has strong growth opportunities in the U.S. and will realize significant revenue and cost synergies through its acquisition of Dollar Thrifty; and 4) A divestiture of the non-core Equipment Rental segment would unlock substantial value by deleveraging the balance sheet.
Wishful thinking now runs so thick and deep across the USA that our hopes for a credible future are being drowned in a tidal wave of yellow smiley-face stories recklessly issued by institutions that ought to know better. A case in point is the Charles C. Mann's tragically dumb cover story in the current Atlantic magazine -- "We Will Never Run Out of Oil"¬†* -- setting out in great detail the entire panoply of techno-narcissistic "solutions" to our energy predicament. Another case in point was senior financial writer Joe Nocera's moronic op-ed in last week's New York Times beating the drum for American "energy independence." You could call these two examples mendacious if it weren't so predictable that a desperate society would do everything possible to defend its sunk costs, including the making up of fairy tales to justify its wishes. Instead, they're merely tragic because the zeitgeist now requires once-honorable forums of a free press to indulge in self-esteem building rather than truth-telling. It also represents a culmination of the political correctness disease that has terminally disabled the professional thinking class for the last three decades, since this feel-good propaganda comes from the supposedly progressive organs of the media -- and, of course, the cornucopian view has been a staple of the idiot right wing media forever. We have become a nation incapable of thinking, or at least of constructing a consensus that jibes with reality. In not a very few years, the American public will be so disappointed and demoralized by broken promises like these that they will turn the nation upside down and inside out, probably with violence and bloodshed. Charles Mann's Atlantic article begins by cheerleading for the mining of methane hydrates from the ocean floor. These are natural gas molecules trapped in ice formations in the muck around the continental shelves. Mann spotlights the efforts of a Japanese research ship conducting tests. Guess what: the Japanese are engaging in this because they have absolutely no fossil fuels of their own, and a failing consensus about nuclear power, and they are on a course to become the first advanced industrial nation to be forced to return to a medieval economy. That is, they are the most desperate among the desperate. You could say they've got nothing to lose (but a few billion of their rapidly depreciating Yen). Methane hydrates are stable only at extreme pressures or very low temperatures. They also exist in the arctic permafrost, for instance, Siberia, where conventional natural gas drilling operations have been carried out for decades, with no contributions from methane hydrates. Undersea methane hydrate exploration projects have gone on for decades in the US, Canada, India, Russia, China, and Japan. The hope is that this so-called "hot ice" would turn out to be the gas equivalent of tar sands, which would mean at best a very expensive way to get more fossil fuels as the conventional sources dry up. That hope has dimmed in nations other than extremely desperate Japan. Like a lot of techno-wonders, the recovery of methane hydrates can be demonstrated on the "science project" scale.¬†For now, no viable technique exists for getting commercially-scaled streams of natural gas out of methane hydrates. The Japanese themselves state that it would take at least ten years, if ever, to commercially mine methane hydrates. Japan doesn't have ten years. It's banking system is imploding, and without capital even the science projects will come to an end. Charles Mann is equally rapturous about shale oil and gas. He writes: "Today, though, fracking is unleashing torrents of oil in North Dakota and Texas--it may create a second boom in the San Joaquin Valley--and floods of natural gas in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ohio. So bright are the fracking prospects that the U.S. may become, if only briefly, the world's top petroleum producer. ("Saudi America," crowed The Wall Street Journal. But the parallel is inexact, because the U.S. is likely to consume most of its bonanza at home, rather than exporting it.)" This is very misleading. The US consumes roughly 19 million barrels a day. The Bakken and Eagle Ford shale formations produce about a million barrels a day combined now, and guaranteed to get a whole lot lower within the next five years. Today's near-peak production is based on furious drilling and fracking of extremely expensive wells -- known as "the Red Queen syndrome" because they are running as fast as they can to keep production up. Meanwhile, the depletion curve on shale oil is a reverse "hockey stick. kunstler.com The situation is similar for shale gas, the difference being that the temporary glut of 2005 - 2012 happened because we didn't have the means to export surplus gas from the initial burst of development and it briefly flooded the domestic market. The price of shale gas is still below the level that makes it economic to produce and when it eventually rises to that level, and beyond, it will be too expensive for its customers to buy. Shale gas is also subject to the Red Queen Syndrome. These arguments have been well-rehearsed many times in this blog and elsewhere. But the key to understanding our energy predicament is ignored in cornucopian cases like Charles Mann's Atlantic piece, which is the role of capital. Non-cheap oil has already worked its hoodoo on advanced industrial economies: it has already destroyed the process of capital formation. These economies were not designed to run on non-cheap oil and they can't, and the capital is no longer there for even the research-and-development to change out the infrastructure, let alone carry out any as-yet-undesigned changes. Furthermore, there is no prospect that we can rescue the process of capital formation at the scale required to continue financing things like shale oil. The absence of real growth in the USA, Europe, and Japan has already destroyed the operations of interest and repayment of debt, and any new debt issued will never be repaid, meaning it is functionally worthless (we just don't know it yet). These impairments of capital formation have left the major commercial banks insolvent and central banks have worked tirelessly to rescue them by issuing more "money" in the form of credit that can never be paid back. What all this means is that the capital does not exist to run non-cheap oil economies, or to continue indefinitely the production of non-cheap oil and gas, not to mention methane hydrates and other fantasy fuels. Joe Nocera's op-ed in last week's New York Times was shorter and even dumber (and lazier) than Charles Mann's foolish Atlantic article. It was based on remarks made by Canada's Energy Minister, Joe Oliver, who said (among other patently false and idiotic things) that Canada "has the resources to meet all of America's future needs for oil." Oliver was pimping for the Keystone pipeline project to transport tar sands byproducts from Alberta down to the US. Nocera swallowed everything Oliver said whole, such as "oil mined from the sands is imply not as environmentally disastrous as opponents like to claim." ¬†Is that so, Joe? And what's your source for that assertion? Canada's Energy Minister? The slug at the bottom of Nocera's column said he was invited onto the op-ed page because regular columnists Gail Collins and Nicholas Kristoff were off (or on book leave). Nocera's column was disgracefully ignorant. The editors should send him back to the Times business section where unreality is the order-of-the-day. Now, many people may draw the conclusion that some conspiracy is underway when the major mainstream media report the news so disingenuously, but that is just not so. The reason we, in effect, lie to ourselves incessantly is because of the master wish behind all the subsidiary wishes: we want to keep driving to WalMart forever and we can't imagine any other way of life, let alone the way of life that the contraction of industrial economies is tending toward -- which is to say a way, way downscaled and re-localized economic life centered on farming and artisanal manufacture. Yes, we are going medieval too, eventually, just like the Japanese, who will get there a little sooner than we will. It's hard to swallow, I'm sure. That's why we prefer the more digestible propaganda gummi bear treats like Charles mann's Atlantic article and Joe Nocera's stupid op ed. * This was the title on The Atlantic's cover. Charle's C. Mann's article inside was titled "Why We Will Never Run Out of Oil." Shame on the editors of The Atlantic.____________________________________For a complete list of books by James Howard Kunstler and purchase links,¬†CLICK HERE.¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† Read more posts on Kunstler.com ¬ª
Earlier we reported on the weak Chicago PMI report, which fell into contraction at a 49 level, vs. the 52 level that analysts had expected. The various sub-indices of the report were really ugly as well, especially employment. Check it out. The index collapsed from 55.1 in March to 48.7 in April. Just 18 % of companies say they plan to hire more. That's down from 27% in March. 18% of companies say they plan to hire less, up from 16%. ISM
Flickr / Orin ZebestUPDATE: The Conference Board's April Consumer Confidence survey results are out. The headline index surged to 68.1 from last month's upwardly-revised 61.9 reading. Economists predicted the index would come in at 61.0. Below is the full text from the release: 30 April, 2013 NEW YORK, April 30, 2013‚Ä¶The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had declined in March, increased in April. The Index now stands at 68.1 (1985=100), up from 61.9 in March. The Present Situation Index increased to 60.4 from 59.2. The Expectations Index improved to 73.3 from 63.7 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was April 18. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence improved in April, as consumers‚Äô expectations about the short-term economic outlook and their income prospects improved. However, consumers‚Äô confidence has been challenged several times over the past few months by such events as the fiscal cliff, the payroll tax hike and the sequester. Thus, while expectations appear to have bounced back, it is too soon to tell if confidence is actually on the mend.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô assessment of current conditions improved moderately in April. Those saying business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù increased to 17.2 percent from 16.4 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 28.1 percent from 29.1 percent. Consumers‚Äô assessment of the labor market was mixed. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù edged up to 9.8 percent from 9.5 percent, however those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù increased to 37.1 percent from 35.4 percent. Consumers were considerably more upbeat about the short-term outlook. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 16.9 percent from 15.0 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen decreased to 15.1 percent from 17.7 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was also more positive. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead improved to 14.2 percent from 13.0 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs decreased to 22.4 percent from 26.0 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase rose to 16.8 percent from 14.6 percent, while those expecting a decrease declined to 16.0 percent from 17.7 percent. ¬† Source:April 2013¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬ÆThe Conference Board Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
YoutubeThis morning, Robert Downey Jr., star of "Ironman," rang the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange. It's something of a role reversal. Oil trader Philip "PCD" Dunham recently directed us to this clip, of unknown vintage and provenance, on Youtube featuring Downey hanging out on the floor of the NYMEX for a bit, then blasting everyone there. We can't embed it, but here's the transcript: If money is evil then that building is hell. This is the most obnoxious group of money hungry, low IQ, high energy, jack rabbit, f***'in wannabe big-time, small-time, s***-talkin', bothersome irritating bunch of m*****f****** I have ever had to endure for more than five minutes."† Ironman 3 opens Friday.
Alex Hope FXAlex Hope, the young trader who dropped over $320,000 on champagne and Grey Goose at a Liverpool nightclub last year, has¬†been charged in relation with a $7.7 million unauthorized investment scheme. From the Financial Conduct Authority's release:¬†(via City A.M.) The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has charged Alex Hope of Docklands, London and Raj Von Badlo of Bourne End, Buckinghamshire with a total of ten offences relating to an unauthorised investment scheme they promoted and operated. The scheme purported to carry out FOREX trading for the benefit of investors and is believed to have taken over ¬£5 million from investors. The charges follow searches of addresses occupied by the two men that were conducted by the Financial Services Authority with the assistance of the City of London Police in April and May 2012. Both men were arrested at the time of, or shortly after, the searches being conducted. Both men have been bailed to attend City of London Magistrates Court. On Hope's website, which was taken down last year, he described himself (in the third person) as a "self-taught trader" and a "name to watch out for" specializing in forex and "regularly trading millions." ZeroHedge has the full bio. ¬†We've included a brief excerpt below (emphasis ours): ¬† As his confidence and knowledge grew, Alex knew this was the world for him and at 20 years old he headed for the city and soon found employment at The Forex Academy in early 2010 as a FX &amp; Commodity Trader. In July this year, he stepped into the spotlight when his career was profiled in The Daily Telegraph, subsequently Alex went onto to work at leading Trading and Commodities company, Zone Invest Group. For a career that started out trading on the local market stalls for pocket money, to a modest ¬£21k salary in the hospitality industry,¬†Alex has since followed his dream in the trading world and his basic salary has entered the six figure bracket! An entrepruenerial spirit through and through, whilst working full time and in his spare time, Alex also offers private teaching for students interested in learning the tricks of the trade (both one-to-one and small groups), helping others to profit from the liquid market. Many of the individuals travel worldwide to meet with him and glean from his experience. A talented, charismatic and thoroughly likeable man, Alex Hope exudes knowledge¬†and you can‚Äôt help but respect and admire this self-taught and self-made young trader. Watch out trading markets, Alex Hope is kicking up a storm!
Flickr/Monika ThorpeThe April Chicago PMI report is out. The headline index fell to 49.0, defying economists' expectations for a tick up to 52.5 from March's 52.4 reading. Any number below 50 on the index indicates contraction, so today's data suggests that manufacturing activity in the Midwest unexpectedly contracted in April. The production sub-component fell to 49.9 from last month's 51.8 reading. The employment sub-component fell to 48.7 from 55.1. The new orders sub-component, however, actually ticked up to 53.2 from 53.0. Below are what some respondents to the survey are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;
Entrepreneur Loic LeMeur (LeWeb, Seesmic) just got Google's new computerized glasses, Google Glass. To say Loic is stoked would be an understatement. In the last 12 hours, Loic has been frantically posting pictures of himself and his sons wearing the glasses, as well as a stream of pictures that he has been taking with them. In the tech world, at least, Google Glass seems to be capturing all the excitement, buzz, and imagination that Apple's iPhone and iPad once did. It will be interesting to see whether Apple's next product, thought to be an iWatch or iTV (when it finally comes out), can do the same thing.†In the meantime, Google has stolen Apple's thunder. Here are Mr. Lemeur's Glass self-portraits on Instagram. (Note the clip-on shades in the second picture. This, in my opinion, is the start of what will make Google glasses go mainstream... additional miniaturization that makes it hard to tell that someone is wearing computerized glasses). Instagram InstagramAnd, for good measure, here's a picture of tech guru Robert Scoble wearing his own Google Glass in the shower. After wearing them for two weeks, Scoble says he's never taking them off. Google+/Robert Scoble And Marc Andreessen: Glass Collective
Remember how during the bust, the Washington DC housing market held on admirably well? Well, maybe there's some mean reversion, or perhaps there's a sequester effect happening. Because while the US housing market continues to accelerate (according to Case-Shiller), the Washington DC market has been down both of the first two months of the year. Case-Shiller
slack12 via FlickrFormer UBS banker Juerg Buergrin, who was head of operations for the Swiss bank in Singapore, has been convicted of having sex with an underage Singaporean prostitute, Bloomberg News reports.¬† Buergrin pleaded not guilty and his lawyer argued that he was tricked by the 17-year-old girl and her pimp about her age. The judge didn't think that was a defense, the report said. Prostitution is legal in Singapore, but prostitutes have to be at least 18 years-old. The ex-banker, who was married with two kids at the time of the encounters, could be sentenced up to seven years and fined. ¬†¬†Fifty-one other men, both foreign and local, have been charged with having sex with an underage prostitute. Buergrin was the first to go to trial, though.¬†
Today's Case-Shiller housing report came in stronger than expected, with average home prices across 20 metropolitan areas rising 9.3% from last year. That's better than the 9% gain that had been expected. But of course housing has a LONG way to go before it really recovers. With the current reading, house prices are now just back to Autumn 2003 levels. Case-Shiller
Justing Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe February reading of the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index, and the numbers are strong. The 20-city index grew by 9.32% year-over-year, which was stronger than the 9.00% expected by economists. Prices climbed 1.24% on¬† a month-over-month basis, which was also much stronger than expectations for a 0.9% gain. ‚ÄúHome prices continue to show solid increases across all 20 cities,‚Äù said S&amp;P's David Blitzer. ‚ÄúThe 10- and 20-City Composites recorded their highest annual growth rates since May 2006; seasonally adjusted monthly data show all 20 cities saw higher prices for two months in a row ‚Äì the last time that happened was in early 2005. ‚ÄúDespite some recent mixed economic reports for March, housing continues to be one of the brighter spots in the economy. The 2013 first quarter GDP report shows that residential investment accelerated from the 2012 fourth quarter and made a positive contribution to growth. One open question is the mix of single family and apartments; housing starts data show a larger than usual share is apartments.‚Äù Here's a look at the 20-city breakdown: S&P From High Frequency Economics: High Frequency Economics
In the election of 1952 my father voted for Dwight Eisenhower. When I asked him why he explained that ‚ÄúFDR‚Äôs debt‚Äù was still burdening the economy ‚Äî and that I and my children and my grandchildren would be paying it down for as long as we lived.¬† I was only six years old and had no idea what a ‚Äúdebt‚Äù was, let alone FDR‚Äôs. But I had nightmares about it for weeks.¬† Yet as the years went by my father stopped talking about ‚ÄúFDR‚Äôs debt,‚Äù and since I was old enough to know something about economics I never worried about it. My children have never once mentioned FDR‚Äôs debt. My four-year-old grandchild hasn‚Äôt uttered a single word about it.¬† By the end of World War II, the national debt was 120 percent of the entire economy. But by the mid-1950s, it was half that. Why did it shrink? Not because the nation stopped spending. We had a Korean War, a Cold War, we rebuilt Germany and Japan, sent our GI‚Äôs to college and helped them buy homes, expanded education at all levels, and began constructing the largest public-works program in the nation‚Äôs history ‚Äî the interstate highway system. ‚ÄúFDR‚Äôs debt‚Äù shrank in proportion to the national economy because the national economy grew so fast.¬† I was reminded of this by the recent commotion over an error in a¬†research paper¬†by Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff.¬† The two Harvard economists had analyzed a huge amount of data from the United States and other advanced economies linking levels of public debt to economic growth. They concluded that growth turns negative (that is, economies tend to collapse into recession) when public debt rises above 90 percent of GDP. That finding, in turn, fueled austerics, who insisted that the budget deficit (and debt) had to be cut in order to revive economic growth.¬† But Reinhart and Rogoff‚Äôs computations were wrong, and average GDP growth in very-high-debt nations is around 2.2 percent rather than a negative 0.1 percent.¬† A few days ago, the two offered a defense in an¬†oped¬†in the New York Times, asserting ‚Äúvery small actual differences‚Äù between their critics‚Äô results and their own.¬† Regardless, Reinhart and Rogoff seem to be correct in one basic respect: Economic growth does seem to be lower in very-high-debt countries.¬† But the entire debate over their paper‚Äôs flaws begs the central question of cause and effect. Is growth lower because of the high debt? That would still make the austeric‚Äôs case, even without the magic 90 percent tipping point.¬† Or does cause-and-effect the other way around? Maybe slow growth makes debt burdens larger. There‚Äôs¬†evidence¬†to suggest this is the case.¬† If so, government should be fueling growth through, say, spending¬†more¬†‚Äî at least in the short run.¬† As we should have learned from what happened to ‚ÄúFDR‚Äôs debt,‚Äù growth is the key.¬† Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
After we had first announced that a new housing bubble had taken root in the U.S. economy beginning in July 2012, we soon followed up with additional analysis that suggested that it had perhaps begun to decelerate to a more sustainable level after December 2012. Recently revised data from the U.S. Census Bureau for the median sale prices of new homes in the United States through March 2013 now confirms that there has been no slowdown in the rapid inflation of new home sale prices observed since July 2012. politicalcalculations.blogspot.com Since 1967, there is only one period of rapid price escalation that even comes close to matching the current trend for median new home prices in the United States: the initial inflation phase of the first U.S. housing bubble, which ran from November 2001 through September 2005 - approximately the time at which the Federal Funds Rate began to converge with the level that would apply if the Federal Reserve had been following the Taylor Rule. What is more remarkable however is that the trailing twelve-month average of median new home sale prices through February 2013 has now exceeded the peak value set at the height of the inflation phase of the first U.S. housing bubble. The previous record for this figure was set in March 2007 at $245,842. In February 2013, the trailing year average of median new home sale prices is now $246,167 and the preliminary data for March 2013 has it increasing further to $246,767. These new figures may be subject to revision during the next several months. Since the inflation phase of the second U.S. housing bubble began in July 2012, the trailing twelve-month average of median new home sale prices has increased by an average of $2,532 per month through February 2013. By contrast, the trailing twelve-month average for median household income in the U.S. has increased by an average of $121.56 per month, as median home prices have been rising by an average of roughly $21 for every $1 increase in median household income. In more normal circumstances, or at least those we've observed since 1967, a $1 increase in median household income would typically correspond to somewhere between a $3 to $4 increase in median new home sale prices. Read more posts on Political Calculations ¬ª
Last week when it reported earnings, Apple said it would borrow money from the public market in order to pay dividends and buy back debt. This represents the first borrowing since 1996/ Now the company is fleshing out the details if its borrowing. In a prospectus just filed with the SEC, the company reveals that it will borrow money for 3, 5, 10, and 30-year durations. That means that some debt won't be paid back until 2043, which is several lifetimes from now in the tech world. Apple † As you can see, the dollar amounts and interest rates on the bonds are not filled in yet.  The other news from the prospectus is that Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank are the underwriters of the offering.
Twitter / @HelenaKaspSome quick thoughts on Europe. This morning the Eurozone got two notable datapoints. Unemployment hit a new all-time high. And inflation fell to 1.2%. With unemployment this high and inflation this low, the obvious thing is for the ECB to cut rates. And though the ECB probably should have cut rates awhile ago, a rate cut this Thursday now seems like a done deal. It's possible the ECB will even do more than a 25 basis point cut. Says economist Frederik Ducrozet of Credit Agricole: Weak activity and inflation data have strengthened the case for a policy surprise by the ECB on Thursday, relative to our forecast of a 25bp Refi rate cut. A one-off 50bp rate cut would arguably have a much larger market impact. The proximity of the zero bound and the ECB‚Äôs reluctance to deliver large cuts suggest that the likelihood remains relatively low. A negative deposit rate, meanwhile, looks very unlikely. On balance, we still believe that the Governing Council will cut by ‚Äòonly‚Äô 25bp, probably in a unanimous decision, leaving all options open for the future. Meanwhile, talk grows in Europe of slowing down on austerity and deficit reduction targets, which is a modest form of stimulus. So Europe could be looking at both monetary easing and help on the fiscal side.
Eamonn McCormack/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
According to a United States Geological Survey publication on lithium, ‚ÄúThe only commercially active lithium mine in the United States was a brine operation in Nevada. The mine‚Äôs production capacity was expanded in 2012, and a new lithium hydroxide plant opened in North Carolina. Two companies produced a large array of downstream lithium compounds in the United States from domestic or South American lithium carbonate, lithium chloride, and lithium hydroxide. A U.S. recycling company produced a small quantity of lithium carbonate from solutions recovered during the recycling of lithium ion batteries.‚Äù The bad news? Last year virtually all of the major brine and mineral-based lithium producers increased their prices, which in turn has spurred prospecting. In the U.S. exploration has been largely centered in Nevada, but the growing worldwide market for lithium has also spurred exploration in Argentina, Australia, Bolivia and Canada. Related article: How Long Should a Lithium Ion Battery Survive in an EV? And now, the good news. University of Wyoming researchers found the lithium while studying the idea of storing carbon dioxide underground in the Rock Springs Uplift, a geologic formation in southwest Wyoming. University of Wyoming Carbon Management Institute director Ron Surdam stated that the lithium was found in underground brine. Surdam estimated the located deposit at roughly 228,000 tons in a 25-square-mile area. Extrapolating the data, Surdam said as the uplift covered roughly 2,000 square miles, there could be up to 18 million tons of lithium there, worth up to roughly $500 billion at current market prices. As a yardstick, the lithium reserves at Silver Peak, Nevada, the largest domestic producer of lithium total 118,000 tons in a 20-square-mile area. The University of Wyoming stated that in a best-case scenario, the Rock Springs Uplift‚Äôs 18 million tons of potential lithium reserves is equivalent to roughly 720 years of current global lithium production. UW researchers suggest that the lithium mining could be part of a carbon dioxide sequestration operation, since the lithium-bearing brine must be pumped to the surface from the underground rock formation to extract the lithium, creating space to store the CO2 in its place. Surdam highlighted the economic advantages to the combined lithium-CO2 storage operation, commenting, "You get paid to put the carbon in the subsurface and that'll pay for the wells to remove the lithium." Carbon Management Institute senior hydrogeologist Scott Quillinan said, ‚ÄúDue to their high salinity, brines from the CO2 storage reservoirs would have to be pumped to the surface and treated - often an expensive process. Recovering and marketing lithium from the brines would produce significant revenue to offset the cost of brine production, treatment and CO2 storage operations.‚Äù Related article: Breakthrough Microbattery Charges 1,000 Times Faster than Competing Technology Several fortunate factors converge to make the lithium- CO2 storage reservoir concept more than merely feasible. While lithium production from brines requires sodium carbonate (soda ash), transporting soda ash to lithium production facilities is often a significant expense the Rock Springs Uplift CO2 storage site is located 20-30 miles of the world‚Äôs largest industrial soda ash supplies, so costs of soda ash delivery would be minor. While magnesium must be removed from brines before they can be used for lithium recovery, the Rock Springs Uplift reservoirs contain much less magnesium than brines at existing, currently profitable lithium mining operations. While brines must be heated and pressurized before lithium can be extracted, the Rock Springs Uplift brines lie so far underground, they are already at a higher pressure and temperature than brines at existing lithium operations, allowing any potential operators largely eliminate the step, further lessening costs. Finally, the treated water resulting from the recovery process could benefit local communities, agriculture and industry. It will be interesting to see if any investment entities step up to the plate on this.By. John C.K. Daly of Oilprice.com Read more... Read more posts on OilPrice.com ¬ª
YahooOne of the big problems in the U.S. economy right now is that big corporations are generating record profits not by growing revenues but by cutting costs. "Costs," as everyone who works for a big corporation knows, are a synonym for employees, employee wages, employee perks, capital investment, and research and development. As a result, we have reached a point where corporate†profit margins are at all-time highs†and corporate wages are at all-time lows as a percent of the economy. (See charts here.) That's not sustainable, says economist Gary Shilling of†A. Gary Shilling &amp; Co. (Aaron Task and I interviewed Gary for Yahoo! Daily Ticker yesterday. You can watch the video here†or below.) The employees whose collective wages are stagnant or dropping account for most of the spending that drives the economy. So if employees aren't getting paid well, and corporations aren't spending, the economy can't grow quickly. Gary Shilling observes that, from a philosophical perspective, what is happening is that "capital" (the owners of corporations) are dominating "labor" (the rank and file employees who make and sell corporate products and services). And he notes that, in a democracy, these imbalances do not usually persist for long. The Obama Administration, Gary points out, is trying to "redistribute" the country's wealth from rich corporations and their owners to average Americans--an effort that drives free-market advocates, some rich Americans, and some stockholders insane with rage. But given that†less than 10% of the country is benefitting from the current capital-labor imbalance, and the other 90% is losing ground, it's not surprising that the Obama Administration has the country's support. I asked Gary whether there wasn't a private-sector solution to the problem--whether corporations could be persuaded to just voluntarily pay their employees more. After all, I pointed out, the employees are the folks who are creating the value for the corporations and their stockholders. And given that profit margins are already at record highs, the corporations can certainly afford to pay employees more. Gary smiled and called me a "Marxist." And that is indeed a very common reaction to the suggestion that companies pay people more. Which is too bad! Corporations voluntarily paying their employees more has nothing to do with politics, or government, or political philosophies. It also has nothing to do with "handouts" or "subsidies" or the other types of government spending that free-market advocates abhor. And it has nothing to do with unions forcing shareholders to share more, and often stifling their companies's innovation, competitiveness, and nimbleness in the process. Paying employees more simply means sharing more of the vast wealth that corporations generate with the people who generate it. It means investing in your people, so they don't have to work full time for you and yet still be poor (hello, Walmart). It means investing in the economy and your customers. It means creating value for all†four†constituencies that great companies serve: In short, persuading companies to pay their employees more has nothing to do with "Marxism" or "Communism," which are philosophies of centralized government and economies. For what it's worth, people are right to reject Marxism and Communism. They simply don't work. They ruin economies and impoverish populations. If you don't believe that, all you have to do is look at the Soviet Union and China of a couple of decades ago. But there's nothing stopping great companies in free-market economies from sharing more of their wealth with the people who generate it and from investing more aggressively for the long term. Great companies do this not just because they are forced to by unions or taxation, but because it's the right thing to do. It's the right thing for employees, customers, shareholders, and the broader economy. And, for companies with a long-term focus, it's the right thing to do for the companies themselves. Amazon is a classic example of a company that constantly†generates less profit than it could so it can continue to invest aggressively for the long term. And, over the long term, Amazon's shareholders have done just fine. Gary Shilling is right that today's record-high profit margins and labor-capital imbalance won't persist, because it never does. But the question companies should be asking themselves is how they want this imbalance to be addressed. Do they want to wait until they are forced to share more of their wealth by unions or the government? Or do they want to do it voluntarily, because it's the right thing to do and because it's better for them and their shareholders in the long run? For the sake of average Americans and the U.S. economy, let's hope it's the latter.  SEE ALSO: America Today: 3 Million Overlords, 300 Million Serfs
AP ImagesNICOSIA (Reuters) - One day last October, a memory stick containing special software for deleting data was placed into a desktop computer at Bank of Cyprus. Within minutes, 28,000 files were erased, according to investigators who had wanted to copy the data for an official report into the collapse of the Cypriot banking system. The deleted files included emails sent and received in a crucial period in late 2009 and early 2010 when Bank of Cyprus, the biggest lender on the island, spent billions of euros buying Greek bonds - at a time when international banks were cutting exposure to the heavily indebted Athens government. Those Greek bonds lost most of their value in last year's EU-sanctioned bailout, playing a key role in plunging Cyprus into an economic maelstrom. When banks turned to Cyprus's own cash-strapped government for help in plugging holes in their balance sheets, Nicosia too needed an international rescue. Now people in the small euro zone republic, who have lost money and face years of grim austerity, want to know who decided to plough their savings into the doomed public accounts of their bigger neighbor, and why. But answers are proving elusive, not helped by the mysterious wiping of data at Bank of Cyprus. There has been public speculation about backroom diplomatic deals or misplaced solidarity with Cypriots' fellow Greek-speakers. But executives at the failed banks argue that Greek bonds seemed a good investment at the time - though that view is at odds with that of many bankers elsewhere in Europe, who were doing all they could to limit their own exposures to Greece. The confidential report, prepared for the Cypriot central bank by global consultants Alvarez and Marsal, found that Bank of Cyprus had been willing, from 2009 onwards, to invest in risky, high-yielding Greek debt in a bid to offset an erosion of its balance sheet from rising non-performing loans. The report, which Reuters has seen, alleges that bank executives may not have revealed details of bond purchases to board directors, avoided showing losses on the bonds, and may later have delayed external investigation of the bond purchases. In December 2009, managers told media and their own board that most of the bank's Greek bondholdings had been sold - but the bank did not then disclose that it had almost immediately bought more. Bank of Cyprus has declined to comment on the report. Petros Clerides, the Cypriot attorney-general to whom a copy of the report was delivered, declined any comment on the matter. Much attention in the crisis has hitherto focused on allegations of poor management at Cyprus's other big lender, Laiki Bank, formerly Marfin Popular. But the Alvarez and Marsal report, whose broad findings emerged earlier this month, raises questions, too, about the former management of Bank of Cyprus. The report noted "a culture whereby senior management decisions were not challenged". Michael Olympios, who heads an investors' association, Pasexa, that has complained of mismanagement, said: "There was clear corporate governance failure here, and a lack of disclosure to shareholders." More broadly, he added: "If one wants to summaries the mess in our banking system, Lord Acton sums it up; power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely." Under last month's bailout deal for the Cypriot state, Laiki is being closed and Bank of Cyprus is being recapitalized. Large depositors at Bank of Cyprus have seen virtually all of their deposits over an insured 100,000-euro ($131,000) threshold frozen and stand to see up to 60 percent of those converted into equity. Many in Cyprus, including hundreds of Russians who placed their faith in its once booming offshore banking products, feel they have been unfairly treated; bank depositors in Greece suffered no losses when that country was bailed out. "They should have bought from different governments rather than just Greece," said Demetris Syllouris, who heads the Cyprus parliament's ethics committee which is looking into the affair. "This caused 80 percent of the problem we are in." Aside from the wisdom of its investment strategy, it is the communication of this strategy to investors that is in question. On December 10, 2009, Yiannis Kypri, a general manager at Bank of Cyprus, told a Cypriot website, Stockwatch, that the bank had "minimal exposure to Greek sovereign debt" after reducing its holdings from 1.8 billion euros to 0.1 billion. The same day, according to the investigators' report, Andreas Eliades, then Bank of Cyprus's group chief executive officer, instructed his treasury department to begin new purchases of such bonds. With these new instructions, that day the bank bought debt worth 150 million euros, and a total of 400 million by the end of 2009, according to the consultants. There is, the report says, "no evidence" the public comment about "minimal exposure" to Greece was ever "retracted or subsequently corrected by any of the bank's executives". Kypri told Reuters he could say little while an official inquiry continues, but he was quoted by the investigators saying he had been unaware of the plan to return to buying Greek bonds. Andreas Eliades, who was chief executive until July 2012, told Reuters Kypri's statement to Stockwatch referred only to a temporary sell-off in response to short-term market fluctuation. Another member of senior management at the time, Nicolas Karydas, gave investigators and Reuters the same explanation. On December 11, the day after the bank resumed purchases of Greek bonds, Karydas told the bank's board that most of its Greek bonds had been sold. But, the Alvarez and Marsal investigators, add: "The board was not informed that the repurchase of Greek government bonds had commenced the prior day, after the divesture." Karydas, group general manager of risk management and markets, who left the bank at the end of August last year, rejected any suggestion the board was unaware of the investment strategy or that he misled the board. He said in an email response to Reuters "all the executives" agreed to a policy that included possible Greek bond purchases at a meeting in November 2009. "The ... suggestions ... were also approved by the board of directors in their December 11 meeting," Karydas said. "It seemed to be a consensus view that Greece would overcome the crisis." By April 2010, the bank had expanded its holding of Greek government bonds to 2.4 billion euros, a third more than the amount Kypri had told Stockwatch had been sold four months before. The investigators said this went beyond the bank's own approved 2-billion-euro limit but was approved retrospectively in May 2010. Eliades, the former group CEO, said that Greek bonds were still well rated at the time and in demand internationally: "We cannot judge, with today's circumstances, actions which took place at a different time when Greek bonds had very high demand," he said. "Everyone was buying into Greek bonds." By comparison, however, data from "stress tests" carried out by EU authorities concerned about the health of their banks, showed that at the end of 2010, most of the 10 biggest banks on the continent, many times larger than the Cypriot lenders, held nothing like as much Greek debt as did Bank of Cyprus and Laiki. They had 2.2 billion and 3.3 billion euros respectively, outstripped among top 10 banks only by French giants BNP Paribas and Societe Generale. The same EU data showed that Britain's Barclays had only 192 million euros and Lloyds none at all. As investors' fears over the solvency of Greece grew, the value of the Greek bonds fell. The Bank of Cyprus made changes to the way it accounted for the bond holdings, according to the Alvarez and Marsal report, with the result that the growing potential losses were not spelled out to investors. In April 2010, it moved about 1.6 billion euros of Greek bonds from its trading account to its "held to maturity" book. This meant the bank did not have to mark down the value of the bonds. The accounting move was made on the grounds that Greece would redeem the bonds. The report authors said: "The justification provided does not appear to be strong." Eliades told Reuters: "Nobody could possibly expect that a European country, in the euro, could possibly default." Last year, however, the EU and IMF bailout terms relieved Greece of the need to repay up to 80 percent on its bonds, leaving the Bank of Cyprus with losses of 1.8 billion euros. The bank declined to respond to an allegation made in the report that data that could have been relevant to understanding why it bought so much Greek debt may have been deleted. That data, the authors say, was wiped from the computer of Christakis Patsalides, an executive involved in buying bonds, using special software on October 18 last year. When investigators examined it, there was a 15-month gap in emails in 2009-2010. There is no suggestion Patsalides himself deleted them. He told investigators that he was unaware of any missing data, according to the report. Patsalides declined comment to Reuters but told investigators for the report that had thought the bank's ceiling for its Greek bond holdings had been set at "too high a limit". (Additional reporting by Renee Maltezou; Editing by Richard Woods and Alastair Macdonald) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
A few weeks ago, Bitcoin exploded to the $250 area. Then it promptly plunged to around $60. That prompted all kinds of "death of Bitcoin' talk, which may have been warranted, but premature. Since then the price has rallied back, but more importantly, the price has gotten really boring. Relative to a few weeks or a month ago, there's almost nothing of note to report on. It's been in the ~120-140$ range, which of course for most assets would be a wide range, but for Bitcoin, is basically the same as not moving. If Bitcoin is going to become a currency that's actually used, rather than just a vehicle for speculation, a relatively stable price will be key. Bitcoin boosters should be psyched by the recent tranquility. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
Earlier we mentioned that Eurozone unemployment has hit a new record high of 12.1%. But that's only part of the story. The other part is youth unemployment. Check out this table. We've highlighted the youth unemployment column for March in red, and spotlighted a few specific countries. Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Cyprus (with numbers of 55.9%, 38.3%, 38.4%, and 32.3% respectively) really stand out. Eurostat
This is a devastating chart. Eurozone unemployment hits a brand new high of 12.1%. Click the chart to enlarge. Eurostat What else can you say but that this is a total disaster. From the report: Eurostat estimates that 26.521 million men and women in the EU27, of whom 19.211 million were in the euro area, were unemployed in March 2013. Compared with February 2013, the number of persons unemployed increased by 69 000 in the EU27 and by 62 000 in the euro area. Compared with March 2012, unemployment rose by 1.814 million in the EU27 and by 1.723 million in the euro area. Among the Member States, the lowest unemployment rates were recorded in Austria (4.7%), Germany (5.4%) and Luxembourg (5.7%), and the highest in Greece (27.2% in January), Spain (26.7%) and Portugal (17.5%). Compared with a year ago, the unemployment rate increased in nineteen Member States and fell in eight. The highest increases were registered in Greece (21.5% to 27.2% between January 2012 and January 2013), Cyprus (10.7% to 14.2%), Spain (24.1% to 26.7%) and Portugal (15.1% to 17.5%). The largest decreases were observed in Latvia (15.6% to 14.3% between the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2012), Estonia (10.6% to 9.4% between February 2012 and February 2013) and Ireland (15.0% to 14.1%). This situation is clearly unsustainable. The overall level of unemployment is creating a lost generation (especially in countries like Spain) while the gap between the periphery and Germany is causing increasing anger and resentment. The good news is that austerity is losing its cache in Europe, and with any luck there will be some pro growth measures, both from fiscal authorities and the ECB, which is expected to cut rates in some manner this week.
Inflation continues to shrivel away in Europe. Now: 1.2%. Analysts had expected 1.6%. Euro area annual inflation down to 1.2% in April 2013 according to a flash estimate from #Eurostat bit.ly/12WykOj
Courtesy AudiEarier we brought you commentary from Mike O'Rourke of Jones Trading, who was arguing that the market was completely divorced from reality, and that it's all Fed driven. Regardless of what's pushing equities higher, it's undeniably an impressive move. Dan Greenhaus of BTIG puts some interesting stats on the story: ¬†While there was a bit of weakness towards the end of the day, its hard to argue with the action. We‚Äôve been noting that the investor enthusiasm on full display to start the year waned somewhat into March. However, the S&amp;P 500 appears poised to gain in the sixth consecutive month, something it hasn‚Äôt done since 2009 and before that, 2006. Actually, it should be noted that the S&amp;P is about to be up in ten of the last eleven months, something that hasn‚Äôt happened since late 2006 and before that, early 2003. Data mining aside, it‚Äôs obviously been a terrific run for equities as numerous headwinds have been shrugged off.
Today at 9 AM ET we get the Case-Shiller house price report for February. It's expected to show a massive 9% year-over-year increase, according to Calculated Risk. This would be the biggest number since the housing slump. Last month, home prices grew 8.1% year-over-year. Here's a look at the year-over-year change going back. During the boom year-over-year house prices grew even faster, but still, 9% is pretty remarkable if it hits that. FRED
Mike O'Rourke (who a long time ago used to write Bedtime with BTIG, but who now writes The Closing Print for Jones Trading) expresses a view in his latest note that's certainly felt by many, which is that the equity market is all about the Fed, and completely divorced from economic reality. He uses yesterday's rally as an example. Stocks re-hit their all-time highs, as the same time as we got a horrendous Dallas Fed manufacturing report. O'Rourke writes: The US equity market has given up even the appearance of caring about economic data.† Throughout Q1, as the S&amp;P 500 garnered an impressive 10% return, high hopes were pinned on a 3.5% GDP print, then expectations retrenched to 3% before the actual print of 2.5% emerged.† The chart below illustrates that the economy continues to trudge along at a 2% year over year GDP growth rate. Not to say that a single data point like the Dallas Fed Manufacturing index merits a market move, but it is surprising when the 3rd worst print since the recession is met by another push higher in Equities.† Few would describe earnings season as anything but a disappointment.† Obviously, the Central Bank Benevolence trade continues to dominate the tape. As we noted last night, this has certainly been an impressive move this last week and a half. Two weeks ago, the word "deflation" was on everyone's lips. Now that's forgotten.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderIt's a very quiet morning, but the general trend is down markets. US futures are a hair lower. Italy is down 0.7% after a huge day yesterday. France is just barely in the red. Japan also just a hair lower. Things are quiet, but they're about to not be quiet. Tonight starts global PMI night, as country's around the world get a reading on the state of their manufacturing health. There will then be tons of data between Wednesday and Friday, not to mention big meetings from the ECB and the Fed. So it's quiet now, but it won't be for long.
