REUTERS/StringerPeople play chess in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Hefei, Anhui province, February 18, 2013. The final two weeks of June were characterized by market turmoil that seemed to stem from the actions of two central banks. First there was the Fed actions. Talk of the "taper" caused US interest rates to jump and equity markets to fall, as traders started to anticipate monetary tightening at an earlier date than previously thought. But at the same time, in China, there was a spike in SHIBOR (which is China's equivalent of LIBOR) which screamed cash crunch for China's banks. That too freaked markets out, and now thanks to Lingling Wei and Bob Davis at WSJ we have a better idea of why SHIBOR (which has since calmed down) spiked so hard. Basically (and this was suspected at the time) the People's Bank of China let the rates spike as a tough measure to induce a level of tightening and discipline in the banking system. What caused the PBOC to do this? According to a previously undisclosed summary of a PBOC internal meeting on June 19, the central bank was especially concerned that in the first 10 days of June, Chinese banks increased lending by 1 trillion yuan ($163 billion)‚Äîan amount the central bank said "had never been seen in history." And about 70% of that amount consisted of short-term notes that mostly don't show up on banks' balance sheets‚Äîmaking it easier for the banks to get around regulatory lending restrictions-‚Äîrather than lending the money to promising companies or projects. The PBOC evidently took that lending spike to be a sign of an expectation of further easy policy, and so the response was to do the hard opposite, let interest rates spike, and basically give the banks the back of the hand, letting them know that their risky behavior would not be rewarded.
The big news today is that the Winkelvii (of proto-Facebook fame) are launching a Bitcoin ETF. That news has resulted in a major flurry of jokes, both because it's Bitcoin and because it's the Winkelvoss twins. In the meantime, Bitcoin prices have been steadily droopping downwards in recent weeks, and the price, via ClarkMoody, has fallen below $90. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonEmployees of Bear Stearns watch as demonstrators from the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America protest inside the Bear Stearns headquarters lobby in New York March 26, 2008.It's been just over five years since we last heard from investment banking giant Bear Stearns. As the financial crisis escalated, banks like Bear Stearns were dropping left and right. Even the survivors saw their stock prices plummet. Unfortunately, only a few were able to make their shareholders whole again. The chart below comes from Morgan Stanley's Asia / Pacific research team led by Jonathan Garner. Here's some commentary: It is noteworthy that during the US financial crisis the initial phase was characterized by sharp equity price declines in more peripheral institutions which were wholesale funded and / or exposed to the most risky assets in the system. Later on the stock prices of even the largest and most financially sound participants came under pressure for a relatively brief period of time, prompting in part the policy action which was the turning point of the event (TARP, Stress Tests and QE1). For these larger institutions prices fell 50% in 2 to 3 months prior to policy action before regaining all those losses in the subsequent 6 months (see Exhibit 25). For the weaker financial system participants significant dilution occurred and / or they were absorbed into stronger firms or otherwise wound down. Morgan Stanley
Bitcoin, the obscure digital crypto-currency, has been out of the headlines for a little while. But this hasn't stopped Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss from moving forward with their effort to make it more mainstream. According to a new filing with the SEC, a trust sponsored by Winklevoss Capital Management has registered to offer shares that will give buyers exposure to Bitcoin. "The Trust holds ‚ÄúBitcoins,‚Äù a digital commodity based on an open source cryptographic protocol existing on the online, end-user-to-end-user network hosting the public transaction ledger, known as the ‚ÄúBlockchain,‚Äù and the source code comprising the basis for the cryptographic and algorithmic protocols governing the issuance of and transactions in Bitcoins," reads the filing. "The investment objective of the Trust is for the Shares to reflect the performance of a weighted average price of Bitcoins, less the Trust‚Äôs expenses. The Sponsor believes that, for many investors, the Shares will represent a cost-effective and convenient means to access exposure to Bitcoins." It appears that this will operate like an exchange-traded fund (ETF), a security that basically trades like a stock. The ticker symbol for the fund has yet to be determined. The Winklevosses became famous when they sued Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg for allegedly taking an idea that was theirs. Before you even consider trading Bitcoin, you should consider the risks. Like this one from the filing: If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control in excess of 50 percent of the processing power active on the Bitcoin Network, such actor or botnet could manipulate the source code of the Bitcoin Network or the Blockchain in a manner that adversely affects an investment in the Shares or the ability of the Trust to operate. If this is incomprehensible to you, then maybe Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust isn't for you. Read the whole filing at SEC.gov.
On Oct. 1, the new online marketplace for health insurance provided under the Affordable Care Act officially opens. But the vast majority of uninsured Americans ó the very people the Affordable Care Act is meant to help ó still have no idea whether they'll need to enroll or not. According to a recent survey, nearly two-thirds of uninsured Americans say they haven't decided whether or not they'll buy health insurance by the Jan. 1, 2014 deadline (even though they'll have to pay a penalty if they don't). Another 10% say they flat out won't buy in at all. We understand the hesitation. Change is hard enough when it's simple to understand, let alone when it has to do with things like insurance, health care policy, and your own financial and personal well-being.† "People just don't understand how this is going to affect their wallet, what prices are going to be and what this could really cost them," said Laura Adams, InsuranceQuotes.com senior insurance analyst.† The health care exchange†(aka The Marketplace) is the centerpiece of the Affordable Care Act, an online marketplace where consumers can shop around for health care plans, just like auto insurance. All 50 states will have their own marketplaces, some of which will be run by the federal government and some of which will be run by individual states. Delays notwithstanding, the marketplace opens Oct. 1, 2013 and people will have until Jan. 1, 2014 to pick up a policy if they want to escape penalties. †There, you'll be able to choose from four different varieties of plans, platinum (highest benefits), gold, silver, and bronze (lowest benefits). Does everyone need to sign up for a health plan?† The health care exchange is open for every U.S. resident, but only the uninsured will face penalties for skipping out. If you are enrolled in your employer's health plan or pay for your own plan already, you can keep on keepin' on, although we'd at least recommend shopping around to see if there are more affordable plans out there.† Obviously, if everyone could afford to enroll in health care, chances are we wouldn't have an Obamacare plan to deal with at all. As it stands,†61% of the uninsured respondents surveyed by InsuranceQuotes cited money issues as the main reason they havenít purchased health insurance.† To help, the government has put in place tax credits that are specifically designed to help low-income households cover the cost of a health care plan.† To qualify,†individuals or families can earn household incomes up to†400% of the federal poverty level†($94,200 for a family of four in 2013). You can claim the tax credit in advance, rather than paying up front for your health care plan and then waiting for a refund after tax season, Adams notes.† Generally, the government will apply those credits directly to your health insurer, which will reduce your premium cost. To find out how big a tax credit you can expect, use the†Kaiser Family Foundation's calculator. To make the reform easier to swallow, lawmakers have thrown consumers a couple of bones: For starters, the Jan. 1, 2014 deadline for enrollment is a soft one. You can start signing up when the exchange opens on Oct. 1 and you have until March 31 to enroll. † That gives people a three-month cushion to get their ducks in a row. And on April 1, when the penalties begin, they†start small and rise on a tiered scale up until 2016:† 2014: Families ó $285 or 1% of total household income, whichever is greater.Individual adults ó $95 or 1% of total household income.† 2015: Families ó $975 or 2% of income,†whichever is greater.†Individual adults ó $325 or 2% of income.2016: Families ó $2,085 or 2.5% of income,†whichever is greater.†Individual adults ó $695 or 2.5% of income.† "It's designed to be this kind of gentle nudge that becomes not so gentle in a couple years,"†Adams says. Some analysts predict young people will look at the first year penalties and shrug. If you're under 26, you can always sign up for your parents' health care plan. And paying a $95 fee may not seem all that tough a burden† when you compare it to the potential higher cost of a year-round health care plan.† It's not the end of the world if that happens, but it could mean some trouble for Obamacare. A lot of the new plan's success rides on whether it can attract consumers who are both young and healthy along with the older, unhealthy sect in order to keep costs affordable for everyone. If young, healthy, uninsured people decide they'd rather pay a fee than shell out hundreds of dollars per year for a health policy they doubt they'll use, leaving mostly unhealthy, older people enrolled, it could throw things out of balance and make policies more expensive.† But given the†results of this Kaiser Family Foundation†poll, in which nearly 77% of 18- to 25-year-olds said health care is very important, those worries may be overblown. What about Medicaid?† Families and individuals who earn less than 138% of the federal poverty level will still have access to Medicaid. At best, Medicaid coverage in states will be expanded under Obamacare. At worst, states will exercise their right to skip an expansion in favor of the status quo. So far, about 13 states have opted out of an expansion.†This map shows where each state stands as of June 14. We wish there were an easy way to answer this question. Because each state is in the process of submitting estimates from insurers, we can only guess at premium costs as numbers trickle in. The Wall Street Journal analyzed estimates from eight states and pretty much confirmed what experts had predicted ó that the new health care plans will be more expensive for the young and the healthy. "Healthy consumers could see insurance rates double or even triple when they look for individual coverage under the federal health law later this year, while the premiums paid by sicker people are set to become more affordable," The WSJ's Louise Radnofsky reports. Even so, there's still a chance rates could decrease over time if insurance regulators decide to lower them in order to compete in the marketplaces. And if that happens, then, well, Obamacare is officially doing its job. We've already seen that happen in Oregon, and as Politico's Jason Milliman points out, since all†rates have yet to go through the state review process, anything could happen. "The prices that many people can expect to pay, though, may remain a mystery for a few more months," he writes. "The feds, who are reviewing rates for exchange plans in more than half the states, have released limited information so far about whoís even asked to sell on federal-run insurance marketplaces, let alone what theyíd like to charge." The bottom line:†It's up to you whether or not you can afford to skip out on health care. For now, kick back and wait until the exchange opens in October until you start to worry. You can do some searching and see what rates are really out there before making your decision. Any speculation on costs before then is basically white noise as far as we're concerned.† 
APSwitzerland†ó long famous for storing money and not asking any questions†ó has been beefing up scrutiny on banks enjoying shelter in the Alpine paradise's lax regulatory structure, Businessweek reports. And foreign private banks in Switzerland are now heading for the exits. From Businessweek: The number of foreign-owned Swiss banks fell to 129 by the end of May from 145 at the start of 2012, according to data from the Association of Foreign Banks in Switzerland. Assets under management slid by a quarter to 870.7 billion Swiss francs ($921 billion) in the five years through 2012 as clients withdrew money or paid taxes on undeclared accounts, the data show. Switzerland houses 26% of global offshore wealth, or about $2.2 trillion, according to Businessweek. U.S. and EU pressure sparked the new crackdown. The U.S. has been investigating Swiss banks and units of foreign banks in the country, including that of London-based HSBC, after UBS AG (UBSN) in 2009 avoided prosecution by admitting it fostered tax evasion and delivering data on about 4,700 accounts of Americans. France and Germany have been searching for tax dodgers using data stolen from Swiss banks and also sharing some of the information with authorities in other European countries. British mortgage giant Lloyds Banking sold its international banking business to a Swiss company in May. And sources told Businessweek that more banks are reviewing their presence in Switzerland and weighing if and how to leave. Read the full report at Bloomberg Businessweek&gt;
In a financial era defined by a more visible hand of the central banks, asset classes are bouncing with great frequency between the emotional poles of euphoria and gloom.¬†As our work tends to focus on what lies ahead based on what has come before - the recent historical narrative has provided prescient context and analogy for previous asset movements echoing current market behaviors. From our perspective, climate change is here - and appears to have brought all the trauma and collateral damages we routinely find within our own backyards these days. Over the past two years we have read countless research reports, both from technical and fundamental perspectives, ¬†advocating positions in the precious metals sector - specifically, their underperforming miners. Just last December, when the XAU gold and silver index and corresponding ETF's such as GDX were twice what they currently fetch, they were heralded as great value plays by the media darlings and fast money crowd eager to catch the next wave. Thankfully, we took a less than favorable opinion on them as well as their denominating backdrops and rightfully saw them as the enormous value traps (see Here) they quickly became this past year. Today, as the sentiment pendulum within the sector has accelerated with great inertia towards the depressive side of the continuum, those same advocates who recommended positions at less than favorable valuations and vulnerable technical underpinnings have suffered such emotional and monetary duress, that they simply don't want any part of them and see further weakness on the horizon. If it wasn't so predictably tragic - it would almost be funny. While we recognize our opinion and posture for the sector has pivoted before the prevailing winds have materially shifted (see Here), this is typically the case for us - considering our process tends to be proactive towards major pivots and our timeframes old fashioned. For us, timing is a relative phrase as buying and selling into market extremes is one of the few occasions where dexterity doesn't count for much - assuming you are positioned on the right side of the tracks and are not day trading. While we can appreciate a quick intraday trade as much as the next guy, we've always found our most profitable ideas have horizons a bit longer than the average news cycle. This was the case for us in April of 2011 with silver's blatant parabolic top, and believe the same execution methodology and perspective will work on the dark side of exhaustion with a clear waterfall structure now in place. Keeping it simple ¬†- sell euphoria and buy hysteria. Certainly easier said than done, but if you step back from the emotional undercurrents that have drowned countless participants over the past two years, the structures left behind in the charts are all too obvious. Moving further down the road to the bear den we once inhabited, we see that the Nouriel Roubini's of world are likely following the same fallacies they applied towards downside targets in the equity markets in 2009, in extrapolating the culmination and capitulation of positions in precious metals - likely at or near the bottom. Far from absurd, we can recognize aspects of their logic in seeing spot prices significantly below where they currently reside. As example, we had up until recently expected the bear market in metals to extend far into 2014. What changed for us? As evident below, the value trap comparative that we have worked with this year for guidance as to how far the miners could fall relative to gold has fulfilled its proportional equivalent with the banks "generational low", circa 2009. ¬†Outside of the comparative, the correlation relationship with the banks is following the previous cycle pivot in 2000, where the banks relative to the SPX washed out before the miners relative to gold bottomed. Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Despite marching to different rhythms, it has paid very well to buy both the banks and the miners¬†when their respective ratio expressions (now flipped) have reached parabolic extremes. As noted in the first series, they have proportionally exhausted along similar lines. What is particularly interesting is the miners are completing the same exhaustion parallel that the banks navigated in the first half of 2009 - despite putting in a higher high and higher low. It had always bothered us while we were negative and short the sector that the miners had never strongly outperformed spot prices during the span of the entire bull market. Historically speaking - it was a rather large outlier. While outlandish as it seems right now - perhaps their best days are yet to come. Considering the¬†write¬†downs¬†and efficiencies now dictated by current market conditions - lean and mean for the next leg higher just may provide those conditions. Market Anthropology Back in 2011, a similar market and sentiment environment was spawned in the financial sector as the banks careened lower and tested participants moxie in the shadow of the financial crisis. As we recall, the general sentiment at the time - both within the trading and the pundit class, turned overtly bearish on the banks just as they were completing their cycle lows. The thought of buying Bank of America and Citigroup for anything more than a quick trade was seen as reckless and foolish by analysts and pundits so keen on extrapolating current market conditions forward. From a purely psychological perspective, ¬†the retest is often as difficult to navigate and appraise as the initial crisis itself - due to the long tails of the recency effect. In terms of market structure and momentum, the parallels are evident in the symmetrical and positive divergent nature of their RSI fingerprints and the deeper imprints they recorded versus even during the crisis lows in 2009. Market Anthropology For the broad equity indexes, the cascade in 2011 marked a complete retracement of gains recorded in QE2. Market Anthropology Similar to the equity indexes in 2011, gold and silver have now retraced all of their gains recorded subsequent to QE2. Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Like the financials in 2011, the more emotionally traded miners have exhibited disproportional losses to their denominating asset class. Our expectations - and similar to the financials circa October 2011, is once the retest is successfully completed, the miners will once again lead the sector higher. Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology Market Anthropology
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors Jason Zweig: Investors Are Their Own Worst Enemies (The Wall Street Journal) Jason Zweig of The Wall Street Journal writes that¬† investors who receive constant news updates on their investors have lower returns that those who don't. He also argues that investors are their own worst enemies. "One of the main reasons we are all our worst enemies as investors is that the financial universe is set up to deceive us. From financial history and from my own experience, I long ago concluded that regression to the mean is the most powerful law in financial physics: Periods of above-average performance are inevitably followed by below-average returns, and bad times inevitably set the stage for surprisingly good performance. "But humans perceive reality in short bursts and streaks, making a long-term perspective almost impossible to sustain ‚Äì and making most people prone to believing that every blip is the beginning of a durable opportunity. "My role, therefore, is to bet on regression to the mean even as most investors, and financial journalists, are betting against it. I try to talk readers out of chasing whatever is hot and, instead, to think about investing in what is not hot. Instead of pandering to investors‚Äô own worst tendencies, I try to push back. My role is also to remind them constantly that knowing what not to do is much more important than what to do. Approximately 99% of the time, the single most important thing investors should do is absolutely nothing." FINRA Reports $10.4 Million Profit In 2012 (Investment News) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) reported a profit of $10.5 million in 2012 driven by higher fees, cost cutting, and better returns on its portfolio, according to Investment News. On an operating basis, however, it posted a $89.2 million loss. This was better than the $89.8 million loss in 2011. The Chart That Says The Gold Sell-Off Still Has A Long Way To Go (Credit Suisse) Gold prices fell 23% in Q2 2013. While gold prices were up today, a chart from Credit Suisse that compared the inflation adjusted gold prices during the 70s bull market with gold prices today. A look at this chart says gold prices could tumble further. Twitter/@haller1984 Busting The Myth That Active Strategies Are Better Than Passive Ones (Index Universe) The debate over active and passive management never seems to die down. In a new piece, Larry Swedroe at Index Universe debunks a paper by American Century Investments called Six Reasons to Emphasize Active Investment Management. One reason cited in the paper is that active portfolios can outperform passive portfolios. The paper argues, "Even a simple equity portfolio, such as an equal-weight portfolio, has historically outperformed its market cap-weighted counterparts over various market cycles. The equal weighting captures an important stock price behavior, the mean-reversion."¬† Swedroe however sees three problems with this argument. 1. : "The paper confuses indexing/passive investing with the exclusive use of a total stock market fund or an S&amp;P 500 Index fund." 2. "An equal-weighted portfolio‚Äôs outperformance over a market-cap one has nothing at all to do with mean reversion." 3. "If active managers were able to persistently identify in advance which sectors/stocks were going to outperform or revert to mean, we would see evidence of persistent outperformance beyond the randomly expected." S&amp;P 500 Investors Don't Need To Freak Out About An Emerging Market Meltdown (Goldman Sachs) S&amp;P 500 companies have great exposure to international markets. But there have been growing concerns about emerging market growth and investors have been fleeing EMs. But David Kostin at Goldman Sachs says investors needn't worry too much.¬† "We believe weaker EM growth poses little risk to S&amp;P 500 earnings. We estimate roughly 5% of S&amp;P 500 revenues are derived from EM, and BEA data suggest a similar EM share of total US corporate profits. Two-thirds of S&amp;P 500 sales are domestic, making our forecast for stronger US GDP the biggest driver of our EPS growth forecasts of 11% and 8% in 2013 and 2014." Goldman Sachs
Argentina has been depleting its foreign currency reserves at an alarming rate for a while now, so President Cristina Fernandez has hatched a plan to get people to give up their dollars (the ones hidden under beds around the country and in foreign bank accounts around the world). Here's the plan (according to Bloomberg): Argentina will print dollar denominated certificates called Cedines that will trade in pesos. The hope is that will attract around $2 billion from Argentines sitting on undeclared funds (offering them amnesty from prosecution for hiding those funds at the same time) to help boost the country's $37.2 billion of foreign cash reserves ó that's a six-year low, by the way. There is a problem with this plan however, and it's that for it to work, the government will have to ensure that Cedines can be converted to dollars. From Bloomberg: Fernandez... said last year that it was unfortunate she didnít have a ìlittle machineî to print dollars...While the measure is designed to provide individuals dollar-backed claims that can be used for real estate and energy projects, Empiria Consultores says Argentines will just exchange them back for U.S. currency. ìThe deliberate intention of the government is for the Cedin to trade like a quasi-currency,î Hernan Lacunza, a former general manager of the central bank who runs research firm Empiria, said by telephone from Buenos Aires. ìPeople will probably go running to exchange them for dollars as soon as they can so the effect on reserves will be ephemeral.î So there's that.
Here's some more data from AEI's Mark Perry showing the insane surge in Texas oil production: The state now produces more than 2.4 million barrels of oil a day ‚Äî a level not seen since the mid-'80s. And it got there in the span of about two years. Here's the chart: Mark PerryAEI
Reuters' Felix Salmon wrote a harrowing story about a $200 debt he owes Citibank, and how the bank is forcing him into debt slavery for every nickel and dime of interest on that loan. It isn't that Salmon one day really needed $200 from Citibank. What happened was that on March 11th, 2013, he made a flurry of transactions (paying off credit cards etc.), and briefly overdrew his account by $112.56. Instead of taking that money from his savings account,† Citi rounded up to the nearest hundred and force fed Salmon a loan. The bank never told him about this loan, instead burying it in his statement. Then, when Salmon tried to pay off the loan in full, Citi insisted that he could only make minimum payments at an interest rate of 13.25%. From Reuters: This is a yuppie overdraft: rather than charge me $35 a pop for overdrawing my account, Citibank just rounds any negative balance up to the nearest $100, and transfers that sum over from something wonderfully called a ìChecking Plusî account. Which is what they call an overdraft line of credit. Naturally, when my paycheck arrived four days later, it went into my checking account, which is separate from my Checking Plus account . As a result, ever since then, Iíve had a steadily positive balance in my checking account which has been larger than the amount I owe on its overdraft facility. And ever since then, Citi has been quietly paying off the loan at a rate of $12 or so a month, in the hope that I would never notice it. After all, any sentient being, upon seeing this situation, would of course pay the entire loan off immediately. This, Salmon points out, is how banks are able to offer us all "free checking." Nice right? Business Insider reached out to Citigroup for comment, but have yet to hear anything. We'll keep you posted. For the full post head to Reuters ª
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTesla shares improved 9.15% today after Jefferies analyst Elaine Kwei raised her price target for the company to $130.† The stock ended the day at $117.18. Here's some of her commentary: Based on reported [calendar year to date] sales and customer VIN numbers, we believe there is likely upside to prior 2Q guidance for deliveries of 4,500 units, as well as 2013 guidance of 21,000 units. We estimate TSLA has taken 9% market share in the U.S. full-size luxury sedan market, accounting for nearly all growth in the segment. We increase our estimates and PT to $130 based on a 10-year DCF and update our EV market forecast.† Tesla's stock has more than doubled since May.
REUTERS/Stefano RellandiniUS Postal rider Lance Armstrong of the United States watches as a spectator on horseback waves the American flag.July started on a positive note after a huge wave of economic news. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
AngloGold AshantiGold prices have tumbled since their $1,900 peak in 2011. The yellow metal slumped into a bear market in April, and now prices are just above $1,200. Investors have warned that the correction in gold prices has meant that miners are producing gold at cost or are losing money. Last year, CNBC's Bob Pisani traveled to South Africa to show us how gold goes from particles to gold bars. He followed¬†AngloGold Ashanti's gold mining process from start to finish. Workers there pull up 5000 metric tons of earth per day, which yields as much as 1,700 ounces in gold. Pisani also visited the Rand Refinery, which has refined nearly a third of the gold mined since 1920.  In light of the recent sell-off in gold, we decided to revisit Pisani's tour of the gold mine and see just how complicated and dangerous the process is.  Note: Simone Foxman wrote the original version of this feature.
Legendary hedge fund manager James Simons has caught the ire of Wall Street's friends at the IRS by using a tax cutting strategy¬† known as basket options contracts, Bloomberg reports. Simons, a Cold War code breaker turned billionaire and founder of quant firm Renaissance Technologies, has been using the strategy on his $10 billion flagship Medallion fund, according to people with knowledge of the situation. One former Renaissance employee said the IRS contacted him to let him know he may have to pay $90,000 in additional taxes. (Woof) The employee was then assured, by his former employer, that the practice was perfectly legal and used by a bunch of hedge funds. Here's how basket options contracts work: By nature, firms like Renaissance do not hold investments for a long time, but wages and investments held for less than a year are taxed at a rate of 39.6%. Those held for 2 years or more, on the other hand, are charged at the 20% capital gains rate. So to turn those short term investments in to long term investments, foreign banks like Deutsche Bank and Barclays buy a basket of securities that hedge funds want to sell. Then they hire the hedge funds to oversee that portfolio. Then the fund (in this case Medallion) buys a two year option linked to the portfolio (from Bloomberg): Medallion could claim it owned just one asset -- the option -- which it held for more than a year, allowing any gain to be treated as ‚Äúlong-term‚Äù when its investors reported the income on their personal tax returns... Tax planners started using derivatives to convert hedge funds‚Äô short-term gains to long-term gains in the 1990s, said Alex Raskolnikov, a tax professor at Columbia University Law School. Congress tried to close the loophole in 1999, enacting a law allowing the IRS to disregard the tax effect of some derivatives, such as swaps and forwards, if they were economically akin to owning the fund directly. The IRS wrote a memo about this practice in 2010, and called it an "end run". A Renaissance spokesman declined to comment saying that ‚Äúthe dispute is ongoing and being handled in the appropriate forum.‚Äù For the full story, head to Bloomberg&gt;
via Flightaware.comThe Fourth of July is almost here and that means Wall Streeters will be heading east to the Hamptons.¬† They won't all be driving or taking the train or the jitney.¬†Instead, some of them will fly just because they can. We've been keeping an eye on the airport traffic at the East Hampton Airport (KHTO) via FlightAware.com. There's a lot of activity there and we expect it will be picking up more in the coming days.¬† What's more is you can also look up who owns the plane or helicopter on the FAA's data base using the "n-number." During our search, we found a Bell 430, a twin-engine helicopter (N432HF),¬†partly owned by hedge fund/private equity firm Tiger Global.¬† Tiger Global's founder¬†Chase Coleman is not on the flight, though.¬† It's scheduled to take off at 5:23 p.m. EDT from Newark and land at 6:17 p.m. EDT, according to FlightAware.com.¬† The other owners of the helicopter include Wells Fargo Bank Northwest NA Trustee, Mark B. Grier, Greenfield Rotorcraft Holdings, Joseph S. Plumeri, Park Avenue Helicopter, Bristol-Meyers Squibb and Air Bon Jovi, FAA records show.¬†You can see photos of the helicopter here &gt; Check out the helicopter's FAA registration (Click to enlarge):¬†¬† via FAA
Last week, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of "Trading Places," the greatest movie about finance ever made, with an oral history of the film. There are so many unforgettable moments. But we wanted to zero in on what is arguably the most complicated, real-life climax in cinematic history, because a lot of people get confused about what actually happened. Earlier in the film, Mortimer and Randolph Duke, the two corrupt, septuagenarian brothers who run a commodities brokerage house, arrange to get an advanced copy of the USDA's monthly orange crop report. These crop reports are real, and you can find a calendar of them here. The report the Dukes receive indicates extensive damage to the Florida orange crop, due to a hard freeze. So they order their agent to buy a ton of orange juice futures right before the data is officially announced, on the premise that the freeze will cause a shortage of oranges and the value of the contracts to surge. But Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy) and Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) ó who has lost his job at the brokerage ó catch wind of the scheme, and deliver a fake report to the Dukes. It confirms what they want to hear, that the crop was badly damaged. In fact, the real crop report showed that the freeze wasn't that bad. Not knowing the real crop data, the Dukes plan is to book as many orders for high bids as possible ó "corner the market" (which in real life, thanks to new regulations, is now either illegal or extremely difficult to pull off). Let's see how the scheme unfolds: Here's their floor broker, Wilson, set to pull off what he thinks is a foolproof moneymaking trade. He's been instructed to buy Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice futures non-stop until the crop report comes out.  Meanwhile, Winthorpe and Billy Ray will book contracts at a price the floor thinks undervalues how much a given contract is worth. This is also known as short selling. ††  But they need to time this correctly. They need to get the price to go as high as possible to maximize the power of their short, while still leaving time before the crop report is published to book as many orders as possible. If the price were to actually rise, they'd owe the floor tons of money. But since they know the crop report will show no hard freeze, implying bountiful oranges and lower prices, they stand to make a fortune once the true price is revealed.  Eventually, Winthorpe decides the time is right, and calls out that they are selling contracts for ¢142. Again, the floor will want to lock in that price because they think the report will cause the price to go even higher. Netflix The crop report comes out, the tables are turned. The harsh winter did NOT hurt the crop.  There are plenty of oranges out there, and the price is going to come way down. So now everyone is desperate to sell out of their sky-high contracts. Netflix Winthorpe and Billy Ray now wait again for the price to come back down, to max out the spread between what the floor bought the contracts for initially, and the price at which they can buy the orders back. Netflix Finally, they must also not take the post-report sell orders from the Dukes, to maximally screw them over. Netflix Eventually the price settles at†¢29: Netflix The Dukes are ruined. They were buying all the way up, but the prices in the end collapsed. Netflix And Winthorpe and Billy Ray are the ones who've made out like bandits: Netflix (h/t†TradingPitBlog,†WiseBread†StraightDope, and DangerousLogic for guidance)
Commodities are rallying today. After finishing Q2 down 23%, gold futures posted their biggest gain in nine weeks. This was driven by chatter that the slump in gold prices was driving demand for gold. The slump in gold first began in April and the precious metal is well off its 52-week high of $1,804. Commodities also seem to have been given a boost by the manufacturing data that was released overnight. Here's a quick look: Here's an intra-day chart of gold: Fin Viz
In the second quarter of 2013, gold posted one of its worst quarterly declines ever, losing 23% of its value. The shiny yellow metal endured two brutal liquidations in Q2 ‚Äì the first came in early April, and the second has played out over much of June. After falling as low as $1184 an ounce on June 27, the metal is arguably looking oversold. (Today, it's up 2.6%, and is now trading around $1256.) The big question, of course, is whether the bleeding in the gold market has stopped for now. Those still bearish on the metal, even at these levels, are probably looking at the chart below, provided by Credit Suisse analysts (via David Hall), who have been among the most bearish toward gold on Wall Street. The chart compares the real price of gold (adjusted for consumer price inflation) during the bull market of the 1970s and subsequent unwind to today's experience. By this measure, at least, gold may have further to fall. Twitter/@haller1984
 MikeBehnken via Compfight ccCalifornia is projected to have its first budget surplus in years by 2014. It has so much money, in fact, that†it doesn't know what to do with it. But now it's already on the verge of blowing this rare window of fiscal stability, according to S&amp;P analysts†Gabriel Petek and David Hitchcock. In a new note, they warn the state for going against Gov. Jerry Brown's recommendation to retire debt and choosing instead to restart funding. Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services believes the higher-than-expected cash receipts presented the state an opportunity to accelerate its plans for retiring the $26.9 billion in budget liabilities that remain leftover from prior years' deficits. Compared with what the governor recommended in May, however, the final budget agreement moves in the other direction, decelerating somewhat the repayment of a portion of these debts. They say the state has exchanged a $650 million deferral repayment for a $500 million one-time spending measure, along with $150 million in new ongoing education spending. † "Although the repayment shift is relatively modest in our view, and the [department of finance] still forecasts retiring all of the education deferrals by the end of fiscal 2016, we believe it could set a precedent for similar delays in the future," they write. The pair note this was made possible in part by a Sacramento quirk: The legislature gets to negotiate the revenue estimates used in the budget: Whereas more than half the states have independent revenue estimating bodies, California allows political negotiations to influence the revenue number assumed in the budget. As the recently concluded cycle demonstrates, the revenue estimates themselves have sometimes become subject to negotiations in California. They conclude by bemoaning the state's weak flesh:  With limited resources, we believe the presence of the budget liabilities impedes the state from making meaningful progress on its longer-term liabilities, particularly its retiree health care and teachers' pension liabilities.  But by enacting even small new ongoing spending commitments this year -- which could increase future year expenses -- we detect a softening of resolve when it comes to paying down the internal debts.  There is also a potential cascade effect. We believe that by opening the door to new programs while waiting for future (uncertain) revenue to repay some internal debts, the state delays, or jeopardizes altogether, its ability to confront the long-term liabilities.
ScreenshotMarissa Mayer sits pretty with her high Yahoo salary.Which tech executives bring home the bacon? The New York Times put together a list of the 200 highest paid executives in the world. Twenty-eight of them run tech companies. Marissa Mayer and Larry Ellison are some of the highest paid individuals. Activision Blizzard's Robert Kotick makes the highest base salary which exceeds $2 million, although he's not the highest paid overall. Surprisingly, Tim Cook and Mark Zuckerberg didn't make the cut.
Michael Buholzer/ReutersGlencore ‚Äî an¬†incredibly powerful and clandestine commodities trading firm ‚Äî has a global¬†network spanning 40 countries. Reuters once called it "the biggest company you've never heard of." But Glencore is the legacy of someone you have heard of, controversial businessman exile Marc Rich, who passed away last week. Rich had¬†a life story a Bond villain would envy: Plush villas, fine art, the requisite business deals with unsavory foreign regimes, and even a presidential pardon. Glencore Xstrata came out of a firm that he founded in the 1970s after making a killing trading oil during the 1973 embargo. From that day to now, Glencore has been controversial, to say the least ‚Äî from allegations of kickbacks for Iraqi oil, to doing business in apartheid South Africa, to contributing to serious pollution in Zambia. One thing is without question, though. With almost $240 billion in revenue last year, Glencore is filthy rich.
(AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)You can‚Äôt be certain that too many things in life will absolutely, positively happen to you. I can count my own list on one hand: Those are ‚Äúlife events‚Äù that I deem inevitable. But what about career events in your life that will also make a long-term impact? If you‚Äôre thinking about a career in investment banking, corporate finance, or anything else with ‚Äúinvestment‚Äù or ‚Äúfinance‚Äù in its title, there‚Äôs one question that will come up repeatedly once you‚Äôve completed undergrad and just before your hair begins to recede or you add pounds that you just can‚Äôt seem to shed‚Ä¶ ‚ÄúShould I go back to business school?‚Äù Before you commit yourself to two years of drudgery and drinking, you may want to think long and hard about your decision before you take the plunge ‚Äì unless you want to ruin your own life, of course. Remember When Business School Had Value? I don‚Äôt. When business school offered a great ROI, I was still playing home run derby with the neighborhood kids in my backyard. As formal education became less of a luxury and more of a necessity over the years, almost all graduate institutions saw an increase in applications. Over time, more and more professionals began to seek business degrees from the top schools in the world to boost their intellectual capital and their future earnings potential‚Ä¶ So it was only a matter of time before other educational institutions with lesser reputations started to take advantage of that trend. After all, everyone wants more responsibility, prestige, and pay, but not everyone can get into the top schools. Enter part-time business programs, for-profit schools offering business degrees, online graduate schools, Executive MBA and distance education programs, just to name a few. The US alone has more than 600 ‚Äúbusiness schools,‚Äù but not all of these are officially accredited in business by the AACSB ‚Äì and even fewer are entered into the composite rankings for US News, The Economist, Financial Times, and Bloomberg Businessweek. As if choosing to attend business school weren‚Äôt already difficult enough, choosing the right program seems to multiply the pressure. And in the ranks of finance, it‚Äôs becoming less and less common to have only a bachelor‚Äôs degree ‚Äì unless you already have an amazing network, specialized training, a prominent certification, or something else that sets you apart. But if you‚Äôre not careful, you could end up making a very costly mistake ‚Äì not only in terms of money, but also in terms of opportunity cost, personal sacrifice, and your own life over 2 years. Usually, attending the right business school is a net positive. But there are dozens of ways that it could turn into a disaster instead ‚Äì five of which I‚Äôll go into below: 1. Congratulations! You Now Owe More Than $150K+ USD in Student Loans. Here‚Äôs the short and blunt version: if you are not attending a top business school and you have your sights set on investment banking or private equity and you‚Äôre paying for the program yourself, you‚Äôre making a big mistake. Sure, if you worked in marketing for a few years, then you go to Harvard Business School and take out that $150K loan, but you land an offer at a hedge fund afterward, your earnings could easily be a multiple of what you paid in only a few years. Just one problem, though: both top business schools and those ranked well into the #80‚Äôs and #90‚Äôs cost the same amount ($50K+ per year)‚Ä¶ and the lower-tier schools offer nowhere near the ROI that a top business school can provide. So if you have your heart set on making a ‚Äúcareer change‚Äù into a field like investment banking or private equity but you can‚Äôt get into one of the top business schools, well, you probably want to reconsider your plans before you end up with a $150K liability. Before you sign your life away for student loans, ALWAYS do your due diligence and weigh your expected return against your initial investment. Yes, there are some paths into high-paying jobs that don‚Äôt involve attending top schools (see below), but you have to be very careful about what the school claims vs. what students there actually experience. Student loans are serious debt contracts that can burden your life well into planning for your first child‚Äôs education ‚Äì and if you‚Äôre not careful, you could ruin your life before your career has even begun. 2.¬†‚ÄúI Got My Degree From a Top Business School. I Make a Lot of Money. I Hate My Life.‚Äù How many times have you heard, ‚ÄúDo what you love, and if you do, you never work a day in your life?‚Äù Someone should have also branded the saying, ‚ÄúChase the money after business school instead of what you really want to do, and you‚Äôll be on heart medication in no time.‚Äù Yes, business school is expensive, but if you crafted a plan prior to entering, then you knew the costs going in and accepted the challenge. You should have already planned out what you were going to do afterward before you even began applying to schools ‚Äì otherwise, you‚Äôll feel pressured to take a job because it pays well or because you are chasing the prestige of working for a particular company. I can almost guarantee that you‚Äôll be miserable if you don‚Äôt take the time to think about what you want to do and where you want to do it long in advance. Then it‚Äôs only a matter of time before you quit, get fired, pick up a drug habit, or begin your prescription medication for medical-related problems brought on by stress and depression. NOTE: This is not a contradiction of point #1 above because, believe it or not, there are jobs that don‚Äôt induce as much misery as some of the options discussed on this site. Also, there are ways to reduce the cost if you‚Äôre attending a lower-ranked school (e.g. scholarships can be more common) and aren‚Äôt necessarily using it to move into finance. 3.¬†‚ÄúI‚Äôm in Business School to Create a Better Future for Myself. Why do I Want to Cry All the Time?‚Äù Choosing to attend business school means accepting a personal challenge. Life does not stop simply because you chose to attend business school and, unfortunately, it also means that every aspect of your personal life will be probably be compromised to some degree. You‚Äôre hungry? Great. Get used to cooking ‚Äì for the time being, no silver tuna. You‚Äôre tired? Great. Sleep in the library ‚Äì your apartment is only a place for you to put your belongings. You‚Äôre emotionally unstable because of the workload and interview slate? Great. Call up one of your close friends and let it out. That is, if they pick up given that you‚Äôve virtually ignored them since you arrived on campus. Your health is deteriorating? Great. Try running to class in the morning ‚Äì given that you studied or drank until 3 AM last night, you could use it. Your relationship is hanging on by a thread? Great. Cry in between employer information sessions and make an appointment to see the nearest bartender once your classes end for the day. Simply put ‚Äì get ready to do the best unicycle and juggling act you‚Äôve ever attempted. Although your professional life could be headed in the right direction, your personal life could be in shambles if you don‚Äôt work to actively maintain it. Oh, and unlike an investment banker, you won‚Äôt even get paid for this juggling act. 4.¬†You Work So Hard That You Don‚Äôt Learn Anything. This varies quite a lot depending on the school you select. Business school is a marathon and if you don‚Äôt pace yourself, the workload, interview slate, club activities, and everything else associated with school can overwhelm and ultimately trample you. But despite rumors of everyone drinking 24/7, there‚Äôs still a huge amount of work to be completed, which means that there‚Äôs no way you can focus 100% on every single class (well, unless you want to miss the on-campus recruiting and activities). If you‚Äôre focused on finance, the optimal choices are obvious: accounting, financial markets, and investment-related courses should all be top priority. And you also need to take personal time out of your days to do ancillary reading and really master the material. For the other courses you may not be so excited about, you‚Äôll set your study schedule to ‚Äúautopilot.‚Äù You may just need to ‚Äústudy for the test,‚Äù and then do a mind-dump afterward to make mental space for the next class or the more relevant material. I fully support this idea ‚Äì and if your professor enjoys cold calling during class, I suggest Adderall. 5.¬†Business School is Going to Make My Career! Yeah, that won‚Äôt happen. If you were intelligent, hardworking, resourceful, and intellectually curious prior to business school, you will be the same person after ‚Äì just with a piece of paper that confirms what you already possessed. If you were ‚Äúsecond string‚Äù before business school, you will probably remain second round talent unless you worked diligently to change your habits, applied yourself, and used your time in business school to become a better professional. But business school is just a name. It may matter in terms of where you start your career, but your performance record and personal network will carry a lot more weight down the road. People from top schools still fail at start-ups, still get laid off and¬†fired, still get passed over for promotions, and still get overworked and abused (figuratively or literally) all the time. No top-tier name insulates you from any of this. So, How Do You Avoid Ruining Your Life with Business School? Most of this boils down to ‚Äúdip your toes in the water before you jump into the deep end of the pool.‚Äù But I‚Äôll be more specific: Determine Your Goals Before You Even Apply The most common ‚Äúruin your life in 3 easy steps‚Äù situation I‚Äôve seen goes something like this: In this case, the solution is simple: don‚Äôt go to business school if you can‚Äôt get into a top program. Of course, there are other reasons you might attend a lower-ranked school anyway: Both of those are potentially good reasons to take the leap, but you need to figure out all of this well in advance. And If You Can‚Äôt Get Into a Top School‚Ä¶ Yes, it‚Äôs true that most large investment banks and mega-funds recruit primarily at the top schools and that you‚Äôll have a very difficult time getting in if you‚Äôre not at one of them‚Ä¶ But if you‚Äôre interested in going into a field like asset management, you don‚Äôt necessarily need to go to a Top 10/15 school to have a good shot at getting in. The same applies if you‚Äôre OK with working at a smaller fund of any type, or moving into a corporate development or corporate finance role at a normal company, or a lot of options outside of pure IB/PE. Here‚Äôs what the ‚Äúdecision tree‚Äù looks like: Do Your Own Due Diligence by‚Ä¶ Talking to Real People No, ‚Äúsearching online‚Äù or reading anonymous accounts from strangers on message boards does not count as doing serious research on business school. If it is not one of the top 10-15 schools that large companies recruit at, you really need to go there in-person and talk to real students to see how well they‚Äôre doing. Since there are hundreds of ‚Äúbusiness schools‚Äù these days, it‚Äôs increasingly difficult to separate the wheat from the chaff. And there‚Äôs no way to do that until you visit and see what‚Äôs happening on the ground. Easing the Juggling Act There isn‚Äôt much you can do about the ‚Äújuggling act‚Äù unless you can eliminate some of what you‚Äôre required to do each day. Students sponsored by their companies have a big advantage here because they don‚Äôt have to balance recruiting on top of activities, classes, and everything else. Assuming that you are interested in leveraging business school to recruit at other companies, though, the best way to ease this juggling act is extreme focus. Don‚Äôt join 25 activities and also recruit for 10 different roles across 5 industries ‚Äì if you cut back and focus on only 2-3 you‚Äôll get much better results and you might even preserve a drop or two of your sanity and pre-existing personal life. The same applies to classes: while you have to get the work done, putting 100% of your effort into all your classes is rarely a good use of time. Don‚Äôt Assume an MBA is the Answer to Everything (or Anything) This one goes back to a point made on this site years ago: yes, you can re-brand yourself with an MBA, but you can‚Äôt just jump into a random program and expect to get results from it without doing anything prior to enrolling: An MBA may not be the answer to everything ‚Äì or to anything ‚Äì but it also doesn‚Äôt have to ruin your life. And with the right planning, it just might be one of the few things that absolutely, positively makes a positive career impact on you. Exeter Jones¬†is a philosopher trapped inside the body of a writer, trapped inside the body of an alternative investment analyst. He‚Äôs worked in investment banking and alternative investments and his favorite breakfast food is ESPN.

Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderSteinway Musical Instruments is about to be taken private in a $438 million deal with an affiliate of Kohlberg &amp; Company, a private equity investment firm. Last year we toured the Steinway &amp; Sons factory in Astoria. The company is a subsidiary of Steinway Musical Instruments with two factories: one in New York, the other in Hamburg. Click here to jump straight to the photos &gt; Steinway prides itself on having retained manufacturing jobs in the U.S. since all its Grand pianos are made here. It does however manufacture and market its two lower end Boston and Essex pianos in Asia. Sales for the company were hit in the New York area and across the world during the recession, with 'hobbyist' buyers cutting back on spending. At the time, Steinway cut a third of its New York staff, reducing the Astoria factory head count to 215, from about 300. But the New York market recovered quickly. In fact, in 2011 the company sold 2,013 Grand pianos, not including upright pianos. In the last decade the company averaged about 3,300 grand pianos a year.
The second quarter just ended, which mean Q2 corporate earnings season will begin in just two weeks. Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley's top U.S. equity strategist, has long argued that earnings growth expectations need to come down. And perhaps this will be the season when we get the news needed to get those forecasts down. "[S]econd quarter earnings season is just around the corner and we think it will be more critical than normal," wrote Parker in a new note to clients.† "Why? Because unlike earlier this year, we now think ìgood is good and bad is bad,î meaning the fundamentals will be in focus." For a while, many have argued that bad news was good because that meant that Fed would be increasingly likely to extend monetary stimulus, which has been attributed to strength in the stock markets. "Downward earnings revisions have persisted in recent months with 7 of 10 GICS sectors seeing lower estimates over the last 3 months, and we continue to believe estimates have further to fall. Analysts are embedding 7% earnings growth in 2013 to $111 per share, followed by 11% growth in 2014 to $123 per share. Our top-down estimates are more mutedó $103 and $110 of earnings per share in 2013 and 2014, respectively." Here's what Parker will be looking for in the earnings announcements: What we will be watching this earnings season: Revenue and Earnings: After beating on earnings but missing on revenues in Q1 (Exhibit 2), can companies beat consensus Q2 estimates on both revenue and earnings? Guidance: Do we see a slowdown in the rate of negative forward guidance?††† Capital Spending: Are companies in technology and industrials seeing capacity constraints, growing order backlogs, tight inventories?†† †Fed Tapering / Interest Rates: Are non-financials focused on the recent moves in the yield curve?†† †Foreign Exchange: Has the year-to-date move in the Japanese yen, in particular, had a material effect? Domestic Demand: Do we see an early indication of the expected second-half bounce-back in US economic growth and is that reflected in guidance?
JP Morgan, Markit The world's biggest economies have published their June manufacturing PMI reports. This is our scorecard. "Solid rates of expansion were signalled by the PMIs for the US, Japan, the UK, Russia, Switzerland and Mexico. Meanwhile, the downturn in the eurozone continued to ease," noted Markit and JP Morgan. "China, Taiwan, South Korea and Vietnam also reported contractions during the latest survey period." The global aggregate manufacturing PMI index was unchanged at 50.6 in June. "Job losses were reported in the global manufacturing sector for the first time in seven months during June, although the rate of reduction was only slight," added Markit and JPM. "Staffing levels were lowered in China (joint-fastest reduction in over four years), Brazil, Vietnam, Switzerland and Poland, and were broadly unchanged in the US, the UK and South Korea. One of the brighter spots was Japan, where employment rose at the quickest pace since May last year." This may be the most closely watched round of PMI reports in a long time as global economic growth hangs in the balance. Last month, we learned that manufacturing activity was just above stagnation. The chart on the right from Markit summarizes all of the May and April PMI reports. In recent weeks, volatility has returned to the the global financial markets as the Federal Reserve has signaled it could soon taper its stimulative¬† bond-buying program.¬† But any action would be conditioned on ongoing improvement in the U.S. economic data. Abroad, China's massive economy has shown signs of slowing as credit conditions have become tighter. Meanwhile in Western Europe, the economies continue to be deeply troubled. However, they are also showing signs of improvement. PMI At the beginning of each month, Markit, HSBC, RBC, JP Morgan, and several other major data gathering institutions publish the latest local readings of the manufacturing¬†purchasing managers index (PMI) for countries around the world. PMI is one of the best leading indicators of the economy.¬† Each reading is based on surveys of hundreds of companies. Read more about it at Markit. These are not the most closely followed data points. However, the power of the insights is unparalleled. Jim O'Neill, the former Goldman Sachs economist, believes the PMI numbers are among the most reliable economic indicators in the world. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks it's one of the most underrated indicators. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- June 28 (All Times ET) June 30, July 1
Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderSteinway Musical Instruments is being acquired by an affiliate of Kohlberg &amp; Company, a private equity investment firm, for about $438 million.¬† The public company will go private once the acquisition is complete.¬† The Steinway &amp; Sons factory in Queens, New York is a subsidiary of Steinway Musical Instruments. Our agreement with Kohlberg represents an exceptional valuation for our shareholders, while also representing an important next step in the growth of Steinway," said Michael Sweeney, Chairman and interim CEO of the Company in the press release. We previously reported that during the recession Steinway cut the Astoria factory headcount to 215, from about 300. In the last decade the company averaged about 3,300 grand pianos a year. At the time Steinway's president Ron Losby said he expected the company to return to that figure soon.
m_dougherty via flickr The latest ISM survey results on the health of the American manufacturing sector are out, and the report contains mostly good news. (Production and new orders are both growing, and the rate of growth for both accelerated in June. Same goes for imports and exports.) Despite seemingly improving conditions, the ISM report's employment sub-index sank to 48.7 in June from 50.1, marking the lowest level since September 2009. Any reading below 50 on the index indicates contraction, so the 48.7 ISM employment print suggests that in June, employment contracted at the fastest level in nearly four years. Both stocks and bonds are moving higher on the release. Lately, good economic data have been bad news for the bond market because good data suggest that the Federal Reserve may be closer to ending its open-ended bond buying program. Given that bonds aren't selling off, it could be that the market is pricing in quantitative easing over a marginally longer timeframe than before, given that the labor market comprises the most important set of economic indicators influencing the Fed. "The report smacks of recovering health for the broader economy, yet on the other hand, the labor market continues its struggle," says Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Economic Strategist at Miller Tabak. "But let‚Äôs not overplay this theory because, as we have recently noted, manufacturing activity accounts for only a small portion of the economy and employment gains often come secondary to plants simply levering up to meet firmer demand."
The S&amp;P 500 is a great index for U.S. investors because its constituents offer some great international exposure. But in recent weeks, there has been some concerns arising in the emerging markets.† With interest rates on the rise, investors have been yanking out their funds from the EMs at a breakneck pace. Earlier today, we got more evidence that China was slowing as interest rates rise in the region. So where does that leave investors exposed to the S&amp;P 500? Goldman Sachs' David Kostin doesn't think you need to be too worried. "We believe weaker EM growth poses little risk to S&amp;P 500 earnings," he wrote in a new note to clients. "We estimate roughly 5% of S&amp;P 500 revenues are derived from EM, and BEA data suggest a similar EM share of total US corporate profits. Two-thirds of S&amp;P 500 sales are domestic, making our forecast for stronger US GDP the biggest driver of our EPS growth forecasts of 11% and 8% in 2013 and 2014." Kostin is one of the most bullish strategists on Wall Street, forecast the S&amp;P 500 to hit 1,750 by the end of the year. Goldman Sachs
Markets have calmed down since the spasmic trading from a couple of weeks ago, when Ben Bernanke's "taper" talk sent interest rates spiking, and stocks diving. Still, there's a lot of talk about what exactly happened, and what it all meant. In an email blast to clients this weekend, SocGen's Kit Juckes summarized the debate and discussion: ¬†The weekend press has seen a caravanserai of commentators question either the markets' understanding of what Ben said, or Ben's understanding of markets, or both. Gavyn Davies, Paul Krugman, Phillip Coggan, the Guardian, the FT, and more. The basic line is that markets over-reacted and the Fed needs to be careful. And despite one of the aforementioned having a Nobel prize in economics, I mostly disagree with the interpretation.¬† I may only be a fool on a hill, but if markets go a bit crazy when the Fed merely invites us to imagine what might happen if they stop buying bonds, I think that is rock solid evidence of over-correlated positions. The Fed is right to try and let some air out of the balloon. Back off now, and we'll really be in trouble. The best explanation for what happened comes from Felix Salmon, who notes that the "taper" is just the McGuffin, and that the real story is what's happening in the Fed Funds Futures market, which, post-Bernanke, has really moved up its date for expectations of the first rate hike. This chart comes from Goldman Sachs: Goldman Sachs Says Felix: Put another way, you and I and Ben Bernanke might think that QE works because when you drop money from helicopters and that money is used to buy bonds and take them out of circulation, the price of those bonds goes up and their yield goes down. But in fact, the main reason that yields fell has nothing to do with the mechanistic consequences of buying bonds ‚Äî as generations of investors have found out, buying up assets generally has only a very short-term and modest effect on the price of those assets. Rather, QE turns out to be a surprisingly effective way of signalling to the market that rates are going to stay at zero for a very long time. And when you say that QE isn‚Äôt likely to stay in place much longer, the market takes that as tantamount to saying that rates are not going to stay at zero for nearly as long as they had thought. This is the story. People see the "taper" as a signal of a rate hike not that far behind it. The Fed has tried to dissuade people from that notion (through the press and through speeches) but that's why the market got worked over.
Google FinanceMarkets are staging a nice rally to start the first day of the first month of the second half of¬† the year. We just learned that the ISM manufacturing index climbed to 50.9, after dipping to 49.5 in May. This signals a return to expansion in the sector. Overnight, we also saw a return to optimism among Japan's large manufacturers as measured by the Tankan survey. Across Europe, manufacturing PMI reports continued to show improvement.
ISM The June ISM manufacturing report is out. The headline index rose to 50.9 in June from 49.0 in May, beating economists' consensus prediction for a smaller rise to 50.5. Any number above 50 on the index signals expansion, so today's release indicates that American manufacturing pivoted from contraction to expansion last month. Most sub-indices of the report saw solid gains ‚Äì new orders and production both crossed into expansion mode, while imports and exports both jumped as well. However, the employment sub-index did the opposite, falling to 48.7 in June from 50.1 in May, marking the lowest reading since September 2009. Below are what various respondents to the ISM survey are saying: Click here for the full release &gt; ¬†
REUTERS/Nikki KahnConstruction spending missed expectations in May, rising 0.5% month-over-month. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a 0.6% rise. Construction spending was up 5.4% from a year ago. April's number was revised down to show a 0.1% rise, compared with an initial reading of 0.4%. Private residential construction was up 1.2% MoM and 23.1% year-over-year (YoY). Meanwhile, public residential construction was up 1.6% MoM and 4.1% YoY. Overall residential construction was up 1.2% on the month and 22.7% on the year. Investors watch this number because it offers insights into the housing market and into homebuilder stocks. It also helps gauge the health of the economy as companies and the government invest in new infrastructure when they are feeling confident about the economy.
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidNEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors in David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital Management's offshore gold fund were down 11.8 percent in June, bringing their year-to-date losses in the fund to 20 percent, two sources close to the matter said on Sunday. Einhorn, one of the most widely followed hedge fund managers and known for warning about Lehman Brothers' precarious finances before it collapsed, has also seen his flagship $8 billion Greenlight Capital fund under recent pressure though it is still up for the year. In June, Greenlight's flagship portfolio was down 1.1 percent but still up net 7.4 percent year to date, according to one of the sources. Einhorn, largely known for going both long and short on stocks, formed the Greenlight gold fund to include the same investment strategy as the main fund but offers a share class backed by physical gold. The gold fund, with a minimum investment of $1 million, had $929 million under management and 266 investors as of March, according to a recent regulatory filing. The sources said the fund's dollar-denominated class represents a "majority" of the gold fund and is up 7.1 percent for the year. The remainder is in the gold-denominated class, which is down 11.8 percent in June alone and 20 percent so far this year. That's consistent with the sector's plunge this year. The gold-denominated fund gives Greenlight investors exposure to gold through the fund's investments, then reprices them in gold as opposed to U.S. dollars. Gold, which fell below $1,200 an ounce on Thursday for the first time in three years, posted its largest quarterly loss in at least 45 years amid fears the U.S. Federal Reserve may wind down its stimulus program. After Friday's rally of 2.3 percent, gold is still 23 percent lower for the second quarter, its biggest decline since at least 1968, according to Reuters data. Einhorn has said he prefers investing in gold bars, as opposed to the popular gold exchange-traded fund, SPDR Gold Shares &lt;GLD.P&gt;, partly to have better control over his investment and keep a lid on trading expenses. In 2009, Einhorn said at the annual Value Investing Congress that he was holding gold as a hedge for what he described as unsound U.S. policies. "If monetary and fiscal policies go awry," investors should buy physical gold and gold stocks, he said at time. "Gold does well when monetary and fiscal policies are poor and does poorly when they are sensible." This March, a month before the big April swoon in gold prices, the Greenlight Gold fund completed a financing deal with HSBC for an unspecified sum, according to a financing statement. The fund also has a financing agreement with Goldman Sachs. Einhorn's dedicated gold fund will not be the only portfolio in the $2.2 trillion hedge fund industry that got burned in June from an investment in precious metals. In April, a dedicated gold fund managed by John Paulson was down about 27 percent, bringing the year-to-date decline at 47 percent. Soon after, Paulson, who is the largest investor in the fund, limited the release of performance figures for his gold fund, worried it was getting too much attention in the media. Earlier this year, the Paulson gold fund had about $700 million in assets. Paulson also invests in gold miners and in the gold ETF for his Advantage funds, which have about $5 billion in assets. Einhorn's flagship fund also invests in gold. Earlier this year, the manager listed gold as one of the five largest positions in the fund. Reuters previously reported that Einhorn stores some of his gold in a secure facility in Queens, New York. Dan Loeb's $12 billion Third Point firm also had a sizable position in physical gold in his portfolios but people familiar with the matter said he exited the positions in the spring. An investor with Loeb who did not want to be identified said the Third Point Partners fund fell 1.7 percent in June, but was still up 13.2 percent for the year. (Additional reporting by Matthew Goldstein; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El GhanyThe first of the month is key for markets as we get manufacturing data from around the world that gives us an insight into the health of the global economy. But Robert Savage at FX Concepts says there were three news stories this weekend that were more important than the PMI reports.
Over the last several weeks Wall Street has learned a powerful and painful lesson: Sometimes nothing is safe. Call them what you want to ó Top Dogs, Smart Money, Heavyweights ó these are the kings, and their castles are crumbling. Funds that looked bulletproof are getting smoked. Ray Dalio's famous 'All Weather' fund is down 8% for the year. The top performer of 2012 is down 5.66% for the year as of last week. Market gurus may try to make what's happening sound complicated, but it's really not. In fact, what's going on can be explained in two big market and investing themes. The first theme is the overall effect of the Federal Reserve's change in policy and what it's doing to risk across asset classes. The second theme is an age-old debate about how people should structure their investments in general. First the Fed. After Bernanke announced that the Fed would gradually reduce purchase of Treasuries, the market has become unrecognizable. Interest rates on the 10-year Treasury note have leaped to 2.5% from 1.93% in early May. Investors are selling bonds like crazy, and hedge funds with exposure to credit markets ó like Metacapital Management, the best performer of 2012 which made mortgage backed arbitrage its cornerstone† ó are suddenly losers. Bond mutual funds and exchange traded funds (ETFs) have seen record monthly redemptions of $61.7 billion through June 24th, according to Bloomberg. Meanwhile, the stock market has been a whipsaw. In early April the S&amp;P 500 hit 2007 highs (1575), climbing steadily until Bernanke's speech on the 19th, when it decided to take us all on a ride. That's when if fell and kept falling almost 5%. At the beginning of last week traders were starting to think this was the new normal, and then all of a sudden, over the past three days the S&amp;P rallied 2.7%. This is the return of volatility. It had been kept bottled up, and now it's on the loose to wreak havoc on investors who thought they knew what they were doing. As U.K. hedge fund manager Hugh Hendry put it in a note (via Zero Hedge): The invisible regime of low volatility and low correlations that had been so supportive of risk markets for at least the last year started to become unhinged... As cross-asset correlations rose, the Fund became less diversified. What that means in plain English is that assets that once had nothing to do with one another started exhibiting the same behaviors. Hendry' fund is down 2.1%. Some of the calls that he made earlier this spring, like going long Japanese equities, turned against him. That brings us to the second theme ó the debate about investing being played out in markets right now. It goes something like this: Old school portfolio managers like Jack Bogle's Vanguard maintain that a 60/40 portfolio (60% stocks, 40% bonds) will serve you well. The newer breed of high-powered hedge fund managers think differently. They argue that a 60/40 strategy puts too much risk (and thus the portfolio's success) into equities. That's why Dalio created the first "risk parity" fund (yes, the All Weather) in 1996. Ideally, it spreads risk evenly across one's portfolio by using leverage to amp up traditionally secure assets (like bonds) and deemphasizing more volatile assets like stocks. You can imagine how that wouldn't work in this market. From Reuters: Bridgewater created a portfolio based on two of the four basic economic scenarios: rising growth, falling growth, rising inflation, falling inflation. Different types of assets do well in each of these scenarios and the all-weather portfolio contemplates spreading its risk evenly. After Bernanke made his statement, those economic scenarios fell apart as stock and bond prices fell together. Now that stocks are making their way up and 10-year Treasury bonds are still yielding 2.4%, risk parity still isn't the answer. Meanwhile, the $19.5 billion Vanguard Balanced Index Fund, which uses the 60/40 method is up 5.48% this year through June 24th, according to Investment News. Timing is everything, and if you called this, you're smarter than a lot of brilliant people. Or you're just lucky ... this is investing after all.
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas Markit Economics says US PMI fell to 51.9 in June. Consensus was for 52.3.¬† Prior was 52.2. For Q2 as a whole the reading was 52.1, the lowest reading since Q3 2012. ‚ÄúManufacturing clearly down-shifted a gear between the first and second quarters, and is at risk of losing further momentum as we head into the second half of the year," Markit chief economist Chris Williamson said. Employment was even uglier, he said: The employment picture from the survey is the weakest¬†for almost three-and-a-half years, consistent with roughly 30,000 jobs being lost per month in the manufacturing sector. We will need to see a swift¬†turnaround in this employment trend if the Fed‚Äôs projection of a drop in the unemployment rate to 7.0% by the end of the year is to be achieved.‚Äù New export orders fell -3.5 points to 46.3, the sharpest decline rate since 2009. Here's the full breakdown: Markit We've been following PMI data for the past 24 hours, and¬†the story so far¬†has been positive in Europe but negative in Asia.
Then came two major initiatives. In June 2012, eurozone leaders announced their intention to establish a European banking union. The euro, they said, had to be buttressed by transferring banking supervision to a European authority. For the first time since the onset of the crisis in Greece, it was officially recognized that the root of the eurozoneís problem was not the flouting of fiscal rules, and that the very principles underlying the monetary union had to be revisited. The endeavor was bound to be ambitious. In the eyes of most observers, to reach the†leadersí goal†of ìbreak[ing] the vicious circle between banks and sovereignsî required centralizing authority for bank resolution and rescue. The second initiative came a month later. Speaking on July 26, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi announced that the ECB was ready to do†ìwhatever it takesî†to preserve the euro: ìBelieve me,î he said, ìit will be enough.î The meaning of these words became clear with the subsequent announcement of the ECBís ìoutright monetary transactionsî (OMT) scheme, under which it would purchase short-term government bonds issued by countries benefiting from the European rescue fundís conditional support. Both measures had an immediate and profound impact on financial markets. Seen from Wall Street, the euro was moving closer to becoming a normal currency. Turmoil in bond markets began to abate. A year later, where are we? First, the two initiatives resulted in markedly improved borrowing conditions for southern European governments (at least until Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke created new shockwaves with his indication in mid-June that the US would wind down more than three years of so-called quantitative easing). Capital stopped flowing out of southern Europe and speculation eased. Second, an agreement on authorizing the ECB to oversee the banking sector was reached at the end of last year. In a year, the new regime will be fully operational ñ not a trivial achievement in view of the complexity of the issue. Third, discussions are being held to prepare the next steps, namely how to arrange the resolution of failed banks and support for ailing ones. Ministers recently agreed upon a template for action. So there are clear positive outcomes. But questions remain. One problem is architectural: any banking union is only as strong as its weakest component. What matters for markets is not what happens in normal times, or even what happens when uncertainty and volatility rise; what markets care about are possible scenarios in truly adverse conditions. Breaking the negative feedback loop between distressed sovereigns and distressed banks ñ whereby bank rescues exhaust fiscal resources and make it likely that the next financial institution in trouble will not be able to count on government support ñ requires ensuring that it will not recur even in extreme circumstances. Merely ìweakeningî this loop, as European officials recently advocated, could prove deeply insufficient. There are two ways to eliminate the feedback loop. One is to exclude bank rescues altogether: only creditors would have to pay for bankersí mistakes. This type of rule could insulate governments from banking risk only if applied systematically, even at the expense of financial stability. Simply put, governments should be ready to let banks fail. The other solution is to mutualize the cost of rescue at the margin. States could be involved and accept losses, but catastrophic risks would have to be shared among all eurozone members. Europe these days is vacillating between these two approaches. France does not want to rule out state-financed bailouts; Germany is reluctant to mutualize budgetary costs. A compromise is being worked out, but it must pass the test of reality. Unfortunately, the middle way between two logically consistent solutions may itself not be a logically consistent one. Meanwhile, the credibility of Draghiís atomic weapon is being undermined. The miracle of the OMT scheme is that, since it was announced a year ago, it has had its intended effect without ever being used. Strong opposition on the part of the Bundesbank and many German academics, however, has raised questions about whether and how it could ever be used. To defend its legality in hearings before Germanyís Constitutional Court, the ECB itself has argued that the OMT program is a less potent instrument than many believe. Although the German government has been adamant that it is not a German courtís role to rule on the legality of ECB instruments, markets have taken note. In a few months, it will be four years since the eurozone crisis began ñ†almost an eternity by historical standards. Much has been done to overcome it. But it is still too early to declare the job done and claim victory.
REUTERS / Ahim RaniJohn Kerry on the defensive in Brunei.BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Brunei (Reuters) - Nearly all national governments, not just the United States, use "lots of activities" to safeguard their interests and security, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday, responding for the first time to allegations that Washington spied on the European Union and other allies. The EU has strongly demanded that the United States explain a report in a German magazine that Washington is spying on the group, saying that, if true, the alleged surveillance was "shocking". The Guardian newspaper said in an article late on Sunday that the United States had also targeted non-European allies including Japan, South Korea and India for spying - an awkward development for Kerry as he arrived for an Asian security conference in Brunei on Monday. Kerry confirmed that EU High Representative Catherine Ashton had raised the issue with him in a meeting with him in Brunei but gave no further details of their exchange. He said he had yet to see details of the newspaper allegations. "I will say that every country in the world that is engaged in international affairs and national security undertakes lots of activities to protect its national security and all kinds of information contributes to that. All I know is that is not unusual for lots of nations," Kerry told a news conference. Some EU policymakers said talks for a free trade agreement between Washington and the EU should be put on ice until further clarification from the United States. Martin Schulz, president of the EU Parliament, told French radio the United States had crossed a line. "I was always sure that dictatorships, some authoritarian systems, tried to listen ... but that measures like that are now practiced by an ally, by a friend, that is shocking, in the case that it is true," Schulz said in an interview with France 2. Officials in Japan and South Korea said they were aware of the newspaper reports and had asked Washington to clarify them. "I'm aware of the article, but we still haven't confirmed the contents of the story. Obviously we're interested in this matter and we'll seek an appropriate confirmation on this," said Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga at a regular news conference. "We saw the report and will do a fact-check," a South Korean government official said. The official declined to comment further, saying it was a media report without any clear evidence. Officials in New Delhi did not have any immediate comment but India's External Affairs Minister Salman Khurshid, who is also in Brunei, told the ANI television service: : "These are all areas of great strategic importance that we have to cooperate and collaborate in, in counter-terrorism measures. "I think we continue to remain in touch and cooperate and (if) there is any concern we would convey it or they would convey it to us," he added. NSA SNOOPING Der Spiegel reported on Saturday that the National Security Agency (NSA) bugged EU offices and gained access to EU internal computer networks, the latest revelation of alleged U.S. spying that has prompted outrage from EU politicians. The magazine followed up on Sunday with a report that the U.S. agency taps half a billion phone calls, emails and text messages in Germany in a typical month, much more than any other European peer and similar to the data tapped in China or Iraq. "If the media reports are correct, this brings to memory actions among enemies during the Cold War. It goes beyond any imagination that our friends in the United States view the Europeans as enemies," German Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger said. "If it is true that EU representations in Brussels and Washington were indeed tapped by the American Secret Service, it can hardly be explained with the argument of fighting terrorism," she said in a statement. Revelations about the U.S. surveillance program, which was made public by fugitive former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, have raised a furor in the United States and abroad over the balance between privacy rights and national security. Kerry said the Obama administration believes that China could have aided the United States in its efforts to arrest Snowden while he was in Hong Kong. Snowden is currently holed up at an international airport in Russia, from where he has applied for asylum in Ecuador. "It is safe to say that the Obama administration believes that our friends in China could in fact have made a difference here, but we have a lot of issues that we are dealing with right now," Kerry said. He said he and the Chinese foreign minister had discussed Snowden during their one-on-one meetings on the sidelines of the summit. (Writing by Stuart Grudgings; editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
Dr. Ed's BlogIn a speech last Thursday, Governor Jerome Powell expressed some concern that QE ‚Äúmight drive excessive risk-taking or create bubbles in financial assets or housing.‚Äù He indicated that the Fed‚Äôs staff is closely monitoring valuation metrics in various asset markets. Regarding the stock market, he said: ‚ÄúBy most measures, equity valuations seem to be within a normal range. Whether one looks at trailing or forward price-to-earnings ratios, equity risk premiums, or option prices, there is little basis for arguing that markets show excessive optimism about future returns. Of course, in the equity markets there is always downside risk.‚Äù I tend to focus on forward P/Es, which suggest that stocks are neither cheap nor expensive. As for home prices, Powell said that the Fed's staff tracks a model that compares them to rents. I tried to duplicate it by dividing the median existing home price by the tenant rent component of the CPI. My results come close to Powell‚Äôs statement on this subject: ‚ÄúAt the peak of the bubble, house prices were more than 40 percent above their usual relationship to rents, according to one model that the Fed staff follows. At their trough, house prices had fallen about 10 percent below fair valuation. Given the price increases over the past year, they are--by the lights of this one model--moving back into the approximate neighborhood of fair valuation.‚Äù On the other hand, Powell was concerned about excesses in the credit markets. He mentioned Governor Jeremy Stein‚Äôs speech on this issue earlier this year. He added, ‚ÄúThese concerns have diminished somewhat as rates have risen since mid-May.‚Äù Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Usual Suspects. (1) Opera or detective drama? (2) Lots of witnesses with different stories. (3) Nineteen photos on the story board. (4) Forsyth‚Äôs theory: Deflating asset bubbles. (5) Inconclusive evidence. (6) Fisher and Dudley on same page for a change. (7) Powell says equities and homes are fairly valued. (8) Powell agrees with Stein on credit excesses. (9) Stein clams up and recants. (10) The cover story covers all the bases. (11) Fed model says QE is a dud! (12) Flows vs. stocks. (13) The year‚Äôs winners and losers so far. (More for subscribers.)
REUTERS/Suhaib SalemA protester opposing Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi holds an anti-Mursi poster during a sit-in protest at Tahrir Square in Cairo July 1, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Peter Wallis/REUTERSThe first half of the year was very strong for developed markets. The second half of the year is now off to a good start. US futures are higher by a bit over half a percent. Asia rallied overnight, with Shanghai gaining 0.8%, and Japan rallying 1.3%, with both indices having been negative earlier in their respective sessions. Meanwhile, European markets are generally higher, following a set of strong manufacturing reports, particularly in peripheral countries.
There are clear signs that the Euro economy is coming back from the brink. But the situation is dismal, and if there's not a decisive turnaround, then mass unemployment threatens to destroy the whole thing. For May, Eurozone unemployment has hit a new record of 12.1%. That's actually down from the last reading, but that last reading was revised lower to 12.0%, so this is technically a new record. Eurostat.eu
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah DalshCAIRO (AP) ó Protesters seeking to force Egypt's president from office were gearing up Monday for a second day of demonstrations, a day after millions poured into the streets of Cairo and cities around the country in a massive display of anger and frustration with the Islamist leader. At least 10 people were killed during Sunday's protests, five of them in provinces south of the capital Cairo. Activists said five more were killed outside the national headquarters of President Mohammed Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood in Cairo, where supporters of the Islamist leader barricaded inside opened fire on protesters pelting the suburban villa with rocks and firebombs. A fire broke out in the heavily fortified building. Some protesters spent the night in dozens of tents pitched in the capital's central Tahrir Square and the Ittihadiya presidential palace. They have vowed to stay there until Morsi resigns. The anti-Morsi demonstrators are calling for widespread labor strikes to start Monday in an attempt to ratchet up the pressure on the president, but it was not immediately clear how unions would respond to the call. Organizers are also calling for sit-ins at the Cabinet building, interim parliament, and another presidential place where Morsi has been working since late last week. Sunday's protests were the largest seen in Egypt in the 2Ω years of turmoil since the ouster of autocrat Hosni Mubarak in February 2011. Fears were widespread that the collisions between the two sides could grow more violent in coming days. Morsi made clear through a spokesman that he would not step down and his Islamist supporters vowed not to allow protesters to remove one of their own, brought to office in a vote deemed free and fair. During the day Sunday, thousands of Islamists massed not far from the presidential palace in support of Morsi, some of them prepared for a fight with makeshift armor, sticks and shields. The anti-Morsi protesters aimed to show by sheer numbers that the country has irrevocably turned against him, a year to the day after he was inaugurated as Egypt's first freely elected president. But throughout the day and even up to midnight at the main rallying sites, fears of rampant violence did not materialize. Instead the mood was largely festive as protesters at giant anti-Morsi rallies in Tahrir and outside the Ittihadiya palace spilled into side streets and across boulevards, waving flags, blowing whistles and chanting. Fireworks went off overhead. Men and women, some with small children on their shoulders, beat drums, danced and sang, "By hook or by crook, we will bring Morsi down." Residents in nearby homes showered water on marchers below ó some carrying tents in preparation to camp outside the palace ó to cool them in the summer heat, and blew whistles and waved flags in support. "Mubarak took only 18 days although he had behind him the security, intelligence and a large sector of Egyptians," said Amr Tawfeeq, an oil company employee marching toward Ittihadiya with a Christian friend. Morsi "won't take long. We want him out and we are ready to pay the price." The massive outpouring against Morsi raises the question of what comes next. Protesters have vowed to stay on the streets until he steps down. The president, in turn, appears to be hoping protests wane. For weeks, Morsi's supporters have depicted the planned protest as a plot by Mubarak loyalists. But their claims were undermined by the extent of Sunday's rallies. In Cairo and a string of cities in the Nile Delta and on the Mediterranean coast, the protests topped even the biggest protests of the 2011's 18-day uprising, including the day Mubarak quit, Feb. 11, when giant crowds marched on Ittihadiya. It is unclear now whether the opposition, which for months has demanded Morsi form a national unity government, would now accept any concessions short of his removal. The anticipated deadlock raises the question of whether the army, already deployed on the outskirts of cities, will intervene. Protesters believe the military would throw its weight behind them, tipping the balance against Morsi. The country's police, meanwhile, were hardly to be seen Sunday. In the lead-up to Sunday, some officers angrily told their commanders they would not protect the Brotherhood from protesters, complaining that police are always caught in the middle, according to video of the meeting released online. "If the Brothers think that we will give up and leave, they are mistaken," said lawyer Hossam Muhareb as he sat with a friend on a sidewalk near the presidential palace. "They will give up and leave after seeing our numbers." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 

Things are overall still a mess in Europe, but the latest numbers it make it clear: Europe is coming back. PMI readings (which gauge the health of various countries manufacturing sectors) showed virtually universal improvement across Europe in June. The one exception, perfectly enough, was Germany, which saw a slight contraction. The tables below tell the story, but by and large the severe bleeding of the 2nd recession has been stopped. Europe is no longer the world's "sick man" to use a cliche, as attention now turns to the weak numbers out of Asia, and China in particular. From Markit, here are the numbers that tell the first chapter in what hopefully becomes a positive story. Markit Markit
Well, there's your one laggard. After PMI readings that beat expectations, and grew across Europe, German PMI actually shrank a bit in June. The manufacturing index fell from 49.4 to 48.6. From Markit: Markit
So far, all of the big European PMI readings have been strong. France has jumped to 48.4 from 46.4 last month. From Markit Markit
More green shoots in Europe, where Italian PMI just jumped to 49.1. Production grew for the first time in 20 months. From Markit: Markit
More signs of a comeback along the European periphery. This time the improvement is in Spain, where the PMI index has risen from 48.1 to 50.0, which is a neutral reading (neither contraction nor growth). The snapshot below makes clear that a comeback is in progress. Markit
REUTERS/StringerPeople play chess in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in Hefei, Anhui province, February 18, 2013. China is the second largest economy in the world, and it is one of the fastest growing ones as well. It is also an incredibly dynamic and complicated economy with many moving parts. We recently got more evidence that suggests China's economy is decelerating.¬† Indeed, concerns are piling up as interest rates rise and its super hot housing market begins to cool. Morgan Stanley's Asia Pacific research team led by Martin Yule recently published its massive 72-page China Pulse Chartbook. As we all keep a close eye on China, Yule's team offers "Eight Charts To Remember." 1. SHIBOR: This is the LIBOR of China. Some pundits have noted that LIBOR spiked before Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in 2008. Morgan Stanley 2. The Hong Kong stock market: Stock markets in the area have become extremely volatile, reflecting the shifting expectations of investors. Morgan Stanley 3. MSCI China Index: With the economy slowing, earnings growth expectations have also been coming down. Morgan Stanley 4. Loans: Lending activity is perhaps the most reliable and crucial leading indicator of economic activity in the country. Morgan Stanley 5. Steel Mill Output: This is closely tied to the buildout of China's infrastructure. Morgan Stanley 6. Housing Starts: Building remains high as the standard of living improves.¬† However, overbuilding and too much leverage are lingering concerns. Morgan Stanley 7. Retail Sales: As the country shifts from being an investment-driven economy to being a consumption-driven economy, retail sales should continue to grow rapidly. Morgan Stanley 8. Rail Freight: Everywhere in the world, transportation companies are considered reliable bellwethers of economic activity. In China, it debunks or confirms other economic reports, which may be less reliable. Morgan Stanley
REUTERS/Rick WilkingJob seekers listen to a presentation at the Colorado Hospital Association health care career fair in Denver April 9, 2013.This week begins the third quarter. And there are tons of crucial economic events scheduled. But in the wake of all of this talk about the Federal Reserve reducing its stimulative bond-buying program (i.e. tapering QE), the biggest report without question will be the U.S. jobs report, which comes out on Friday. "Most importantly, markets and the Fed are now even more highly dependent on sustained evidence that the real economy is indeed on a solid improving trends, including a consequential rise in actual and expected nominal GDP growth," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian. "With that, the focus will now shift firmly to the forthcoming June jobs report; and it will be even more intensive than usual." It's a holiday shortened week in America.† But it's jobs week in America. "Fireworks are a given, even without minor considerations like the 4th of July!" exclaimed Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary "[E]arnings matter the most for equities, in our opinion, and there is relatively robust statistical evidence to back up that contention," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich in a note to clients last week. "In this respect, we have been a tad shocked by the surge in negative-to-positive preannouncement trends that make 2009ís surge appear less worrisome in retrospect. Upward earnings guidance has dipped as well and there has been little consternation or discussion about it." So, what's behind all of this disappointing guidance? "For Q2 2013, 55 companies have issued negative revenue guidance for the quarter and 14 have issued positive revenue guidance," said FactSet's John Butters. "As a result, 80% (55 out 69) of the companies that have issued revenue guidance for the quarter have issued negative guidance. If this is the final percentage for the quarter, it will mark the third highest percentage since 2006." Based on corporate commentary, much of the weakness is coming from Western Europe and the major emerging markets (i.e. China, Brazil, India).
