Francisco Diez, Wikimedia CommonsGoldman's Alec Phillips warns that the upcoming fight over lifting the debt ceiling could be harder than the 2012 fight, which was brutal and confidence crushing. Phillips writes: Unfortunately, the upcoming increase may be more difficult to enact than the increase in 2011. Few spending cuts had been enacted before the previous increase, which left lawmakers with several areas of the budget from which to pull potential savings. Congress eventually settled on $2.1 trillion in spending cuts, essentially all coming from a reduction in spending appropriated by Congress (about $900bn from caps on "discretionary" spending, and $1.2 trillion from "sequestration"). While hardly non-controversial, these cuts did not affect specific programs but instead capped overall spending, thus reducing political opposition. The fiscal agreement Congress just passed increases revenues by about $600bn over 10 years (compared with a full extension of expiring income tax cuts), and while this second round of savings was much more controversial than the first, a majority of the public supported the tax increase, which was targeted on high incomes. More specifically. Suppose the Congress wants to raise the debt ceiling by $1 trillion, then that means an addition $1 trillion in cuts must be found. But this is not easy. For one thing, no party has identified where they would find another $1 trillion in cuts to discretionary spending. Furthermore, if the cuts are going to come from entitlements, then Obama would demand that there also be new taxes, which the GOP won't accept. And beyond that, Obama has already said he won't negotiate cuts for a debt ceiling hike this time. Says Phillips: These factors imply that the next debt limit increase will be at least as difficult to enact as the last one was, and that there is a clear possibility of breaching the limit and causing more significant disruptions to government financing. Phillips is not alone in worrying. Phillip Klein at the Washington Examiner says the same thing in a column tonight, that the debt ceiling could be harder this time around.¬† His logic is similar to Goldman's: There just aren't obvious avenues to cuts: This time, however, it will be more difficult for Republicans to get Democrats to agree to spending cuts. In the summer of 2011, both parties were essentially placing bets on the outcome of the 2012 election. With Obama re-elected and Democrats still controlling the Senate, Democrats believe they are in a stronger position. The 2011 debt-limit deal reduced projected spending by about $917 billion. There isn't much desire among victorious Democrats to cut discretionary spending further, and there is deep resistance to cutting mandatory spending by reforming the big entitlement programs -- Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Congress is also running out of gimmicks. Scrambling to come up with further spending cuts during the 2011 debt-limit fight, lawmakers created a bipartisan, bicameral 12-member "super committee" tasked with finding at least $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction. In theory, the members would be motivated to act, or else face automatic cuts to defense and nondefense spending at the start of 2013. They failed to come up with a solution, but this week's fiscal cliff deal delayed the automatic cuts -- or sequester -- for another two months. We wrote a few days ago that it was quickly becoming clear why The Boehner Rule (the principle that any debt ceiling hike has to correspond with a dollar-for-dollar cut in spending) is so ridiculous and unsustainable.  There just aren't obvious areas that anyone could possibly agree to find $1 trillion cuts every year. It's already significantly harder than it was just in 2011.¬†  By the¬† way: Goldman estimates that March 1 will be the day the US hits the hard debt ceiling. That's also the same day, coincidentally (?) that the sequester is supposed to kick in. Circle it on your calendars.¬†  SEE ALSO: Sean West is also worried about the debt ceiling &gt;
Today New Jersey Governor Chris Christie delivered a historic tirade blasting fellow Republican John Boehner for refusing to hold a vote on aid for Hurricane Sandy. The raw anger and emotion was like something from out of a movie, but beyond the obvious points, Chris Christie brought up one fact about the US economy that really should get a lot more attention than it does. Rich states like New Jersey, New York, and California (which frequently get blasted by conservatives for having high taxes and big government) pay a lot more in federal taxes than they get back from the federal government. While Republican states, with their low taxes and small governments, get more back than they pay in. This map demonstrates that phenomenon. The ones shaded blue pay in more than they get back. Texas is the only "blue" state here that doesn't vote Democratic. Ezra Klein Anyway, it's the system of intra-state transfers that makes the United States a functioning union, and it's the reason that we're not like the Eurozone. The US states and the various Eurozone countries are actually similar in that they can't print their own money, and have to strive to balance their books, and if they don't, markets may lose confidence in them. But the difference is that the rich states are permanently bailing out the poor states, a mechanism which doesn't exist formally in Europe (it exists on an ad hoc basis). Not only that, but there are mechanisms to balance things out, when there's a slump. Although Florida currently pays in more than it receives, during the collapse, it got a big benefit. Paul Krugman pointed out earlier this year: 1. From IRS data, we find that Florida‚Äôs tax payments to Washington fell approximately $25 billion between 2007 and 2010, the bottom of the slump. 2. From Labor Department data, we find that in 2010 special unemployment insurance programs ‚Äî extended benefits paid for from DC ‚Äî were about $3 billion in 2010. 3. From SNAP (food stamp) data, we see that food benefits to Florida rose about $3 billion over the same period. Both Florida and Spain had huge housing busts, but the difference was that Spain didn't benefit from all these special programs, and lower taxes paid to a central European authority. It just had to fend for itself. So anyway, the fact that some states help other states is great, but here's where it gets weird. In Europe, you have rich, high-productivity states like Germany demanding that the poor, low-productivity states cut their government budgets if they want bailout money. And although the economics don't work, the sentiment is logical, especially if you're a German politician that has to explain to voters why their tax dollars are going to a different country. But in the US it's totally different. It's the moocher states (the Greece-like states that are poor and rely on handouts) imposing austerity on everyone. Imagine if Greece were to try to dictate what kind of economic policy Germany could use to stimulate its economy. That's what's happening in the US. And that's why Chris Christie is rightly outraged that the GOP is so reluctant to aid New Jersey, when over the years (and every year) New Jersey gives more than it gets back. And although Christie specifically blasted Boehner (while trying to elevate Eric Cantor) in his speech today, this is not just a Cantor thing. Last year Cantor himself was demanding "offsets" for Irene aid spending in the immediate wake of the debt ceiling fight. So this is a GOP thing through and through. The US doesn't have an acute debt problem, but it does have a growth problem. And the continued fights with the pro-austerity camp that emanates from moocher states is not helping the US break out of that trap. SEE ALSO: Why New Jersey should be outraged with John Boehner &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsJan. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Most Asian stocks rose as a U.S. manufacturing report added to optimism the global economic recovery will accelerate. Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs 500 Index futures fell and oil retreated from a three-month high. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index gained 0.1 percent as of 8:42 a.m. in Hong Kong. S&amp;P 500 futures dropped 0.2 percent after the underlying index rallied the most in a year yesterday. Crude in New York lost 0.4 percent to $92.74 after closing at the highest level since September. New Zealand‚Äôs dollar weakened 0.2 percent against the greenback. An industry report showed American manufacturing expanded more than forecast in December, as commodities and equities worldwide rallied yesterday after Congress passed a bill undoing tax increases for most U.S. households. Markets in mainland China and Japan are closed today for public holidays. ‚ÄúWe expect growth to accelerate through 2013,‚Äù said Gerard Minack, a global strategist at Morgan Stanley in Sydney. Asia‚Äôs ‚Äúrecovery isn‚Äôt as tethered to policy makers and structural headwinds,‚Äù he said. More than two stocks advanced for each one that fell in the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index, with material producers leading gains. Australia‚Äôs S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.6 percent, poised for the highest close since May 2011. South Korea‚Äôs Kospi Index was little changed. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes companies from Japan, advanced 14 percent last year, compared with a 13 percent increase for the S&amp;P 500. The Asian gauge trades at 15 times average estimated earnings, compared with 14.1 for the U.S. gauge and 12.9 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Institute for Supply Management‚Äôs U.S. factory index rose to 50.7 in December from 49.5 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had projected a reading of 50.5. The dividing line between expansion and contraction is 50.  --Chua Baizhen and Adam Haigh. Editors: Darren Boey, Richard Frost ¬† To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Chua Baizhen in Singapore at bchua14@bloomberg.net; Adam Haigh in Sydney at ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ¬† To contact the editor responsible for this story: Darren Boey at dboey@bloomberg.net 
In case you missed it, here's a quick review of the major commodities in 2012 via John Stoltzfus' team at Oppenheimer: Oppenheimer
Okay, still confused about what the cliff deal means? Everyone is spinning this one way or the other, so if you just want the facts and the bottom line, who can you trust?¬† I have a place for you to get the Facts. The source of this information is impeccable, and ALL of the facts are spelled out in just 1,360 words. Here‚Äôs the (Link), It will take you to this page at the White House:   ¬† The White House presents the ‚Äúfacts‚Äù of this matter. But it leaves out a few facts that are, no doubt, inconvenient for the White House to fess up to. If the President‚Äôs men really wanted to be honest about the facts, they would have added a paragraph: -A consequence of the tax agreement is to increase payroll taxes on 155m American workers by $125B. We know this hurts middle and low income workers and their families. We understand that this is a very big tax increase, and that it will knock at least 1% of 2013 GDP (and beyond). We‚Äôre sorry about this, it couldn‚Äôt be helped. Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid insisted it be this way. Now about this fact sheet. Just a few items on the list of ‚ÄúAchievements‚Äù¬† that stand out to me: Strengthens our recovery next year by cutting taxes for the middle-class This is twice wrong. Middle class taxes are going up $125b in 2013. And the consensus opinion is that the net effect of the tax deal is a drag on GDP of 1%. Provides greater economic certainty for families and businesses They gotta be kidding with this line. The tax deal leaves open the pesky questions of A) the debt limit, B) the sequestered amounts, C) cuts in entitlement spending, D) additional taxes and don‚Äôt forget E) the President needs another Continuing Resolution (CR) to keep the lights on. (No budget from the Prez means another CR is required) Me? I‚Äôm crapping in my pants over that list. The market may be happy today, but what is in front of is much more troubling than what is behind us. Cuts the deficit and reduces the debt as a share of the economy over the next five years Compared to what?¬† The fact is the country just agreed to an additional $4t in debt. Here‚Äôs the picture of the debt profile that is the result of this deal. That ugly orange stuff is the additional debt the country signed up for with the tax deal. How do you call this progress?  I guess if you really want the facts on this deal, you better look elsewhere.
AP ImagesA message is seen on a candle outside the St. Rose of Lima Roman Catholic Church, Saturday, Dec. 15, 2012, in Newtown, Conn.Byron Wien, the legendary Wall Street strategist at Blackstone, just published his 28th annual list of Ten Surprises. As usual, it combines predictions for the economy, markets, and the political environment among other things. "Every year there are always a few Surprises that do not make the Ten because either I do not believe they are as relevant as those on the basic list or I am not comfortable with the idea that they are ìprobable,î" notes Wien. Here's one of those he left out: "The Newtown, Connecticut, massacre finally convinces Congress to do something about gun control. As a first step they ban future civilian purchases of automatic weapons, including handguns, with clips of more than ten rounds and require more extensive background checks on all gun purchases. ìIt should not be easier to buy a gun than rent a carî becomes a slogan." We'd be bummed out if he didn't think it was relevant enough for the list.† We'd be even more bummed out if he didn't think passage of stronger gun control was "probable," or "having a better than 50% likelihood of happening." In an interview with NBC's Meet The Press this past weekend, President Obama said that gun control reform would be a top priority: "The question is: Are we going to be able to have a national conversation and move something through Congress? I'd like to get it done in the first year. I will put forward a very specific proposal based on the recommendations that Joe Biden's task force is putting together as we speak. And so this is not something that I will be putting off."  However, skeptics point to past high-profile shootings and massacres and note that little was done to push these reforms through back then. What's causing us to believe that any significant reform would happen this time?
APIt's been a big year for politics.¬† From landmark court decision to seismic shifts in gay marriage and marijuana legislation, to a historic election in which more money was spent and more tweets sent than ever before, the events of 2012 have reshaped the U.S. political landscape, and changed the direction we will take going forward.¬† Over the course of it all, a group of people emerged who wielded outsize influence and power over the way that the political winds blew this year. We've taken stock of these movers and shakers and narrowed the list down to 36 people who, whether it was from behind the scenes or in the center of the media spotlight, left their indelible mark on U.S. politics in 2012.¬†
After giving away $28 billion, Bill Gates is no longer the third-richest man in the world. He's the second-richest. ¬†You read that right. Despite¬†his considerable, praiseworthy charity work, the Microsoft cofounder is getting wealthier. In 2012, he wound up $7 billion ahead with a net worth of $63.4 billion, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index published today. That's not to say that he isn't giving a lot of money away. He is. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is working with a $36.2 billion endowment, most of it from Gates. But lately he's been earning money faster than he can give it away. His wealth in 2012 was helped by a 2% rise in Microsoft's stock price. But he's been slowly selling off chunks of his Microsoft stake. Microsoft stock now accounts for less than 20 percent of his fortune. So if his wealth isn't just from Microsoft, where does Bill Gates invest? He's got a somewhat secretive investment company called Cascade Investment, according to documents filed with the SEC. From those filings we know that Gates owns stakes in companies like tractor maker Deere &amp; Co; garbage collector Republic Services; soft drink maker Coca-Cola; and auto retailer Auto Nation, among others. Don't miss: The 10 Billionaires Whose Net Worth Rose The Most In 2012
According to court filings, bond insurer ACA Financial is asking to revise its complaint against Goldman Sachs to include hedge fund manager John Paulson as a defendant, Bloomberg reports. This all has to do with Goldman's notorious Abacus deal. The bank already paid $550 million in fines back in 2010 to settle charges stemming from an SEC investigation into the deal. The SEC alleged that Goldman failed to tell investors that John Paulson's hedge fund, Paulson &amp; Co., helped to choose and bet against the subprime mortgage securities underlying Abacus. That's where ACA comes in. Last year the insurer sued Goldman for inducing it to provide insurance for the deal using collateralized debt obligations ó CDOs. From Reuters: ACA Financial Guaranty said in its lawsuit that the CDO was designed to fail so that Paulson could reap "huge profits" and Goldman Sachs could reap "huge fees." It said Goldman deceived ACA into believing that Paulson was to be the long investor in the product when the bank knew he would take a short position. We'll keep you posted when we know whether or not the Paulson is acceptable to the Court.
After weeks of wrangling, Congress finally passed an agreement on the fiscal cliff†last night, staving off massive tax hikes that were scheduled to go into effect January 1.† The bill is a minor political victory for President Barack Obama, fulfilling, at least in part, his campaign promise to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans. But the scaled-down agreement does little to mitigate economic threat of the debt ceiling and delays the issue of spending cuts, setting the stage for another round of budget battles in just two months.† Produced by Daniel Goodman
AP imagesLast night the House of Representatives voted 257-167 to pass the fiscal cliff bill. Many have pointed out that president Obama has come out the winner, while the Republicans who signed Grover Norquist's no-tax- increase pledge have been the biggest losers. But in a new op-ed for The Financial Times, Nouriel Roubini writes that the U.S. has been let down by its leaders and that they "dysfunctional nature" of the country's political system means another crisis isn't far off. He also says the country has yet to wake up to the "full extent of its fiscal nightmare". The next crisis according to Roubini could be just two months away, with spending cuts set to kick in at about the same time that the U.S. hits the debt ceiling. This is going to begin another "messy" debate between Democrats and Republicans. "The longer-term picture is bleaker still. The reality is that America is yet to wake up to the full extent of its fiscal nightmare. Even the typical Republican voter is not ‚Äì being on average older and poorer than a Democrat voter ‚Äì in favour of gutting the welfare state. Tea Party extremists are more noise than signal. That is why the plans of Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan, the Republicans‚Äô losing presidential ticket, postponed all the tough spending cuts on Social Security and Medicare by a decade. Neither Democrats nor Republicans recognize that maintaining a basic welfare state, which is right and necessary in our age of globalization, rapid technological change and demographic pressure, implies higher taxes for the middle class as well as for the rich. A deal that extends unsustainable tax cuts for 98 per cent of Americans is therefore a pyrrhic victory for Mr Obama. ...In short, the ‚Äúmini deal‚Äù on the fiscal cliff dodged all the important questions. By not including spending cuts in the deal, the Democrats have emboldened Republicans who are determined to slash taxes but lack a plan to pay for it. It is again up to Washington‚Äôs policy makers to fix the problem before the market does it for them. Tuesday‚Äôs deal suggests this will not happen with any ease." Read the entire piece at the Financial Times &gt;
BloombergByron Wien started predicting surprises in 1986 when he was the Chief U.S. Investment Strategist at Morgan Stanley. He continues the tradition today as Vice Chairman at Blackstone. His "Ten Surprises for 2013," which he believes have a better than 50 percent probability of happening, have a bearish slant from the perspective of the U.S. investor.¬† He sees stocks falling while commodity prices rise. His prediction for Iran may scare some people, but he is a bit more hopeful for immigration reform in the U.S. Without further ado ...
www.cbsnews.comMidAmerican Energy Holdings, the electric utility owned by Warren Buffet's Berkshire Hathway group, announced today it had acquired a¬†579-megawatt solar development in Southern California.¬† The Antelope Valley Solar projects, which are actually two adjacent arrays in Kern and Los Angeles counties, will comprise¬†the largest solar project in the world, according to the company's release, serving close to 1 million residents. Construction of the solar project is scheduled to begin in first quarter 2013, with the plants expected to be complete by year-end 2015. The previous record was held by NextEra's Mojave development with an operating capacity of 354 megawatts. Bloomberg reported MidAmerican purchased the development from Sunpower for between $2 and $2.5 billion.¬†
Politicians love the spotlight, but it is very unfortunate that investors watch the show. The drama of the so-called ‚Äúfiscal cliff‚Äù has scared investors, and led them to miss a very good year in the equity market (the S&amp;P 500‚Äôs total return was 16.0% during 2012 versus the long-term annual average of 11.8%). It appears as though Washington wants to continue to dominate the headlines, which means that it may be more important than ever for investors to downplay Washington‚Äôs theatrics. Here are some considerations for investors as they plan for 2013. The US economy doesn‚Äôt stink. In fact, it is reasonably strong. Politicians love to claim that the economy is performing poorly, and that we ‚Äúhave to get the economy rolling.‚Äù However, the latest GDP report of 3.1% over the past year is higher than the 30-year average of 2.9%. The US economy is actually growing faster than average! Early-cycle sectors of the economy, such as housing and autos, have been showing marked improvement. Consumer confidence has significantly risen. Corporate profits have held up reasonably well despite a stronger US dollar and weakening non-US economies. Inflation remains very subdued. Uncertainty is good! Many have suggested that the ‚Äúuncertainty‚Äù surrounding Washington and the fiscal cliff has deterred both financial and real investment within the US economy. This uncertainty, though, has tautologically translated into attractive equity valuations that, we feel, present investors with good opportunities. Has there ever been a time in US stock market history when investors were ‚Äúcertain‚Äù and equities were undervalued? We doubt it. As we have previously pointed out, the S&amp;P 500 is presently discounting 5-6% inflation for the next twelve months despite that inflation is currently less than 2%. This shows the level of fear among investors, but also shows to us the level of opportunity. ‚ÄúAusterity‚Äù will not necessarily hurt the economy and the markets. Many commentators have mentioned that the coming fiscal ‚Äúausterity‚Äù will hurt the economy and the financial markets. We are not convinced because bull markets are not always based on the combination of stimulative monetary and stimulative fiscal policy. For example, the 1982 bull market was based on very tight monetary policy (Chairman Volker aggressively tightened monetary policy to fight inflation) and very stimulative fiscal policy (the Reagan-era budget deficits which were, at the time, the largest peacetime budget deficits in history). Fiscal austerity is bound to happen in some form over the next several years, but the Fed seems intent on keeping monetary policy loose. Without inflation and inflation expectations meaningfully accelerating, it is hard to see how the Fed would quickly reverse course. Don‚Äôt ignore the US Industrial Renaissance In the December issue of The Atlantic, Jeff Immelt, GE‚Äôs CEO, is quoted as writing that outsourcing is ‚Äúquickly becoming mostly outdated as a business model...‚Äù (See, Fishman, Charles. ‚ÄúThe Insourcing Boom‚Äù. The Atlantic. December 2012.) We continue to believe that US manufacturing companies will gain market share as the decade progresses, and this remains one of our favorite investment themes. Closing wage differentials, lower energy costs, cheaper distribution costs, and political stability are all factors that companies are increasingly considering when locating new plant and equipment. Washington‚Äôs theater is clouding, what we think is, one of the most interesting investment stories. We continue to favor small and mid-cap industrial and manufacturing companies. We can‚Äôt emphasize enough that we view Washington as a sideshow (perhaps a very adequate analogy!), and that investors might be better served by focusing on fundamentals rather than politics. History shows well that corporate profits and valuations, and not Washington, ultimately drive equity returns. Those who focused on Washington‚Äôs drama missed out on solid equity returns in 2012. The same could happen in 2013. INDEX DESCRIPTIONS: The following descriptions, while believed to be accurate, are in some cases abbreviated versions of more detailed or comprehensive definitions available from the sponsors or originators of the respective indices. Anyone interested in such further details is free to consult each such sponsor‚Äôs or originator‚Äôs website. The past performance of an index is not a guarantee of future results. Each index reflects an unmanaged universe of securities without any deduction for advisory fees or other expenses that would reduce actual returns, as well as the reinvestment of all income and dividends. An actual investment in the securities included in the index would require an investor to incur transaction costs, which would lower the performance results. Indices are not actively managed and investors cannot invest directly in the indices. S&amp;P 500¬Æ Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs (S&amp;P) 500¬Æ Index. The S&amp;P 500¬Æ Index is an unmanaged, capitalization- weighted index designed to measure the performance of the broad US economy through changes in the aggregate market value of 500 stocks representing all major industries.
Alex DaviesWe recently spent five days with a brand new Bentley Mulsanne. After nearly a week of driving it around New York City and its suburbs, we were very impressed. The 2013 Mulsanne starts at $296,000; our dark green version of the luxury ride was worth $347,870. It's a big, gorgeous car whose true beauty is in its details. Jump to photos of the Mulsanne &gt;&gt; It is hardly a driver's car, but the Mulsanne performs well on quick accelerations and tight turns, despite its size. The 6.8-liter V8 engine with 505 horsepower seems excessive at first, but that is what it takes to get the 6,812-pound car moving. The Mulsanne boasts an impressive 0 to 60 mph time of five seconds flat. The Mulsanne is easy to handle and maneuvers well. We put it in various tight parking spaces without a problem (though with a bit of stress, considering the price of the car). In Manhattan rush hour traffic and on the highway, the interior of the car is silent and the ride is smooth, even over potholes. Where the Mulsanne really shines, however, is the interior. The 2013 model is unchanged from last year, and does not have any features we have not seen before. Like the Audi S8, which starts at $110,000, the Mulsanne is a WiFi hot spot and features massage seats. Its "infotainment" system is far less advanced than what you can find in cars that sell for a fraction of the $296,000 MSRP, including the Cadillac User Experience (CUE) that GM has developed for its new models. But where the new CUE system falters (in our test drive of the 2013 ATS, the voice command "Navigate to Logan International Airport" resulted in "Tune to Hair Nation XM"), Bentley's simpler, less ambitious system works perfectly. For navigation, speak slowly and clearly, and it gets the address right. Like just about every new car, the Mulsanne has a rear view camera for backing up, but it adds the nice touch of automatically lowering the radio volume while the car is in reverse. That, more than anything, is the key to Bentley's excellence, and part of the justification for the $347,870 price tag: It does everything right, even the things the driver does not expect. There's a lot of room for the driver's left foot. The center screen can be hidden while driving. The rear seats are adjustable. There's a built-in iPod adapter (but it did not support my circa 2005 iPod). Of course, a good percentage of the $347,000 ó much of what puts it above the best offerings from Audi, BMW, and Mercedes-Benz ó is the Bentley name. Click below for a photo tour of the new Mulsanne, or see how the Bentley wings change your life.
John Gress/Getty ImagesFrench President FranÁois HollandeOne suggestion that has gained popularity in the post-crisis regulatory debate is a tax on financial transactions. Proponents suggest that the tax would raise revenues for governments (at a time when such revenues are badly needed) and curb the excessive speculation that contributed to the global financial crisis. In August 2012, France became the first eurozone nation in the wake of the financial crisis to implement such a tax, and so far, it's been a total failure. In an article for Risk.net, Hannah Collins explains that in France, the tax ñ which amounts to 0.2 percent on transactions involving buying or selling of shares of stock ñ is actually just shifting investors out of equities and into even riskier, more opaque products like derivatives and derivatives-based ETFs: Investors who own French shares are selling them and taking positions on them through derivatives instruments such as contracts for difference, structured products and ETFs, according to a Paris-based lawyer. "Most structured transactions remain outside the tax," he says. "It is due only if you have actually purchased the shares." In other words, instead of curbing excessive speculation, the tax is simply forcing those speculative activities into darker, less-regulated corners of the market. Logically, the tax could accelerate the rise of synthetic ETFs due to this favorable tax treatment, as Collins explains: The FTT will give a clear tax advantage to ETFs based on swaps, says Isabelle Bourcier, director of business development at ETF provider Ossiam in Paris. "With a purely physical ETF, every time the manager buys the French stocks directly, the fund has to pay the FTT," she says. "Because the banking swap counterparty is not charged the tax if they buy the stocks for hedging, a fund that receives the performance of the basket of stocks [for which the FTT is due] through the swap would be unaffected by the FTT." The European Commission is contemplating instituting a financial transaction tax at an EU-wide level to address speculation and raise revenues. Unlike the French version of the tax, the EC proposal involves a tax on derivatives transactions in addition to that on regular equities transactions. The proposed tax on derivatives transactions, at 0.01 percent, is a mere fraction of those on stocks and bonds (0.1 percent), though. It remains to be seen whether the EC version of the tax will encourage the same investor behavior as the one in France is now.
APLike this guy.Happy Fiscal Gorge[1]Day! Guess who‚Äôs really happy from last night‚Äôs tax deal? Heirs, financiers, and people who live off their piles of money. Guess who‚Äôs not saddened by the Fiscal Gorge tax deal? The top 2% of earners that Obama spent his campaign promising would pay a larger share of federal taxes if he won. Let me explain what I mean. All along this Fiscal Cliff discussion our leaders have focused our attention on top marginal tax rates and top income thresholds for taxing ordinary income, as if that was the most important way to raise revenue while simultaneously addressing growing societal inequality.[2]¬† The sticking point in discussions, at least in so far as most media followed it, appeared to be whether top income earners would pay the existing 35% income tax rate or Obama‚Äôs preferred 39.6% income tax rate, and where in the range between $250K and $1million in income that higher rate kicks in. Why do wealthy folks celebrate the Fiscal Gorge?¬† Just this:¬† If you‚Äôre Sheldon Adelson[3] you really couldn‚Äôt care less about ordinary income.¬† What matters most are estate taxes, dividend taxes, and capital gains taxes.¬† Adelson makes $1 million a year in ordinary income, now taxed at a higher rate.¬† No big deal.¬† He makes billions of dollars in dividends and capital gains, now permanently taxed at 15% and 20% respectively.¬† Now that‚Äôs a big deal.¬† Now that‚Äôs cool.[4] Did you notice what happened to those taxes? Estate Tax: The estate tax exemption rises to $5 million, up from the $1 million it would have been without a Fiscal Cliff deal, and up from $675K when George W. Bush came into office.¬† The tax rate on inheritance locks in at 40%, down from 55% at the beginning of the Bush Administration.¬† Throughout the Bush administration the estate tax exemption stepped up each year or two, and the estate tax rate stepped down every year or two.¬† Under the Obama administration, with the new Fiscal Gorge law passed, the W. Bush-era generous estate tax rates become permanent. Richie Rich is so happy. Dividends Tax: If you were Sheldon Adelson ‚Äì which you are not, but let‚Äôs pretend you were ‚Äì right now you would be celebrating a Happy New Year because you just took a special dividend payout in December 2012 from Sands Casino of an estimated $1.2 Billion, based on your ownership of 431.5 million shares and a declared dividend of $2.75 per share.¬† Adelson took the dividend in December fearing that his 15% dividend tax rate might rise to something like the 35% or 39.5% ordinary income tax rates, which would cost him close to $300 million in additional taxes in 2012.¬† He needn‚Äôt have worried.¬† The Fiscal Gorge law makes a 15% dividend tax rate permanent, a pillar of the Bush administration‚Äôs tax cuts. Capital Gains Tax ‚Äì This tax rises from 15% to 20% under the Fiscal Gorge law.¬† Given that top earners and top wealth holders benefit substantially from capital gains, the permanence of this change represents another victory for Bush-era tax cuts. My logical mind tells me that political leaders and the media underplay the importance of these taxes because, firstly, they only somewhat affect the highest earning 10% of American citizens, and secondly, these taxes only substantially affect the highest earning 1% and above.¬† So the majority of the electorate and the majority of the media-consuming public doesn‚Äôt really know or care about these taxes.¬† It‚Äôs only logical they would ignore those taxes that are irrelevant to the majority of people, right? My more paranoid mind[5] tells me that it‚Äôs convenient for political leaders on both sides of the aisle to ‚Äòhide the ball‚Äô when it comes to tax discussions because you can enact a devastatingly effective ‚Äòwin‚Äô for Republicans while at the same time allowing Obama and the Democrats to point to higher marginal taxes on ordinary income as if they scored something important. They didn‚Äôt.¬† They got rolled, at least when it comes to tax policy. When it comes to spending, of course, they delayed any cuts in government spending.¬† Which I suppose makes Democrats feel smug as well.[6] Which leads to the larger critique and larger structural issue highlighted by the Fiscal Cliff process. ¬† One additional point about tax policy and my use of Sheldon Adelson as an example of a wealthy citizen. I pick on Sheldon Adelson because, in the new era since the Supreme Court‚Äôs Citizens United decision, which allows for unlimited campaign contributions as a First Amendment-protected ‚Äòfree speech right,‚Äô Adelson represents the paragon of a stated willingness ‚Äì and most importantly ability ‚Äì to use money to tilt the political process in his favor.¬† Multiples of those same campaign contributions then return to him through favorable tax treatment. Adelson has become ‚Äì for me at least ‚Äì a short-hand way of pointing out a glaring structural flaw in our electoral democracy.¬† I‚Äôve got no particular animus against his wealth accumulation, and I really don‚Äôt blame the guy personally for pursuing his self-interest as he understands it.¬† But we haven‚Äôt figured out a way to prevent, for the sake really of systemic integrity, guys like him from tilting the table too far in their favor. While acknowledging that I‚Äôm re-stating the incredibly obvious, I like to talk about Sheldon Adelson simply because he‚Äôs my way of showing we‚Äôre light on the whole ‚Äòchecks and balances‚Äô thing when it comes to the influence of money in politics. [1] My friend ‚ÄúThe Professor‚Äù who recently wrote a guest post about Sheldon Adelson, deserves credit for the ‚ÄúFiscal Gorge‚Äù, which naturally follows when you go over the Fiscal Cliff.¬† The actual name for the legislation passed yesterday by the House and Senate to address the Fiscal Cliff is The ‚ÄúAmerican Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.‚Äù [2] I know, we don‚Äôt talk about growing inequality in a straightforward way when discussing tax policy.¬† But that is clearly what Obama had in mind when he campaigned on raising taxes on people who make more than $250,000 a year. ¬†Yes, it would have a small effect on fiscal solvency, but it would have a larger effect on our notion of what‚Äôs fair in an increasingly unequal society. ¬†One simple illustration of the increase in inequality in the United States is captured by the picture of the historical increase in the US‚Äô Gini Coefficient measuring income inequality from 1947 to 2007. [3] Obviously I‚Äôve written about him already, but he‚Äôs an incredibly convenient stand-in for wealthy Americans and their successful capture of the political process. [4] Justin Timberlake ‚Äì as Napster‚Äôs founder Sean Payton ‚Äì said it best in the Social Network. [5] What!?¬† You don‚Äôt have multiple voices in your head debating tax policy at all times?¬† Am I over-sharing?¬† Why won‚Äôt you answer me, damn it? [6] Obama took a victory lap this morning in this video. [7] Which reminds me of one of my favorite Jack Handey quotes: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs easy to sit there and say you‚Äôd like to have more money. And I guess that‚Äôs what I like about it. It‚Äôs easy. Just sitting there, rocking back and forth, wanting that money.‚Äù
APOn balance, President Obama came out a winner in the last-minute ìfiscal cliffî deal that averted income-tax hikes on most Americans and postponed deep federal spending cuts. Had the deal not passed Congress, both the White House and bipartisan leaders on Capitol Hill would have had egg on their faces. The public would have had cause to blame Washington for yet another self-inflicted wound that threatened to send markets into a spiral and put both the US and global economies back into recession. Republicans would have come in for bigger blame than the president, polls showed, but Mr. Obama, too, would have looked incompetent. Instead, Obama delivered on his top reelection campaign promise: that the wealthiest taxpayers see an increase in their marginal income-tax rate in 2013. True, his definition of ìwealthyî morphed significantly ñ from $250,000 to $450,000 in annual family income. Late Tuesday night, after the House passed the bill, Obama persisted in saying that the bill he will sign into law ìraises taxes on the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans,î when in reality, itís more like the wealthiest 0.7 percent. Recommended: How much do you know about US entitlement programs? Take our quiz. But those wealthiest taxpayers will see their top rate go back to where it was during the Clinton era ñ from 35 percent to 39.6 percent. During the negotiations, there had been talk of setting the top rate somewhere in between. All told, the fiscal-cliff deal produces $620 billion in deficit reduction over 10 years, a down payment on what both sides agree needs to be much more. In the cold light of day, many Republicans disappointed by the tax increase agree that the alternative ñ no deal ñ would have been worse. ìThe deal to avoid going over the so-called fiscal cliff was a lousy one: tax rate increases during a weak economy, no spending reductions, nothing on entitlement reform,î writes Peter Wehner, a former Bush White House official, on Commentary Magazine online. ìAnd yet if House Republicans had succeeded in derailing this deal, negotiated between Senator Mitch McConnell and Vice President Joe Biden, it would have been disastrous.î But Obamaís victory is narrow. And by getting only a partial deal now, he faces a bigger fiscal cliff just a few weeks into his second term. In fact, there will be three cliffs: the deep spending cuts known as the ìsequesterî that come due (again) in two months; the debt ceiling, which will prohibit new federal borrowing without congressional action, also in about two months; and the expiration on March 27 of the continuing budget resolution ñ the short-term deal passed Oct. 27 that allows the federal government to keep spending money. Those three anvils hanging over Washingtonís head are likely to consume attention as the deadlines approach, creating a distraction from other matters Obama might want to address after his second inauguration on Jan. 21 ñ starting with gun violence and immigration reform. Typically, reelected presidents begin their second terms with a bit of fresh political capital in the bank and about an 18-month window in which to accomplish anything. Fiscal matters could easily deplete Obamaís balance. And with each passing month, Congress becomes increasingly concerned about midterms ñ particularly House members, who face reelection every two years, and the one-third of the Senate that is up for reelection. Immigration reform could be an exception: Republicans face a crisis in their declining Hispanic support, and the issue has shot to the top of their agenda. That, coupled with Obamaís longstanding pledge to enact comprehensive reform, could mean action, almost regardless. † But Obama has other fiscal-cliff negatives to overcome. He may, for example, pay a price for the pep rally he held next door to the White House on Dec. 31 in an auditorium packed with middle-class taxpayers. The event was meant to demonstrate, once again, his commitment to average Americans in making sure their taxes didnít go up at midnight that night. But it infuriated Republicans at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, and likely reduced any good feeling from the deal Mr. Biden cut with Senator McConnell (R) of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader. Some analysts have suggested that Bidenís prominent role in solving the immediate fiscal cliff crisis, after Obamaís negotiations with House Speaker John Boehner came to naught, hurt Obamaís image as a leader. That may be true, but at least, it can argued, he deserves credit for his decision in 2008 to make Biden his running mate and place at his side an experienced Senate hand who could jump into the breach at just such a moment. † It was the Biden-McConnell deal ñ which passed the Senate by a lopsided 89-to-8 vote early Tuesday morning ñ that created the momentum necessary to keep enough House members (of both parties) in line to pass the bill late Tuesday.
acme / FlickrFondue!What a great way to start the year. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,412, +308.4, +2.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,462, +36.2, +2.5 percentNASDAQ: 3,112, +92.7, +3.0 percent And now the top stories:
BIIMobile is the most important new battleground for banking consumers, and banks are rolling out the latest and greatest smartphone apps and mobile site features to gain an edge on the competition. The banks that establish a reputation for mobile innovation will benefit from greater market share and more engaged ó and high-margin ó customers. They will also be in a better position to compete with new mobile banking start-ups, which will continue popping up and innovating, forcing legacy banks to stay ahead. In a recent report†from†BI Intelligence,†we take a look at some banking app pioneers and cutting-edge features,†detail†the competition to develop the best mobile banking tools,†examine mobile banking's growth spurt, and†analyze consumer adoption behavior and barriers. Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt;&gt; These are examples of the more advanced mobile banking features: In full, the†special report: For full access to the report on Mobile Banking sign up for a free trial subscription today.
If you're in the Financial District, you might want to check out this pizza making battle next month at Harry's Italian Pizza ‚Äî we know Wall Street loves a challenge. The NY Post reports that Westchester pizza maker Bruno DiFabio, is going to try to break the 28 second world record for making a pie. He won an award for the best pizza at an international culinary competition in Paris in November, but the top spot for speed has consistently eluded him. Of course, the final product can't have any holes in it or anything like that. From the NY Post: He (DiFabio) hopes to beat his ‚Äúarch rival and nemesis‚Äù Brian Edler, an owner of four Domino‚Äôs franchises in Ohio who set the current record in 2004 and made history in 2010 by churning out 206 pizzas in an hour ‚Äî the only speed mark that Guinness recognizes. DiFabio‚Äôs edge is his ‚ÄúNew York hand-slap,‚Äù a quick, back-and-forth flipping of dough, which gives him a read on its elasticity. Check out a video of DiFabio below (via the NY Post): ¬† 
APA $51 Billion Sandy relief package is coming on January 15th, according to Rep. Peter King of New York and Rep. Chris Smith of New Jersey. Their comments just aired on CNN. King had vociferously blasted Boehner last night and earlier today after a bill to provide aide for Sandy victims was unexpectedly pulled. A $9 billion package will come on Friday to extend the flood insurance benefits to make sure that people will survive until the full package comes through.¬† The group was resigned to the fact that the full $61 billion Senate bill will not see a vote today. Still Rep. King backed up Speaker Boehner and Leader Eric Cantor and insisted he'd vote for them in leadership positions, as did Rep. Michael Grimm. Grimm had earlier implied that he would not vote for Speaker Boehner. Earlier today Rep. King gave Boehner a major tongue lashing for canceling the vote.¬† After the meeting with Boehner and Cantor, the team of GOP New Yorkers seems to have drastically changed their tune.¬† "As far as I'm concerned," the Long Island Republican said, "that was a lifetime ago." King mentioned that "As long as there are 218 votes on January 15" all of this is water under the bridge.¬† Since the House will be drawing this bill from scratch, the group also removed many of the controversial earmarks that could have possibly held the passage back. King assured reporters that there was "No earmarks, no pork, anything that was at all questionable is out." Rep. Michael Grimm, a sophomore GOP representative from battered Staten Island, emphasized that he did plan to vote to re-elect the current House leadership team, and that his top concern was getting aid for his constituents.¬† "We have an economic calamity waiting in the wings if we don't rebuild New York and New Jersey," Grimm said after joining the press conference.¬† The first vote is Friday in order to extend the flood insurance program, which New Jersey Governor Chris Christie today said is nearly broke. This will buy the time to get the full package through.¬† More details as they come.¬†
Eric Hunsader, over at market data firm Nanex, explained to us that Monday was a historic day in the market regarding liquidity, quote traffic, and volatility. He said that Monday's trading day had the lowest liquidity (ability to convert assets into cash) and the highest quote traffic (buy or sell orders of a given stock and a given price) ever. That means even though buyers and sellers were blasting out price orders, they were getting filled at a low rate. From what Nanex sees, that quote blasting was due to a volatility in price ó which is weird, since there was little liquidity to move the price. Nanex tracked this using something called the eMini Depth Book indicator, "an excellent early warning signal for extreme intraday volatility." The eMini is based on the number of orders resting in the nearest 10 levels of depth for the active Electronic S&amp;P 500 Futures Contract. The whole thing actually has 20 levels, 10 for buy orders and 10 for sell orders. Each level holds a certain number of buy/sell orders. The more orders in the market, the more tightly packed each level will be. "It's really showing you how many buy orders exist at each price level below the market, and how many sell orders exist above the market," Hunsader told Business Insider. "When there are a lot of buy orders, a 1000 contract sell order will fill at the top 1 or 2 levels, When there are fewer orders in the book, that same 1000 contract sell order will clear out 5 to 10 levels. In other words, with more orders in the book, a 1000 contract buy/sell order will have less impact on the price." On Monday, the book sunk to its lowest levels since January 2010, but not necessarily because orders were getting filled.  From Nanex: Not coincidentally, we also saw a record high number of quotes on CQS - the consolidated quote feed for NYSE, NY-ARCA and NY-AMEX equities. This is because a few hundred emini contracts bought or sold immediately, will clear out many levels of the order book, causing an explosion of quotes and trades as the entire market adjusts to the new price level. Note that the $VIX index also sunk to 52-week lows on the same date. And all that together equals price volatility. Of course, Nanex also has some gorgeous charts to illustrate this activity. Here's one: Check out the rest of the charts over at Nanex&gt; 
Louise Palanker / FlickrThe S&amp;P 500 ended 2012 up a solid 13 percent, which was brutal for the bears shorting the market. Maybe the shorts will have better luck this year. We compiled a list of the 25 stocks with the highest short interest as a percentage of float. The list includes retail giants and major homebuilders. For your reference, we also included 1-year stock performance.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Market Euphoria Over Fiscal Cliff Deal Won't Last Long (Advisor Perspectives) Global markets rallied after the House approved the fiscal cliff bill late last night. But Charles Lieberman at Advisors Capital Management warns that this euphoria won't last long. "The investment implications of the deal are quite positive for the near term, but far less clear looking out over a few months. Euphoria over avoiding the fiscal cliff should enable equities to perform well over the next several weeks, while bond yields should rise. Economic growth prospects have also improved. That‚Äôs precisely how the markets behaved on Monday, as the politicians appeared to be making progress towards a deal. This euphoria won‚Äôt last long, however. Negotiations need to start soon, since late February will arrive fairly soon and politicians will be quite distracted over the next few weeks by the activities that normally surround the seating of a new Congress and the appointment of new key personnel in the Administration, such as Secretaries of State and Defense. The market volatility that we experienced in recent weeks should return by mid-February, as the budget battles resume." The Most Important Finance Books Ever Written (Business Insider)  As we begin the new year, Business Insider published its list of the investment books that should top your reading list. This includes Benjamin Graham, 'The Intelligent Investor' which Warren Buffett has described as the best book about investing that has ever been written, George Soros, 'The Alchemy of Finance', and Charles Mackay's 'Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds'. Morgan Stanley: The BRIC Era Is Over (Foreign Affairs) Despite many still betting on emerging markets, Morgan Stanley's Ruchir Sharma writes that the BRIC era could be over. "The new normal in emerging markets will be much like the old normal of the 1950s and 1960s, when growth averaged around five percent and the race left many behind. ‚Ä¶There is a lot less foreign money flowing into emerging markets. The global economy is returning to its normal state of churn, with many laggards and just a few winners rising in unexpected places." 8 Forecasts For Fund Investors In 2013 (Marketwatch) Chuck Jaffe at Marketwatch sees 8 trends in the mutual fund business in 2013. 1) Some big names could move into ETF's, something that Vanguard has a patent on till 2019, if the SEC allows them to.¬† 2) Active mutual funds will be converted to ETFs. 3) "New ETFs will ignite a price war". 4) "Renewed talk about 10-year returns". 5) Reforming money funds. 6) Among investors, fund investors will be least-worried about changes in tax rates. 7) "A derivative blow up". 8) Investors in bond funds will realize they aren't good safe havens. Byron Wien Reveals Surprises For 2013 (Business Insider) Byron Wien has published his ten surprises for 2013 that have an over 50 percent probability of happening, and that are bearish for American investors. These surprises include the S&amp;P falling below 1,300, crude oil tumbling to $70 a barrel, the Shanghai Composite surging over 20 percent on reforms and steady growth in China. New Book 'Pound Foolish' Slams The Financial Advice Industry (Investment News) Pound Foolish the latest book by Helaine Olen slams the financial advice industry. Olen argues that advisers aren't usually on the side of their clients, lambasts "personal finance-celebrities", and writes that the rise of the industry has come hand in hand with a stagnation in salaries, poor pensions and the rising cost of education and health care.
A new report from CoreLogic shows that the shadow inventory of homes fell 12.3 percent in October from a year ago.¬† Also known as pending supply, shadow inventory represents the houses that are intended for sale but aren't yet on the market. There are 2.3 million units in the shadows, which represent a seven month supply. ‚ÄúThe size of the shadow inventory continues to shrink from peak levels in terms of numbers of units and the dollars they represent,‚Äù said Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic. ‚ÄúWe expect a gradual and progressive contraction in the shadow inventory in 2013 as investors continue to snap up foreclosed and REO properties and the broader recovery in housing market fundamentals takes hold.‚Äù Here are some key points from the report. Here's a chart showing how shadow inventory has changed since 2006: CoreLogic
The ‚Äúyear of the dragon‚Äù in 2012 certainly¬†didn‚Äôt disappoint, as the global markets battled one financial dragon after another. From the Eurozone‚Äôs sovereign debt crisis to persistently high unemployment in the U.S. and a mayday call from many who worried that China‚Äôs growth rate was headed for a ‚Äúhard landing,‚Äù 2012 certainly¬†was interesting. As we turn the calendar page to 2013, the Eurozone seems to be in less-critical condition and China‚Äôs economic growth still appears to be flying but as of this writing, the U.S. debt problems still haven‚Äôt been solved. From my vantage point, the uncertainties surrounding the U.S. economy may just be the tip of the iceberg, threatening the global economy in the coming year. Nevertheless, with every new dire warning of economic disaster the global equity markets generally continued to power away in 2012. The Ripple Effect In this interconnected world, what happens in the key economies of the U.S., Eurozone, and Japan this year will almost certainly impact the global economy at large, but the ebb and flow of action and reaction is shifting. Emerging markets, for instance, are generally lessening their trade dependence on the U.S. and Europe, and there are other countries that can drive global growth‚Äîsome of which may even surprise us in 2013. In addition, a likely continuation of easy monetary policies in the developed markets this year could result in more investment dollars into global equity markets including emerging and frontier markets. Emerging markets in general have had three characteristics in their favor: generally high economic growth rates, large amounts of foreign reserves and low foreign debt. Many emerging economies appear to be on the cusp of consumer booms as well as productivity advances, which should bode well for future growth potential. As a long-term equity investor, I am optimistic about the global outlook, despite debt problems plaguing the U.S. and Eurozone. The middle class is growing in many emerging markets, and with it, the potential to fuel a consumer spending boom; the numbers in developing and Southeast Asia look particularly compelling to us. The latest estimates from the International Monetary Fund project developed economies as a whole to have achieved GDP growth of only 1.3% in 2012, with growth expected at 1.5% in 2013. In contrast, emerging Asia is expected to post an estimated GDP growth of 6.1% in 2012 and 6.8% in 2013.1 Frontier Markets I‚Äôm particularly optimistic about the investment potential in the frontier markets, the lesser-developed of the emerging markets. As exciting as they can be, one must be selective and very patient when investing in these markets.¬†At Templeton we look out well beyond one¬†or two years,¬†and generally take a five-year view. Growth rates in many frontier markets exceeded those of developed markets by a wide margin in 2012, and I believe that trend is likely to continue. The IMF has projected that during the next five years, 10 of the 20 fastest-growing economies will be in Sub-Saharan Africa, and two in North Africa. None are in the Western Hemisphere.2 I anticipate growth in many frontier countries‚Äô capital markets, too. Some of these markets are moving from small and illiquid to large and liquid. Overall, as frontier market countries expand, they have continued to increase investments in infrastructure, offering investment opportunities in construction, transportation, banking and finance and telecommunications industries. Many frontier countries are leading producers of important commodities such as oil, gas and precious metals, making them well positioned to potentially benefit from anticipated growing global demand for these resources. Rising consumption can provide these economies with strong purchasing power and the ability to spend their way to growth. Many frontier market countries have continued to be positively impacted by the substantial investments made by large emerging market countries such as China, India, Russia and Brazil. The economic drivers across frontier markets are diverse. For example, Botswana, one of the world‚Äôs largest diamond exporters, is introducing call and data processing centers. Kazakhstan, a country rich in oil and other natural resources, is investing in infrastructure development. Low Interest Rates‚Ä¶ and Inflation Given the fragile state of many of the developed markets right now, it seems likely that central banks could continue pumping money into the system. From an investment standpoint, it‚Äôs also possible that investors seeking yield in a prolonged low-rate environment could respond by funneling more money into stocks. I believe ‚Äòquantitative easing‚Äô could be particularly good for emerging markets, at least in the short run, because it means there‚Äôs lots of cash in the system. This trend was evident in 2012, as investment inflows into emerging markets equities totaled approximately US$35 billion in the first¬†11 months of 2012.3 I expect this trend could continue in 2013. With interest rates remaining very low, stocks can look more attractive to many investors. The flip side of the cash flood coin, of course, is the potential for inflation. In emerging economies, a larger percentage of the population is in lower income brackets, so price increases in essentials such as food and fuel can be harder to absorb. Increased productivity can help lessen the impact of inflation. In order to achieve this, I believe economies with heavy-handed government policies may need to reduce the role of government. Our job as an investor is to scour these countries for individual companies that show potential to be able to survive, and even thrive, in the face of these challenges. Risks ‚Äì and Catalysts for Change One of the biggest risks I see in the year ahead is the ability of politicians in developed markets to take timely, meaningful action to address fiscal policy. If politicians can‚Äôt work together and delay any real action, there is a risk that both the U.S. and Europe could slide into recession, erasing much of the gains we generally saw in global equity markets in 2012. Meanwhile, I believe balancing growth, inflation and global competitiveness will be on the agenda for many emerging countries in the years to come. As we have seen from the events of the past year, there will always be unforeseen factors and circumstances that might become catalysts for greater changes in the global landscape. We cannot exactly predict when the next market correction will hit us nor know how great or small it will be, but we do expect that market volatility is here to stay. However, with every crisis, political change or upheaval, come potential opportunities, too. Therefore, we continue to invest with a long-term horizon in companies that we believe are undervalued, fundamentally strong and growing, and those that we think can weather difficult and changing times. Happy new year everyone! ¬† ¬† ¬† 1.¬†¬†Copyright ¬© by International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. ‚ÄúRegional Economic Outlook Update, Asia and Pacific Department,‚Äù October 2012. Emerging Asia is defined by the IMF as East Asia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.¬†¬† 2. Source: Copyright ¬© by International Monetary Fund. ‚ÄúWorld Economic Outlook‚Äù October 2012. 3. Source: EPFR Global. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
Getty / Michael NagleStrauss-Kahn and SinclairDominique Strauss Kahn has been forced to borrow money from his ex-wife to pay a civil settlement with a New York maid he was accused of raping, the Daily Mail reports. Former IMF chief DSK settled with Sofitel maid Nafissatou Diallo in December. The Daily Mail reports today that Strauss-Kahn had to borrow "millions" his ex-wife in order to pay the settlement, thought to be worth around $6 million. Former wife Anne Sinclair, one of France's best known journalists, stood by Strauss Kahn for almost two years before it was leaked that she would be leaving him last summer. Strauss Kahn has moved on however, dating social media producer Myriam Aouffir since the break up. Things aren't all bad for the pair ‚Äî according to the Mail, they saw in the New Year at Le Prince Maurice in Mauritius, where rooms start at "$926-a-night and go up to more than $2000-a-night."

Ezra Klein Chris Christie just went on an epic tirade against Congress for failing to pass a Superstorm Sandy relief bill. One reason for his outrage at not getting help: New Jersey contributes way more in federal taxes than it gets back from the government. He says this should be a reason that New Jersey gets extra help in times of need, not a reason to be ignored. Via Ezra Klein, the above map shows which states (in red)¬†receive more than a dollar back for every dollar they pay in taxes. The blue states all pay more in taxes than they get back. New Jersey is a blue state. A key feature of the chart is that almost every "blue" state on here, is also a blue state politically (meaning it usually votes Dem). Texas is the one exception. For full coverage of Christie's amazing press conference, see here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsThe short-tailed albatross.Deutsche Bank Chief US Economist Joe LaVorgna is not convinced the U.S. economy is about to take off. In his latest note, LaVorgna says near-term growth prospects for America look pretty bearish, and cites two reasons why: Congress, and Congress: One, we are still getting some fiscal drag this year; and two, there are still big budget battles that need to be fought; this, in turn, could further depress business confidence with negative implications for spending and hiring. He does some math to make his case: the expiration of the payroll tax credit will create a -0.75 point gash in GDP growth. And the new, higher tax rates on marginal income, dividends and capital gains will create an additional drag of up to -0.25 points. Thus, "we are likely to get at least a one percentage point drag on†2013 real GDP," he writes. What's more, if†Congress allows spending cuts (aka sequestration) to move forward in two months, the hole could grow even larger.† LaVorgna tries to end on an upbeat note, but can't quite go all the way: "The economy has made tremendous headwayówe note private sector balance sheets are in excellent shape and the housing market is in a meaningful recovery; but growth prospects†would be significantly better if fiscal policy were on the right track."
ABCChris Christie is delivering a BRUTAL takedown of Speaker Boehner right now over his failure to bring Sandy aid to a vote. It's historic. In his speech, he has already delivered what will be a historic criticism of Congress. In comparing himself and Governor Cuomo to politicians, he said: Will be remembered for a long time. For full coverage of the press conference, see here &gt;
JPMorgan's monthly global manufacturing index improved 0.6 points in December to 50.2, according to Markit. A reading above 50 signals growth, and this was the first time the print rose above 50 since May. The US (+1.2), China (+1.5) and¬†the UK (+1.4) led strength in the number. Here's the chart: Markit And here's JPM Director of¬†Global Economics Coordination David Hensley's take: PMI survey indices for output, new orders and employment¬†continued to lift at the end of 2012, as the global manufacturing¬†sector stabilises following a softer patch in the middle of the¬†year. With the rate of inventory accumulation also remaining¬†low, the sector should, barring any disruptions, advance further¬†into expansion territory at the start of 2013. SEE MORE: Wall Street's Biggest Geniuses Shared Their Charts Of The Year &gt;
Governor Chris ChristieNew Jersey Gov. Chris Christie launched a ruthless assault on Republican House Speaker John Boehner Wednesday, tearing into the GOP leader for his decision to pull the plug on a Hurricane Sandy relief bill.¬† The speech/press conference was like something out of a movie, a righteous tirade against the way that Washington does business, that people wish would happen in real life. "There is only one group to blame," Christie said. "The House Majority and John Boehner."¬† "Last night, the House Majority failed the basic test of leadership and they did so with callous disregard to the people of my state," he said. "It was disappointing and disgusting to watch."¬† "Shame on you, shame on Congress."¬† Following his remarks, Christie doubled down on his criticism in a lengthy ‚Äî and incredibly candid ‚Äî press conference in which he laid into House Republicans for putting "palace intrigue" ahead of their actual jobs.¬† "Our people were played last night as a pawn...and that's why people hate Washington, D.C.," Christie said later. "They forget that we're the ones who sent them there."¬† Asked who he thought was responsible on the holdup over Sandy aid, Christie laid the blame entirely on Boehner. "It was the Speaker's decision ‚Äî his alone," Christie said, adding that he tried to reach Boehner four times, but that the Speaker did not take his calls until this morning. "I won't get into my conversation with [Boehner], but I will tell you there is no reason to believe anything they tell me." Christie's remarks¬†laid bare the internal conflict among House Republican leaders. According to a GOP aide, Boehner was responsible for pulling the relief bill after a majority of his caucus ‚Äî including his two top deputies, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Republican Whip Kevin McCarthy ‚Äî voted against the fiscal cliff bill.¬† Christie told reporters Wednesday that Cantor was "working as hard as he could" to get the Sandy relief bill passed.¬† According to a senior White House official, Christie spoke to President Barack Obama about the hold-up earlier today. The official said that Obama has also been in close contact with staff of New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.¬† Watch the video below:¬† ¬†
While the people most impacted by the deal to avert the fiscal cliff are couples making more than $450,000 per year and individuals making more than $400,000 per year, everyone's taxes are going up nonetheless compared to 2012. The bill that passed the Senate and the House did not reinstate the payroll tax holiday that has been around for the past two years. So even though income taxes aren't going up for most people, actual take home pay will be going down. In order to aid the recovery Congress and the White House cut the payroll tax from 6.2 percent for all workers to 4.2 percent for all workers effective 2011. The deal that was reached did not renew that, so everyone's taxes are going up.† According to the Tax Policy Center, the American Taxpayer Relief Act will mean that the average federal effective tax rate will be 21.7 percent and the average increase is $1,257. Moreover, all Americans who make less that $500,000 per year will see an increase of 1% to 1.4% in their annual effective tax rate as a result of the payroll tax rise.† Either way, the President did get what he wanted. The effective tax rate of people who make more than $1,000,000 per year should rise by an average of 5.2 percent.† Here's how you figure out how this bill impacts you. On the left, find your income level in thousands.† The column under the red arrow tells you how many more dollars taxpayers in that income bracket can expect to pay as a result of the payroll tax holiday expiration. The column under the blue arrow shows how much your effective tax rate increased. If that number is less than two points you're not affected by the President's plan to raise taxes on upper income Americans. If that number is less than two for your income bracket, that is just the impact of the payroll tax holiday's scheduled†end. The total average rate increase is 1.8 percent. The column under the green arrow shows the average effective federal tax rate for members of each income bracket.†The total average effective federal tax rate is 21.7 percent.†Tax Policy Center
Natural gas futures dropped as much as 9 percent today after a meteorology forecasting group said the country would see above-normal temperatures through Jan. 11, according to Bloomberg's Christine Buurma. Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland added the low in New York on Jan. 9 may be 38 degrees Fahrenheit, 11 higher than usual, Buurma said. It was the second consecutive price collapse for the commodity. Yesterday contracts fell nearly $0.25 following a 900-contract order on the NYMEX, she reported. Futures are way down from fall 2012 highs of nearly $4, although there is usually a decline at the beginning of the year as orders for winter supplies tail off. Here's the chart going back to September:ForExPros
YouTubeAmancio Ortega gained more wealth than anyone else this year, making¬†$22.2 billion.¬† The notoriously private 76-year-old co-founded Zara with his then-wife Rosalia in 1975. The retailer , which has 1,500 stores in 70 countries, is dominating Europe and expanding in Asia.¬† Ortega rarely gives interviews to the press.¬†His net worth is estimated at $57.5 billion.¬† Despite Ortega's private nature, some details about his life have emerged. He wears the same thing to work everyday and dines in the company cafeteria.¬† But Ortega does occasionally enjoy his vast fortune and indulge in luxuries.¬†
PR NewswireHigh level economic predictions take up a lot of media coverage at the start of the New Year. They can ignore the fact that individual industries face very different pressures. Things may be looking up for the economy, but that doesn't mean your industry and job are safe. Global consulting giant Booz&amp;Co. has a great breakdown of what 13 of the world's biggest industries can expect next year.† If you know the biggest issues, you can position yourself as a leader on the most important questions at your company.†
APFor all the haranguing about what the fiscal cliff could do to Wall Street's wealthy, now that the deal's been done, it actually looks like things didn't work out so badly for them. Think about the issues that really matter to the financial world ‚Äî capital gains (especially carried interest) tax, income tax, and estate tax rates. In all these cases, the Democrats negotiated down from the Street's worst case scenario, or in carried interest's case, didn't touch the current policy at all. Take the tax on dividends. The top rate increased to 20%, not the 39.6% some Democrats wanted. This is good news for investors as well as bankers getting their bonuses paid out in stock (as they have been more and more since the financial crisis). Not everyone will remember this, but back in 1986, Ronald Reagan himself raised the dividend tax rate to the same rate as regular income tax in his massive tax overhaul. They weren't lowered again until George Bush Sr. took office. Under the capital gains umbrella falls another Wall Street darling, especially for hedge funds and private equity firms ‚Äî the carried interest tax rate. It's the percentage of an investment fund's profits that a general partner is allowed to take home after the fund has reached a certain "hurdle" rate of return (the 20 of the infamous "2 and 20" investment firm payment structure), and it was taxed at 15%. Late last year Carlyle Group's David Rubenstein said he wouldn't be surprised if the rate, which some consider a "loop-hole" went up. In fact, some money managers, like David Tepper, seemed okay with getting rid of it all-together. Even Mitt Romney admitted that carried interest should be considered when he was running for President. However, Democrats didn't try to tinker with this item beyond the 5% capital gains dividend rate increase. Then there's ordinary income tax. The Bush tax cuts are over for anyone making over $400,000 (and couples making $450,000), so they'll be paying $39.6% instead of 35%, but the Democrats lost on their initial attempt to get that rate raised for individuals making $200,000. Lastly, there's estate tax, an issue close to the heart of anyone passing on a small business (like, say an investment firm). The top rate went up to 40% (from 35%), increasing revenue from this policy by $19 billion, but Democrats also wanted to kill the exemption for estates under $5 million during these negations. That could've happened easily too, had a 2010 measure setting the exemption at $5 million been allowed to expire on January 1. Instead the exemption was kept in place for estate and gift purposes. So see, everything going to be okay... right?
But not a single euro has changed hands ‚Äì none of the customers on this drizzly Saturday morning has bothered carrying money at all. For many, browsing through the racks of second-hand clothes, electrical appliances and homemade jams, the need to survive means money has been usurped. "It's all about exchange and solidarity, helping one another out in these very hard times," enthused Ioanitou, her hair tucked under a floppy felt cap. "You could say a lot of us have dreams of a utopia without the euro." In this bustling port city at the foot of Mount Pelion, in the heart of Greece's most fertile plain, locals have come up with a novel way of dealing with austerity ‚Äì adopting their own alternative currency, known as the Tem. As the country struggles with its worst crisis in modern times, with Greeks losing up to 40% of their disposable income as a result of policies imposed in exchange for international aid, the system has been a huge success. Organisers say some 1,300 people have signed up to the informal bartering network. For users such as Ioanitou, the currency ‚Äì a form of community banking monitored exclusively online ‚Äì is not only an effective antidote to wage cuts and soaring taxes but the "best kind of shopping therapy". "One Tem is the equivalent of one euro. My oil and soap came to 70 Tem and with that I bought oranges, pies, napkins, cleaning products and Christmas decorations," said the mother-of-five. "I've got 30 Tem left over. For women, who are worst affected by unemployment, and don't have kafeneia [coffeehouses] to go to like men, it's like belonging to a hugely supportive association." Greece's deepening economic crisis has brought new users. With ever more families plunging into poverty and despair, shops, cafes, factories and businesses have also resorted to the system under which goods and services ‚Äì everything from yoga sessions to healthcare, babysitting to computer support ‚Äì are traded in lieu of credits. "For many it plays a double role of supplementing lost income and creating a protective web at this particularly difficult moment in their lives," says Yiannis Grigoriou, a UK-educated sociologist among the network's founders. "The older generation in this country can still remember when bartering was commonplace. In villages you'd exchange milk and goat's cheese for meat and flour." Other grassroots initiatives have appeared across Greece. Increasingly bereft of social support, or a welfare state able to meet the needs of a growing number of destitute and hungry, locals have set up similar trading networks in the suburbs of Athens, the island of Corfu, the town of Patras and northern Katerini. But Volos, the first to be established, is by far the biggest. Until recently the city, 200 miles north of Athens, was a thriving industrial hub with a port whose ferries not only connected the mainland to nearby islands but before Syria's descent into civil war was a trading route between Greece and the Middle East. Once famous for its tobacco, Volos was home to flour mills and cement factories, steel and metal works. But, today, it is joblessness that it has come to be known for in a country whose unemployment rate recently hit a European record of 26%, surpassing even that of Spain. "Frankly the Tem has been a life-saver," said Christina Koutsieri, clutching DVDs and a bag of food as she emerged from the marketplace. "In March I had to close the grocery store I had kept going for 27 years because I just couldn't afford all the new taxes and bills. Everyone I know has lost their jobs. It's tragic." Last year, the Greek government stepped in with a law that supported finding creative ways to cope with the crisis. For the first time, alternative forms of entrepreneurship and local development were actively encouraged. Although locals insist the Tem, which is also available in voucher form, will never replace banknotes ‚Äì and has not been dreamed up to dodge taxes ‚Äì they say it is a viable alternative. For local officials such as Panos Skotiniotis, the mayor of Volos, the alternative currency has proved to be an excellent way of supplementing the euro. "We are all for supporting alternatives that help alleviate the crisis's economic and social consequences," he said. "It won't ever replace the euro but it is really helping weaker members of our society. In all the social and cultural activities of the municipality, we are encouraging the Tem to be used."  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Flickr/garryknightOn Wall Street, investors and money managers usually like to keep the things they do pretty quiet. Tons of super successful people like Tom Steyer, Louis Bacon, and Bruce Kovner eschew the spotlight almost entirely. But as the NYT points out, rock star investors that disclose exactly what they're doing (even when they don't have to) are on to something. Think about what happened last month when Bill Ackman announced his massive Herbalife short ‚Äî the Street started attacking the stock with a vengeance. That alone convinced an analyst at¬†B. Riley &amp; Company who was once bullish on the stock to reverse course citing pressure of copy-cat short sellers. From the NYT: There is a culture of worship around Mr. Ackman and a small circle of hedge fund deities like Mr. Einhorn, John A. Paulson of Paulson &amp; Company and even Steven A. Cohen at a somewhat tarnished SAC Capital Advisors. When one of them says or does something, it quickly reverberates in the market. We have seen this before with Warren E. Buffett, when a new investment by him pushes the stock of the company up instantly. But more often these days, it is the bets of hedge fund managers that a stock will go down that move share prices. You can tick off the list: Mr. Einhorn and St. Joe Company; Steve Eisman and the profit-making education sector; Carson Block of the investment firm Muddy Waters Research and Olam International... We'd add Jim Chanos to that list too. These are investors that can cause a stock to go into panic mode when they announce a short position. The NYT suggests that maybe it's time for the SEC to require investors to disclose short positions like they do long ones (quarterly, in 10K filings). That way the market won't be caught by surprise. But isn't surprise half the fun?
As we begin 2013, influential geopolitical analyst and president of Eurasia Group, Ian Bremmer has been tweeting out his list of 10 most powerful people for the year. Here they are: Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter Ian Bremmer via Twitter
apBillionaires had a good 2012. According to Bloomberg, the richest 100 billionaires added $241 billion¬† to their wealth this past year. As a whole they're worth $1.9 trillion. Bloomberg kindly gave us the data on the Top 10 gainers, how much they're worth, and how much they made. They come from a range of industries including tech, telecom, and chemicals.
New York Republican Rep. Peter King has launched a furious assault against the GOP House leadership over their decision to pull the plug on a bill that would have provided federal relief to victims of Hurricane Sandy.† Since the decision was announced last night, King has been parading in front of cameras, accusing his party of abandoning those devastated by the storm and calling on New Yorkers to stop donating to the Republican Party.† Here's his tirade on CNN this morning:† † And here's his first big rant on the House floor from last night. He has another one today that we'll add here as well.  *This post has been updated to add the CNN interview.†
http://video.cnbc.com/gallery/?video=3000039042David BiancoThroughout December, Wall Street's top strategists published their 2013 targets for the S&amp;P 500. However, almost all of them said that their targets would likely change depending on the outcome of the fiscal cliff dealings. Well, now we have a deal, and Wall Street is cranking up its forecasts. Deutsche Bank's David Bianco just raised his year-end target from 1,500 to 1,575. From his note to clients this morning: Fiscal cliff deal done: 12-month S&amp;P target raised to 1575 from 1500Congress passed legislation to avert the fiscal cliff on New Year's Day. Although the deal only covers taxes and pushed the spending issues off for a couple of months, we are pleased that it kept the top dividend and capital gains tax rates low and equal at 23.8%. The dividend tax rate was our chief focus and it staying equal to the capital gains rate puts 1600 within 12-month reach, in our view. But because spending cuts must still be addressed per sequestration and the debt ceiling and also because the tax hikes are right at our ~1.25% tolerance level for confidence in 1H growth, we raise our 12-month S&amp;P 500 target from 1500 to 1575. Bianco's new target implies a 9 percent gain from where the S&amp;P 500 is trading today.
CAMBRIDGE ñ As the world watches the United States grapple with its fiscal future, the contours of the battle reflect larger social and philosophical divisions that are likely to play out in various guises around the world in the coming decades. There has been much discussion of how to cut government spending, but too little attention has been devoted to how to make government spending more effective. And yet, without more creative approaches to providing government services, their cost will continue to rise inexorably over time.Any service-intensive industry faces the same challenges. Back in the 1960ís, the economists William Baumol and William Bowen wrote about the ìcost diseaseî that plagues these industries. The example they famously used was that of a Mozart string quartet, which requires the same number of musicians and instruments in modern times as it did in the nineteenth century. Similarly, it takes about the same amount of time for a teacher to grade a paper as it did 100 years ago. Good plumbers cost a small fortune, because here, too, the technology has evolved very slowly.Why does slow productivity growth translate into high costs? The problem is that service industries ultimately have to compete for workers in the same national labor pool as sectors with fast productivity growth, such as finance, manufacturing, and information technology. Even though the pools of workers may be somewhat segmented, there is enough overlap that it forces service-intensive industries to pay higher wages, at least in the long run.The government, of course, is the consummate service-intensive sector. Government employees include teachers, policemen, trash collectors, and military personnel.Modern schools look a lot more like those of 50 years ago than do modern manufacturing plants. And, while military innovation has been spectacular, it is still very labor-intensive. If people want the same level of government services relative to other things that they consume, government spending will take up a larger and larger share of national output over time.Indeed, not only has government spending been rising as a share of income; so, too, has spending across many service sectors. Today, the service sector, including the government, accounts for more than 70% of national income in most advanced economies.Agriculture, which in the 1800ís accounted for more than half of national income, has shrunk to just a few percent. Manufacturing employment, which accounted for perhaps a third of jobs or more before World War II, has shrunk dramatically. In the US, for example, the manufacturing sector employs less than 10% of all workers. So, even as economic conservatives demand spending cuts, there are strong forces pushing in the other direction. Admittedly, the problem is worse in the government sector, where productivity growth is much slower even than in other service industries. Whereas this might reflect the particular mix of services that governments are asked to provide, that can hardly be the whole story.Surely, part of the problem is that governments use employment not just to provide services, but also to make implicit transfers. Moreover, government agencies operate in many areas in which they face little competition ñ and thus little pressure to innovate.Why not bring greater private-sector involvement, or at least competition, into government? Education, where the power of modern disruptive technologies has barely been felt, would be a good place to start. Sophisticated computer programs are becoming quite good at grading middle-school essays, if not quite up to the standards of top teachers.Infrastructure is another obvious place to expand private-sector involvement. Once upon a time, for example, it was widely believed that drivers on privately operated roads would constantly be waiting to pay tolls. Modern transponders and automatic payment systems, however, have made that a non-issue.But one should not presume that a shift to greater private-sector provision of services is a panacea. There would still be a need for regulation, especially where monopoly or near-monopoly is involved. And there would still be a need to decide how to balance efficiency and equity in the provision of services. Education is clearly an area in which any country has a strong national interest in providing a level playing field.As US President in the 1980ís, the conservative icon Ronald Reagan described his approach to fiscal policy as ìstarve the beastî: cutting taxes will eventually force people to accept less government spending. In many ways, his approach was a great success. But government spending has continued to grow, because voters still want the services that government provides. Today, it is clear that reining in government also means finding ways to shape incentives so that innovation in government keeps pace with innovation in other service sectors.Without more ideas about how to innovate in the provision of government services, battles such as one sees playing out in the US today can only become worse, as voters are increasingly asked to pay more for less. Politicians can and will promise to do a better job, but they cannot succeed unless we identify ways to boost government servicesí efficiency and productivity.
BIG SHOCK: At the last minute the Fiscal Cliff was averted that keeps the Bush-era taxes in place for almost everyone. Stocks are surging on the news. Okay, so yeah, this is not shocking at all. This is how DC does business. But while the outcome is roughly in line with what people expected, what is surprising is that the economic and market impact turned out to be much less than what people were thinking. Back in October, economists like David Rosenberg (and eventually everyone on Wall Street) were passing around this chart, showing a sharp drop in year-over-year growth of business spending. Everyone was talking about how The Fiscal Cliff was already crushing confidence, and that even if we got a deal the damage was done. ¬† Bloomberg, Business Insider But something funny happened on the way to a deal. Nobody actually seemed to care. One of our favorite charts of the entire cycle was this one from Scotty Barber at Blackrock, which compared the VIX to an "uncertainty index." BlackRock This chart needs a little bit of explanation. The VIX (the yellow line) is an options-based index which measures how fearful traders are, by looking at the extent to which they're buying downside protection. The green line tries to measure policy uncertainty by using headlines that are redolent of uncertainty. Over the past decade, the two lines have lines up quite nicely, but that fell apart with the Cliff. The market was never buying the headline uncertainty. Traders just didn't care as much as the talking heads on TV wanted them do. And then it turned out that even that scare chart about business investment didn't matter much. Last month we saw a rebound in business capital expenditures. Bloomberg, Business Insider And that chart isn't a mirage. Since then we've got a host of indicators showing a pickup in manufacturing (Philly Fed, Dallas Fed, and ISM have all looked good. Today's ISM nicely showed a rebound in hiring. So the story turned out to be much less of a deal than we thought. Jefferies' David Zervos has a very Zervos characterization of it all: ¬†In the end, the fiscal cliff will go down in the history books as some laughable combination of Y2K, the end of the Mayan calendar, a Harold Camping video, and a few pages from a Nostradamus book. The idea that a move in top marginal tax rates by 5 percent would send the economy into a tailspin was ludicrous. In the last century, across numerous developed nations, we have seen plenty of strong growth with top marginal income tax rates greater than 39.4 percent. And the academic economic literature has never been able to accurately document strong correlations between top marginal income tax rates and long run growth. So if a bunch of levered traders want to jump on risk assets, and try to push them lower in illiquid year end trading conditions on some faulty set of growth/tax correlation theories, then so be it! They can drive it for a few days, and a few percent, but the whipsaw will be extreme. The reality is that the fiscal cliff was just foundationless noise in the midst of a massive reflationary trend higher for risk assets! That seems really right.
moneyshow.comLast night the House voted 257-167 to approve the fiscal cliff bill that was passed early Tuesday in the Senate. The bill allows for tax increases on individuals and households making over $400,000 and $450,000 respectively. Incomes above that level will now be taxed 39.6 percent. Capital gains and dividend tax rates would rise to 20 percent for those above that income threshold. And the bill delays spending cuts by two months. Dennis Gartman, publisher of The Gartman Letter wasn't too happy with the deal. First he criticized it for being overtly anti-marriage. Second, he said it failed to tackle the "egregious lack of discipline on spending" and said President Obama was leading the country towards socialism. Finally, he was also critical of the fact that this bill originated in the Senate, whereas he writes, "according to the Constitution all fiscally related legislation must originate in the House." Here is his take on the fiscal cliff deal: "We‚Äôve no great disagreement with the legislation as it stands except for the fact that this is an overtly anti- marriage decision and therefore manifestly discriminatory on its face and there is of course a marked lack of spending cuts and as we all know the problem with the US fiscal deficit is not one of revenue but is one of egregious lack of discipline on spending. Regarding the former concern, unmarried up-income couples will have their taxes held at current levels while upper-income married couples with the same incomes will see their taxes raised materially. Even the French Supreme Court has found that wrong. Regarding the former concern, we point to the chart [see below] regarding welfare spending which has now reached $1 trillion per year and we are not including here spending on Social Security and Medicare. These are simply unemployment benefits, spending on food stamps and other true ‚Äúwelfare‚Äù related programs. And to remember, the figures included here are for 2011. 2012 shall obviously have been far higher and 2013 shall be higher still. We shall not mince words here then: What the House and the Senate have agreed upon... and what the President has said he shall sign... is horrible legislation and were we a Congressman or Senator we‚Äôd have voted against it so long as we had ‚Äúcover‚Äù to do so; but the government needed to be funded; taxes need to be raised; armies, navies and air forces need to be secured et al and in the end there was no choice but to vote for the legislation‚Äôs passage. The Left has won. The President has succeeded in moving the country along the path toward socialism. Those who have succeeded in life will pay for that success with higher taxes; those who‚Äôve failed will be paid by those who‚Äôve succeeded. Paul will be paid by Peter and Paul‚Äôs support has been won ... perhaps eternally. Will spending cuts be debated later? Certainly they will be, but just as certainly they will be defeated. Revenues are always raised at the margins, and fail inevitably to raise new revenues, while spending is always supported in any number of way, demanded by the ‚Äúpoor‚Äù and by ‚Äúminorities‚Äù and by the ‚Äúdowntrodden‚Äù and by whatever euphemism the Left can conjure up. But the country pushes on despite all of that. We are not sure whether to cry or laugh; to applaud hang our head in despair. Perhaps it is best simply to say that we‚Äôve lived to fight another day." Here is the welfare chart: Heritage Foundation Research
New car registrations in France hit a 15-year low point in 2012 and business in 2013 looks like being just as difficult, data from the French automobile manufacturers' association CCFA showed on Wednesday. Sales in 2012 fell by 13.9 percent from the level the previous year to 1.899 million units, a CCFA statement said. The drop was compounded by the end of government-funded buying schemes that had boosted sales between 2009 and early 2011. The worst hit were French automakers Peugeot Citroen, where sales shrank by 17.5 percent, and Renault, down by 22 percent. Foreign builders saw an overall drop of 6.7 percent, but sales by German luxury car companies Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz actually grew. "All the multi-range car companies shrank, while higher end carmakers held on," a spokesman at CCFA said. "The drop in sales of light utility vehicles and trucks is very worrying as it signals a slowdown in the economy," the spokesman added. A notable exception to the poor results was South Korea's Hyundai-KIA which saw sales skyrocket 28.2 percent to take a 2.19 percent market share. "We are waiting for a 2013 market to be at best like that of 2012. We'll look for the trend in the first quarter," the spokesman. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.
AP Sources told Spanish newspaper ABC†that Venezuelan President Hugo Ch·vez is in an induced coma and being kept alive on life support in a Cuban hospital following emergency cancer surgery on December 10. UPI has more details from the report: Sources told ABC Ch·vez was breathing through mechanical ventilation and being fed intravenously and rectally, and Russian doctors treating him said his kidneys were failing. The doctors were considering ending the life support, the newspaper said. However, Venezuelan Vice President Nicol·s Maduro denied the report, saying that Ch·vez†was in a conscious state. Ch·vez†recently named Maduro as his chosen successor should he be unable to serve his third term as president following his re-election in October. While Ch·vez†has battled cancer for a while now, never has he taken the step of naming a successor, making the announcement significant. Ch·vez†is well known for his socialist government and economic policies.†Investors have bid up both Venezuelan stocks and bonds this year (Venezuela was the world's best performing stock market in 2012) on hopes that the end of Ch·vez's†rule in Venezuela will mean an end to those socialist policies and usher in a more business-friendly government. Today, yields on Venezuelan government bonds are falling toward multi-year lows. The move†reverses a climb upward in recent weeks after the Venezuelan government downplayed fears that Ch·vez's†December 10 surgery didn't go well. Bloomberg, Business Insider The yield on the Venezuelan 15-year government bond has fallen 40 basis points today. Torino Capital CEO Jorge Piedrahita†told Bloomberg News,†"There is a clear correlation between the price of Venezuelaís debt and Ch·vez's†health." Today's report from ABC cites anonymous sources inside the hospital. Although it's been refuted by Maduro, it appears as if it's been enough to re-ignite investor speculation.
Consumer confidence dropped during December as measured by both the Consumer Sentiment Index and the Consumer Confidence Index. I track the average of the two measures. The resulting Consumer Optimism Index dropped from a 2012 high of 77.9 during October to 69.0 during December. However, that was entirely caused by a plunge in the expectations component of our composite index to 65.2, the lowest since November 2011. The present situation component rose last month to 74.9, the highest since April 2008! Obviously, consumers last month perceived that the economy was performing well, but feared falling off the fiscal cliff. Now that the cliff has been averted, the resulting relief should boost both confidence and the economy. I am especially encouraged by the drop in the ‚Äújobs hard to get‚Äù response in the survey conducted by the Conference Board. It suggests that the unemployment rate might continue to fall much faster than widely expected, especially at the Fed.Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Fiscal Lift? (1) The flinch that stole Christmas. (2) Another apocalyptic scenario postponed. (3) Rooting for three round numbers: 1465/1565/1665. (4) The curmudgeon and smiley do a deal. (5) Another cliff in March. (6) Grover‚Äôs spin. (7) From fiscal cliff to fiscal drag to fiscal lift. (8) Some uplifting data on GDP, consumer spending, confidence, and profits. (9) ‚ÄúHyde Park on the Hudson‚Äù (+). (More for subscribers.)
Sotheby's International RealtyMoney manager Barrie Zesiger is selling his private island estate in Norwalk, Connecticut for $12.9 million ‚Äî a home he and his wife have shared for 26 years (h/t WSJ). The house basically sounds like the life. Zesiger and his wife have a money managing firm in Manhattan, but from Thursday to Monday they sail from their island to the city and then take a train to work. Another huge plus: Since the property is so close to the mainland, its utilities are all underwater and the house went virtually unscathed during Super Storm Sandy. A part of their floating dock ended up in the front yard, but the Zesiger's considering building a helipad on the island, so that may not be an issue for the next owner anyway. The 3.5 acre estate boasts a 6 bedroom 4 bathroom (with 3 half bathrooms) main house. There's also a 2 bedroom caretaker's cottage, 1 bed room boathouse, a tea house, and an in-ground pool. Doug Werner of Sotheby's International Realty has the listing.
China's official manufacturing PMI report held steady at 50.6 in December, while the final HSBC report came in at 51.5, the highest reading in 19-months. The official number missed expectations and Societe Generale's Wei Yao wrote "The data points seem to support our view that it is not a strong upswing. We view these data as signs that the Chinese economy is nearing the end of the early expansion phase in the cycle."Here's her breakdown of the official manufacturing PMI report and the accompanying 11-sided polygonal chart: "Looking at the details of the official report, it was also a mixed picture. Production eased moderately but remained well above 50. Total new orders were flat at 51.2, while new export orders slipped to 50 in December from 50.2 in November. The two inventory sub-indices ñ input and output inventory ñ continued to point to slow restocking. However, employment and imports both improved but still remained below the 50 boom-bust line. The biggest increase was recorded in the input price index, which recovered to 53.3 from 50.1 in the previous month. The data points seem to support our view that it is not a strong upswing. However, we think there is still some upside for the PMI data, albeit less than in the previous cycle, during which this series usually went north of 55 before losing momentum. Policies, especially regarding infrastructure and housing, remain the key." Societe Generale
Computer Chompers via CNNMoneyAlex Wiley, creator of Computer ChompersComputer Chompers has made a business out of making Apple products more expensive. The company takes all sorts of electronics, from Nintendo game controllers to iPhones and Blackberries, strips them down, and plates them in 24-caret gold. It then adds engravings and diamonds to the golden shells. Each device looks a little different for each customer. Alex Wiley has been creating the computers for a few years now. Fortune recently interviewed him on some of the most expensive Apple products his team has sold (although he sells Microsoft, Nintendo and Rim products too, Apple products are most popular with his customers).Wiley says he sold a $30,000 13-inch MacBook Pro (picture below). He's also created a $14,500 Rose Gold Plated iMac with a 24-inch screen, and a $20,000 platinum MacBook Pro with a customized, multi-color diamond logo. Who's buying these pricey items? Wiley says 90% of sales come from international clients. The buyer of the $20,000 MacBook was from Azerbaijan. Athletes and celebrities buy his products too. Here's the $30,000 MacBook Pro: Computer Chompers via CNNMoney Computer Chompers via CNNMoney And here's the multi-colored diamond design on the $20,000 platinum MacBook Pro: Computer Chompers via CNNMoney You can also buy iPads and iPhones from Computer Chompers, like these: Computer Chompers via CNNMoney
Flickr/PEO, Assembled Chemical Weapons AlternativesConstruction spending fell 0.3 percent in November. Economists were looking for an increase of 0.6 percent. To make things worse, last month's number was revised down to +0.7 percent from +1.4 percent. From the Census: The U.S. Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce announced today that construction spending during November 2012 was estimated at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $866.0 billion, 0.3 percent (¬±1.6%)* below the revised October estimate of $868.2 billion. The November figure is 7.7 percent (¬±2.0%) above the November 2011 estimate of $804.0 billion. During the first 11 months of this year, construction spending amounted to $781.4 billion, 9.2 percent (¬±1.3%) above the $715.4 billion for the same period in 2011. PRIVATE CONSTRUCTIONSpending on private construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $589.8 billion, 0.2 percent (¬±1.3%)* below the revised October estimate of $590.8 billion. Residential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $295.3 billion in November, 0.4 percent (¬±1.3%)* above the revised October estimate of $294.2 billion. Nonresidential construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $294.5 billion in November, 0.7 percent (¬±1.3%)* below the revised October estimate of $296.5 billion. PUBLIC CONSTRUCTIONIn November, the estimated seasonally adjusted annual rate of public construction spending was $276.2 billion, 0.4 percent (¬±2.3%)* below the revised October estimate of $277.4 billion. Educational construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $66.8 billion, nearly the same as (¬±3.5%)* the revised October estimate of $66.8 billion. Highway construction was at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $77.8 billion, 0.5 percent (¬±5.3%)* above the revised October estimate of $77.4 billion.
jurvetson / FlickrThe ISM Manufacturing index report is out and it's a slight beat. Click Here For Updates &gt; The headline number climbed to 50.7 from 49.5 in Novemer.¬† This was higher than the 50.4 economistswere looking for. A reading above 50 signals expansion. Earlier this morning, Markit US PMI surprised to the upside, coming in at 54.0, up from 52.8 a month ago. From the ISM: (Tempe, Arizona) ‚Äî Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in December, following one month of contraction, and the overall economy grew for the 43rd consecutive month, say the nation's supply executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business. The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management‚Ñ¢ Manufacturing Business Survey Committee. "The PMI‚Ñ¢ registered 50.7 percent, an increase of 1.2 percentage points from November's reading of 49.5 percent, indicating expansion in manufacturing for only the third time in the last seven months. This month's PMI‚Ñ¢ reading moved manufacturing off its low point for 2012 in November. The New Orders Index remained at 50.3 percent, the same rate as in November, indicating growth in new orders for the fourth consecutive month. The Production Index registered 52.6 percent, a decrease of 1.1 percentage points, indicating growth in production for the third consecutive month. The Employment Index registered 52.7 percent, an increase of 4.3 percentage points, indicating a resumption of growth in employment following only one month of contraction since September 2009. Both the Exports and Imports Indexes registered 51.5 percent, returning both indexes to growth territory following consecutive periods of contraction of six and four months, respectively. Comments from the panel this month are mixed, with some indicating a strengthening of demand and others indicating a continuing softness in demand. Additionally, many respondents express uncertainty about government regulations, taxes and global economics in general as we approach 2013."
YouTubeWhen Wall Street's masters of the universe dress down, you can hardly recognize them.† Let's just say some of the biggest names on the Street don't make the best fashion choices either ó ill-fitting jeans, white sneakers, a tank-top undershirt, and one even rocked cut-off jean shorts in his younger days.† In other words, given how the Masters Of The Universe dress when they're not dressing up, it's a really good thing that they have to wear their uniform. Use these as examples of what not to wear at your firm's next casual Friday.†
Wet Napkin on flickr10 minutes into the open, and the market is going crazy. The Dow is up 226. S&amp;P and NASDAQ are both up over 2%. Obviously the US economy isn't out of the woods. But for now, people aren't freaking out about the debt ceiling.
AP To listen to all the moaning out of the House of Representatives yesterday, you could be forgiven for thinking that the Republicans are losing the fiscal battle in Washington. Actually, they're winning. To see this, you just need to step back and look at the tax deal and the country's fiscal trends from a broader perspective. Yesterday, the American government voted to extend almost all of the Bush Tax Cuts permanently. Not temporarily, as a stimulus measure. Permanently. Ever since the Bush Tax Cuts were first enacted in 2001--temporarily, as a stimulus measure--one goal of the Republican party has been to "make the Bush Tax Cuts permanent." For most of the last decade, this goal has seemed like an extremist view: Making the Bush Tax Cuts permanent would drastically reduce the federal government's revenue. It would also increase inequality and balloon the national debt and deficit--so how could we possibly justify doing that? And yet now, suddenly, almost all of the Bush Tax Cuts are permanent. The Republicans also got a good deal for the investor and owner class, making the Bush dividend tax cut permanent. This saves a lot of money in tax bills for America's wealthier investors. And the Republicans also socked it to the working class, something that often seems to be an unstated goal of the party. How? By not extending the payroll tax cut. This payroll tax cut put up to an extra $2,000 a year in the pockets of everyone who works. The payroll tax hits everyone who earns wages, including the richest Americans, but it's a highly "regressive" tax: It takes a much bigger percentage of the income of those who earn less than $110,000 a year than it does from the richest Americans. So the Republicans have won a battle there, too. It's true that the Republicans have not yet won much ground on the other front that the party claims to be fighting on--namely spending cuts on programs that primarily benefit low-income and middle-income Americans (food stamps, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, unemployment insurance, and so forth). But the key word there is "yet." Yesterday's deal focused only on taxes. The next government fight will be about the debt ceiling, and the Republicans are already mobilizing to hold the country hostage and demand entitlement cuts in exchange for not forcing the U.S. to default. And it seems reasonable to assume that, no matter how crazy and irresponsible this behavior is, the Republicans will probably extort some spending-cut concessions in exchange for agreeing to allow the United States Of America to honor its commitments. So, it's likely that we'll get some entitlement spending cuts before long. And then there's the big picture, which is also important. The Republicans are winning there, too. To listen to Republicans tell it, you would think that the country's tax burden is suddenly astronomically high, that U.S. citizens are being forced to fork over more money to the government than ever before. The truth is exactly the opposite. Thanks to the Reagan revolution and the Bush Tax Cuts (almost all of which have now been permanently extended), the federal government is collecting a much lower percent of GDP as tax revenue than it has for most of the past 50 years. Specifically, as the chart below shows, the federal government is now collecting 17% of GDP as tax revenue, versus an average of about 19% in the past few decades. Business Insider, St. Louis FedStarving the beast... One of the broad strategies of those who want to reduce the size of the federal government is a plan called "Starve the beast." The goal of that plan is to continue to reduce federal government revenue to the point where the government simply has no choice but to cut spending, because deficits have just gotten too large and unsustainable to ignore. Our deficits are not yet (quite) too large and unsustainable to ignore, but if we continue on the current path for a few more years, they'll get there. So what the chart above is telling you is that the Republicans are doing an excellent job of bringing about Phase 1 of "Starving the beast." So ignore the Republican whining out of Washington. The Republicans may not have gotten everything they wanted out of the Fiscal Cliff deal, but they got almost everything. And when it comes to the broader fiscal battle, the Republicans are winning: The federal government's tax revenues are at the lowest level as a percent of GDP in the past several decades. The Republicans, in other words, are well on their way to starving the beast. SEE ALSO: Sorry, Folks, We Don't Just Have A Spending Problem
Some of India's auto giants reported on Tuesday a modest increase and some a drop in sales of new cars for the month of December, despite recent festive discounts and new models launched. Tata Motors, India's leading vehicle maker, showed a 51 percent year-on-year drop in sales at 14,185 units, compared to 28,916 the same time last year. The Indian unit of Hyundai Motor, the country's second-largest car maker, said its sales in December slid 2.5 percent to 47,833 cars from a year earlier. But Ford's India sales grew nine percent to 6,517 vehicles in December while exports more than doubled to a record 4,382 cars from a year earlier. India's largest passenger car maker, Maruti Suzuki, has yet to report sales data for December. India has been one of the world's fastest-growing car markets in recent years and global auto makers raced to set up factories to supply local demand. But purchases slowed sharply in 2012 as consumers grew wary of committing to big-ticket items due to the economic slowdown, costlier auto loans and high fuel costs. The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers last year slashed its car sales growth forecast, for the financial year to March 2013, to between one and three percent from an earlier nine to 11 percent forecast. India's economic growth eased to 5.3 percent year-on-year in the July to September quarter, extending a prolonged downturn, while interest rates remain high as the central bank seeks to tame stubbornly high inflation. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.
It's 2013, and that means that Warren Buffett is 5 years into a bet he made against two hedge fund managers at New York based fund Protege Partners. Back in 2008, Buffett told Ted Seides and Jeffrey Tarrant of Protege that funds that invest in hedge funds for their clients would not beat the S&amp;P 500 over ten years. The loser of this bet has to donate $1 million to the winner's charity of choice on December 31st, 2017. Right at this very moment, Buffett is still winning. That may not be too surprising, since according to hedge fund tracker HFR, hedge funds returned an average of 5.5% in 2012. Protege built an index of five undisclosed funds that invest in hedge funds for the bet. Bloomberg, however, was able to track the wager's progress last year by looking at the Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index, which has been roughly tracking Protege's index (aside from adjustments made for extra fees etc.). Then Bloomberg compared that to the Vanguard Fund's Admiral (VFA) share index, a mutual fund which Standard &amp; Poor‚Äôs 500 Index. This year the VFA returned 15.96%. Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index, on the other hand, didn't crack 5%. So chalk yet another year up for the Oracle of Omaha on this one.
The south wing of the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York City was evacuated this morning after a possible gas leak, CBS Local reports. The wing was ventilated to help remove a strong smell of gas, according to ABC7. Passengers were allowed back into the building just after 9am, MyFoxNY reports. Buses to the terminal had been dropping passengers off on 10th Avenue and other nearby areas, but a tweet from a NJ Transit Twitter account suggests buses are returning to their normal routes. The inbound Lincoln Tunnel has been experiencing a delay of around 30 minutes due to the incident.
Larry1732 / FlickrNOTE: The PMI was initially reported as 54.2.¬† However, the number has since been corrected to 54.0. The December reading of the US purchasing managers index is out, and the number looks good. PMI jumped to 54.0 from 52.8 in November.¬† This is also better than economists' expectation calling for¬† 53.6. Any reading above 50 signals expansion in the industry. Here are key points from Markit: From Markit's Chief Economist Chris Williamson: ‚ÄúThe final Markit PMI came in slightly below the earlier flash estimate but still indicates that the U.S. manufacturing sector enjoyed a reasonably strong end to the year. Production is growing at a solid pace, buoyed by rising domestic and export sales. ‚ÄúFirms are also taking on more staff, suggesting that the underlying improvement in demand pushed any worries about the ‚Äòfiscal cliff‚Äô to backs of manufacturers‚Äô minds in the closing weeks of the year. ‚ÄúWith recent indications that growth is also picking up in other key economies around the world, notably in emerging markets such as China and Brazil, and that the Eurozone‚Äôs economic crisis is easing, U.S. companies should benefit as stronger demand lifts exports in early 2013. While economic growth may disappoint in the fourth quarter compared to the 3.1% rate of expansion seen in the third quarter, the recent run of positive PMI surveys towards the end of 2012 suggests that prospects have begun to look a little brighter for the new year.‚Äù Here's a complete breakdown of the numbers: Markit
Crazy rally. Market futures are surging even more. Dow futures up about 220 from Monday. FinViz
Getty ImagesInvesting legend Warren Buffett didn't make a single major acquisition this year, but Berkshire Hathaway Class A stock still beat the S&amp;P 500 this year by 4%, Bloomberg reports. The secret sauce was a combination of Buffett's big bet on Bank of America, whose shares doubled last year to $11.61, and a share buy back plan that he announced last month. From Bloomberg: The Omaha, Nebraska-based company is also poised to extend its record of outperforming the equity benchmark on Buffett‚Äôs favored scorecard: the change in book value per share over time... Book value may have climbed to $113,579 a share on Dec. 31, according to an estimate from Meyer Shields, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co. That would give Buffett‚Äôs firm a 7.8 percent annual growth rate for the five years ended 2012, compared with 1.7 percent for the S&amp;P 500, including dividends. Berkshire typically discloses year-end book value per share in February when it releases annual results. So we'll find out more about how Buffett did without buying any major companies (or, elephants) next month. In the meantime, expect solid numbers.
DoubleLine FundsBrendt Stallings and Husam NazerJeff Gundlach's DoubleLine Funds is getting bigger. In a new press release, DoubleLine announced that it had just hired Husam Nazer and Brendt Stallings as portfolio managers. Both Nazer and Stallings were equity portfolio managers at TCW, Jeff Gundlach's former employer. Gundlach, who was fired and then sued by TCW, started DoubleLine in 2009 with at least 40 TCW employees. Here's the statement from DoubleLine: LOS ANGELES, January 2, 2013 /PRNewswire/ ‚Äì DoubleLine Capital LP is pleased to welcome Brendt Stallings and Husam Nazer as the firm expands its product line-up into equity investment strategies. Stallings and Nazer join as portfolio managers and partners in DoubleLine Equity LP, a newly created affiliate of DoubleLine.Stallings and Nazer were previously Group Managing Directors at TCW, the highest title for investment managers at the firm. There they managed $5 billion invested in common stocks in several successful strategies, which were both broadly invested and sector- focused.DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach, who previously served as Chief Investment Officer of TCW and headed that firm‚Äôs largest investment group, launched DoubleLine in December 2009 with more than 40 of his former colleagues. Today DoubleLine employs more than 80 people, is majority-owned by its employees and manages more than $53 billion in asset allocation, bond and now stock strategies.‚ÄúIn my 24 years at TCW,‚Äù Gundlach said, ‚ÄúI knew well the firm‚Äôs many equity groups and styles; Brendt and Husam stood out as the most talented and versatile of those investment teams. During several years of the most treacherous markets in generations, working with me as Chief Investment Officer, they delivered returns of over 40% against a flat result for the S&amp;P 500. Importantly, their investment philosophy and process are consistent with and complement those already in place at DoubleLine. I will continue to explore other complementary partnerships and acquisitions to diversify our business and serve our clients.‚ÄùDoubleLine Equity is managing portfolios seeded by a DoubleLine affiliate as well as by Stallings and Nazer. The two portfolio managers expect to hire at least five investment professionals this year.‚ÄúHusam and I are enthusiastic about teaming up with DoubleLine to launch DoubleLine Equity,‚Äù Stallings said. ‚ÄúWe know the DoubleLine team well, having worked with Jeffrey and many of his team for 13 years. With its entrepreneurial culture, employee ownership and investment acumen, we can think of no better partner than DoubleLine.‚ÄùNazer said he and Stallings ‚Äúwill immediately begin building out the dedicated research team that our strategies demand.‚Äù‚ÄúThe timing could not be better to launch a new equity investment platform,‚Äù Nazer continued. ‚ÄúEquities have been disfavored relative to other asset classes for many years. It is for exactly this reason we and DoubleLine believe this is an opportune moment to launch DoubleLine Equity.‚ÄùBrendt Stallings, 44, is an equities portfolio manager and partner in DoubleLine Equity LP. Previously at TCW, Stallings was a Group Managing Director, Senior Portfolio Manager of the TCW Growth Equities Strategy, co-portfolio manager of the TCW Global Technology Strategy and co-head of the TCW Small- and Mid-Cap Growth Equities team. He received a BA in Decision Analysis and Political Science from Stanford University and an MBA from the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College. He is a CFA charter holder.Husam Nazer, 41, is an equities portfolio manager and partner in DoubleLine Equity LP. Previously at TCW, Nazer was a Group Managing Director, Senior Portfolio Manager of the Small-Cap Growth and SMID-Cap Growth strategies, co-portfolio manager of the TCW Global Technology Strategy and co-head of the TCW Small- and Mid-Cap Growth Equities team. Nazer received a BS in Biomedical Engineering from Boston University and an MBA at the University of Southern California.
BloombergSean West is the Eurasia Group analyst who nailed the Fiscal Cliff fight, putting 2-1 odds of there being a deal as late as December 31, when many people were concerned that it was all over. So we asked him for his take on the Debt Ceiling fight, which will be coming up in the next couple of months. As a refresher, a whole bunch of stuff is coming up over the next two months, as the debt ceiling, the sequester, and the end of the current budget are all happening around the same time. Suffice it to say, he is not as optimistic that things will go as smoothly, and that's saying something! The main difference: In the Fiscal Cliff fight, there was an alignment of incentives to get a deal. In the debt ceiling? Sharply different incentives. Here's what he told us via email: While Congress and the President averted the fiscal cliff, it provided little reason to believe the debt ceiling battle will be anything but another round of brinksmanship ó and potentially an even nastier fight. On the fiscal cliff, everyone in Washington had a shared incentive to avoid an across the board tax increase and sequestration --and the pathway to a deal was still so ugly that most folks thought they would never get there. On the debt ceiling, incentives are not at all aligned. The President has an incentive to take the debt ceiling off the table for good as a Republican leverage point by refusing to negotiate on it; Republicans have an incentive to get the most out of Obama on spending cuts as possible while they have the leverage. It's too early to know exactly how it will shape up, but it's safe to say the cliff negotiation did not establish a new method of politics conducive to bipartisan deal making. Should be interesting! SEE ALSO: RIP: The Bush Tax Cuts &gt;
Was the March 2009 low the end of a secular bear market and the beginning of a secular bull? Without crystal ball, we simply don't know. One thing we can do is examine the past to broaden our understanding of the range of possibilities. An obvious feature of this inflation-adjusted is the pattern of long-term alternations between up-and down-trends. Market historians call these "secular" bull and bear markets from the Latin word saeculum "long period of time" (in contrast to aeternus "eternal" ‚Äî the type of bull market we fantasize about). ¬† ¬† If we study the data underlying the chart, we can extract a number of interesting facts about these secular patterns: ¬† ¬† The annualized rate of growth from 1871 through the end of December (using extrapolated CPI data for the most recent month) is 2.07%. If that seems incredibly low, remember that the chart shows "real" price growth, excluding inflation and dividends. If we factor in the dividend yield, we get an annualized return of 6.67%. Yes, dividends make a difference. Unfortunately that has been less true during the past three decades than in earlier times. When we let Excel draw a regression through the data, the slope is an even lower annualized rate of 1.73% (see the regression section below for further explanation). If we added in the value lost from inflation, the "nominal" annualized return comes to 8.88% ‚Äî the number commonly reported in the popular press. But for a more accurate view of the purchasing power of the market dollars, we'll stick to "real" numbers. Since that first trough in 1877 to the March 2009 low: This last bullet probably comes as a surprise to many people. The finance industry and media have conditioned us to view every dip as a buying opportunity. If we realize that bear markets have accounted for about 40% of the highlighted time frame, we can better understand the two massive selloffs of the 21st century. Based on the real (inflation-adjusted) S&amp;P Composite monthly averages of daily closes, the S&amp;P is 69% above the 2009 low, which is still 30% below the 2000 high. Add a Regression Trend Line Let's review the same chart, this time with a regression trend line through the data. ¬† ¬† This line is a "best fit" that essentially divides the monthly values so that the total distance of the data points above the line equals the total distance below. The slope of this line, an annualized rate of 1.73%, approximates that number. Remember that 2.07% annualized rate of growth since 1871? The difference is the current above-trend market value. The chart below creates a channel for the S&amp;P Composite. The two dotted lines have the same slope as the regression, as calculated in Excel, with the top of the channel based on the peak of the Tech Bubble and the low is based on the 1932 trough. ¬† ¬† Historically, regression to trend often means overshooting to the other side. The latest monthly average of daily closes is 48% above trend after having fallen only 10% below trend in March of 2009. Previous bottoms were considerably further below trend. Will the March 2009 bottom be different? Only time will tell. Note: For a more optimistic view of long-term market trends and what's ahead, see Georg Vrba's article Estimating Stock Market Returns to 2020 and Beyond. Georg uses real total return (i.e., inflation adjusted, but with dividends reinvested). In contrast, my analysis is based on the index real price without dividend reinvestment. My preference for the price-only data is based in large part on the rather dramatic change over time in the index's dividend yield. Over the long haul, dividend yields have been quite erratic, but the overall trend over the past several decades has been one of shrinking dividend yields. Note also that sharp drops in price in the first half of the 20th century saw, predictably enough, the yields jump. In contrast, the crash of the recent financial crisis saw a spike in yields at 3.60%. Compare this to the 6.24% spike at the 1982 trough and 13.84% at the 1932 trough. ¬† ¬† Note: For readers unfamiliar with the S&amp;P Composite Index (a splice of historical data different from the S&amp;P Composite 1500), see this article for an explanation.
APThanks to last night's Fiscal Cliff deal, we an now put to bed the term "The Bush Tax Cuts." As of now, they're the Obama Tax Cuts. It should be noted, that income taxes are lower for everyone today than they would have been if the American Taxpayer Relief Act hadn't gone into effect. While top marginal rates are rising for those making over $400K, those earners still get a cut on their income up to $400K. The difference between the Obama Tax Cuts and the Bush Tax Cuts? Obama's are permanent*. *Technically nothing is permanent, but they don't have an expiry date.
Takeaway via Wikimedia CommonsGoldman Sachs economist Jim O'Neill famously coined the phrase "BRICs" in 2001 to describe the bloc of emerging markets ó Brazil, Russia, India and China ó whose growth was so explosive that their markets were on their way to eclipsing America's.† In the December issue of Foreign Affairs, Ruchir Sharma, head of Morgan Stanley Investment Management's emerging markets desk, argues that the miracle of the BRICs is over. ...the new normal in emerging markets will be much like the old normal of the 1950s and 1960s, when growth averaged around five percent and the race left many behind. BRIC growth was a fluke, Sharma says,†fueled by the waning of the wave of economic crises in the late-90s †and subsequent "global flood of easy money." And now? ...there is a lot less foreign money flowing into emerging markets. The global economy is returning to its normal state of churn, with many laggards and just a few winners rising in unexpected places.† The main culprit is China, whose population†"is simply too big and aging too quickly" to sustain its breakneck growth, he says.†We can instead expect a "three-to-four percent slowdown" there. But developed countries are slowing down too. And the combined effect of this purchasing pullback will slam export-driven economies ó namely, the rest of the BRICs (which Sharma says also encompasses Malaysia, Mexico and Taiwan). So what comes after BRICs?  Sharma says emerging nations are now pretty much locked into separate league tables, and will not be able to find enough growth to jump to a higher one. He explains: Among countries with per capita incomes in the $20,000 to $25,000 range, only two have a good chance of matching or exceeding three percent annual growth over the next decade: the Czech Republic and South Korea. Among the large group with average incomes in the $10,000 to $15,000 range, only one country -- Turkey -- has a good shot at matching or exceeding four to five percent growth, although Poland also has a chance. In the $5,000 to $10,000 income class, Thailand seems to be the only country with a real shot at outperforming significantly.  Any "stars" that we see now will come from the bottom ó where per capita incomes are under $5,000: †Indonesia, Nigeria, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, and various contenders in East Africa. Read Sharma's full piece at Foreign Affairs.com &gt; SEE MORE: Why China Has The Worst Farms In The World &gt;
Quick heads up. US borrowing costs are rising today, in the wake of the Fiscal Cliff deal. The yield on the 10-year bond are ticking up to 1.8178%. Bloomberg Why? It has nothing to do with the deficit or the debt. It's just that this deal averts some concerns for the economy, and that means that safe-haven buying of US Treasuries goes away. It's a good sign. We think it's important to bring this up now, because it's only a matter of days before outlets like the WSJ start talking about how bond vigilantes are rebelling against large deficits. It couldn't be further from the truth.
China's official manufacturing purchasing managers index, which is published by China's National Bureau of Statistics, came in at a respectable 50.6 in December.¬† This was flat from November. Any number above 50 signals expansion. However, economists were expecting the number to climb to 51.0. So, while the margin of error was slim, it was nevertheless a disappointing report. "The data points seem to support our view that it is not a strong upswing," said SocGen's Wei Yao in a note to clients this morning.¬† "We view these data as signs that the Chinese economy is nearing the end of the early expansion phase in the cycle." But Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Ting Lu isn't as worried about the health of the Chinese economy.¬† From Lu's note: First, most data points, especially the industrial earnings, have been pointing to an impressive recovery. Second, the private HSBC PMI for Dec, which was released yesterday, jumped to 51.5 in Dec from 50.5 in Nov, helping trigger a rally of China‚Äô stock prices yesterday. Third, PMI data are heavily seasonally adjusted, especially during the year ends and beginnings. It‚Äôs likely that the NBS statisticians intentionally reported a conservative estimate within the allowable range to save better data for rainy days. Finally, the relatively muted official NBS PMI, especially a decline of exporter orders to 50 in Dec from 50.2 in Nov, means that the Chinese government will continue its pro-growth policy stance at the moment to withstand weak external demand.¬† Lu's take on the number being massaged is interesting because most skeptics of Chinese data believe that the numbers get skewed upwards when they are skewed. Here's a break down of the official PMI number via Fung Group: Fung Group
Frazer Harisson/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
One of the biggest leveraged hedge funds in the world got hit with a 2◊4 during the 4th Q. This fund has a mixed bag of assets, but was heavily exposed to big FX positions. The fund made a big ìbetî recently when they went short EURYEN. This turned sour in a very big way; the EURYEN moved an incredible 14 big figures against them in just 60 trading days. Street players, who know of this currency spec, refer to it as a ìSizeî position. At the end of Q3, it came to a lumpy short $40B. There were rumors that the fund added to the short during the Q (not confirmed yet). But even if the book was kept static, the mark-to-market loss comes to $5+B. Thatís serious money to anyone. † Note: The short EURYEN book is looking terrible for this fund. The new Japanese Prime Minister is forcing a devaluation of the currency. The Japanese Central Bank is doing its best to achieve that devaluation. Itís possible that the fund will have to cover the short. If so, it could turn that ìpaperî loss into a cash loss. I think the well-paid managers of the fund are kicking themselves in the ass over this speculation. They got creamed on this stinker, and this could be just the beginning of the losses. † Adding to the carnage was a monster sized bet short EURUSD. Last reported, this mega-position was $220B short! Itís possible that this number is now close to one-quarter trillion. It was a good Q for the EURUSD, and that means a bad Q for the fund. The 6+ big figure move up in the Euro versus the dollar translates into a paper loss of a staggering $11b! All in, the losses from FX come to $16.5B. The fund has reserves of about $50b, so the quarterly swing is not a crisis, but itís an eye-opener. 30+% of those reserves went out the window in one Q. Wow! The fund in question has a strong capital base and loyal investors. But the management will have to explain to those investors how it managed to lose such a large percentage of its ìcushionî in such a short period of time. Those investors will, no doubt, ask the very pertinent question: ìWhy is the fund making such big FX bets?î  Management is also going to have to address the issue of leverage ñ this fund is now running at 10 to 1. The high level of leverage, and the mega billions involved (much of which is tied up in derivatives), makes this fund a high risk/return player. Investors will have to ask themselves, ìDo we still want to be on this roller coaster?î So who is it that is running such a big FX book? And who are the investors that are on such a wild ride? That would be the Swiss National Bank.† The ìinvestorsî are the Swiss people. Wikimedia Commons † I know, I know. Central Banks arenít hedge funds, and they canít take losses because they can always print more money. I respond to this by saying that the SNB is acting very much like a leveraged hedge fund. Itís making currency ìbetsî with the peopleís money. Itís taking some very big risks. In an attempt to diversify one risk, they are just adding different risks, and that effort is backfiring. Like the US Fed, the SNB sends its annual profits back to the people (Treasury in USA, Cantons in Switzerland). The book losses at the SNB will reduce the amount of the payouts to the Cantons, so the losses will be felt. Switzerland is a small country with a GDP of about $600B. If the FX losses at the SNB were applied to the US economy, it would translate into a half-trillion dollar loss. †That would be a very big deal indeed. The FX losses since September come to $2,000 for each and every Swiss citizen. The word ìShellackingî comes to mind. I bring up this story to make a point. (Donít worry about the SNB) What happened at the SNB is because the SNB absorbed risk from the Swiss economy (the currency peg). As the SNB absorbs risk, it will, by definition, have to take losses from time to time. The SNB has absorbed currency risk; other central banks have taken credit, liquidity and duration risk out of their respective markets. In the aggregate, the risk transfers have been massive. Thatís why the global capital markets are so ìcalmî. To me, the private sector looks ìokayî for the time being. Itís the Public Sector that has the potential to produce a black swan over the next year or so. I conclude that the ìconfidenceî factor is going to be an issue. The questions hanging in the air include, ìAre all these governments really money-good?î ìAre the key governments and their leaders able to maintain confidence in this fragile system?î ìAre ëtheyí going to do the ërightí things?î The worldís largest economy has just set itself up for a crisis in 60 days. China Inc. is sitting on a gazillion of dodgy loans. Japan Inc. is in hock up to its eyeballs (and is in the process of slow motion devaluation). The EU will, this year, be forced to make good on its promise of ìUnlimitedî printing. Whereís the confidence in that pile?  This confidence ìthingî is hard to anticipate. It comes and goes quickly. The year is starting out with a fairly high level of ìwarm feelingsî. Iím not at all convinced that those feelings are justified.† The list of things that could trip up the Public Sectors, and their deciders, is too long.
DoNotLick / Flickr, CCHONG KONG (AP) ó Casino revenue in Macau climbed 13.5 percent last year to a record $38 billion, as the Asian gambling hub reinforced its position as the world's biggest gambling market. Gross revenue from Macau's 35 casinos also hit a monthly record in December, rising 20 percent to 28.2 billion Macau patacas ($3.5 billion), according to data posted on the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau on Wednesday. But gambling revenue growth eased off in 2012 from the year before, when it rocketed 42 percent to $33.5 billion, as China's economy slowed and wealthy mainland Chinese gamblers held back amid fears about a crackdown on corruption. Analysts noted that the decline in Chinese high-rollers, who account for two-thirds of Macau casino revenue, has been offset by growing numbers of middle-class Chinese. Chinese gamblers account for the bulk of visitors to Macau, a former Portuguese colony that returned to Chinese control in 1999. The semiautonomous region, an hour by ferry west of Hong Kong, is the only place in China where casino gambling is legal. Despite the moderating growth, casino operators have pushed ahead with expansion plans in Macau, where companies such as Las Vegas Sands Corp. and Wynn Resorts Ltd. earn the bulk of their profits. Some 90 percent of Sands' profit comes from Asia, including half from its Macau properties. In October, MGM received approval to build a $2.5 billion casino resort, its second in Macau, while local operator SJM Holdings received land approval to build a 2,000-room hotel with 700 gambling tables. Earlier, Sands said it plans a Parisian-themed resort that would be its fourth casino project while Wynn unveiled plans for a $4 billion resort. The new projects, which are expected to start opening by mid-2015 at the earliest, will be centered around the Cotai Strip, an area of reclaimed land between two islands that is modeled on the Las Vegas Strip. Macau's economy has boomed since it ended a four-decade casino monopoly in 2002. Gambling revenue there has now swept far past Las Vegas, where growth has been flat in recent years as the market has matured. Las Vegas revenue totaled $6.1 billion in 2011. ___ Online: Macau gambling regulator: http://www.dicj.gov.mo/web/en/information/index.html
"> Andrew Currie  via FlickrZipcar, the popular car sharing service, is getting acquired by Avis Budget Group. Avis has agreed to purchase the company for $12.25 per share, which is a monster 49 percent premium over Monday's closing price of $8.24. Here's the statement from Avis: PARSIPPANY, N.J. and CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Jan. 2, 2013 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Avis Budget Group, Inc. (Nasdaq:CAR) and Zipcar, Inc. (Nasdaq:ZIP), the world's leading car sharing network, today announced that Avis Budget Group has agreed to acquire Zipcar for $12.25 per share in cash, a 49% premium over the closing price on December 31, 2012, representing a total transaction value of approximately $500 million. The transaction is subject to approval by Zipcar shareholders and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to be completed in the spring of 2013.¬†The Boards of Directors of both companies unanimously approved the transaction, and Zipcar shareholders representing approximately 32% of the outstanding common stock have agreed to vote their shares in support of the transaction. Car sharing has grown to be a nearly $400 million business in the United States and is expanding rapidly in major cities around the world.¬†Zipcar has led this industry, leading in innovation and world-class service.¬†Zipcar now has more than 760,000 members, known as Zipsters, with a market-leading presence in 20 major metropolitan areas in the United States, Canada and Europe, and fleet positioned at over 300 college and university campuses.¬†Zipcar has combined leading-edge technology, an outstanding customer experience, and clear brand messaging to develop strong loyalty and advocacy among its customers. "By combining with Zipcar, we will significantly increase our growth potential, both in the United States and internationally, and will position our Company to better serve a greater variety of consumer and commercial transportation needs," said Ronald L. Nelson, Avis Budget Group chairman and chief executive officer.¬†"We see car sharing as highly complementary to traditional car rental, with rapid growth potential and representing a scalable opportunity for us as a combined company.¬†We expect to apply Avis Budget's experience and efficiencies of fleet management with Zipcar's proven, customer-friendly technology to accelerate the growth of the Zipcar brand and to provide more options for Zipsters in more places.¬†We also expect to leverage Zipcar's technology to expand mobility solutions under the Avis and Budget brands." Avis Budget expects to generate $50 to $70 million in annual synergies as a result of the transaction.¬†In particular, Avis Budget expects significant cost reductions across the fleet life cycle (from procurement to operations and maintenance to disposition, as well as financing), in addition to savings from eliminating Zipcar's public-company costs.¬†Avis Budget also plans to achieve substantial cost savings by increasing fleet utilization across the two companies.¬†Significant revenue growth opportunities exist, including by leveraging Avis Budget's fleet to meet more of Zipsters' weekend demand, which is currently constrained by fleet availability. These synergies, combined with the expected growth and rising profitability of Zipcar, are expected to make the transaction accretive to Avis Budget's earnings per share in the second year following the acquisition, excluding certain items and purchase-accounting effects. "We are delighted to announce our intention to join the Avis Budget Group family of companies, and we believe this combination is a win across the board for our members, shareholders and employees. ¬†We will be well positioned to accelerate enhancements to the Zipcar member experience with more offers and additional services as well as an expanded network of locations," said Scott Griffith, chairman and chief executive officer of Zipcar.¬†"As the leading global provider of car sharing services, with a brand that is synonymous with the category, we remain committed to the values and vision that have driven us forward for many years, grounded by our passion for delivering a superior experience to every member for every trip, every day.¬† By combining Zipcar's expertise in on-demand mobility with Avis Budget Group's expertise in global fleet operations and vast global network, we will be able to accelerate the revolution we began in personal mobility." "Avis Budget's existing infrastructure, scale and experience with managing multiple brands make us uniquely positioned to accelerate the growth and profitability of Zipcar," Mr. Nelson added.¬†"At the same time, we are committed to retaining the elements of the Zipcar brand and culture that have allowed Zipcar to achieve such rapid growth and success over the last twelve years." Following the acquisition, Zipcar will operate as a subsidiary of Avis Budget Group and will continue with its planned move to new headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts.¬†Avis Budget anticipates that key members of the Zipcar management team, including Mr. Griffith and Mark Norman, president and chief operating officer, will continue to set the overall direction and run day-to-day operations of Zipcar. Avis Budget Group expects to fund the purchase price primarily with incremental corporate debt borrowings, as well as available cash.¬†As of September 30, 2012, Avis Budget Group had cash and marketable securities of approximately $554 million, and Zipcar had cash and marketable securities of approximately $82 million, or approximately $2 per Zipcar share. Citigroup is acting as financial advisor, and Kirkland &amp; Ellis LLP is acting as legal counsel, to Avis Budget Group.¬†Morgan Stanley is acting as financial advisor, and Latham &amp; Watkins LLP is acting as legal counsel, to Zipcar. Separately, Avis Budget Group today reiterated its previous estimates of its full-year 2012 results.¬†Avis Budget continues to expect that its full-year 2012 revenue will be approximately $7.3 billion, a 24% increase compared to 2011, and that its 2012 Adjusted EBITDA will be approximately $825 million to $840 million, excluding certain items, an increase of 35% to 38% compared to the prior year.¬†Avis Budget also continues to expect that its 2012 pretax income will be $450 million to $465 million and that its diluted earnings per share will be approximately $2.35 to $2.45, excluding certain items.
BOOM. US futures are open. And they just hit a level not seen since about 10 days ago, erasing all of the late-year slump. FinViz
Wikimedia CommonsWhat's next for markets? Today they're going wild. But Dan Greenhaus at BTIG does a good job laying out the rocky terrain coming next: †The number one question weíve been receiving is what we think this means for equities. In the short term, it certainly (all else equal) avoids further downside related to a protracted debate. In January, Equities may continue to retrace their post-election losses. More generally though, we would note two things. First, our views as laid out in our 2013 Outlook hold since we assumed a fiscal cliff deal in nearly any outcome so there is very little ìnewî info in the deal. Secondly, and more problematically, we are set for a series of mini-cliffs. The sequester must be dealt with, the budget has yet to be agreed upon, the debt ceiling debate is yet to come, the farm bill expires and at the end of the year, extended unemployment compensation goes away. Joe Biden will be seen again. In the immediate, how far can equities rally with another debt ceiling debate on the horizon? So yeah, all kinds of stuff coming up. But as Greenhaus goes on to note, this is nothing new: †So while we think the path for risk assets is higher in coming months, it will not be without turmoil. But this is nothing new. Equities (and bonds for that matter) have appreciated over each of the last three years but not without policymaker-induced-pullbacks. Spring 2010, summer 2011 and spring/fall 2012 all saw meaningful equity declines of varying amounts. Will 2013 be any different? We doubt it. So yeah. Tons of newsrisk going on, but really the same old stuff. Cramer's tweets from earlier may be apropos: Jim Cramer Anyway, the next big date is March 1, the day when the punted sequester spending cuts are due to kick in. Good luck!
Markets are going wild today, but Nouriel Roubini would like to focus on the darker side of things. He just tweeted his 2013 market themes. 2013 themes: ongoing US cliffs, EZ crisis, China hard landing?, Iran/Israel, BRICs slowdown with state capitalism, Asia islands tensions
">Hamner_Fotos on flickrMore good news: European sovereign borrowing costs continue to collapse. They can thank the US Congress for that, as measures taken to avert the Fiscal Cliff have sent markets soaring. The yield on the Italian 10-year has dropped to 4.348%, levels not seen since late 2010. At 2.701%, the Spanish 2-year is down to levels not seen since March. Greek yields continue to tick lower. On the flipside, German yields are rising (as are US ones) thanks to the release of the safe-haven bid.
C-SPAN 2At Politico, John Bresnahan, Carrie Budoff Brown, Manu Raju and Jake Sherman have a great story on how the Fiscal Cliff talks started, broke down, revived, and then nearly broke down again. The basic story is that in the beginning, there was actually hope for a big, clean deal that wasn't going to come at the last second. But The White House didn't think Boehner controlled his caucus. And The GOP didn't think that the White House was negotiating in good faith, throwing out unrealistic offers, while doing a lot of negotiation in public, slamming the GOP. Last Friday, when markets collapsed, and Harry Reid accused John Boehner of running The House like a dictatorship, this happened in the lobby of The White House: ‚ÄúGo f‚Äî yourself,‚Äù Boehner sniped as he pointed his finger at Reid, according to multiple sources present. Reid, a bit startled, replied: ‚ÄúWhat are you talking about?‚Äù Boehner repeated: ‚ÄúGo f‚Äî yourself.‚Äù Read the whole story here &gt; (Via @dukestjournal)
The Egyptian pound (EGP) came under further pressure again this morning (see earlier discussion), with the central bank no longer able or willing to maintain the previous currency peg.  BBC: - The Egyptian pound has fallen further against the US dollar, despite efforts by the country's financial authorities to halt its slide on the money markets.  The renewed decline came as the central bank held the second in a series of currency auctions.  It sold $74.8m at a cut-off price of 6.3050 Egyptian pounds to the dollar, less than the equivalent price of 6.2425 in Sunday's first auction.  ... The auctions are aimed at rationing the availability of dollars, in a first step towards allowing the Egyptian pound to float freely. As always the government is "not concerned" about this situation. Here is a quote from the official source (ESIS): ESIS: - Egypt is not concerned about the dollar‚Äôs recent rise against the Egyptian pound, President Mohamed Morsy said on Monday 31/12/2012.  The market will stabilize within days and funds are being pumped in to balance the market, Morsi said during a meeting with Arab media members. And the Presidential Spokesman Yasser Ali had this to say: The Central Bank of Egypt has put in place urgent measures and kept watchful eye on the monetary market after some people aroused panic over the entire banking system of the country... All is well... In the mean time the pound hit a record low this morning vs. the US dollar in an unprecedented move.  As the wealthier population of the country desperately tries to move their savings abroad (and willing to pay up for hard currency), the pound could be facing panic selling. According to a local source, last week a number of commercial banks already ran out of dollars and savers are now buying up euros. With Egypt being one of the largest importers of wheat in the world, food prices are bound to rise further (as it takes more EGP to buy the same amount of food). With the government now being forced to ask the IMF for a loan, austerity measures are inevitable. And for a nation as divided and volatile as Egypt, government austerity combined with food inflation is not going to end well.
APDemocrats aren't thrilled that taxes are only rising on those making $400K and above, as they had hope to see a rise on those making $250K. But it's a negotiation, and Obama didn't give up much else, and the "leverage" Obama was going to have once we went over the cliff was always overstated. The big worry is not the deal per se, but that after failing to draw his line in the sand in this fight, he'll fail to live up to another promise, which is not fighting over the debt ceiling again. This is shaping up to be a big standoff. Obama has flatly said he will not negotiate over raising the debt ceiling (i.e. honoring the nation's obligations). Republicans are spoiling for another 2011-like fight, and are calling it the big opportunity. They also think they have more leverage this time than they had over the Fiscal Cliff fight, since taxes aren't about to rise on 100% of taxpayers. Here's Krugman, who was very hard initially on Obama as details of the deal came out, but moderated his tone a little bit: So why the bad taste in progressivesí mouths? It has less to do with where Obama ended up than with how he got there. He kept drawing lines in the sand, then erasing them and retreating to a new position. And his evident desire to have a deal before hitting the essentially innocuous fiscal cliff bodes very badly for the confrontation looming in a few weeks over the debt ceiling. If Obama stands his ground in that confrontation, this deal wonít look bad in retrospect. If he doesnít, yesterday will be seen as the day he began throwing away his presidency and the hopes of everyone who supported him. And here's Dean Baker in The Guardian: ...President Obama insisted that he was going to stick to the $250,000 cut-off requiring that the top 2% of households, the big winners in the economy, go back to paying the Clinton era tax rates. He backed away from this commitment even in a context where he held most of the cards. We are now entering a new round of negotiations over extending the debt ceiling where the Republicans would appear to hold many of the cards. While the consequences may not be as dire as the pundits claim, no one could think it would be a good idea to allow the debt ceiling to be reached and force the government into default. The Republicans intend to use this threat, however, to coerce further concessions from President Obama. The president insists that there will be no negotiations over the debt ceiling: no further concessions to protect the country's financial standing. At this point, though, is there any reason for people to believe him? And here's Jonathan Chait: So what we have is two more showdowns in which the parties disagree not just on the outcome but even on the parameters of an outcome. Obama thinks the debt ceiling needs to be raised, full stop, without becoming a bargaining chip in a fight that threatens the stability of the global economy. Republicans want to use that chip. Then thereís the sequester, which Obama thinks should be replaced with spending cuts and tax revenue, and Republicans think should be replaced with spending cuts and more spending cuts. If Obama makes it through both these events without either accepting draconian social policy or triggering an economic meltdown, then todayís compromise will be seen as a clever first step. Thatís not what I expect. I expect instead that his willingness to bargain away his strongest leverage, and the central theme of his reelection, will make the next rounds harder, and embolden Republicans further. I suspect he will wish he had ripped off the Band-Aid all at once, holding firm on tax cuts and daring House Republicans to defy public opinion. So there you go. Everyone's worried about another Obama cave in a fight where the GOP feels emboldened. While Obama says he won't bargain on the debt ceiling, he HAS to bargain on the sequester (unless he wants the spending cuts to happen as is) so that's probably where he'll wiggle and end up in a bargain that would likely include the debt ceiling. Meanwhile, at least on this battle, Obama knows he won &gt;
The Hong Kong market had an insane move to start the year. The Hang Seng index rallied nearly 3%, rising virtually non-stop from the open to close. All markets are going nuts today on Fiscal Cliff mania. Hong Kong
Nice number for the UK PMI, which surged to 51.4, from below 50. Analysts had been expecting 49. This is nice to see. 
Jim Cramer nails it. Basically in the end, trading the fiscal cliff was pointless. The S&amp;P ended up the year huge, and if you tried to dart in and out on every headline, you were almost certainly a loser in the game. Jim Cramer
Just when it looked like Europe might be on the rise again, and that the German economic miracle would do its thing, we get a surprise weakening in German PMI, which fell from 46.8 to 46.0. The full report is here. Here's the quick summary. 
mckaysavage, FlickrWelcome back. If you're just tuning in for the first time since, say, before Christmas, the Fiscal Cliff is solved! The House late last night passed a bill that will make permanent the Bush tax cuts for most Americans, while those making over $400K will see a hike. The spending cuts part of the cliff has been delayed for two months to sort things out. The next two months will be very interesting, since we're going to see the Fiscal Cliff and the Debt Ceiling come up around the same time. Markets are all going nuts: Italy is up over 3.1%. Spain is up 2.24% (and its bond yields just dropped to its lowest level since March). Germany up 2%. Hong Kong rallied nearly 3%. Happy Wednesday! Happy New Year!
This photo, taken by AP photographer Charles Dharapak before the President Barack Obama's statement Tuesday night, says everything about who won the first round of the fiscal cliff battle:¬† AP
APThe House of Representatives finally approved a deal on the fiscal cliff Tuesday night, paving the way for President Barack Obama to sign a bill that will stave off tax hikes for most Americans.¬† After a chaotic day of wrangling, the House voted 257-167 to approve the bill. Most Republicans voted against the measure, which will raise tax rates for individuals and households earning more than $400,000 and $450,000, respectively, as well as increase tax rates on capital gains and dividends, raise taxes on estates above $5 million, and extend unemployment benefits and some stimulus tax credits. The bill also delays the onset of automatic spending cuts by two months, and does nothing to deal with the issue of raising the debt ceiling, setting the stage for another round of major budget battles in the next Congress. On Tuesday, House Republicans initially indicated that they would amend the bill to include spending cuts, but dropped that plan when it was clear that they did not have the votes to pass an amendment. In a statement after the vote Tuesday, Obama said he will now sign the bill but warned it was "just a first step" toward solving the country's budget issues.¬† ¬† Check out our full liveblog of the day's developments below. Fiscal cliff deal crumbles? @chadpergram&nbsp;reports Boehner, Cantor unhappy in private meeting, may amend bill &amp; send back to Sen&nbsp;#chaosensues? It's not surprising that there are concerns. As we explained here, there's frustration about there being zero cuts. And as the CBO just announced,&nbsp;the bill adds $4 trillion to the current debt baseline. Any reversal of tax increases was always going to produce a huge deficit increase, but this is still a tough headline to swallow. Breaking: Leaving mtg, Rep. Spencer Bachus says deal will "go back to the Senate." "There shouldn't even be a question," Pelosi said. "It's long overdue for us to have a solution."&nbsp; "We expect &mdash; and the American people deserve &mdash; an up-or-down vote."&nbsp; He added that Republicans have made no decisions on the path forward.&nbsp; &ldquo;The Speaker and Leader laid out options to the members and listened to feedback. The lack of spending cuts in the Senate bill was a universal concern amongst members in today&rsquo;s meeting. Conversations with members will continue throughout the afternoon on the path forward.&rdquo;  Fox News producer Joy Lin tweets this photo of the encounter:&nbsp;  According to the reports, GOP leaders will whip votes for an amendment to add spending cuts to the bill the Senate passed early Tuesday. If they cannot get the 218 votes they need to pass the amendment, they have said they will hold an up-down vote on the Senate legislation.&nbsp; Democratic Senate aides have said that Majority Leader Harry Reid will not hold a vote on any amended bill.&nbsp; If the reports are correct, it would appear as though Republicans are tacitly conceding defeat. Earlier this month, House GOP leaders were unable to muster up the votes to pass the fiscal cliff "Plan B" bill, legislation that was authored by Republicans and originated in the House.&nbsp;So it seems safe to conclude that Republicans won't go for the deal brokered by the White House and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.&nbsp; On the other hand, House Democrats have said they are confident the unaltered McConnell-Biden deal could pass the House on an up-down vote.&nbsp; If that is the case, GOP leaders have said that they will hold an up-down vote on the Senate bill. "The Senate bill has big wins for us," Cole said. "We'll take what the Senate negotiated and pass it." The House Rules Committee is still awaiting word on which bill they are bringing to the floor for a vote tonight.&nbsp; Both House Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Nancy Pelosi believe the bill will pass on an up-down vote, likely with a majority of support coming from Democrats.&nbsp; FreedomWorks president Matt Kibbe told Politico he was "utterly offended" by the process, and reiterated his group's opposition to allowing any of the Bush tax cuts expire.&nbsp; ACU president Al Cardenas took a more measured approach, issuing a statement urging the House to remove all of the stimulus spending measures in the Senate bill and pass an amended version of the bill that only includes the provisions that extend the Bush tax credits for those earning under $450,000 and allow a slight increase in the estate tax rate.&nbsp; The Club for Growth, Heritage Foundation, and Americans For Prosperity have also come out in opposition to the deal.&nbsp; And here's the brutal banner leading Drudge Report &gt;&nbsp;  "We thank Speaker Boehner for bringing this legislation to the floor," she said.&nbsp;"While this bill doesn't accomplish all that we need to do...it is a good way for us to have a happy start to a new year." Pelosi's speech followed the House's overwhelming vote in favor of a resolution to allow the Senate fiscal cliff bill go to a floor vote tonight. The final bill is expected sometime between 10:30 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.&nbsp; House Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi both voted in favor of the bill.&nbsp;Surprisingly, House Budget Chair Paul Ryan &mdash; author of the GOP's big austerity plan &mdash; also voted in favor of the bill. Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Republican Whip Kevin McCarthy &mdash; the No. 2 and 3 House GOP leaders, respectively &mdash; voted against the deal. Both waited until the bill had cleared the 217 threshold to cast their votes.&nbsp; In total, 172 out of 236 House Republicans voted against the bill, with just 82 GOP members voting in favor. Meanwhile, 172 Democrats cast yes votes, compared to 17 who voted no.&nbsp; Here's the full roll call &gt;&nbsp; Pelosi, whose caucus delivered the majority of the votes needed to pass the deal, also took a pointed jab at her Republican counterpart, House Speaker John Boehner, who has struggled to rein in his caucus throughout the cliff debate.&nbsp; Here's Pelosi's full statement:&nbsp; &ldquo;The House passage of the Senate&rsquo;s bipartisan legislation is a victory for the middle class. &nbsp;Our action permanently extends the middle class tax cut and promotes economic growth, while asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. &nbsp;It extends unemployment insurance for those who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. &ldquo;With the passage of this measure, we strengthen the principle that we must have equal parts revenue and spending cuts as we work to reduce our deficit. &nbsp;We strengthen our economy through investments in innovation, tax credits for education, and tax breaks to spur the technologies of the future, including renewable energy. &ldquo;Tonight&rsquo;s progress is not only a victory for the middle class but for the President and Vice President who campaigned on protecting the middle class &ndash; and kept their promise to the American people. &ldquo;I am especially proud of the unity in the House Democratic Caucus &ndash; of our ongoing commitment to protect the economic security of the middle class and our willingness to find common ground and work in a bipartisan way to get the job done. &nbsp;To that end, we are off to a good start in the new year.&rdquo; In a statement following Tuesday night's House vote on the fiscal cliff deal, House Speaker John Boehner promised to double down on the issue of spending cuts when the new Congress begins later this month. By all counts, Boehner suffered an embarrassing defeat during this round of budget talks. After abandoning attempts to reach a "grand bargain" with the White House, the House Speaker failed to get the votes to pass his own "Plan B" earlier this month, poisoning negotations and punting the worsened situation to the Senate.&nbsp; Today, Boehner once again failed to rein in his caucus. GOP leaders initially floated the idea of adding an amendment to include spending cuts in the Senate's fiscal cliff bill &mdash; a move that would have almost certainly killed the agreement &mdash; but couldn't get the votes to pass the measure. In the end, Boehner voted for the clean Senate bill, but lost the support of the majority of his caucus.&nbsp; Here's his full statement on Tuesday's vote:&nbsp; &ldquo;The federal government has a spending problem that has led to a $16 trillion national debt that threatens our country&rsquo;s future.&nbsp; On the day after the election, I proposed that both parties work together to avert the fiscal cliff in a manner that would ensure 2013 is the year we finally enact entitlement reform and pro-growth tax reform to begin to solve our country&rsquo;s debt problem. &ldquo;Now the focus turns to spending.&nbsp; The&nbsp;American people re-elected a Republican majority in the House, and we will use it in 2013 to hold the president accountable for the &lsquo;balanced&rsquo; approach he promised, meaning significant spending cuts and reforms to the entitlement programs that are driving our country deeper and deeper into debt.&nbsp; &ldquo;Without meaningful reform of entitlements, real spending controls, and a fairer, cleaner tax code, our debt will continue to grow, and our economy will continue to stumble.&nbsp; Republicans stand for a stronger, more prosperous America, rich in opportunity and free of the debt that threatens our children&rsquo;s future.&nbsp; On this New Year&rsquo;s Day, we renew our commitment to that vision, humbled by the opportunity to serve.&rdquo;
APAppearing shortly after the House voted to pass a fiscal cliff deal Tuesday night, President Barack Obama called the bill a "first step" toward deficit reduction, but warned that he will not go through the same battle with Republicans over the debt ceiling.† "Thanks to the votes of Democrats and Republicans in Congress I will sign a law that raises taxes on the wealthiest 2% of Americans," Obama said.†"Tonightís agreement further reduces the deficit by raising $620 billion in revenue from the wealthiest households."† But, he added, "the fact is, the deficit is still too high."† "I believe there's further unnecessary spending in government that we can eliminate," he said.†"There will be more deficit reduction as Congress decides what to do about the automatic spending cuts in two months." The statement caps off days of chaotic negotiations, which ended in a bill that will raise taxes on households earning $450,000, as well as increase taxes on estates over $5 million and extend unemployment benefits. The bill does little to address sequestration, however, but extends the deadline for the spending cuts by two months.† That deal marks a significant political victory for Obama, fulfilling his central campaign promise to raise taxes on the wealthiest Americans.† Still, the agreement fell far short of the "grand bargain" that Obama had initially hoped for, putting off negotiations over spending cuts and the debt ceiling. Republicans have indicated that they plan to put up a tougher fight over these issues in the next Congress, guaranteeing a protracted battle that the White House had initially sought to avoid.† In his remarks Tuesday, Obama issued a stern forewarning on the upcoming debates, and reiterated that he will not negotiate with Republicans over the debt ceiling.† "As I've demonstrated throughout the past several weeks, I am very open to compromise," he said. "But we cannot simply cut our way to prosperity."† "While I will negotiate over many things, I will not have another debate with this Congress over whether or not they should pay the bills they have already racked up," Obama said. "We can not not pay bills that we have already incurred."† Immediately following the remarks, Obama left the White House to return to Hawaii, where his family is still on vacation.† Read the full statement below:† A central promise of my campaign for President was to change the tax code that was too skewed towards the wealthy at the expense of working middle-class Americans.† Tonight we've done that.† Thanks to the votes of Democrats and Republicans in Congress, I will sign a law that raises taxes on the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans while preventing a middle-class tax hike that could have sent the economy back into recession and obviously had a severe impact on families all across America. I want to thank all the leaders of the House and Senate.† In particular, I want to thank the work that was done by my extraordinary Vice President Joe Biden, as well as Leader Harry Reid, Speaker Boehner, Nancy Pelosi, and Mitch McConnell.† Everybody worked very hard on this and I appreciate it.† And, Joe, once again, I want to thank you for your great work. Under this law, more than 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses will not see their income taxes go up.† Millions of families will continue to receive tax credits to help raise their kids and send them to college.† Companies will continue to receive tax credits for the research that they do, the investments they make, and the clean energy jobs that they create.† And 2 million Americans who are out of work but out there looking, pounding the pavement every day, are going to continue to receive unemployment benefits as long as theyíre actively looking for a job. But I think we all recognize this law is just one step in the broader effort to strengthen our economy and broaden opportunity for everybody.† The fact is the deficit is still too high, and we're still investing too little in the things that we need for the economy to grow as fast as it should.† And that's why Speaker Boehner and I originally tried to negotiate a larger agreement that would put this country on a path to paying down its debt while also putting Americans back to work rebuilding our roads and bridges, and providing investments in areas like education and job training.† Unfortunately, there just wasnít enough support or time for that kind of large agreement in a lame duck session of Congress.† And that failure comes with a cost, as the messy nature of the process over the past several weeks has made business more uncertain and consumers less confident.† But we are continuing to chip away at this problem, step by step.† Last year I signed into law $1.7 trillion in deficit reduction.† Tonightís agreement further reduces the deficit by raising $620 billion in revenue from the wealthiest households in America.† And there will be more deficit reduction as Congress decides what to do about the automatic spending cuts that we have now delayed for two months. I want to make this point:† As I've demonstrated throughout the past several weeks, I am very open to compromise.† I agree with Democrats and Republicans that the aging population and the rising cost of health care makes Medicare the biggest contributor to our deficit.† I believe we've got to find ways to reform that program without hurting seniors who count on it to survive.† And I believe that thereís further unnecessary spending in government that we can eliminate.† But we can't simply cut our way to prosperity.† Cutting spending has to go hand-in-hand with further reforms to our tax code so that the wealthiest corporations and individuals can't take advantage of loopholes and deductions that aren't available to most Americans.† And we can't keep cutting things like basic research and new technology and still expect to succeed in a 21st century economy.† So we're going to have to continue to move forward in deficit reduction, but we have to do it in a balanced way, making sure that we are growing even as we get a handle on our spending.† Now, one last point I want to make -- while I will negotiate over many things, I will not have another debate with this Congress over whether or not they should pay the bills that theyíve already racked up through the laws that they passed.† Let me repeat:† We can't not pay bills that we've already incurred.† If Congress refuses to give the United States government the ability to pay these bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy would be catastrophic -- far worse than the impact of a fiscal cliff.† † People will remember, back in 2011, the last time this course of action was threatened, our entire recovery was put at risk.† Consumer confidence plunged.† Business investment plunged. Growth dropped.† We can't go down that path again. And todayís agreement enshrines, I think, a principle into law that will remain in place as long as I am President:† The deficit needs to be reduced in a way that's balanced.† Everyone pays their fair share.† Everyone does their part.† That's how our economy works best.† That's how we grow.† The sum total of all the budget agreements we've reached so far proves that there is a path forward, that it is possible if we focus not on our politics but on whatís right for the country. And the one thing that I think, hopefully, in the New Year we'll focus on is seeing if we can put a package like this together with a little bit less drama, a little less brinksmanship, not scare the heck out of folks quite as much. We can come together as Democrats and Republicans to cut spending and raise revenue in a way that reduces our deficit, protects our middle class, provides ladders into the middle class for everybody whoís willing to work hard.† We can find a way to afford the investments that we need to grow and compete.† We can settle this debate, or at the very least, not allow it to be so all-consuming all the time that it stops us from meeting a host of other challenges that we face -- creating jobs, boosting incomes, fixing our infrastructure, fixing our immigration system, protecting our planet from the harmful effects of climate change, boosting domestic energy production, protecting our kids from the horrors of gun violence. Itís not just possible to do these things; itís an obligation to ourselves and to future generations.† And I look forward to working with every single member of Congress to meet this obligation in the New Year.† And I hope that everybody now gets at least a day off, I guess, or a few days off, so that people can refresh themselves, because we're going to have a lot of work to do in 2013. Thanks, everybody.† Happy New Year. Watch the remarks below:† 
They have worked as pen salesmen, hawkers, cookie scoopers, ballet dancers, firefighters, professional soccer players, shoe salesmen, restaurant hostesses, lion cage tenders, lifeguards, mascots, bellhops and telemarketers. Think of any role and they have done it. These men and women have undertaken different jobs to stay afloat before becoming celebrities. (For related reading, see¬†Winning Celebrities And The Companies They Endorse.)¬† TUTORIAL:¬†Financial Careers¬† Some celebrities worked in finance before they became rich and famous. Some worked¬†part-time jobs, while others worked¬†full-time. Here are some of the notable ones. Whoopi Goldberg is an American comedian, actress, singer-songwriter, political activist, author and a talk show host. She sustained herself while looking for acting jobs by working as a bank teller, a bricklayer and a cosmetologist at a mortuary. Raymond Albert "Ray" Romano is an American actor, writer and stand-up comedian. He studied to become an accountant, and then worked as a bank teller where he met his wife Anna. Red Foo, one half of the party rock band LMFAO, was tracking stocks as a kid under his father Barry Gordon's guidance. Before he made the room groove, he held a job as a¬†day trader. He still invests, though his¬†portfolio¬†has become less risky. He believes that Apple's stock is a big winner. Erin Isabelle Burnett is the anchor of CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront." She was the co-anchor of CNBC's "Squawk On The Street" program and the host of CNBC's "Street Signs" program. Burnett began her career as a financial analyst for Goldman Sachs in investment banking. Her work included the areas of¬†mergers and acquisitions¬†and corporate finance. (To learn more, check out¬†Biggest Merger And Acquisition Disasters.)¬† Timothy Maxwell "Max" Keiser is an American broadcaster and film-maker. He was the co-founder of the¬†Hollywood Stock Exchange. He has worked in finance for about 25 years and started his career as a¬†stock broker¬†on Wall Street. Method ActorShia Labeouf isn't leaving his day job ‚Ä¶ yet. He got hooked on trading stocks while he worked on his movie "Wall Street 2: Money Never Sleeps." Preparing for his role at John Thomas Financial, he managed to turn his $20,000 to around $489,000, extending his midas touch from movies to finance. Lou Dobbs is an American journalist, radio host, television host on the¬†Fox Business Network and author. Dobbs worked as a cash-management specialist for¬†Union Bank¬†in¬†Los Angeles after graduating from¬†Harvard University. Martha Stewart made her millions teaching us how to bake and decorate homes better. She started her career as a stock broker¬†in New York. The iconic Colonel Sanders of Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC)¬†worked as an insurance salesman before his famed career as founder of KFC. It is difficult to imagine Demi Moore the star of "Indecent Proposal," "GI Jane" and "Striptease" as an employee in a debt collection agency, but she did. Moving up the LadderFormer CEO of Hewlett-Packard, Carly Fiorina, started out as a secretary and then moved into a broker position at Marcus &amp; Millichap Real Estate Investment Services,¬†a commercial real estate brokerage¬†firm.¬† Brett Ratner, director of the "Rush Hour" movies, worked as a stockbroker at South Richmond Securities on Wall Street. Prime Minister John Key of New Zealand worked as a¬†foreign exchange¬†dealer at Elders Finance in Wellington, before rising to be head foreign exchange trader¬†in two short years. He has also served as Merrill Lynch's head of foreign exchange. He chose to jump from the high¬†volatility¬†of the world of finance to the more volatile field of politics. Former British Prime Minister Sir John Major took a correspondence course in banking after being passed over for a bus conductor's job. He joined as a junior executive at Standard Chartered Bank before moving up the ladder. Rick Yune the handsome, chilling villain from "Die Another Day" was not new to taking risks, having been a¬†hedge fund¬†trader post graduating from Wharton Business School. At the age of 21, he joined as a trainee at a hedge fund. When it was relatively difficult for a newbie to land a role in a hedge fund, he found it "humbling" to be entrusted with so much responsibility. He also enjoyed the role for its risk and not knowing what to expect next. He, however, was more¬†attracted to the calling of acting. Michael Roiff, the independent film producer, initially started his career in the world of finance. He briefly worked as a management consultant at CIBC World Markets and The Parthenon Group before he set off to produce his first film "Waitress" in 2007. The Bottom LineBefore the big bucks and glamour, these celebrities worked at regular¬†white collar¬†jobs, like a lot of us. They were ready to work many jobs to land¬†the one they loved. You never know when the spotlight will shine on you! (For additional reading, check out¬†Celebrities You Can Bank On.) This post originally appeared at Investopedia. &nbsp;
