YouTube / Margin Call trailerIf you're considering going to Wall Street, you should really know what you're getting into. Yes, you will get paid better than average people all over the world. Yes, you will get to learn new things constantly, and yes, you will be involved in important transactions (well, hopefully) and meet interesting clients. However, there is a downside, and it's generally all in your head. A Wall Street veteran, who will remain anonymous, gave us a laundry list of ways working on the Street can actually ruin your life. Wall Streeters have to deal with a distorted sense of money, questions about self-worth, arrested development and most importantly, the fact that they never ever have enough time. They can try and pay for it, but that only gets you so much. The point is ‚Äî you better love finance if you're getting into this business, because it's going to take over your life.
REUTERS/Alessandro Bianchi At the beginning of August, Silvio Berlusconi was finally found conclusively guilty of a crime (in this case fraud, but he still has an underage prostitution case and others to deal with). The former prime minister of Italy and one of the country's richest men was ultimately sentenced to one year in prison. While it's unlikely he'll actually see the inside of a jail due to his age, it should mean the end of his political career. At least, it should in any normally-functioning modern democracy. In Italy, things are different. Berlusconi's supporters have been calling on Italy's president to pardon Berlusconi, or at least limit his ban from politics. Some of his allies are threatening to resign from the coalition government, effectively forcing an election and (more than likely) another hung parliament. Berlusconi is personally refusing to back down. Italy, desperately in need of political stability to help secure its economy, can't risk this. Writing in the New York Review of Books, Tim Parks says that Berlusconi is effectively "holding Italy hostage." From Parks: If Nixon had refused to accept impeachment and had tried somehow to hang on to power, he would have been summarily removed. The same goes for any leader in Europe‚Äôs main democracies. Most will step down at the first sign of a serious criminal charge against them, aware that their parties will not support someone who damages their cause. The truly disquieting aspect of the present situation in Italy is not so much Berlusconi‚Äôs brazenness, but that his blackmail is possible and credible, that he has such complete control over such a large political party, and that he still commands considerable popular support. Astonishing as it may seem to those not familiar with the country, even serious newspapers and respectable commentators seem reluctant to insist on the enforcement of law, rarely mentioning the details of his crimes and actually giving credence to the argument that removing Berlusconi from the political scene would amount to disenfranchising the millions of voters who supported him at the previous election, as if there was no autonomous party in parliament to represent their views, as if they were not free to choose another leader before the next election. Why is this acceptable in Italy? Parks goes on to examine a number of factors, including Berlusconi's own charisma and huge personal fortune. But the reason may lie with the political culture of Italy itself ‚Äî as Park says, there exists a "widespread disbelief in Italy that politics could ever be cleaned up or made remotely fair." Read more from Park's article at the New York Review of Books &gt;
Kellogg School of ManagementArvind KrishnamurthyJACKSON HOLE, Wyoming (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve should concentrate its unconventional monetary stimulus on mortgage asset purchases, according to a new study released on Friday, ditching Treasury bond buys which the authors say have not had much of an effect. Presented at the Kansas City Fed's annual Jackson Hole conference, the paper argues rather controversially that the central bank should begin its exit strategy by selling Treasuries, something that is hard to conceive given the recent speedy selloff in government bonds. The absence of concrete guidance as to the goal of asset purchases, which has been vaguely defined as aimed toward substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market, neutralizes their impact and complicates an eventual exit, according to the paper's authors, Arvind Krishnamurthy of Northwestern University and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen of University of California, Berkeley. "Without such a framework, investors do not know the conditions under which (asset buys) will occur or be unwound, which undercuts the efficacy of policy targeted at long-term asset values," the authors write. Minutes from the Fed's July meeting, released on Wednesday, suggested policymakers had already considered such a step but, for now, decided against it. "The Committee also considered whether to add more information concerning the contingent outlook for asset purchases to the policy statement, but judged that doing so might prompt an unwarranted shift in market expectations regarding asset purchases," the minutes said. The authors of the study say the effects of the U.S. central bank's asset purchases, which began after the Fed had already brought official interest rates down in late 2008, are much narrower than policymakers' had foreseen. Predictably, current and former Fed officials took issue with the findings. James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed, said the authors' focus on market impact immediately following policy announcements was misleading. "I just wanted to push back against this conclusion that you get an effect in one single market and then there's not that much (impact) over a variety of assets," Bullard said. Donald Kohn, former Fed Vice Chair, was also skeptical. "The findings do not comport very well with the experience of the last couple of months," said Kohn. Another former Fed vice chair, Alan Blinder, was even more blunt regarding the idea that Treasury sales would not have a major market impact: "You don't want to retract that given what happened recently? U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields have risen sharply in the last two months to two-year highs above 2.80 percent following hints from the central bank that it may begin winding down its asset-buying stimulus program, also known as quantitative easing. NARROW IMPACT In particular, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and others have argued that asset purchases work by taking safe assets out of the market and therefore forcing cautious investors to take more risk. In official parlance, this is known as the "portfolio balance effect," affecting rates in markets well beyond those targeted by the Fed. The impact of asset buying is a lot narrower than Fed officials contend, according to the authors of the paper. "It does not, as the Fed proposes, work through broad channels such as affecting the term premium on all long-term bonds," the paper finds. Instead, mortgage-buying has been more effective because, by targeting a specific sector that was under duress, Fed officials have been able to create scarcity of supply in the mortgage market, leading prices - and therefore credit availability - to rise. "We find that (mortgage purchases) are more economically beneficial than Treasury (buying)," the authors write. Recently, Fed officials have worried excess risk-taking may have gone a step too far, potentially leading to dangerous asset bubbles - hence all the talk of a ‚Äòtapering' in quantitative easing. In response to the worst recession in generations, the Fed has left official rates effectively at zero for over four years, and is on track to buy over $3 trillion in assets in an effort to support still-weak growth. The U.S. economy expanded at an annualized 1.7 percent rate in the second quarter, while the jobless rate remains at an elevated 7.4 percent. (Editing by Chris Reese and Tim Dobbyn)
Noah Seelam/AFPDemocratic Youth Federation of India activists hold placards as they shout slogans during their protest over the rupee's fall in Hyderabad on August 23, 2013. India's finance minister P. Chidambaram met with top bankers Saturday to discuss ways to boost the weak rupee and bring in more foreign capital to bridge a trade gap that has put pressure on the currency.India's finance minister P. Chidambaram met with top bankers Saturday to discuss ways to boost the weak rupee and bring in more foreign capital to bridge a trade gap that has put pressure on the currency. Chidambaram was accompanied by top officials at the meeting in India's financial hub of Mumbai with representatives of leading private and public sector banks. As the US economy picks up, the Federal Reserve is expected to start winding down its bond-buying stimulus scheme which has helped fuel an investment splurge in Asia's emerging markets. "The meeting was mainly to seek ideas and suggestions on what can be done about capital inflows. It was a very good and positive meeting," ICICI Bank's chief executive Chanda Kochhar told reporters. India's large current account deficit -- the broadest measure of trade -- must be funded with foreign capital, and the country is seen as one of the most vulnerable among emerging market nations whose currencies are under pressure globally. India's rupee recovered from historic lows against the dollar Friday, marking its biggest single-day gain in nearly a year, but analysts warned the currency's overall trend was still bearish. The rupee, one of Asia's worst performing currencies, bounced back 2.09 percent -- its biggest one-day gain since September 2012 -- to end trade at 63.20 Friday, up from its record closing low of 64.55 the previous day. The Indian unit, which had hit a new lifetime intraday low of 65.56 Thursday, was boosted Friday by comments by Chidambaram and the Reserve Bank of India. Chidambaram said the currency panic was "unwarranted" and the rupee had "overshot" its "appropriate level". He added there was no plan to impose more capital controls on top of ones announced this month, and that reviving growth, which hit a decade low of five percent last year, would be the government's focus. The central bank governor Duvvuri Subbarao, meanwhile, dismissed investor fears India is hurtling towards a balance of payments crisis similar to one in 1991. Ten-year government bonds also posted their biggest weekly gain in four-and-a-half-years, of 62 paise ($0.01) to 8.26 percent, while shares rebounded by 1.13 percent to 18,519.44 points. But analysts said the relief might be only temporary and the rupee could soften further, with Deutsche Bank suggesting it could fall to 70 to the dollar. "There is a slight change in sentiment after the finance minister's statements but the overall trend is still bearish," said Param Sarma, chief executive at consultancy NSP Forex. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Adnan AbidiRaghuram Rajan, Reserve Bank of IndiaIndia, the world's second most populous nation, recently made an interesting choice to run its central bank: a University of Chicago business professor who is not shy about giving blunt advice and has a track record to back it up. Raghuram Rajan, who teaches at the U. of C.'s Booth School of Business, will take over as governor at the Reserve Bank of India on Sept. 5. Rajan warned in a speech shortly before his appointment that the U.S. Federal Reserve needs to lay off its monetary stimulus. Quantitative easing isn't working as intended, he said in June in a speech at the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland. Pouring $85 billion into a stable economy every month, among other "unconventional" policies, is a "step into the dark," he warned. It has the potential to distort investment decisions and encourage excessive risk-taking. He's right. The Fed's bond-buying program could be creating asset bubbles. Those bubbles can do a lot of damage when they pop, as America found out in 2008. Rajan will be responsible for India's economy, not America's. But the monetary stimulus being laid on in the U.S. -- as well as in Europe and Japan -- affects developing countries too. It is, in Rajan's words, an "accelerator pedal for the globe" that could make more sensitive countries expand too fast even as it fails to rev up domestic economies. The Fed has suggested it will taper off stimulus ... eventually. That has sent interest rates higher, and exposed economic problems. Rajan's native India faces rising inflation and slowing growth. Its currency, the rupee, has been sinking fast. A whiff of panic is in the air, and Rajan's immediate job will be to stabilize a shaky nation rich with unrealized economic potential. We hope Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his merry band of money printers listen to Rajan. As is, the Fed's mixed signals are creating uncertainty around the world. The Fed needs to move now to carefully back off the stimulus. As for that track record: In 2005, Rajan presented a paper at an annual economics summit in Jackson Hole, Wyo., that rained all over the sunny economic sentiment that prevailed at the time. He warned that changes in the financial system had exposed the world to large systemic shocks. The prospects were rising for a "catastrophic meltdown" in asset prices -- such as the housing bust that would wipe out the U.S. economy only a couple of years later. Rajan urged action to curb risk-taking in the financial sector. Before Rajan piped up, the conference had been a celebration of outgoing Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's reign. Some grandees in the audience resented the Rajan reality check. Ex-Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said he found "the basic, slightly Luddite premise of this paper to be largely misguided." Donald Kohn, who would become vice chairman of the Fed, argued that a curb on risk-taking, as Rajan suggested, would "result in less accurate asset pricing, reduce public welfare on balance and definitely be at odds with the tradition of policy excellence of the person (Greenspan) whose era we are examining at this conference." Look whose bubble burst. President Barack Obama is expected to name a replacement for Bernanke sometime this fall. Summers and Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen are believed to be the top candidates, though Kohn could get the nod. Let's hope that the worst financial crisis in a generation has taught them all a lesson. Rajan emphasizes strong capital standards for financial institutions and takes a conservative view of the collateral those institutions put up to secure their borrowings. He also pushes for what he calls "prudent regulation." Though the Chicago School of economics generally frowns on government intervention in the marketplace, Rajan contends that deregulation went too far in recent years. That enabled financial powerhouses to promote their interests at the expense of free-market competition. Rajan is taking a leave from his tenured post at Chicago's Booth. We expect his message from India will be the same as it was from Chicago: Sober up. ___ (c)2013 the Chicago Tribune Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services 
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The news that Steve Ballmer is planning to retire from Microsoft within the year is obviously a good time to reflect on what Microsoft is, what it was, what boats it's missed, and where it continues to thrive. Basically, it hasn't had much success on the consumer web, or in mobile, but it's an absolute beast on key software products, eve if the Windows business is in trouble. Paul Krugman takes a break from macro stuff to look at the competitive positions of both Microsoft (during its heyday) and Apple now, and concludes that Apple is looking very Microsoftish, if not worse. Now, unlike Microsoft, Apple isn‚Äôt selling an inferior product. But it‚Äôs selling products that are little if any better than competitors, at premium prices. How can it do that? Again, network externalties: mainly a much deeper bench of apps, or so I‚Äôm told (I actually don‚Äôt use many). So how do the prospects for Apple‚Äôs reign look compared with those of Microsoft? Let‚Äôs not forget that Microsoft is actually an incredible success story ‚Äî it maintained its PC lock for decades, and in fact still retains that lock today; it‚Äôs just that the market is changing. My casual impression is that Apple‚Äôs lock isn‚Äôt nearly as secure, in part because it‚Äôs relying on the loyalty of individual customers ‚Äî in contrast to Microsoft, which was largely relying on the loyalty of corporate IT managers, who are inherently more conservative. Read the whole piece here, wherein he also gets into his own complaints about Apple products.
Illustration by Mike Nudelman/Photo by Fortune Live Media On the morning of Thursday, July 12, 2012, Yahoo‚Äôs interim CEO, Ross Levinsohn, still believed he was going to be named permanent CEO of the company. He had just one meeting to go. That meeting was a board meeting, to be held that day in a room on the second floor of Yahoo‚Äôs Sunnyvale, Calif., headquarters. The room was big, with a large¬†horseshoe table and video screens on the walls. The agenda for the meeting: Levinsohn was going to brief the directors on his plan for Yahoo, should he be named permanent CEO. Levinsohn walked into the room; all of his top executives followed. There was Jim Heckman, Levinsohn‚Äôs top dealmaker, who‚Äôd spent months negotiating a huge deal with Microsoft. There was Shashi Seth, Yahoo‚Äôs top product management executive, already planning a long-needed update to Yahoo Mail and the Yahoo home page. There was chief financial officer Tim Morse, who‚Äôd just completed a critical, company-saving deal to sell a portion of Yahoo subsidiary Alibaba. There was Mickie Rosen, a News Corp. veteran whom Levinsohn had hired to run Yahoo‚Äôs media business. And there was Mollie Spillman, whom he‚Äôd just made CMO. Heckman, Seth, Morse, Rosen, Spillman, and handful of others sat off to the side. Ross Levinsohn All of them believed that the meeting was a formality ‚Äî that Levinsohn was going to get the job. They had good reason to be confident. For the two months prior, the chairman of Yahoo‚Äôs board, Fred Amoroso, had made it clear that he was going to do everything he could to make sure Levinsohn and his team would be running the company for the foreseeable future. Amoroso told Levinsohn this in private. He told Yahoo employees this during an all-hands meeting in May. He‚Äôd even joined a sales call to express support for Levinsohn to Yahoo advertisers ‚Äî an oddly hands-on move for a chairman. In June, Amoroso helped Levinsohn recruit a high-profile Google executive named Michael Barrett into Yahoo. During the recruiting process, Amoroso promised Barrett that Levinsohn‚Äôs ‚Äúinterim‚Äù title was only temporary ‚Äî that it was safe to leave Google. Levinsohn had another reason to be hopeful: For the past few months, he‚Äôd been speaking with two of Yahoo‚Äôs most important new directors, Dan Loeb and Michael Wolf, almost every day. As important as it was for Levinsohn to have Amoroso‚Äôs support, he needed Loeb‚Äôs more. Loeb ran a hedge fund called Third Point, which owned more than 5 percent of Yahoo and had, only months before, forced the resignation of Yahoo‚Äôs previous CEO. Wolf was an important ally for Levinsohn to have, too. Wolf, a former president of MTV, was consulting for Third Point on media investments when Loeb asked him to join the Yahoo board and lead its search committee for a new CEO. Levinsohn began his presentation. It was going to be a doozy, as he planned to seriously alter the direction of Yahoo. He wanted it to stop competing with technology businesses like Google and Microsoft and focus entirely on competing with media and content businesses like Disney, Time Warner, and News Corporation. As part of this transition, Levinsohn wanted to spin off, sell, or shut down several Yahoo business units. He said doing so would reduce Yahoo‚Äôs head count by as many as 10,000 employees, and increase its earnings before taxes and interest by as much as 50 percent. In fact, Levinsohn announced during his presentation that he and his team had already started down this road. Levinsohn told the board that, under his direction, Heckman had begun negotiating a deal with Microsoft to exchange Yahoo‚Äôs search business for Microsoft‚Äôs portal, MSN.com, and large payments in cash. Levinsohn and Heckman had also been talking with Google executive Henrique De Castro about turning over some of Yahoo‚Äôs advertising inventory. There was also talk of unloading some of Yahoo‚Äôs enterprise-facing advertising-technology businesses into a joint venture involving New York-based ad tech startup AppNexus. Heidi Gutman/CNBCDan Loeb controlled 5 percent of Yahoo and joined the board after a bloody proxy fight. It was during this part of his presentation that Levinsohn began to feel the permanent Yahoo CEO job slipping away. Others in the room got the same sinking feeling. Wolf, the man in charge of the committee tasked with hiring a permanent CEO, began to question the wisdom of the deal. Wolf asked, in a loud voice with a sharp tone, ‚ÄúI understand why this is good for Microsoft, but why is it good for Yahoo?‚Äù Harry Wilson, another director brought onto the board by Loeb, joined Wolf in his criticism of the deal as ‚Äúshort-sighted.‚Äù Their cross-examination of the deal eventually boiled down to one question: Had Levinsohn and Heckman made any irreversible commitments to either Microsoft or Google? It was obvious to several people in the room that Wolf and Wilson wanted to make sure another candidate for the CEO job would not be forced to follow through on a deal they had not negotiated. This was a bad sign for Levinsohn‚Äôs candidacy. But Wilson and Wolf‚Äôs loud complaints about the Microsoft deal weren‚Äôt the worst sign for Levinsohn‚Äôs chances; Loeb‚Äôs behavior during the meeting was. Loeb is the suited, slick, and handsome Wall Street type. He wears his salt-and-pepper hair short and messy on purpose. He‚Äôs actually from Southern California, and sometimes he puts off a surfer vibe. During Levinsohn‚Äôs presentation, Loeb looked bored. He wasn‚Äôt paying full attention. As the interim CEO talked, Loeb stood at the back of the room and played with his BlackBerry. One person in the room remembers watching Loeb texting for a while and then, ‚Äúduring the most important part of the presentation,‚Äù getting up and going to the bathroom for 10 minutes. This person remembers thinking: ‚ÄúOh, OK. Sorry, Ross, you‚Äôre not CEO anymore.‚Äù After the meeting, Barrett, the Google executive Amoroso had helped Levinsohn poach, called Levinsohn to ask how it went. Levinsohn told him he no longer felt like he was getting the job. But who was? That night, Levinsohn flew to Sun Valley, Idaho, where investment bank Allen &amp; Co. holds an annual retreat for big-name media and technology executives. Over the weekend, Levinsohn played a guessing game with venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, Square CEO Jack Dorsey, and Twitter CEO Dick Costolo. With each of them, Levinsohn and the other Silicon Valley bigwigs ran through a long list of names, trying to figure out who might be getting the job Levinsohn had so hoped for. For each name they came up with, they came up with a persuasive reason why that person could not be it. Whom had Wolf and Loeb so clearly already decided on? Finally, late Sunday night, Levinsohn got a call from a friend of his at Google. This person asked: Had Levinsohn heard that Marissa Mayer had interviewed for the Yahoo job the Wednesday prior? Levinsohn realized everything all at once. Levinsohn now knew who Yahoo‚Äôs next CEO would be. Soon, so would everyone else. On Monday, July 16, four days after Levinsohn‚Äôs last board meeting, Yahoo made it official: Thirty-seven-year-old Marissa Mayer was Yahoo‚Äôs new CEO. The board had indeed already made Mayer an offer by the time Levinsohn went into that final meeting to present his plan for Yahoo. After the news broke in public, Levinsohn admitted to friends that he was disappointed. He had really wanted the job, and believed he would have done very well with it. He also felt bad for the team he put in place, who would now have to report to an unfamiliar leader. But Levinsohn was also at peace. If he had to lose out to someone, at least he lost out to an icon. Flickr/Fortune Live MediaMarissa Mayer There is no one else in the world like Marissa Mayer. Now 38 years old, she is a wife, a mother, an engineer, and the CEO of a 30-billion-dollar company. She is a woman in an industry dominated by men. In a world where corporations are expected to serve shareholders before anyone else, she is obsessed with putting the customer experience first. Worth at least $300 million, she isn‚Äôt afraid to show off her wealth. Steve Jobs may have lived in a small, suburban home with an apple tree out front, but Marissa Mayer lives in the penthouse of San Francisco‚Äôs Four Seasons Hotel. While rival CEOs like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Larry Page of Google wear flip-flops, hoodies, and T-shirts, Mayer wears Oscar de la Renta on the red carpet. Mayer calls herself a geek, but she doesn‚Äôt look the part. With her blonde hair, blue eyes, and glamorous style, she has Hollywood-actress good looks. Young, powerful, rich, and brilliant, Mayer is a role model for millions of women. And yet, unlike Facebook‚Äôs chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, Mayer resists calling herself a feminist. She even infuriated working mothers across the world when she banned Yahoo employees from working from home. Widely admired by the public at large, Mayer has many enemies within her industry. They say she is robotic, stuck up, and absurd in her obsession with detail. They say her obsession with the user experience masks a disdain for the money-making side of the technology industry. There is some truth to what they say. And yet, a year after Mayer took over Yahoo, the company‚Äôs stock price was up 100 percent. Engineers wanted to work for Yahoo again. More importantly, so did sought-after startup CEOs like Tumblr founder David Karp, who agreed to sell his company to Yahoo for $1.1 billion. Most CEOs of Mayer‚Äôs stature ‚Äî people running multibillion-dollar public companies the size of Yahoo ‚Äî are gregarious, outgoing types ‚Äî the kind of person who might have been a politician if the world of business and money hadn‚Äôt beckoned. Baby-kissers. Back-slappers. Schmoozers. Mayer is not that type. Peers from every stage of her life ‚Äî from her early childhood days to her first year at Yahoo ‚Äî say Mayer is a shy, socially awkward person. How in the world has she overcome such a disadvantage to rise so far, so fast? To a public casually interested in her career, Mayer‚Äôs career before Yahoo ‚Äî spent entirely at Google ‚Äî is remembered as one success after another. It wasn‚Äôt. Mayer started off at Google spectacularly well, designing its home page, creating its product management structure, and becoming the face of the company. She became one of the most powerful people at one of the world‚Äôs most powerful companies. But then, suddenly, her peers were promoted past her. Responsibility for the look and feel of Google‚Äôs entire suite of consumer-facing products, including the Google home page, was taken away from her. She was moved to a less important product: Google Maps. She was removed from a council of executives that met with Google‚Äôs CEO. To industry insiders, this sudden change was a demotion for Mayer. Was it actually? If it was, why did it happen? How did Mayer recover? Mayer‚Äôs move to the top of Yahoo during the summer of 2012 was a shock for almost everyone ‚Äî including the people who convinced her to do it. How did the board pull it off? Then there‚Äôs the biggest question about Mayer: Can she save Yahoo?
The Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Commission has released the latest report on Traffic Volume Trends, data through June. Travel on all roads and streets changed by -0.4% (-0.9 billion vehicle miles) for June 2013 as compared with June 2012. Travel for the month is estimated to be 258.1 billion vehicle miles. Cumulative Travel for 2013 changed by -0.1%. Cumulative estimate for the year is 1,461.7 billion vehicle miles of travel (PDF report). Both the civilian population-adjusted data (age 16-and-over) and total population-adjusted data have set new post-financial crisis lows. Here is a chart that illustrates this data series from its inception in 1970. I'm plotting the "Moving 12-Month Total on ALL Roads," as the DOT terms it. See Figure 1 in the PDF report, which charts the data from 1988. My start date is 1971 because I'm incorporating all the available data from earlier DOT spreadsheets. ¬† ¬† The rolling 12-month miles driven contracted from its all-time high for 39 months during the stagflation of the late 1970s to early 1980s, a double-dip recession era. The most recent decline has lasted for 67 months and counting ‚Äî a new record, but the trough to date was in November 2011, 48 months from the all-time high. The Population-Adjusted Reality Total Miles Driven, however, is one of those metrics that should be adjusted for population growth to provide the most meaningful analysis, especially if we're trying to understand the historical context. We can do a quick adjustment of the data using an appropriate population group as the deflator. I use the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Civilian Noninstitutional Population Age 16 and Over (FRED series CNP16OV). The next chart incorporates that adjustment with the growth shown on the vertical axis as the percent change from 1971. ¬† ¬† Clearly, when we adjust for population growth, the Miles-Driven metric takes on a much darker look. The nominal 39-month dip that began in May 1979 grows to 61 months, slightly more than five years. The trough was a 6% decline from the previous peak. The population-adjusted all-time high dates from June 2005. That's 96 months ‚Äî eight years ago. The latest data is 9.02% below the 2005 peak, a new post-Financial Crisis low. Our adjusted miles driven based on the 16-and-older age cohort is about where we were as a nation in January of 1995. Here is a closer look at the series since 2000. We can see that the decline leveled off in 2010, rolled over in 2011, leveled off in the first half of 2012 and then rolled over again. ¬† ¬† About that Population Adjustment... I've frequently been asked why I use the CNP16OV data for the population adjustment, often with the suggestion that it would make more sense to limit the population to licensed drivers. For openers, I don't know of a valid source for the driver-licensed population. Moreover, the correlation between license holders and actual drivers is not a reliable one. Many license holders in households do not drive, especially in their older years. According to Census Bureau data on gasoline sales (courtesy of Harry Dent's research on demand curves), dollars spent on gasoline peaks for people in their late 40s and falls off rather quickly after that. In fact, I think there's a good case for using the Census Bureau's mid-month estimates of total population (POPTHM) rather than civilians age 16 and over for the population adjustment. The reason is that a portion of total miles driven is specifically to support children's needs (day care, schools, children's activities, etc.) and the needs of elders who might have licenses but no longer drive. Ultimately the division of miles driven by either population group (CNP16OV or POPTHM), while not a perfect match with drivers, is a consistent and relevant metric for evaluating economic growth. Here is the same population-adjusted chart, this time with the total population for the adjustment. In the total-population adjusted version the latest data point of -7.54%, also a new post-recession low. ¬† ¬† What about the impact of volatile gasoline prices? How much of a factor has that been in the trend? I'll close with an overlay of the population-adjusted miles driven and gasoline prices since the early 1990s. ¬† ¬† As is readily apparent, the correlation is fairly weak over the entire timeframe. And, despite the volatility in gasoline prices since the onset of the Great Recession, the correlation since December 2007 has been even weaker. There are profound behavioral issues apart from gasoline prices that are influencing miles driven. These would include the demographics of an aging population in which older people drive less, continuing high unemployment, and the ever-growing ability to work remote in the era of the Internet. See the latest study by the Frontier Group, A New Direction: Our Changing Relationship with Driving and the Implications for America's Future (PFD format). The DOT "miles driven" metric is also interesting to study in the context of gasoline volume sales, which I also update monthly:
Today's news of a sharp decline in new home sales has left many economists scratching their heads, trying to understand the trajectory of the US housing market. And here is what they are struggling with: With the homebuilder survey showing tremendous optimism while new homes not selling well, there is clearly a disconnect. Just as other economists, Goldman's research team is having a tough time reconciling the two. GS also points out that new home sales represent a somewhat more timely indicator than the existing home sales number - which was quite strong in July (see this post). GS: - Based on contract signings rather than closings, new home sales are a slightly more timely indicator of housing activity than the stronger-than-expected July existing home sales data†released earlier this week. The recent weakness is concerning in light of the rise in mortgage rates in recent months and drop in new purchase mortgage applications. However, the weakness in new home sales stands sharply in contrast to the NAHB homebuilders index, which points to more favorable prospects for housing starts and new home sales in coming months. In spite of the conflicting data, Goldman's research team decided to downgrade its forecast for the 3d quarter GDP to 1.8%. †Long-term interest rates may be having a far deeper impact on the economy than previously thought. It is worth mentioning that this forecast does not bode well for the success of the Fed's latest round of monetary easing:
It also outlined three ìknock-outî clauses or caveats ñ including higher than expected inflation, and a sense that financial stability was being put at risk by lax monetary policy ñ that could allow them to overrule that radical new forward guidance. Interesting developments in the financial markets mean, however, there is still much to be debated since Mr Carneyís first MPC minutes emerged. Setting aside the complexity of the reported unemployment rate which is, in many aspects, a lagging indicator, the success of the ìforward guidanceî policy hangs on the assumption that the central bank actually has a greater ability at forecasting the future than the collective capacity of the global markets. It also assumes that the UKís own markets, especially for bonds and currency, are insulated from events elsewhere. But, as things stand, it seems as though the markets are either not especially confident about the Bankís forecasts or the markets believe that the risks of the Bankís ìknock-outî clauses being triggered are quite high. It is also the case that American and global markets, given the renewed steep rise in bond yields in recent days, are also weighing the possibility that there is an increased likelihood of an imminent exit from the US Federal Reserveís own forward guidance in the form of a tapering of QE. Earlier this year, I wrote about my memories of the 1994 bond market meltdown and just how much it left a mark on me, very brief though it may have been. These past couple of weeks have again acted as a reminder of the sensitivity of seemingly disconnected markets to rising US bond yields, whether they be gilt yields in the UK or equities in India. This is all especially interesting given that, in essence, some form of forward guidance is already being practised by the worldís largest central banks, including the Federal Reserve in the US, the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank, as well as our own in Britain. At the same time, I am reminded of the great financial market adage, one that has at least become the belief for many that are interest rate-related traders ñ ìNever Fight the Fedî. It is a concept I was introduced to in my earliest working days and was something well worth remembering in the early parts of that 1994 bloodbath when the Fed started to raise interest rates. But I am also reminded of the comments of one of the worldís leading investors who said to me a few years ago that, on the contrary, some of his most successful periods came when he decided that the Fed was wrong. He believed that the best time to fight the Fed was just before it changed its mind about the state of the economy and moved along a different path from the one markets had been conditioned for. So, which is it to be this time? Does the smart investor simply follow what the Bank of England and other central banks seem to be telling us, and take the opportunity to invest in some of the opportunities possibly being created? Or does one go with the flow and await a change of view from the central banks? And, for the Bank and its new Governor, are they going to risk backing up their statement with action and not just words, even taking into account the risk that events in the US bond market could overwhelm that? I have to say that these all seem pretty difficult calls right now, and I donít envy those who are obliged to put their money on the line, so to speak, to make a decision. Perhaps the reality is that the data will end up determining what the right decisions are. But, as always, by the time more data are released, the markets will already have either confirmed their recent bearish behaviour in bond markets, or reversed it. If I were a member of our central bank, I would certainly want to see another monthís worth of data before making too strong a judgment. A repeat of last monthís very strong improvements, followed by Fridayís upwards revision of UK GDP for the second quarter, would suggest a degree of momentum behind the recovery that neither the Bank nor the consensus had expected. On the other hand, if the August PMI monthly surveys in manufacturing, services and construction give back some of their strength, I would probably want to reiterate the same forward guidance message that the Bank originally laid out. What can be stated with certainty is that the first days of next month will be very interesting, as all this data, here and overseas ñ but especially in the US with their monthly ISM reports and the payrolls ñ is rolled out. September is often a pretty roller-coaster month for financial markets but this year is shaping up to be even more so than normal, notably for the so-called emerging markets. Many of them, especially those troubled with large and rising current account deficits, have suffered badly on the back of rising US bond yields. Some of their policymakers must be praying that the US economic recovery continues, but not at a pace that will keep frightening the bond markets. There is possibly also another twist. If the US and China are rebalancing their economies in the manner that some evidence suggests, then the large marginal purchasers of US Treasuries of recent years ñ the Fed itself and the Chinese ñ will have stopped buying. Over the longer term, this is probably a good thing. The return of US bond yields towards the 4pc to 5pc mark would be consistent with the signs of a healthier US economy, but there may be more days, and even weeks, when it might well not feel like it. Jim OíNeill is former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine (www.shinetrust.org.uk) 
