taxibill / FlickrThe trucking industry may be the best economic indicator out there. Earlier today, we learned that the American Trucking Association believes Q1 is likely to be a bit weak as new taxes bite.¬† But we just got some data saying the rest of the year will look pretty good: Swift Transportation's Q4 revenue has crushed expectations at $922 million (analysts were expecting $881 million according to Yahoo Finance). In addition, total 2012 revenue improved 7 percent compared with 2011. "Our key trucking metrics are trending favorably, despite economic uncertainty, and we have seen strong growth in our Intermodal and Dedicated segments," CEO Jerry Moyes said in the company's release. The company's guidance for 2013 includes adding 300-500 new tractors (ie the trucks that haul the freight). The stock was up about 10 percent after hours. SEE MORE: What America's Business Earnings Are Telling Us About The Economy &gt;
When uncertainty reigns, investors all over the world turn to gold as a safe haven. But some countries are starting to take issue with their residents‚Äô preference for storing wealth in gold bars, rather than bank accounts. Large gold imports can throw off a country‚Äôs current account balance ‚Äì the difference between what a country earns and what it spends on foreign trade. Widespread investments in physical gold also mean that large pots of wealth sit idle, instead of being put to work in the broader economy. And in countries where gold is a popular investment, those financial institutions which carry large gold deposits, lend cash against gold or offer interest-bearing gold deposit accounts, can pose a risk to the financial system if commodity prices suddenly shift. Governments in India, the largest gold importer in the world, and Vietnam, a ¬†country which imported 95% of its domestic gold consumption in 2011, have taken steps in the past year to discourage savers from hoarding gold. ¬†The Indian government doubled import duties on gold bullion to 4 percent in March and with current account deficits at record highs, recently announced another hike to 6 percent. Taxing Their Way Out of Gold? ‚ÄúIt is difficult to establish the impact (of the tax) on CAD,‚Äù Indian Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said, according to Reuters. ‚ÄúBut there will be some moderation in gold demand.‚Äù Though Credit Suisse analysts say the higher taxes could weaken import demand by as much as 10 percent, they believe the health of the Indian economy and rupee strength will probably play a larger role in determining the country‚Äôs demand for gold this year. Indian gold imports already appear to have slowed. After several years of acceleration, the Reserve Bank of India reported last month that gold imports between April and October 2012 dropped to 398 tons from 589 tons during the same period in 2011. In a recent note, Credit Suisse analysts predicted that net imports were on track to drop to no more than 800 tons for the whole of last year from 2011‚Äôs approximately 970 tons. But analysts also note that it is difficult to know how much of that slowdown can be attributed to tax increases since the rupee also depreciated sharply over the year. Gold is especially popular among lower-income residents in India and has deep cultural significance, especially as a prized component of wedding celebrations. This year contains more days considered auspicious for a wedding than 2012 and national elections loom in 2014, Tom Kendall, Credit Suisse‚Äôs Head of Precious Metals Research wrote in a recent note.¬† Those factors could make it more difficult for Indian politicians to impose more tax hikes. A Sound Investment  A pitch against gold is also hard to make for other reasons. Gold investments in rupees have performed well over the past 10 years, with the value of the yellow metal rising by 477 percent ‚Äì more than the 425 percent rise in India‚Äôs S&amp;P Nifty 50 stock index over the same period. ¬†Low interest rates and easy access make other investments relatively unattractive, Kendall notes. ‚ÄúFor a significant proportion of the (Indian) population, it remains easier to buy gold jewelry than to open a basic bank account,‚Äù he writes. ‚ÄúIt is illustrative, we think, that a recent initiative by the World Gold Council to market 24-carat gold coins to rural communities was launched in partnership with the Indian Post Office rather than a retail bank.‚Äù Many Indians use gold to hedge investments against inflation. But a working group convened by India‚Äôs central bank recently advocated a range of alternative investment products which could be used by the public as an alternative to gold for inflation hedging. Gold-linked savings accounts, bonds and certificates that entitle a holder to physical gold could help reduce demand and quickly move more liquid assets into the country‚Äôs banking system, the group suggested. Along with hiking import duties, the Indian government recently announced new rules that make it easier for savers to open gold deposit accounts. Gold Prices Peak in Vietnam  Vietnam‚Äôs government is trying to tackle a similar problem through aggressive intervention in the local gold market. More than 31 percent of Vietnamese households keep some of the shiny stuff on hand, according to a survey by a government finance committee cited in a recent Credit Suisse note. High inflation levels and a weakening Vietnamese currency have made Vietnamese investors even more eager to snap up gold. The Vietnamese government has intervened to mitigate the resulting spread between local and international gold prices. After temporarily suspending interest-bearing gold deposit accounts and certificates in 2011, the government has told banks and credit facilities to phase out gold deposits and loans for good. The government has also taken over the country‚Äôs largest gold refinery, and the State Bank of Vietnam is rolling out a new set of licenses allowing traders to buy and sell gold bars only if they meet strict requirements. In the end, both Vietnam and India walk a tightrope in trying to wean citizens off gold in times of high inflation and economic uncertainty, while also trying to avoid encouraging a black market. ‚ÄúAs with India, the government will be wary of driving more of the gold trade underground,‚Äù Ric Deverell, Credit Suisse‚Äôs Head of Commodities Research wrote about Vietnam in a recent research note. ‚ÄúGold‚Äôs utility as a highly portable, high-value store of wealth is as relevant today as it has ever been.‚Äù
MarkitChina's HSBC Flash Manufacturing PMI for January is out. The headline number climbed to 51.9, a 24-month high. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg were looking for a reading of 51.7, which is a tad higher than last month's reading of 51.5. Any reading above 50 signals growth. Here's HSBC Economist Hongbin Qu: ìAt 51.9, Januaryís HSBC China manufacturing PMI rose for the fifth consecutive month to the highest level in two-years, heralding a good start to the New Year. Thanks to the continuous gains in new business, manufacturers accelerated production by additional hiring and more purchases. Despite the still tepid external demand, the domestic-driven restocking process is likely to add steam to China's ongoing recovery in the coming months.î Here's a breakdown of the subcomponents via Markit: Markit Flash is a preliminary reading of growth in China's manufacturing sector. After slowing briefly last year, China's economy has begun to accelerate again. Economists will scrutinize all upcoming reports for confirmation that this growth is real. SEE ALSO: What If China's Economy Lands Hard?
efsb / FlickrEver since the release of the minutes from the Federal Reserve's most recent policy meeting ñ which surprised markets by striking a hawkish tone ñ one question has gripped investors perhaps more than any other: when will the Fed start tightening monetary policy, and what will happen when it does? Deutsche Bank Chief U.S. Equity Strategist David Bianco says, "Don't fear interest rate normalization." That's the title of one of his recent research notes, which takes a deep dive into what happened to markets each of the 15 times the Fed has embarked on policy tightening since 1965. Story:†Bianco writes, \"The 1965 tightening followed many previous hikes that were largely a post-war renormalization of rates. But the curve inverted in Dec. 1965 and yet hikes continued through Nov.†1966 on low unemployment ñ hawkish policy. Stocks fell into a bear market in 1966 even without recession and then the Fed started easing in Dec. 1966 and the market rallied.\" Beginning Fed funds rate: 4.10 percent Peak Fed funds rate: 5.76 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening: 0.9 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening: -12.2 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening: 0.54 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†The Federal Reserve began lowering rates in December 1966 over fears that the long-running economic expansion in the U.S. was about to turn. It continued to cut rates through July of 1968, when the economy began heating up again. Stocks traded sideways through March 1968, when they staged a rally through the rest of the year before falling in 1969. Beginning Fed funds rate:†3.79 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†9.19 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Allan Meltzer 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening: -1.2 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†3.2 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†1.41 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank, Allan Meltzer Story:†Bianco writes, \"The hikes that started in April 1971 came relatively soon after a recession when unemployment had not yet shown any sign of turning downward. These hikes were seen as†choking off the recovery and the stock market corrected 4/71-11/71. Although CPI was above 4% when these hikes started, elevated unemployment had unit labor costs (ULC)†trending down. While CPI inflation was still running a bit hot, these hikes could be seen as a policy error. In Sept. of 1971 the Fed started cutting rates again and the market rallied†into year-end and up strongly all of 1972 even as rate hikes began again but from low levels.\" Beginning Fed funds rate:†3.71 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†5.56 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†3.6 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†6.9 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†0.75 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†A combination of a weaker dollar following the collapse of the Bretton Woods international monetary system and President Nixon's wage and price controls caused sparked serious inflation. In 1972, though measures of inflation like CPI were muted due to the controls, markets forced interest rates higher. It wasn't until December 1972 that the Fed voluntarily contributed to the rise in the Fed funds rate. Stocks traded sideways until October 1972, when they staged a year-end rally before falling throughout 1973. Beginning Fed funds rate:†3.29 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†10.78 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Allan Meltzer 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†0.6 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†4.8 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†1.02 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†In 1973, an oil crisis caused the price of crude to soar.†By the beginning of 1974, the economy had entered recession and inflation was running hot. Inflation in the price of goods and services was finally outpacing the central bank's expansion of monetary aggregates, and the Fed funds rate soared. Stocks fell throughout 1974. Beginning Fed funds rate:†8.97 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†12.01 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Allan Meltzer 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-2.3 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-15.2 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†0.83 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†The tightening that began in February 1977 followed a long easing cycle dating back to September 1974. However, inflation was on the rise again, spurring the Fed to begin hiking rates. Stocks fell throughout 1977 before bottoming out early in the following year. Beginning Fed funds rate:†4.61 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†17.61 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Allan Meltzer 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-2.2 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-12.5 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†3.92 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†In the spring of 1980 ñ an election year ñ the Federal Reserve briefly interrupted a long-running tightening cycle to experiment with a two-tiered system in which small banks would be privy to a Federal funds rate 3 percentage points lower than that for large banks. Following the presidential election, under the leadership of Paul Volcker, the Federal Reserve hiked interest rates in response to double-digit inflation in consumer prices, inducing a recession. This in turn caused oil prices to decline, further reducing inflationary pressures in the economy. Stocks rallied until December, when they began a long period of decline. Beginning Fed funds rate:†9.03 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†19.10 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Allan Meltzer 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†0.6 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†7.6 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†2.37 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†The last half of 1981 featured a falling Fed funds rate. The first part of 1982 marked a stable period for the Fed funds rate ñ the first stable period in a long time. In January, though, the monetary base spiked, and the Fed funds rate briefly rose. Stocks spiked in January before falling into March. Beginning Fed funds rate:†12.37 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†14.78 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-1.8 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†14.8 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†-0.16 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†Bianco writes, \"There was a correction in 1983 (marked 1 on chart) about seven months from the cycleís first hike (10/83-7/84) that occurred when CPI exceeded 4%. At the time investors were†still spooked by the high inflation of the 1970s and early 1980s and took concern that elevated CPI would again lead to broad based wage inflation or high ULCs. However, ULCs†stayed benign through the mid 1980s and by late 1984 the Fed began easing again and 1985 was seen as a soft landing.\" Beginning Fed funds rate:†8.50 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†11.44 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†3.3 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†6.1 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†2.21 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†In February 1987, the Fed decided that the recent expansion in monetary aggregates had to reverse in order to protect the dollar from weakening further. It sold $8.4 billion of securities, withdrawing liquidity from the market and forcing the Fed funds rate up. The tightening lasted through October, when the market crashed, before the Fed reversed and began easing again. Beginning Fed funds rate:†5.98 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†7.31 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†3.7 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-6.2 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†2.27 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†John Carlson of the Cleveland Fed writes, \"a series of funds rate increases was resumed in April 1988, but not in time to head off an abrupt jump in the trend of core inflation...From April 1988 to March 1989, the funds rate increased more than 300 b.p., while the 10-year Treasury rose only 100 b.p. Breakpoint analysis suggests that the sudden increase in the core inflation trend was contained and that the index began drifting down somewhat later, in August 1990. Moreover, this episode was followed by a recession beginning in 1990, implying that the necessary corrective policy actions may have exacerbated a weakening economy.\" Beginning Fed funds rate:†6.52 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†9.75 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Cleveland Fed 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†5.6 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†13.9 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†0.64 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†John Carlson of the Cleveland Fed writes, \"With evidence that inflation had been contained, long-term rates began to head down in the spring of 1989 and continued this trend until the fall of 1993. A subsequent rise in long rates that began in November of that year represented a potential inflation scare. The FOMC responded vigorously, raising the intended funds rate 300 b.p. between January 1994 and February 1995.\" Stocks traded sideways throughout most of 1994 before rallying in December and throughout 1995. Beginning Fed funds rate:†3.00 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†6.00 percent Source: Deutsche Bank,†Cleveland Fed 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-3.0 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-2.3 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening: 1.50 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†Bianco writes, \"The S&amp;P dipped 9% in April 1997 (marked 3) on a 25bp hike on the Fedís displeasure with exuberant equity valuations. However, the dip was brief and the bull market continued.†There was a correction in Oct. 1997 (4) and a near bear market in late 1998 (5), but these were related to the Asia Financial Crisis and Russian default and still very demanding PEs.\" Beginning Fed funds rate:†5.31 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†5.50 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†5.8 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†45.5 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†-0.18 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†Bianco writes, \"The yield curve didnít invert until March of 2000, however 1999 was feared to be late in the cycle by many investors despite low inflation given that it was eight years since the†last recession. The popular debate at the time was whether or not the business cycle had been tamed and elongated versus history. The PE of the S&amp;P 500 climbed to 20 and†higher, which contributed to a correction in 7/99-10/99 (marked 6), but the market rebounded and rallied strongly into year-end as the economy displayed health with†unemployment falling further and dipping under 4% in early 2000. However, 2000 brought signs of excessive investment in technology and telecom. A demanding PE and a hard†rolling over of profits on a business spending recession started a bear market exacerbated by 9/11/2001.\" Beginning Fed funds rate:†4.76 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†6.50 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†-3.2 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†6.0 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening: 0.31 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank Story:†As concerns over a brewing housing bubble mounted, the Fed began to hike rates in June 2004 and continued hiking all the way through the end of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's term in July 2006. Following the June 2004 announcement, stocks sold off ñ but only until August, when they began a rally toward new all-time highs. Beginning Fed funds rate:†1.00 percent Peak Fed funds rate:†5.25 percent Source: Deutsche Bank 1-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†1.8 percent 12-month change in S&amp;P 500 from start of tightening:†6.3 percent Change in 10-year Treasury yield over entire tightening:†0.36 percentage points Source: Deutsche Bank
By EconMattersEnergy and environment conservation has been high on every nation‚Äôs agenda probably even before the oil crisis in the 1970s.¬† Green cars such as hybrids and electric cars have been gaining popularity as well as auto market share in the U.S. driven in part by high oil and fuel prices, as well as government policies, and subsidies in some cases, pushing for higher fuel efficiency. Most people think ‚Äúeco-driving‚Äù or even carpooling is a win-win-- saving gas money and the environment at the same time.¬† But it looks like what may be good for the environment, is actually bad news for the government.¬† EconmattersYou see, for each gallon of gasoline or diesel we gas up in our cars, there‚Äôs a portion of tax that goes to the state government to fund the building and maintenance of roads and bridges. ¬†So unfortunately, more fuel efficiency and less driving even by carpooling means less tax revenue for the government, and the green car is also to blame. For example, in Vermont, revenue collection of the state‚Äôs transportation fund has been shy of their target for seven straight years. ¬†According to AP, 25% of Vermont‚Äôs expected $232-million transportation fund in the current fiscal year is supposed to come from the gasoline tax of about 20 cents a gallon. ¬† In order to make up for the shortfall in the fuel tax revenue, instead of coming up with ways to cut costs, Vermont and Oregon reportedly are mapping out a possible new scheme of taxing drivers not based on how much fuel is burned but how far each vehicle travels as AP reports. Although Europe has a longer history and higher adoption rate of fuel efficient cars, what‚Äôs taking place in the U.S. right now is actually the conclusion of a U.K. study published back in 2011: ¬† ‚ÄúThe drive to promote greener, more efficient motoring will blow a ¬£13bn hole in the public finances as revenue from fuel and road taxes dries up."¬† ‚ÄúDrivers may end up being taxed more, even as the industry adapts to meet environmental targets‚Ä¶.[government will be] forced to look at ways of clawing back the money motorists think they will be saving." ¬†¬† Now the U.S. is projected to have high growth in green car sales.¬† Market research firm Mintel says that U.S. sales of hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and electric cars should reach 440,000 units in 2012 -- a 73% improvement over 2011, reaching ¬†850,000 in unit sales by 2017, or 5% of the U.S. auto market.¬† Separately, a 2011 study by the J.D. Power and Associates projects major growth, as much as 10%, of vehicles with fuel-efficient technologies by 2016, which would represent a four-fold increase in the sales numbers for green cars compared to 2010. If these are realistic forecasts, then don‚Äôt be surprised to see a Big Brother GPS inside every vehicle in the country as Vermont Transportation Secretary Brian Searles indicated, ‚Äú‚Ä¶.. calculating how much of a VMT tax is owed would be done through the global positioning system devices that are expected to be standard equipment [capable of tracking location, time] in cars later this decade.‚Äù¬† ¬† I personally can‚Äôt even begin to count the possible number of privacy concerns having a government GPS inside my car, not to mention the additional resource tracking and collecting this new mileage tax would require, and I thought the U.S. Federal and state government has had enough funding problems already?¬† I guess the moral of the story is that it‚Äôs all about money, and whatever "savings" coming out from one end will eventually need something else (e.g. new taxes) to replenish, at least as far as ‚Äúgovernment budget‚Äù is concerned. Ultimately, taxpayers still end up footing all bills and more--in this case, you get hit with a new mileage tax before even seeing an ROI from your Prius. ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
At 8:45 PM ET, we'll get the HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI, which will give us a sense of how the Chinese economy is doing to start the new year. Last quarter, GDP growth accelerated again.† People will look to tonight's PMI report for confirmation this growth is continuing. In his latest note to clients, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus included a chart of quarterly GDP growth since 1998: Chinaís economic growth rose for the first time in two years as government efforts to re-start the economy took hold to deliver rebounds in retail sales, industrial production and the housing market. Skepticism followed the announcement of the number from some corners of the market as usual, but overall the announcement was well received as the move was in the right directionóup. Oppenheimer
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesNeel Kashkari, one of the main operatives of the bank rescue TARP (and therefore one of the men who helped save America from financial Armageddon) is leaving PIMCO, and running for office, according to Dealbook. It's not clear what office he'll run for, except that it will be in California, and it will be as a Republican. Frankly, if someone at the heart of TARP can entertain a run for office without being totally laughed out of the room, that tells you a lot about how America has gotten over the crisis. Of course, any run will inevitably bring out a replay of some of his most infamous moments, including when he was asked by a Congressman during a hearing: "Is Kashkari a chump?"  He has a website set up discussing some of his background. Neel moved to Silicon Valley in 2002 where he worked for Goldman Sachs, helping entrepreneurs raise capital to grow their companies and create jobs, giving him firsthand experience with the critical role small businesses play in our economy and the challenges they face in California.¬†¬†¬† Following his work in Washington, Neel returned to California in 2009 where he became Managing Director and Head of Global Equities at PIMCO, a firm that helps thousands of Americans meet their retirement goals, including teachers, firefighters, and other public employees. He recently left PIMCO to pursue his passion for public service.¬†¬†¬†¬† Neel resides in Orange County with his two giant Newfoundlands, Winslow and Newsome.¬†¬† In 2006, his desire to contribute to public policy brought him to Washington, D.C. to join the United States Treasury Department as Senior Advisor to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. Neel‚Äôs initial work at Treasury brought experts from across the government and private sectors together to craft policies to encourage alternative energy sources that would enhance both national security and environmental sustainability, ultimately leading to Congress passing the Energy Independence and Security Act, which President Bush signed into law on December 19, 2007.¬†¬†¬†¬† When the financial crisis erupted Neel spearheaded the Treasury Department‚Äôs response. He was confirmed as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury by the U.S. Senate in July 2008 and worked with both Republican and Democratic lawmakers to write and pass the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act.¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† Once the law was enacted, Neel established and led the Office of Financial Stability, working with experts from across the government, non-profit and private sectors to design and implement solutions to stem the economic crisis.¬† Although appointed by President Bush, the Obama Administration asked Neel to remain at Treasury and continue leading the response until the crisis had been stabilized.¬† The programs he oversaw helped rescue the U.S. economy and auto sector at minimum cost to the taxpayers (investments in banks and insurance companies even returned an estimated profit to taxpayers of $46 billion). For his leadership Neel was given the Alexander Hamilton Award, the Treasury Department‚Äôs highest honor.
Great chart here from Unilever posted by @fed_speak that needs no explanation. @fed_speak
michaelvito / FlickrTuna auction in JapanJapan's latest trade numbers are out. The trade deficit came in at •641.5 billion, which was wider than the •522.8 billion forecast by economists. Exports fell by 5.8 percent year-over-year versus the estimate of -4.2 percent. Exports to China fell 15.8 percent. Exports to the EU fell 11.1 percent. Export to the US fell 0.8 percent.
On March 16, 2007, Morgan Stanley employees working on one of the toxic assets that helped blow up the world economy discussed what to name it. Among the team members' suggestions: "Subprime Meltdown," "Hitman," "Nuclear Holocaust," "Mike Tyson's Punchout," and the simple-yet-direct: "Shitbag." These facts have come to light thanks to a lawsuit brought against Morgan Stanley by a Taiwanese bank that invested in a $500 collateralized debt obligation. According to Eisinger, $415 million of the assets backing the CDO, which was actually called Stack 2006-1, wound up being worthless. Most of those suggested names came from a lawyer at Morgan Stanley named Phillip Blumberg. His emails were released to the public as part of the lawsuit. It's just incredible that this sort of thing still gets sent around in emails just a few years after Wall Street's equity analysts found themselves under fire for, among other things, sending internal emails dissing the stocks their firm's were selling to the public. They'll never learn, I guess. Eisinger's Morgan Stanley bankers, however, were not selling equities to ordinary retail investors. They were putting together structured financial products that were sold to sophisticated financial institutions. There's a big difference between selling a product to a retail investor and a bank, even a Taiwanese bank. Or, at least, I think there should be. I get the feeling that Eisinger is not so sure their should be a difference at all. He seems to want to impose the kind of financial paternalism that we require for retail investors on the institutional end of the market. Actually, he wants to go even further than that. His argument is that investment banks shouldn't sell products if they have taken a position against those products. "People across the bank understood that the American housing market was in trouble. They took advantage of that knowledge to create and then bet against securities and then also to unload garbage investments on unsuspecting buyers," Eisinger writes. Eisinger is, of course, correct that people "across the bank" understood the housing market was in trouble. But he implies that this was some kind of secret knowledge, something Morgan Stanley kept hidden from outsiders, which just isn't the case. In fact, at the time Morgan Stanley was openly one of the most bearish shops on Wall Street when it came to housing. In October 2006, for example, Morgan Stanley issued a note asking "Is The Housing Recession Over?" Noting that there were glimmers of hope in the market, Morgan Stanley analyst Richard Berner wrote "Call me stubborn, but I still think the housing recession has a long way to go." What's more, Berner issued a warning about mortgages and mortgage lending in particular: "the deterioration in mortgage credit quality is just beginning. We think that lenders are more at risk than are borrowersÖ" A few months earlier, in August 2006, Morgan Stanley chief economist Stephen Roach wrote a note entitled "Another Post Bubble Shakeout" that described the effects of the bursting of the housing bubble in dire terms." "Today, America's housing bubble is finally bursting. Is the die cast for another bubble-induced downturn in the US and global economy?" Roach asked. He went on the answer his question in the positive. These were not secret memos that only Morgan Stanley's bankers saw. They were available on Morgan Stanley's website and emailed out to clients. So while it is true that people "across the bank" had information that America's housing market was in trouble, it's not true that this was some secret. Should Morgan Stanley have foregone selling credit products linked to the mortgage market because of this view? The Taiwanese lawsuit and Eisinger's article are based on the premise that this is the case. But that's not how Wall Street operates. Investment banks have typically allowed clients to take the opposite sides of trades, even when they regard one side of the trade as misguided. This is still common practice. Take, for example, Goldman Sachs. Last quarter, Goldman made $2.95 billion in fees for underwriting bonds for corporate clients. Goldman's CEO is on record saying it is telling all of its corporate clients to borrow as much as they can now, while rates are at record lows. But Goldman's CEO has also warned that bond investors are too complacent about low rates. "Someone is buying that debt," Blankfein said at a New York Times' Dealbook conference in December. "What's going to happen when growth picks up and interest rates rise? There's going to be a reversal and people will have losses." I have no doubt that Goldman is trying to position itself so that it will make money when interest rates rise. At that point it will be in exactly the same position as Morgan Stanley in 2007: having positioned itself to make money from the fall in value of bonds it sold to investors. To put it in Eisinger's terms, people across Goldman Sachs understand that the American bond market is in trouble. They are taking advantage of that knowledge to create and then bet against securities and then also to unload garbage investments on unsuspecting buyers. Hopefully they're all smart enough not to call the latest bond deal the a nuclear holocaust.
Last year in Mali, last week in Algeria, soon (again) in Nigeria. Attacks on the wellhead, refinery or pipeline ‚Äì gas or oil ‚Äì will soon enough reveal how counter-productive are Francois Hollande‚Äôs bombers and paras; and by contrast, how fulsome and stable Russian gas supplies, natural or liquefied, will prove to be, when the whirlwind really starts blowing across the Sahara towards central Africa‚Äôs energy exporters. Business risk analysts do better at wind detection ‚Äî time to go short on energy companies with west and north African exposure; go long on Gazprom, Novatek, Rosneft. Alexei Miller, Leonid Mikhelson, Gennady Timchenko and Igor Sechin are crying all the way to the bank. It‚Äôs Davos time, and that means farmer‚Äôs market week for the US and UK companies which make their living selling fear of risk and consolation to big corporations at $20,000 a pop per month. The louder the US market leaders cry, the more obviously they are hucksters. Stratfor of Houston, Texas, for example, has taken the due diligence-equivalent of snake oil to a new pitch. As a snake-pit of risks ‚Äì nuclear armed, over-endowed with natural resources, authoritarian, corrupt, atheistic ‚Äì Russia has been a staple of the commercial fearmongers. So when the Eurasia Group of New York touts its latest from the Swiss mountain top, and fails to mention a single Russian risk for the year ahead, that‚Äôs news. Or is it? Eurasia is run by Ian Bremmer, who has a string of academic degrees and university jobs in the US, and also the practical experience which won him the award ‚ÄúYoung Global Leader of the World Economic Forum, 2007.‚Äù David Gordon, who runs Eurasia‚Äôs risk research, comes from the US intelligence community, doing time at the CIA, the State Department, and the US Agency for International Development. The director of research, John Green, is from the US Marine Corps. The director for research on Russia, Cliff Kupchan, got his stripes at a Congressional Committee, the State Department, and the Center for the National Interest (aka Nixon Center). The Eurasia Group‚Äôs board of advisors is heavy on hedge funds paying for what they hope will be inside dope on emerging markets, plus American and Japanese money men whose institutions have a record of difficulty getting their Russian business above the red line, and of fleeing at the first sign of trouble. Citigroup, with two slots on the advisory board, has distinguished itself purveying the good news from the Russian markets with an annual competition to send Russian business reporters to New York for a make-over. Eurasia makes more of its living selling the bad news, and Russia has been a staple. In Eurasia‚Äôs ‚ÄúTop Risks for 2009‚Äù, Russia took an entire section for itself. A lot of innocent trees were felled to put this on paper: ‚ÄúWe enter 2009 with Russia in play in a way we haven‚Äôt seen in decades. The relevant comparison isn‚Äôt 1998, when the Russians engaged in default and devaluation but remained within the bounds of their existing political and economic system (as Lenin said, two steps forward, one step back). The history to consider is 1989-as key aspects of the Russian system could change for the worse‚Ä¶ ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre likely to see much more turbulence in 2009, as factories providing employment for entire cities are shuttered. That‚Äôs a sort of suffering that Russians are certainly used to, but only in the context of a very different kind of political system‚Ä¶Russia will be a troublemaker in international relations-if a more unpredictable and opportunistic one than in 2008. As the latest gas cutoff to Ukraine shows, the Kremlin puts realpolitik and national interests first. ‚ÄòMarket discipline‚Äô in the aftermath of Georgia did not prevent Moscow from again turning off the tap to Ukraine, and more instances of bare-knuckles foreign policy are likely in 2009.‚Äù Not much of this turned out to be true, or redounded to the benefit of Eurasia‚Äôs balance-sheet. Three years later the group‚Äôs ‚ÄúTop Risks for 2012‚Äù issued 8 Russia alerts. One risk was ‚Äúgrassroots opposition to entrenched governments is spreading to countries such as Russia‚Äù. Also, Bremmer and his colleagues managed to predict that Vladimir Putin would win the presidential election, and that ‚ÄúPresident Dmitry Medvedev may well be left by the wayside, but that‚Äôs not going to affect Russian governance‚Äù. US hedge funds like Citadel, EMSO, Discovery Capital, and Pinebridge pay premium dollar for this. Here‚Äôs a fairer priced copy. This year, this week, Eurasia ‚ÄúTop Risks for 2013‚Äù contains just four mentions of Russia, and they are passing references, not risk alerts. One of them claims that ‚Äúfrom Russia to China, leaders‚Äô wealth is increasingly exposed‚Äù. Somehow the New York analysts failed to look out the window when Americans went to their presidential poll. Then there is the forecast ‚Äúof Russia and the US (and perhaps China) agreeing on a common post-Assad peacekeeping mission in Syria.‚Äù Finally, the prediction which gives the snake-oil game away: ‚Äúshould it decide to exploit its own reserves, or collaborate with regional partners such as Algeria, Europe could, for example, reduce its dependence on its tough Russian supplier.‚Äù Tough? Sonatrach or Gazprom? That‚Äôs the only mention of Algeria in the report. While conceding the risk of Islamists attacking by surprise somewhere, the Eurasia put its finger on the map and said it couldn't rule out uprisings in "the Gulf region, Jordan, or Morocco‚Äù, while elsewhere in the ‚Äúthe Sahel Zone [risk] is growing, with the potential to destabilize Mauritania or Niger.‚Äù The possibility, which was realized last week in the attack on the Amenas gas refinery in Algeria, has taken Eurasia Group by complete surprise.¬† The communique from the attackers claims the Amenas operation was ‚Äú90 per cent successful, as we were able to hit a strategic site protected by 800 soldiers with only 40 men‚Äù. The communique linked the operation to French intervention in Mali. The plant is owned and operated by Statoil of Norway and Sonatrach of Algeria. Of the 37 foreign plant workers killed, there were Americans, British, Japanese, Norwegians, and French. Of the attackers killed or captured, 11 were Tunisians and 2 Canadians. The weapons the latter used came from US and NATO-supplied stocks delivered to Libya during the war of 2011. Before the US and NATO powers dependent on African oil and gas dust off their histories of European warfare in the African desert, and start pricing in the extra security premium for their shipments to European energy consumers, Russia‚Äôs gas and oil companies have an offer that‚Äôs going to be difficult to say no to. It‚Äôs called no-risk delivery at a stable price. Good to the last drop! ‚Äî as Theodore Roosevelt said in 1907, not long after he promised US troops would intervene in countries defaulting on their debts. Read more posts on Dances With Bears ¬ª
Apple earnings are out, and investors are not loving the numbers. However, lost in all of the noise is the fact that Apple just broke out its revenues in China for the first time ever in its latest release, according to CNBC. Greater China ‚Äì including Taiwan and Hong Kong ‚Äì revenues were $6.83 billion, up from $5.43 billion in the previous quarter and $4.08 billion a year ago. That represents growth of 26 percent and 67 percent, respectively. Check it out (click to enlarge): Press Release Click here for details on Apple's latest earnings release &gt;

CNBCAfter¬†Apple missed analyst earnings expectations this afternoon, bond god Jeff Gundlach, the CEO of DoubleLine Capital, joined the folks on CNBC's "Fast Money" to discuss his $425 price target on the stock.¬† He said the if the stock closes below $483 tomorrow, it could fall to $425 very quickly. "I think it's coming this year for sure," he said. ¬†"That's an awfully long time window, I realize that. ¬†The ways it's looking now, it should probably happen this quarter."¬† What's more is he said it could go to the $300 range. Gundlach has been shorting Apple since April 2012. ¬†He has said repeatedly that he sees the stock going to $425. He said he's impressed with the obsession people have with the stock. ¬† Shares of Apple were last trading down more than 6% in the after-hours session. Watch the video below:¬† 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Extreme Emotions That Never Entirely Go Away Cause Cycles (David Rosenberg) Fear and greed are two extreme emotions that never go away and that's why we have cycles, according to David Rosenberg. In a 2007 FOMC meeting Dallas Fed president Richard Fisher said, "I lived through the corrections of the S&amp;L market, portfolio insurance, the crashes of '87, '97, and so on. When you sort through them, all of them have a common basis, and that is a search for greater yields or greater return, leverage in order to achieve that return and some assumption of risk mitigation leading to what i call 'rational complacency'. I believe that's at play presently." Here verbatim is what Rosenberg sees today 1) Margin debt on NYSE at multiyear highs 2) The VIX index at a multi-year low 3) BBB bond yields down to 3 percent 4) The spread between bulls and bears is now over 30 percent in the Investors Intelligence sentiment poll 5) The return of cov-lite lending 6) Record inflows into emerging market equities, and 7) Small-cap stocks at record highs. FINRA Files Complaint Against Westor Capital For Alleged Misuse Of Customer Funds (The Wall Street Journal) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has filed a complaint against Westor Capital Group Inc and its president for alleged misuse of customer funds.¬† "Finra said Westor, acting through Mr. Bach, allegedly used customers' fully paid common stock to effect and cover short sales by another customer without the authority to do so. As a result, Westor and Mr. Bach failed to maintain physical possession or control of securities, as required by the federal securities laws and rules. "The regulator also alleged Westor refused a customer's request to withdraw $97,000 from his account and operated an unapproved self-clearing business". What Happened To Markets The Last 15 Times The Fed Tightened (Deutsche Bank) After the FOMC recently took up a more hawkish tone, investors have wondered when the Fed will start tightening and how tightening could impact markets. In a new note Deutsche Bank Chief U.S. Equity Strategist David Bianco says, "Don't fear interest rate normalization". He also shows what happened to markets each of the 15 times the Fed tightening policy starting 1965. From December 1965 - 1966 Bianco writes "The 1965 tightening followed many previous hikes that were largely a post-war renormalization of rates. But the curve inverted in Dec. 1965 and yet hikes continued through Nov. 1966 on low unemployment ‚Äì hawkish policy. Stocks fell into a bear market in 1966 even without recession and then the Fed started easing in Dec. 1966 and the market rallied." Bloomberg, Business Insider There's Going To Be A Surge In M&amp;As This Year (Barclays) Barclays says there are two key reasons that there will be a lot more mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;A) volume. The first is that M&amp;A picks up when volatility is low. Volatility has been declining. 2. High yields compared to funding costs also make M&amp;As more compelling. Barclays ¬† In A Bear Market Value Investing Is The Way To Go (Advisor Perspectives) At a strategy conference hosted by Societe Generale Peter Tasker, Japan expert and founder of Arcus Investment, said in a bear market, value investing is the best way to go. "Tasker said that his experience contradicts those who might argue that in a stagnant, risky marketplace, 'more companies are going to go bust, are going to need restructuring, are going to need to issue more equity as you get into more financial difficulties,' rendering value stocks a bad bet. "On the contrary, Tasker said, these stocks have greatly outperformed expectations, while safer-looking growth stocks have shown themselves to be much more vulnerable to the vagaries of a persistently sour economy. ‚Äú'Bad markets are about surprise and they are about de-rating,' he said. ‚ÄúWhat gets de-rated is the stuff that is highly rated. The stuff that is lowly rated has got that much less of a hurdle to jump and that much less potential to be de-rated. "By way of example, he recalled that in 2003, shortly after Japan experienced its second banking crisis in less than a decade, the press widely publicized a group of companies, dubbed the 'Dirty 30,' which were supposed to be on the verge of inevitable bankruptcies in the wake of the crisis. 'A couple of those 30 companies did in fact go bust,' Tasker said. 'The remaining 27 or 28 quadrupled and quintupled stock prices.'"
Perhaps the most anticipated earnings release for investors ‚Äì Apple ‚Äì is out, and the company missed expectations on a large number of metrics. S&amp;P 500 futures instantly shed 4-5 points upon the release: FINVIZ Needless to say, it's no surprise that the broader market is headed lower. After all,¬†Apple is the largest company on the market, it's the most widely-owned stock by hedge funds, and given its dominance in the American household and popular culture, it's a big name for retail investors as well.
Shares of Netflix are soaring in after-hours trading after the company released an earnings announcement that crushed analysts' expectations. ¬† Netflix posted a profit of 13 cents earnings per share in the fourth-quarter. ¬†Analysts were looking for a net loss of 13 cents. The stock was last up more than 24 percent in the after-hours session.¬† This is also a big win for billionaire investor¬†Carl Icahn.¬† On November 19, 2012, Icahn Associates disclosed that owned 4,291,066 shares, or a 9.98 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. "Carl Icahn became a 10 percent investor last quarter at approximately $58 per share. ¬†We have no further news about his intentions, but have had constructive conversations with him about building a more valuable company," Netflix said in its 8K filing with the SEC.¬†
Apple's numbers are out! And they don't look good. As you can see below, Apple missed the expectations of buy-side investors, pretty much across the board. The thing that should make investors super worried is that iPhone sales were 47.8 million for the quarter. The buy-side was looking for 50 million units. The stock is off in after-hour trading by 10%. We are updating this post as we go, so click here for the latest. Here's how Apple did versus what buy-side investors were looking for (via Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster): In the press release announcing the earnings, CEO Tim Cook said, "We're thrilled with record revenue of over $54 billion and sales of over 75 million iOS devices in a single quarter," adding, "We're very confident in our product pipeline as we continue to focus on innovation and making the best products in the world." OTHER KEY NUMBERS: HERE ARE KEY DETAILS FROM THE EARNINGS REPORT AND THE EARNINGS CALL IN MORE DEPTH Tim Cook dodges question about Apple's TV plans with canned response, says sold 2 million Apple TV boxes last quarter &gt; Apple will change guidance moving forward, says CFO &gt; Tim Cook attempts to debunk rumor that iPhone supply orders have been cut &gt; Tim Cook's explanation for why Apple won't make an iPhone with a bigger screen &gt; Apple discloses China revenues for the first time &gt; HERE ARE OUR LIVE NOTES FROM THE EARNINGS CALL Over 80,000 strong. Part of my job is to preserve our culture. As a reminder, this quarter was 13 weeks, last quarter was 14 weeks. Strong y/y growth, iPhone, iPad, and iTunes sales. Net income $13.1 billion, just ahead of last year's 14 week quarter. Second, moving certain tooling costs. Recast op income for 2011 and 2012 for these changes and have info on Apple.com. Third, realigned presentation of product information to show revenue from product information. Exclusive of service and accessories. And revenue from accessories as a single line item. On Q/Q basis up 78%, more than IDC's projection. Strong iPhone growth in each geographic segment. Up 2X in China. iPhone 5 sales drove growth. 4-6 weeks of iPhone channel. iPhone and iOS an exceptional experience people love.  In businesses, across the board deploying iPhone. Customers love 4th gen iPad. iPad Mini a tremendous hit. In addition to the tremendous response, hit in the enterprise. Barclays roll out of 8,000 iPads was most successful in Barclays IT history. Outside US, 10,000 government workflow in Sweden, 10,000 in Netherlands. 3.4 million iPads in channel inventory, below target of 4-6 weeks of inventory. We intro'd new iMacs and retina macbooks. We were constrained on iMac. We believe Mac would have been higher without constraints.   Avg reveue per store was $16.3 million. Hosted 120 million visitors versus 110 million a year ago. 7% increase y/y. Katy: Why not buy more stock? Peter: This is something continuously assess. We are pleased. Expect to return $45 billion over three years. Shope: Deterioration at end of the quarter? Tim: If you look at iPhone sales across the quarter, constrained. iPhone 4 in constraint for entire quarter and sales remained strong. Peter: For iPhone, as we told you last year, 2.6 million in March quarter, so underlying sell thru 32.5 million, expect sell thru growth. Tim: One more point, I know there's been lots of rumors about order cuts. Let me take moment to comment, but not on any rumor. I would suggest it's good to question accuracy of any rumor about build plans. Even if any data point were accurate impossible to extrapolate for our business. Yields can vary, we have different suppliers, a long list that make any single data point not a great proxy for what's going on.  Toni: Comparing words... you will report in range, in past you beat EPS by 35%. Was there a buffer in there? Ptere: In the past a single point estimate, it was conservative, as reasonable confidence as you could have. Range of guidance we expect to report within as best we can.  I would point out 2 other things. 1. Market for PCs is weak. IDC around -6%. 2. We sold 23 million iPads. And we could have sold more than this because we could not build enough iPad Minis to come in to a demand balance. Some cannibalization there. Difference in 7 days, channel inventory, and late iMac more than explains the difference. If you look at portables alone. Notification, 4 trillion notifications. As Peter mentioned, 450 billion messages. 200 million Game Center, 800,000 apps. There's more we can do and you can bet we're thinking of all of it. Regarding mix, as example, iPad Mini GM sig below corp avg. Expect to meet demand in March. Tim: iPhone mix, 1. ASP for iPhone was essentially the same. Underneath that, mix of iPhone 5 to total iPhone v. iPhone 4S to total iPhone, those mixes are similar. In Q1 saw similar results on capacities.  Shipped iPad late in the quarter. Expanding in retail. Increased point of sales from 7k to 17k. Making great progress. Peter: I'll add to that, for total iPad, we would expect large y/y increase, but a post holiday sequential decline which is typical. Tim: Worth pointing out, from last quarter strong sales of iPad and iPad mini.  In terms of cannibalization, huge oppty for us. Never fear cannibalization, if we do, someone else will cannibalize. If someone buys iPad mini and it's first product, we know people buy other apple product. The halo effect. We're confident that will happen and we're seeing evidence of that on iPad.  iPhone 5 is fastest roll out. Made good strategic decision to introduce the iPad Mini and keep iPad 2 in the line. Reduction of ASP by $101 y/y, iPad unit grew faster than revenue. Expect ASP down on y/y basis. Finally, PC market grew in March quarter last year, will shrink this year. Underlying performance of company stronger than 5% growth implies.
Flickr via carfStocks continued to head higher. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,779, +67.1, +0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,494, +2.2, +0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,153, +10.4, +0.3 percent And now the top stories:
Deutsche Bank commodity analysts Daniel Brebner and Xiao Fu recently weighed in on the German Bundesbank's decision to repatriate part of its gold holdings from New York and Paris back to Germany. The decision has caused quite a stir ‚Äì some took it as a sign that the Bundesbank no longer trusts the authorities at the Federal Reserve and the Banque de France with its German gold. However, Brebner and Xiao say that many central banks have been rebalancing their gold holdings, and the Bundesbank just "happens to be a high profile example." In fact, the Deutsche Bank analysts say the reason the Bundesbank is going to complete the repatriation process over seven years ‚Äì as opposed to taking more immediate action ‚Äì is to battle those very perceptions of waning trust. Brebner and Xiao write: Given the highly ‚Äòcharged‚Äô or politicised nature of the gold market as it pertains to central bank actions, particularly in the Western World, central bankers are generally highly sensitive to public perception and to perceptions of trust. In our view the Bundesbank is responding in large part to the Court of Auditors, who themselves have no doubt observed the increase in value of German gold reserves and may wish to raise the standard by which gold is treated on their books. Furthermore, we believe that the slow transfer of gold from the US Fed in NY back to Frankfurt, at 50t/year, is partly a reflection of its wish to avoid any perception of a change in confidence in the US Fed. A secondary factor could perhaps be the reluctance to put undue strain on the gold refining sector. Moreover, the Deutsche Bank analysts say the timing makes perfect sense: For various historical/liquidity reasons many central banks have in the past held their gold reserves in multiple jurisdictions. These reasons are, in many cases, no longer valid. This and the increased value of gold holdings combined with heightened budgetary pressures that many governments are now facing is, not surprisingly, resulting in a greater call to track assets more closely. On this basis, we believe the timing of the high profile German repatriation process is not altogether unexpected. However, there is one issue, according to Brebner and Xiao ‚Äì the gold may be there, but the quality of the gold may not be that great: Not only will incoming bars be stored domestically however: these bars will, if necessary, also be upgraded to London Good Delivery (LGD) standards, thereby ensuring compliance with the request of the Court to ‚Äòspot check‚Äô their quality. We believe much of the gold held in NY is old, known as ‚ÄòFed Melts‚Äô or ‚ÄòDeep Storage‚Äô bars and may not be acceptable as is for transaction without additional processing. The biggest impact the Bundesbank's actions have, though, according to Brebner and Xiao, is that they lend further credibility to the shiny yellow metal. The analysts conclude, "we view the repatriation and upgrade of old gold by the Western World‚Äôs central banks as a further positive in gold‚Äôs evolution as a legitimate form of money." SEE ALSO: GOLDMAN SACHS: BUY GOLD &gt;
In December, Fitch warned that Wealth Management Products (WMPs) were creating growing risks in the Chinese banking sector. Chinese investors took to the streets to protest that month when the WMPs they bought from Huaxia Bank didn't pay out the 11 percent returns that were promised. WMPs issued by banks have grown extremely popular in China over the last few years.¬†There were reportedly over 13 trillion yuan (or around $2.1 trillion) of WMPs outstanding at the end of 2012, a 50 percent year-over-year increase, according to Fitch.First let's understand what a WMP is. This chart from GMO analysts Edward Chancellor and Mike Monnelly shows the make-up of a wealth management product pool and how it operates. WMPs essentially are securities that yield on average 2 percentage points higher than bank deposits, though banks are free to set interest rates. They are sold as low-risk investments, and the analysts explain that since WMPs advertise "expected" instead of "guaranteed or promised returns" they can hold both assets funded by investors or liabilities raised from them off the balance sheet. GMO ¬† What's got everyone hot and bothered? Chancellor and Monnelly¬†explain: "WMPs share some of the characteristics of both the Structured Investment Vehicles (SIVs) and Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs), which were used by U.S. banks before 2008 to keep loans off balance sheet. Central to the structure is the pooling of investor funds. Money raised from the sale of several different WMPs is aggregated into a general pool. The general pool then funds a variety of assets, investing across the risk spectrum. Some money goes into trust products and LGFV bonds described earlier in this paper, and some is invested in less risky interbank loans." Moreover, those that sell them often can't explain how the money is used. Specifically, they don't disclose that these "higher yields are obtained by putting much of the money to work in shadow finance," according to FT's Simon Rabinovich. Often it has been used to fuel China's property sector, where Chinese regulators have tried to curb lending because of their soaring debt burden and often their inability to pay it off. And then there are other problems. First there is a "duration mismatch," according to Chancellor and Monnelly, since WMPs have shorter maturities than the longer-dated assets they are invested in. Additionally, investors are required to sign a confirmation that they will "bear the financial shortfall if assets funded by the pool fail to generate the expected returns." Arguably, if they are sold as low-risk investments, more buyers will be willing to take the risk. "Buyers appear ignorant of the risks. Most likely, they assume that the issuing banks will backstop them should the funded assets fail to pay. After all, banks have their reputations to consider," according to Chancellor and Monnelly. And after the Huaxia incident there is a real concern of a run on WMPs. The bigger picture One obvious question has been, why is Beijing letting this continue? UBS economist Wang Tao told the FT that regulators face quite the conundrum. On the one hand through heavy regulation they have tried to keep banks safe, but they also need to fuel economic growth, and Chinese growth is fairly credit-driven. For this reason, they have let certain types of shadow banking continue to run.¬† Xiao Gang, chairman of the Bank of China has said, "China's shadow banking is contributing to a growing liquidity risk in the financial markets ... [I]n some cases short-term financing has been invested in long-term projects, and in such situations there is a possibility of a liquidity crisis being triggered if the markets were to be abruptly squeezed." But wealth management products, that need to be validated by rising asset prices and are often just issued to cover older WMPs, have been dubbed "ponzi finance." They are one of the key indicators of the "acute financial fragility" in China's credit system.  The rise of WMPs shows that financial fragility is on the rise in China, and Beijing appears to be on the verge of losing control of its credit system. What's more WMPs, Chancellor and Monnelly remind us, provide "a lifeline for the most marginal of borrowers" and could leave them reeling from a liquidity crunch. SEE ALSO: 8 Surprising Things That Wealthy Chinese Invest In &gt;
APThe "No Budget, No Pay" bill that passed the House of Representatives†Wednesday is designed to stop all pay to members of Congress until they pass a budget.† However, the title of the legislation is somewhat misleading. Members of†Congress will get paid†ó members earn $174,000 per year, or $348,000 per term ó†regardless of whether they pass a budget, they just might not get their paychecks right away.†† According to the bill, if by April 15 Congress hasn't agreed to a concurrent resolution on the 2014 budget, the payroll administrator of the House will deposit all paychecks into an escrow account.†When†the members get that money will be determined by their success in negotiating a budget. † The first thing that has to happen is that both the House and the Senate need to each pass a budget. This is easy for the House, which has already passed the Paul Ryan budget and is working on an updated version now. The onus, as intended, is on the Senate to produce their own budget. Next, select Senators and Representatives start negotiating, with the goal of reconciling the two plans into a mutually-agreed upon conference report, which must then be passed by both chambers.† This is called a concurrent resolution, and sets the levels of appropriation bills for the budgetary year. It's not a law for the President to sign, just a negotiated, binding agreement over what appropriations bills will eventually be sent to the President. If the House agrees on the concurrent resolution, Congress gets paid. At that point, every member of Congress gets the lump sum payment of all their paychecks that will have been put into escrow since April 15. US HouseThe relevant text If the House doesn't agree to the concurrent resolution at any point in the 113th Congress, then it members will not get paid until the last day of Congress, in late 2014 or early 2015. At that point, each member will get all $348,000 in a lump sum.† No matter what, Congress still gets paid.† One other provision in the law is also interesting. According to subsection (b) of section 2 of the bill, nonvoting delegates and resident commissioners will be subject to the same rules. So despite the fact that the delegates can't actually vote on a budget, they still will not be paid.† This impacts Resident Commissioner Pedro Pierluisi of Puerto Rico, Del. Eni Faleomavaega of American Samoa, Del. Elanor Holmes Norton of D.C., Del. Madeleine Bordallo of Guam Del. Donna Christian-Christensen of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Del. Gregorio Sablan of the Northern Mariana Islands.
The GuardianLast Friday morning, there had been bacon rolls, an enormous pile of them ñ Nigel Farage's press officer gestured with his hand to show just how enormous ñ ready for the journalists who would assemble to watch the Ukip leader watch David Cameron's long-trailed speech on Europe. The prime minister, preoccupied with the hostage crisis in Algeria, was forced to postpone the speech, but not in time for Ukip to cancel breakfast at the European parliament's HQ in London, where Farage has an office. "It was awful," said the aide. "I had to hand them out around the commission building." After months of postponements and procrastinations from No 10 on the timing of the speech, Farage's office weren't about to be burned again. And so there was no hospitable snack for the reporters and camera crews who gathered before daybreak on Wednesday, poised to capture every sceptical twitch of the Ukip leader's eyebrow as he followed the prime minister's speech on TV. Not that any enticements were needed. Into a small office at the Smith Square HQ ñ fittingly, the former offices of the Conservative party ñ were crammed, among others, two British TV news crews, two from Denmark, one from Norway and one from France. Dutch TV had pulled out only at the last minute. Was Farage such big news in mainland Europe? "Well, he's the story of the day, isn't he?" said the woman from Danish TV. "Where else would you want to be today?" They do like their political drama in Denmark. †  Farage has been an MEP since 1999, but a certain ambivalence over his position, given his enthusiastic advocacy of Britain's withdrawal, remains. "Piss off! Piss right off!" bellowed the press aide when reporters found a small EU flag in the room and proposed setting it next to Farage's seat. The flag was speedily removed from the room. It was, by any measure, quite a day for Farage, who blustered into the room a few minutes before 8am, straight into a wall of Scandinavian cameras. He told reporters about when he was first elected and was told that Ukip was "some sort of mad, weird little fringe. And here we are today with the prime minister, disingenuously perhaps, but at least discussing the exit door! I think that's a tremendous achievement for us." Well, yes: either that or Ukip was suddenly irrelevant as its core promise ñ that it was the only party offering British people the opportunity to seize back powers from Brussels ñ was obsolete. Nonsense, Farage said: now absolutely everybody else ñ the three main parties, "all the grandees, with their knighthoods" ñ were pro-Europe. Ukip was the only party still arguing for immediate withdrawal, on any terms. "Here we go!" he boomed, pulling up a chair, in front of a pile of radio mics. "Gosh, it's going to be very tough not to swear, isn't it?" Whatever his other talents, if you must spend 45 minutes watching a politician watch another politician read from a text that is already widely known, Farage is probably the politician you would want to be watching. The 48-year-old is blessed with a faintly camp exuberance which he was happy to deploy to its full while Cameron delivered his arguments. The prime minister recalled how peace came about in Europe after the second world war "because of determined work over generations". "Ah! So nothing to do with Nato then, Dave! Hah!" Britain had the character of an island nation, said Cameron, forthright in defence of our sovereignty. "No we're not! No we're not!" Then, to the cameras: "This is the standup bit!" "We should plan for the future ... once the difficulties in the eurozone have been overcome," said the prime minister. "Hah! Well you've got a long wait, to be honest!" There were chesty smoker's giggles, pantomimic eye rolls and, occasionally, a slow, sorrowful shake of the head, such as when Cameron advocated a "leaner, less bureaucratic union". Cameron mentioned Switzerland. "We wouldn't want to be like the Swiss, would we? That would be awful! We'd be rich! "Well, there we are," Farage said as Cameron drew to a close, bouncing to his feet. His verdict? What would it mean for other member states that weren't in the eurozone, say, to pluck one at random, Denmark? Well, the main reason Europe was unlikely to give back powers to Britain was that most of the 10 others in the same position would want them back, too, said Farage. "I really do not believe that the central tenets of the EU are up for grabs." With that he was off, for an interview with BBC news, followed by Sky News, BBC Radio Suffolk, German TV, Euronews, Channel 5, BBC Radio 4's The World at One and al-Jazeera, all before lunch. Cameron may have gambled that by claiming back the Eurosceptic ground he can consign Ukip to irrelevance, but, for one day at least, Farage was quite happy to be at the centre of Europe.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Argentina is in trouble. The IMF is deciding whether or not to punish the country for allegedly manipulating inflation statistics, and hedge fund managers in New York City are suing the country for over a $1 billion in unpaid sovereign debt. The latter issue has gotten so bad that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner has leased a jet to go on a world tour because her regime fears that the state jet could be impounded by angry creditors. They did, after all, manage to impound an Argentine naval vessel last year. So in all this chaos, how does the country roll along? Argentina's former Central Bank Chief, Martin Redrado explained it quite simply to the FT last November: ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a very simple answer,‚Äù says Mart√≠n Redrado, a former central bank chief. ‚ÄúIt depends on the [soya] crop. Given that international prices are strong and will continue to be‚Äâ.‚Äâ.‚Äâ.‚Äâyou can muddle along. But with low growth and high inflation.‚Äù Now it looks that Argentina could lose even that. Weather conditions are working against the country's cash crop. This summer it took a big hit due to a lack of rain, this fall it suffered from too much. This intense rain (and in some cases flooding) has lead to delays in planting. Here's what Morgan Stanley had to say about it: The highest Oct-Nov rainfall totals in over 30 years across Argentina‚Äôs corn and soybean regions have led to widespread flooding, preventing farmers from planting their crops in a timely fashion. The Buenos Aires Grain Exchange reports that by the first week of Dec (comparable to early June in the US), only... 54% of the nation‚Äôs soy crop was planted, down from...65%... last year. Even today, farmers are scrambling to plant the last... 4% of the soybean crop ‚Äî the equivalent of planting in mid-July in the US. Adding insult to injury, January weather across much of western Argentina ‚Äî which accounts for roughly 33% of the country‚Äôs corn and soybean production ‚Äî has turned drier than normal, with soil moisture levels in the region now below 20% of capacity and little rain in the forecast through the next week... Our local contacts have also expressed concern that the wet start to the season discouraged adequate root depth, leaving crops more vulnerable than usual to dry weather today. Morgan Stanley says that the soy crop could still be saved. Soy beans are planted later in the season, so if this dry weather ends the tide could turn. If it doesn't though, things will take a dramatic turn for the worse, hitting the soy crop at just the wrong time. ¬†
Michael's, the Midtown power lunch mecca that's known for attracting the media elite, is overhauling its menu in hopes of attracting a fresher, younger crowd. The 24-year-old restaurant on 55th Street and 5th Avenue unveiled new breakfast, lunch, and dinner menus today. Beloved classics like the Cobb salad and Michael's burger remain, but with smaller portions at lower price points ($25 instead of $36 for the salad, $18 instead of $35 for the burger). The biggest difference is a new selection of small plates, like duck confit sliders, Korean steak tacos, and "Double-Cut John Boy's Bacon" with a maple bourbon glaze. The restaurant also installed a brick oven and will begin serving pizzas. Longtime owner Michael McCarty was inspired to shake things up after observing the way his children, both in their 20s, dine out. ‚ÄúPeople would rather go and have six bites of six different things than six bites of one thing,‚Äù he told The New York Times' Jeff Gordinier. ‚ÄúAnd that is something that I started really analyzing two years ago. The paradigm shift has occurred, and this is the way that people want to do it.‚Äù Given the high prices and old-school reputation, we're not sure a few tweaks to the menu will be enough to deliver Michael's to a new generation of food snobs. But the health-conscious portions and (relatively) lower prices should be a welcome change, especially for the regulars.
West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures are taking a dive. The selling really started accelerating around 1 PM ET this afternoon. Right now, futures are down 1.6 percent on the session on relatively heavy volume (click to enlarge): Thinkorswim Some are attributing the drop in oil to the IMF's global growth forecasts, which were revised downward today. However, that report was released at 10 AM ET, so it's unclear whether it's directly responsible for the move. At 4:30 PM, the American Petroleum Institute will release crude oil inventory data for the week ended January 18, so it could have to do with speculation surrounding that release as well.
Even as the labor market expanded in 2012, union membership fell again, both in the private and public sectors, according to data released this morning by the BLS. ‚ÄìAmong all workers, 11.3%, or 14.4 million were union members in 2012, compared to 11.8% (14.8 million) in 2011. ‚ÄìThe share of union members in the public sector remains much higher than that of the private sector: in 2012, private sector unionization was 6.6%; the public sector rate was 35.9%. ‚ÄìComparing last year‚Äôs median weekly earnings for full-time workers reveals a 27% union premium‚Äîthis has remained relatively constant over the last decade.¬† (The measure, however, is unadjusted for worker characteristics, as discussed below.) The first figure shows the long, sad, decline in unionization in America, at least outside of the public sector.¬† Some of this is a result of industry employment shifts from more heavily unionized sectors, like manufacturing, but that‚Äôs not the whole story.¬† As you can see, manufacturing itself is increasingly less unionized.¬† In fact, it‚Äôs seen a larger than average decline since the early 1970s. Public sector unions are of course fighting existential battles with hostile governors and legislatures, and their share also took a hit last year, falling from 37% in 2011 to just below 36% last year.¬† On the other hand, as the figure shows, their share has wiggled around the past few years while avoiding the declining trend we see in the first figure. The final figure plots the earnings premium as noted above, but economists prefer‚Äîfor good reason‚Äîto control for other factors, including education and age in estimating the union wage advantage.¬† Statistical analysis by the Economic Policy Institute (see table 4.33 here) shows these union wage premia:Total 13.6%Men 17.3%Women 9.1%White 10.9%Black 17.3%Hispanic 23.1%EPI also shows a dimension of the union premium that is increasingly important: health, retirement, and paid leave.¬† Union workers are far more likely to get such benefits than comparable non-union workers (see EPI‚Äôs tables 4.34, 4.35). There‚Äôs no question that deunionization is related to the decline in job quality and increase in inequality faced by many in today‚Äôs workforce (ergo, my use of ‚Äúsad‚Äù above in describing the trend).¬† It is not the whole, or even half, of the full story, but then again, neither is any other single factor. But if you‚Äôre thinking about this like an economist, you may be thinking, a) we can‚Äôt support these union premiums in a competitive, global economy, and b) the declines in unionization I bemoan here must be associated with more job creation, right?¬† We‚Äôre squeezing out an inefficient market interference and thus moving down a demand curve, getting workers‚Äô wages more aligned with their efficient market wage and thus generating more jobs. I disagree.¬† There are many other advanced economies with far more union coverage that are extremely competitive‚Äîmore so than we are.¬† Germany is the classic example, though it should be noted that their unions have often been willing to restrain wage growth in the name of competitiveness.¬† Though let‚Äôs also be clear that their manufacturing workers are paid more than ours, so this is not a simple race-to-the-bottom story. In terms of wage inefficiencies, you don‚Äôt see systematic differences in job creation favoring, for example, countries or states with low versus high unionization rates.¬† You‚Äôd need a counterfactual to do it right, but deunionization in manufacturing hasn‚Äôt been associated with job growth in the sector, while careful research has revealed a significant role for our large manufacturing trade deficits in factory job losses.¬† In other words, demand matters more than unions for job creation.¬† Some highly non-union states, like Texas, have quite clearly exploited a low-road model (sliding down the demand curve), but highly unionized states like NY and CA have seen employment booms (and busts) over the years as well. The fact is that union density is much more a national policy decision than an act of nature.¬† Unions are an institution that an advanced economy can or cannot decide to foster or suppress.¬† More so than other advanced nations, we have taken the suppression route in recent decades.¬† And that‚Äôs one of the reasons why American working families, despite their relatively high productivity levels, benefit significantly less from the fruits of their labor. jared Bernstein, On The Economy ¬†Jared Bernstein, On The Economy ¬†Jared Bernstein, On The EconomySources: BLS and Unionstats.com (figs 1&amp;2 only); *1982 data are missing so I averaged adjacent years (1981&amp;983).
Great slide from Barclays showing the two reasons there will be a lot more M&amp;A volume. 1: M&amp;A volume picks up when volatility is low. Volatility has been collapsing. 2: Yields on assets are very high compared to funding costs (high-yield borrowing costs). That also makes M&amp;A more compelling. Barclays
Ari Helminen / FlickrEarlier today, the Department of the Treasury announced sanctions against the members of three international crime syndicates in an effort to crack down on organized crime. President Obama had previously named the Camorra, Yakuza, and Brothers‚Äô Circle as TCOs, or transnational criminal organizations, in July 2011, and instructed the Treasury to follow up with sanctions. The release is that it actually identifies and provides brief background information on eight gangsters from the Yakuza, Camorra, and Brothers‚Äô Circle, as well as an overview of each syndicate. The Treasury has frozen these gangsters‚Äô assets and prohibited any U.S. citizen from engaging in business with them. Read the full release from the Treasury Department below. The gangsters are listed at the bottom: Treasury Targets Leading Figures of Transnational Criminal Organizations  WASHINGTON ‚Äì The U.S. Department of the Treasury today took action against three transnational criminal organizations (TCO), the Camorra, the Yakuza, and the Brothers‚Äô Circle. Today‚Äôs designations include four members of the Camorra, one of Europe's largest criminal organizations; the Inagawa-kai, the third-largest clan within the Japanese Yakuza criminal network; and an individual providing support to a key member of the Brothers‚Äô Circle, a large multi-ethnic Eurasian criminal network. These designations were imposed under Treasury‚Äôs authority targeting transnational organized crime. President Obama identified the Camorra, the Yakuza, and the Brothers‚Äô Circle along with the Zetas, as significant TCOs in the Annex to Executive Order 13581 (Blocking Property of Transnational Criminal Organizations) on July 24, 2011, and charged the Treasury Department with pursuing additional sanctions against its members and supporters to undermine and interdict their global criminal operations. Today‚Äôs action freezes any assets these persons may have within the jurisdiction of the United States and generally prohibits any transactions with them by U.S. persons. ‚ÄúThe individuals designated today are key members of criminal organizations who engage in serious crimes around the world,‚Äù said David S. Cohen, Treasury Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. ‚ÄúTreasury will continue to target additional members and supporters of these groups, as well as other significant TCOs, as we systematically expose their criminal operations and protect the U.S. financial system from their illicit activity. The Camorra The Camorra operates internationally and is involved in serious criminal activity, such as money laundering, extortion, alien smuggling, robbery, blackmail, kidnapping, political corruption, and counterfeiting. In 2012 Italian law enforcement conducted multiple operations to seize Camorra assets, including 800 million euro seized from the Casalesi clan in July. To date, Treasury has identified five individuals affiliated with the Camorra under E.O. 13581, including their most prominent leaders Michele Zagaria and Antonio Iovine. In August 2012 the Treasury Department designated Michele Zagaria, a leader of the Camorra Casalesi clan, who is serving a life sentence for conspiracy, murder, extortion, and robbery. The Camorra members designated today are all members of the immediate family of Michele Zagaria: his brothers Pasquale Zagaria, Carmine Zagaria, Antonio Zagaria, and his father Nicola Zagaria. Each of these four individuals is designated for acting for or on behalf of, or providing support to, Michele Zagaria and/or the Camorra. All the brothers have led the Caselasi clan at one point while other siblings were serving jail sentences. All are involved in the family‚Äôs criminal enterprises. This network has been involved in extortion, kidnapping, money laundering, and bribery. The Yakuza The Yakuza, reputedly the world‚Äôs largest criminal organization with over 70,000 members, is involved in serious criminal activities, including weapons trafficking, prostitution, human trafficking, drug trafficking, fraud, and money laundering. The Treasury Department designated the Yamaguchi-gumi and the Sumiyoshi-kai, in February and September 2012, respectively. The Inagawa-kai, designated today, is the third-largest of the Yakuza organizations, and the Department of the Treasury is targeting it today for acting for or on behalf of the Yakuza. The top three clans account for approximately 72.4 percent of the Yakuza membership. To date, Treasury has identified four individuals and two entities affiliated with the Yakuza under E.O. 13581, including their most prominent leaders Kenichi Shinoda and Shigeo Nishiguchi. Today‚Äôs action also imposes sanctions on Jiro Kiyota, the top Inagawa-kai leader, as well as the Inagawa-kai‚Äôs second-in-command, Kazuo Uchibori, for acting for or on behalf of the Inagawa-kai. As leaders of Inagawa-kai, Kiyota and Uchibori play key roles in directing the syndicate‚Äôs policies and settling disputes with other Yakuza syndicates. Under the leadership of Kiyota and Uchibori, the Inagawa-kai has become increasingly aligned with the Yamaguchi-gumi. The Brothers‚Äô Circle The Brothers‚Äô Circle is a multi-ethnic criminal group composed of leaders and senior members of several Eurasian criminal groups largely based in countries of the former Soviet Union but extending to Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America. To date, Treasury has identified 15 individuals affiliated with the Brothers‚Äô Circle and their associates under E.O. 13581, including their most prominent members Gafur Rakhimov and Zakhariy Kalashov. The Brothers‚Äô Circle serves as a coordinating body for several national level criminal networks, mediating disputes between the individual criminal networks and directing global criminal activity. On December 20, 2012, the Treasury Department designated Zakhariy Kalashov, a key member of the Brothers‚Äô Circle and a prominent Eurasian organized crime figure with extensive connections to criminal groups in Russia and countries throughout Eurasia. His criminal activities include money laundering, extortion, criminal protection, and drug trafficking. He is currently incarcerated, serving a nine year sentence for money laundering in Spain. Marina Kalashova, who has been designated today, is a key part of Zakhariy Kalashov‚Äôs network. Kalashov communicates with Kalashova to pass messages on his behalf to his organization. Identifying Information: Name: Zagaria, Carmine DOB: 27 May 1968 POB: San Cipriano D‚ÄôAversa, Italy Name: Zagaria, Antonio DOB: 29 June 1962 POB: San Cipriano D‚ÄôAversa, Italy Name: Zagaria, Pasquale DOB: 5 January 1960 POB: San Cipriano D‚ÄôAversa, Italy Name: Zagaria, Nicola DOB: 10 October 1927 POB: San Cipriano D‚ÄôAversa, Italy Entity: Inagawa-kai Address: 7-8-4 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† Name: Kiyota, Jiro  AKA: Sin, Byon-Gyu DOB: 1940¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† POB: Japan Name: Uchibori, Kazuo  AKA: Uchibori, Kazuya DOB: 1952¬†¬†¬† POB: Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan Name: Goldberg, Marina Samuilovna  AKA: Kalashov, Marina AKA: Kalashova, Marina Address: Burj Khalifa, Dubai, United Arab Emirates DOB: 15 September 1979 ID: Passport 514763020 (Russia) ¬†
On the surface of it, David Cameron's announcement that the UK would hold a referendum on EU membership in 2015 may come as a shock. However, if you take voter intention polling data from the last few years from YouGov (pdf), compare Cameron's Conservatives to their rivals to the left, Labour, and their Eurosceptic rivals, Nigel Farage's UKIP, it all begins to make a bit more sense. Data via YouGov If this really is Cameron's plan to win back UKIP voters and Conservative party defectors, however, it may be flawed: despite Farage and others making a big noise about the EU, most polls show that few British voters actually give a damn about Europe. Amazingly, that even applies even to UKIP voters. UK Polling Report writes that "UKIP support is not particularly connected with Europe, it is an anti-immigration vote and protest vote against some aspects of modern Britain, a general reactionary vote in support of taking Britain back to a status quo ante."
C-SPANThe House overwhelmingly voted in favor of a bill to suspend the debt ceiling through May 18. The bill won bipartisan support, and passed with a final vote of 285-144. The bill now heads to the Senate, where Democrats have indicated it will pass. The White House has also indicated that President Barack Obama would sign the bill. The legislation also attaches a provision aimed at forcing Senate Democrats to take up a budget for the first time in four years. If they do not, a "no budget, no pay" provision would withhold pay for members.¬† The GOP plan is something of a retreat from previous positions, as Republicans found themselves in a virtual no-win situation by attempting to use the debt ceiling as leverage to force spending cuts from President Barack Obama and other Democrats. During the 2011 debt-ceiling debate, Boehner established the rule in his namesake that said every dollar increase in the debt ceiling had to be accompanied by a corresponding amount of spending cuts. Take a look back through our live blog for various developments throughout the day. &ldquo;You know, the premise here is pretty simple.&nbsp; It says that there should be no long-term increase in the debt limit until there&rsquo;s a long-term plan to deal with the fiscal crisis that faces our country.&nbsp;&nbsp; Every hardworking taxpayer in America knows that they have to do a budget.&nbsp;&nbsp; Every hardworking taxpayer understands that you can&rsquo;t continue to spend money that you don&rsquo;t have.&nbsp; &ldquo;We are committed to continue to do a budget every year.&nbsp; And if you think about this, it&rsquo;s not just that we&rsquo;ve done a budget the last two years that addresses our fiscal crisis, even when the Democrats had control in the two years before that, you all did a budget. And yet for four years &ndash; nearly four years &ndash; the United States Senate has not done a budget.&nbsp; &ldquo;And so this bill before us is real simple.&nbsp; It says, &lsquo;Congress, if you don&rsquo;t do a budget you don&rsquo;t get paid.&rsquo;&nbsp; I have no doubt that we&rsquo;re going to do our work.&nbsp; We&rsquo;re committed to doing a budget and a ten-year plan to solve our budget crisis and to balance our budget.&nbsp; And frankly, I think it&rsquo;s time for the Senate, and the White House, to produce a budget that will balance over the next 10 years.&nbsp; &ldquo;You know, most Americans would look up and go, &lsquo;Wait a minute, why do they need 10 years to balance the budget?&rsquo; But we know with baby boomers retiring and the fact that it wasn&rsquo;t prepared for &ndash; it&rsquo;s going to take a little more time.&nbsp; But my goodness, we ought to be able to balance the budget in the next 10 years.&nbsp; &ldquo;Balancing the budget over the next 10 years means that we save the future for our kids and our grandkids.&nbsp; It also means that we strengthen programs like Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid that can&rsquo;t continue to exist in their current form without some kind of controls.&nbsp;&nbsp; It&rsquo;s time for Congress to get serious about this and this is the first step in an effort to bring real fiscal responsibility to Washington.&nbsp; It&rsquo;s real simple: no budget, no pay.&nbsp; I yield back.&rdquo; There were 199 Republicans who voted for it, but the 86 Democrats pushed the bill over the top.&nbsp; Here's Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's full statement on the House's passage: &ldquo;I am pleased that Speaker Boehner and his House colleagues have decided to change course, and pass a bill that defuses yet another fight over the debt ceiling. &ldquo;This bill surrenders the hostage Republicans have taken in the past by decoupling the full faith and credit of the United States from cuts to Social Security and Medicare, or anything else.&nbsp; In substance, this is a clean debt limit increase that will set the precedent for future debt ceiling extensions.&nbsp; By passing this bill, Republicans are joining Democrats to say we will not hold the full faith and credit of the United States hostage, and we will pay our bills. &ldquo;Over the last two years, the bipartisan Budget Control Act set spending levels in place of a Congressional Budget.&nbsp; As Senator Murray announced today, this year the Senate will return to regular order, and move a budget resolution through the Budget Committee and to the Senate floor. House Republicans had to add a gimmick or two to get their bill past the Tea Party. But to spare the middle class another knock-down, drag-out fight, the Senate will proceed to and seek to pass the House bill. We will seek an agreement with Republicans to bring the bill to the floor in the coming days. &ldquo;I want to give credit where credit is due, and thank Speaker Boehner for his leadership here in defusing another fight over the debt ceiling. The middle class has been telling us they do not want another crisis, and this bill gives them the security they deserve.&rdquo;
While fourth quarter 2012 earnings results will again garner attention this week, investors may also be looking overseas to gauge market direction, since this week holds the first meeting of the year for European finance ministers. It is worth remembering that each spring for the past three years, the S&amp;P 500 has started a slide of about 10% during the second quarter, led by events in Europe. However, this year may be different. In 2012, the European Union finally took two important steps to halt the financial aspect of its ongoing crisis. With these programs able to lend with few limits to banks and willing to buy bonds of any country that will accept the conditions, we do not expect market participants to fear a European financial crisis this spring and drive a 10% decline for U.S. stocks as they have in recent years. But Europe‚Äôs crisis is far from over, and market participants may drive stocks lower later this year. Europe has traded a financial crisis for an economic one. The ECB is able and willing to only fight one crisis. The price Europe has paid to avoid a financial crisis is in the form of recession and unemployment rising above 10%‚Äîincluding France at 10.7%, Italy at 11.1%, Ireland at 14.7%, Portugal at 16.3%, and Spain at 26.2%. The Eurozone is mired in a recession that the ECB has little ability to mitigate. Inflation is still over the 2% target. This is not just a shift in the crisis facing Europe‚Äôs southern countries. It has now started to infect the core. In 2012, the economies of northern Europe, such as Germany, France, and Finland, were less negatively affected with economic growth and lower levels of unemployment more similar to that of the United States than the countries of southern Europe, including Italy, Spain, and Portugal. However, in 2013, the two largest economies of the Eurozone, Germany and France, will face low growth or even stagnation and rising unemployment. Jeff Kleintop The slowdown in northern Europe can make conditions in southern Europe worse by returning some risk of financial crisis. The economic slowdown‚Ä®in northern Europe may make these countries more reluctant to approve the release of aid packages to the southern countries. This is noteworthy, since if the Italian elections in February 2013 fail to produce a government that achieves political stability and applies economic reforms, the increased market pressure on Italy will likely require financial aid. Germany, the de facto decision maker as a result of making up the lion‚Äôs share of any‚Ä®aid package, may already be averse to approve any more unpopular aid packages ahead of the German elections coming this fall. With the elections slowing the decision-making process in Germany, no fundamental changes in policy will likely be made before the elections that may avert the growing economic crisis. In early 2012, the European fear gauge was the bond yield of southern European countries rising as the financial crisis worsened. But now that‚Ä®a financial crisis has been allayed, the decline in northern European bond yields is a sign of a worsening economic crisis. In a remarkable sign of how the European financial crisis has eased, Portugal‚Äôs 10-year bond yield fell from 16% last summer to 6% [Figure 2], and Italian bond yields fell from 7.5% to under 5%. But at the same time, Germany‚Äôs 10-year bond yield fell below 1.5% [Figure 3]. This is not a sign of crisis averted, but of a different one brewing. Economists‚Äô estimates for Germany‚Äôs gross domestic product (GDP) in 2013 are still coming down. Europe‚Äôs 2012 auto sales fell -8.2% from the prior year, the biggest drop in 19 years. The investment consequences are that the bond yields of southern European countries may once again begin to rise, fall elections highlight the challenges putting pressure on stocks, and recession continues and ensnares more of the core nations of Europe. We may again see a stock market slide related to Europe‚Äôs evolving crisis, but it may not be until the summer or fall that it appears this year rather than in the spring. After the powerful rise in European stocks since the financial crisis was averted last summer, investors may be increasingly better off focusing on U.S. and emerging market stocks as the year matures and the European economic crisis deepens.
													    						                    							    							by Jesse Eisinger ProPublica,  Jan. 23, 2013, 12 p.m. Ha ha. Those hilarious investment bankers. We are never going to have a full understanding of what bad behavior bankers conducted in the years leading up to the financial crisis. The Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission have failed to hold big wrongdoers to account. We are left with what scraps we can get from those private lawsuits lucky enough to get over the high hurdles for document discovery. A case brought in the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan against Morgan Stanley by a Taiwanese bank, which bought a piece of the same deal the Chinese bank did, has cleared that bar. The results are explosive. Hundreds of pages of internal Morgan Stanley documents, released publicly last week, shed much new light on what bankers knew at the height of the housing bubble and what they did with that secret knowledge. The lawsuit concerns a $500 million collateralized debt obligation called Stack 2006-1, created in the first half of 2006. Collections of mortgage-backed securities, C.D.O.'s were at the heart of the financial crisis. But the documents suggest a pattern of behavior larger than this one deal: People across the bank understood that the American housing market was in trouble. They took advantage of that knowledge to create and then bet against securities and then also to unload garbage investments on unsuspecting buyers. Morgan Stanley doesn't see the narrative as the plaintiffs do. The firm is fighting the lawsuit, contending that the buyers were sophisticated clients and could have known what was going on in the subprime market. The C.D.O. documents disclosed, albeit obliquely, that Morgan Stanley might bet against the securities, a strategy known as shorting. The firm did not pick the assets going into the deal (though it was able to veto any assets). And any shorting of the deal was part of a larger array of trades, both long and short. Indeed, Morgan Stanley owned a big piece of Stack, in addition to its short bet. Regarding the profane naming contest, Morgan Stanley said in a statement: "While the e-mail in question contains inappropriate language and reflects a poor attempt at humor, the Morgan Stanley employee who wrote it was responsible for documenting transactions. It was not his job or within his skillset to assess the state of the market or the credit quality of the transaction being discussed." Philip Blumberg, the Morgan Stanley lawyer who composed most of the names, meet the underside of a bus, courtesy of your employer. Another Morgan Stanley employee sent an email that same morning, suggesting that the deal be called "Hitman." This might have been an attempt to manage up, because "Hitman" was the nickname of his boss, Jonathan Horowitz, who helped head the part of the group that oversaw mortgage-backed C.D.O.'s. Mr. Horowitz replied, "I like it." Both Mr. Blumberg and Mr. Horowitz, now at JPMorgan, declined to comment through spokespeople at their banks. In February 2006, Morgan Stanley began putting together the Stack C.D.O. According to an internal presentation, Stack "represents attractive business for Morgan Stanley." Why? In addition to fees, another bullet point listed: "Ability to short up to $325MM of credits into the C.D.O." In other words, Morgan Stanley could &mdash; and did &mdash; sell assets to the Stack C.D.O., intending to profit if the securities backed by those assets declined. The bank put on a $170 million bet against Stack, even as it was selling it. In the end, of the $500 million of assets backing the deal, $415 million ended up worthless. "While investors and taxpayers all over the world continue to choke on Wall Street's toxic subprime products, to this day not a single major Wall Street executive has been held accountable for misconduct relating to those products," said Jason C. Davis, a lawyer at Robbins Geller who is representing the plaintiff in the lawsuit. "They are generally untouchable, but we are pleased that the court in this case is ordering Morgan Stanley to turn over damning evidence, so that the jury will get to see what Morgan Stanley really knew about the troubled nature of its supposedly 'higher-than-AAA' quality product." Why might Morgan Stanley have bet against the deal? Did its traders develop a brilliant thesis by assessing the fundamentals of the housing market through careful analysis of the public data? The documents suggest something more troubling: Bankers found out that the housing market was diseased from their colleagues down the hall. Bankers were getting information from fellow employees conducting and receiving private assessments of the quality of the mortgages that the bank would purchase to back securities. These reports weren't available to the public. It would be crucial information for trading in securities backed by those kinds of mortgages. In one email from Oct. 21, 2005, a Morgan Stanley employee warns a banker that the mortgages Morgan Stanley is buying from loan originators are troubled. "The real issue is that the loan requests do not make sense," he writes. As an example, he cites "a borrower that makes $12K a month as an operation manger (sic) of an unknown company &mdash; after research on my part I reveal it is a tarot reading house. Compound these issues with the fact that we are seeing what I would call a lot of this type of profile." In another email from March 17, 2006, another Morgan Stanley employee writes about a "deteriorating appraisal quality that is very flagrant." Two of the employees who received those emails joined an internal hedge fund, headed by Howard Hubler, that was formed only the following month, in April 2006. As recounted in Michael Lewis's "The Big Short," Mr. Hubler infamously bet against the subprime market on Morgan Stanley's behalf, a fact that Morgan Stanley's chief financial officer conceded in late 2007. Mr. Hubler's group was supposed to be separate from the rest of Morgan Stanley, but the two bankers continued to receive similar information about the underlying market, according to a person briefed on the matter. At no point did they receive material, nonpublic information, a Morgan Stanley spokesman says. I struggle to see how the private assessments that the subprime market was imploding were immaterial. Another of Morgan Stanley's main defenses is that it couldn't have thought the investment it sold to the Taiwanese was terrible because it, too, lost money on securities backed by subprime mortgages. As the Morgan Stanley spokesman put it, "This deal must be viewed in the context of a significant write-down for Morgan Stanley in 2007, when the firm recorded huge losses in its public securities filings related to other subprime C.D.O. positions." This is a common refrain offered by big banks like Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns to absolve them of any responsibility. But does losing money wipe away sin? Yes, Mr. Hubler made his bets in what turned out to be a deeply disastrous way. As part of a complex array of trades, he bet against the middle slices of subprime mortgage C.D.O.'s. He bought the supposedly safe top parts. The income from the top slices helped offset the cost of betting against the middle slices. But when the market collapsed, the top slices &mdash; called "super senior" because they were supposedly safer than Triple A &mdash; didn't hold their value, losing billions for Mr. Hubler and Morgan Stanley. Mr. Hubler did not respond to requests for comment. So Morgan Stanley lost a great deal of money. But let's review what the documents suggest is the big picture. In the fall of 2005, bank employees share nonpublic assessments of how the subprime market is a house of tarot cards. In February 2006, the bank begins creating Stack in part so that it can bet against it. In April 2006, the bank creates its own internal hedge fund, led by Mr. Hubler, who shorts the subprime market. Among the traders in this internal shop are people who helped create Stack and other deals like it, and at least two employees who had access to the private due diligence reports. Mr. Hubler's group had no investment position in Stack, according to the person briefed on the matter, but it sure looks as if the bank saw what was coming and tried to position itself for a subprime market collapse. Finally, by early 2007, the bank appears to realize that the subprime market is cratering even worse that it expects. Even the supposedly safe pieces of C.D.O.'s that it owns, including its piece of Stack, are facing losses. So Morgan Stanley bankers set to scouring the world to peddle as a safe and sound investment what its own employees are internally deriding. Morgan Stanley declined to comment on whether it made money on its Stack investments over all. But it looks to have turned out well for the bank. In Stack, it managed to fob off a nuclear bomb to the Taiwanese bank. Unfortunately for Morgan Stanley, it had so many other pieces of C.D.O.'s, so many nuclear warheads, that it couldn't find nearly enough suckers around the world to buy them all. And so when the real collapse came, Morgan Stanley was left with billions of dollars worth of shitbags. That hardly seems exculpatory. I see it this way, as a college student going for my finance degree in the early/mid 90&#8217;s even I could see back then that median household income could not support median house prices, a fact that eventually had to lead to a downturn in real estate, thus safe and profitable RE investment opportunities were rare.&nbsp; The banksters were selling snake oil and betting the buyers would be made sick by it, but it was buyer greed that allowed them to overlook the obvious, add the fact that the government was repealing safeguards like the firewalls between banking and Wall Street investment houses which we already knew was a roadmap to disaster, and gutted regulatory authority and budgets, what is a jury to think, that either everybody involved was stupid or so greedy they all got what they deserved. Still justice will not be done till some of them at the top are in prison and stripped of the ill-gotten wealth, and the taxpayers are made whole, and not with the toilet paper repayment of toxic assets they mark to make believe and stuff the Fed with so the fed can make a book entry at Treasury which appears to show firms like AIG repaid the bailouts.&nbsp; Because then the Fed increases the money supply and we all pay yet again with an inflation tax.&nbsp;  We are slaves and we will never know freedom again as long as corporations are &#8220;people.&#8221; The only politically-significant citizens subject to prosecution or extralegal reprehension by the Obama Administration are Occupy Wall Street protestors and whistleblowers. They&#8217;re afraid to go too high&#8230; http://archives.hud.gov/remarks/martinez/speeches/presremarks.cfm Trashed the economy, trashed themselves. Sociopaths who care only about money and their own personal income. For a more realistic view, see John Carney&#8217;s commentary on this story. http://www.cnbc.com/id/100402056 Also, the Oil Bubble of 2006-8 may still be the greatest of all recent swindles and economic attacks on the world and the US, which its being dropped down the memory hole would certainly seem to indicate: http://jdkabc.blogspot.com/2011/08/imtob.html There does seem to have been some sort of gold scam recently based in the UK (as was the actual &#8220;trading&#8221; on which the Oil Bubble was based) which might even top the Oil Bubble&#8217;s take (I&#8217;m seeing figures over $10T for the former) if not destructiveness to the world economy&#8212;although if someone&#8217;s stealing, however they do it, someone else must be being stolen from. I guess that Alan Greenspan doesn&#8217;t fit the &#8220;anybody with half a brain&#8221; description&#8230;... They&#8217;re increasingly looking like caged animals, though, which I think is a good sign.&nbsp; Now that the Occupy people have been buying (and destroying) distressed mortgages and people (and companies) are defecting for cash over credit/loans, it could be that the big banks are nearing the end of their dominance. Jim, I&#8217;d say Markus is pretty close.&nbsp; I knew there was something wrong as soon as I heard someone say, &#8220;real estate prices never drop.&#8221;&nbsp; The shift from commodity to investment is only of the best signs of a bubble I&#8217;ve ever seen. Then, anybody in finance or politics would have known about then-DA Eliot Spitzer and his subprime investigation blocked by the OCC, for example: washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/02/13/AR2008021302783.html (Note the timing of the article, versus when Governor Spitzer was embroiled in the prostitution scandal that forced him to resign.) And a few months after that op-ed, even the non-experts were talking about this: thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/355/the-giant-pool-of-money Or, continue to financial appoint insiders and lobbyists to oversee the public interest&#8212;and turning a blind eye to their wrongdoing.&nbsp; On his current path, there is little doubt history will place him alongside Grant, Harding, Nixon and Bush.&nbsp;  Obama, what is YOUR answer?&nbsp;  It is well past time for an independent prosecutor to investigate financial fraud, public corruption and favoritism within the US government. The US Market used to be considered world class, systemic fraud couldn&#8217;t happen here because it was highly regulated. How long did it take them to hollow out the institutions of our society depended on, to destroy our economy and set off a global chain of evens which are causing the rise of fascism? 30-35 years? Keynes wrote a paper called the &#8220;Economic Consequences of the Peace&#8221; which was about the austerity program enforced on Germany after WW1 saddling them with all the blame and cost.&nbsp; Louis Brandeiss wrote &#8220;The Curse of Bigness&#8221; which described the danger of monopolies and trusts (Too Big to Fail) and how they kill competition and smother entrepreneurs and the real economy that does grow jobs.&nbsp; Much of what they wrote sounds like contemporary writers today but they  have no power so are ignored. Most of us might think this is the first time this has happened but it&#8217;s not even close. London created a worldwide property bubble in the mid 1800&#8217;s. They killed off the indians in Argentina for land, then went after the Argentinian Gov&#8217;t to recapitalize their banks when the bubble popped. Same crap, Different century.&nbsp; These Banker Monsters know what they are doing, they belong to the same ruling class and banking dynasties. After a few generations those who remember die off and a new generation of sheep are ignorant enough to walk on their own into the abattoir. Keynes also wrote _ A Short History of Financial Euphoria _ treating the leveraged bubbles that have been run time and again over the past several centuries (&#8220;Reinstate the Bubble Act!&#8221; &#8220;(Goak again.)&#8221;), but he&#8217;s far too focused there on those who fall for the things, and not nearly enough on those who run them, who can hardly be unaware of what they&#8217;re doing considering the history of such operations, and the &#8220;regulators&#8221; who benignly oversee them, ditto. Just think of a monopoly as that kid who was the worst bully you can remember from school&#8230;except in the school that we call Corporate America, that kid keeps getting bigger while nobody else - to include the teachers - do.&nbsp; Soon enough that kid becomes so big that the teachers - the authority figures - are afraid of him&#8230;and so whenever whim (of greed) strikes him he rampages through the schoolyard - America&#8217;s economy - wreaking havoc and destruction wherever he goes. That&#8217;s what America faces in the big banks (and Big Oil, and Big Insurance, and Big Medical, and Big Retail, and Big Telecommunications, and Big [______]).&nbsp;  For the last 40 years Big [____] has been buying members of Congress and Washington insiders (the latter simply cycle through Administration after Administration as members of &#8220;the Executive Branch&#8221;) so that they can get ever bigger&#8230;ever further beyond the reach of law. Now they think that they&#8217;re too big to discipline&#8230;consequently, they&#8217;ve become so mean that they&#8217;re going after democracy itself using weapons such as Citizens United.&nbsp; Their intent?&nbsp; No less than the rape of America herself.&nbsp; And perhaps they are too big to discipline, for their cumulative purchases of Congressmen and Washington insiders has enabled them to buy 44.4% of the Supreme Court, too. The Americans - the families - they destroy in their pursuit of wealth and power&#8230;in their pursuit of absolute domination&#8230;are simply too &#8220;little&#8221; to be relevant to them.&nbsp; That is what democracy was supposed to prevent&#8230;and that is why they&#8217;re going after democracy itself. Search, &#8220;4 Justice Radio&#8221; on YouTube Video Search, &#8220;Veterans Foreclosures&#8221; on Scribd, to read the complaintsummary. The case number is 13-11. If you have any questions call me at 608.622.7009 Thanks,Justice JournalistHosthttp://4justiceradio.com&#8220;Exposing Injustice&#8221; But, the law says different and if &#8220;We the People&#8221; don&#8217;t work to hold the officials accountable to the law, then you&#8217;re right, there is no difference. In practical application, the banks WORK for the government, so if they do something wrong or illegal regarding your government-insured loan, the government is responsible. So the government can&#8217;t settle with the banks&#8212;they have to settle with the person who was wronged (the homeowner). You won&#8217;t find that tid-bit, on the Internet. Wonder why? What&#8217;s happening is that there are so many &#8220;regular&#8221; people involved in this that they don&#8217;t want you asking any questions, telling the truth about what&#8217;s going on, or what happened to you regarding these scam foreclosures and loan modifications. They don&#8217;t want you to see what&#8217;s right in front of your face: a conspired land grab that&#8217;s being perpetrated by judges, attorneys and federal employees. In fact, even your friends and neighbors&#8212;even people posting comments on the blogs are working to DISCOURAGE people from digging deeper to find out what&#8217;s really going on. After all, some of them have invested in the trusts, where the government put many of the loans it insured. They want you to just get angry, or defeatist rather than, to do whatever YOU can to CORRECT the problem. What can you do that will work? Who knows what defining act, will correct things? So, I guess you just have to do what you can do.&nbsp; But, NAH! We want &#8220;Occupy&#8221; movements and OTHER people, to do something, not &#8220;me&#8221;. Yeah&#8212;&#8220;what&#8217;s the difference&#8221;&#8212;the difference is what you make it.Are you going to throw up your hands and say, &#8220;what&#8217;s the use?&#8221; or are you going to do what it takes to do what&#8217;s right? As a friend told me once, &#8220;Sheep attract wolves.&#8221; So, maybe if people are content on being sheep, they should just shut up and get eaten. Yeah, just help the wolf out and stop struggling, make it quick and easy on the wolf. Make it easy on your children, make it easy on your neighbors who are just as scared as you are. All of you just stop struggling: don&#8217;t educate yourselves on what&#8217;s happening. Just keep watching what&#8217;s happening all around you, until it&#8217;s YOUR turn. &#8220;It&#8217;s always the right time, to do what&#8217;s right.&#8221; Dr. Mr. Luther King, Jr. 1) Here&#8217;s the link to the complaint by the US Army Veteran who&#8217;s filed suit in the US Court of Federal Claims against the government, for Chase&#8217;s attempts to illegally foreclose on the Vet&#8217;s property without the Note: http://www.scribd.com/doc/121743611/VA-Veteran-v-United-States-Government-Veterans-Foreclosures-by-JP-Morgan-Chase 2) Here&#8217;s the YouTube Video, that gives a bit more info.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_TMuafYnQiY Ask yourself:&nbsp; ***Why are so many judges refusing to require Chase to produce Notes in bankruptcy and other cases involving a homeowner&#8217;s property when the law says otherwise? ***Why aren&#8217;t federally-insured loans included in the National Mortgage Settlement? http://nationalmortgagesettlement.com/faq &#8220;Loans owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are not impacted by this settlement.&#8221; Yes, the vet filed the complaint and who knows what will happen? The point is that someone has CLEARLY DOCUMENTED what&#8217;s OCCURRED&#8212;a template so to speak&#8212;of how this illegal foreclosure scam is playing out. Just HOW the scam is taking place and NAMING who is involved. If noting else, you owe it to yourself or someone you know who has faced or is facing foreclosure with a federally-insure loan, to read it. The complaint even implicates government agencies of working with Chase&#8212;from the Veteran&#8217;s Administration, to the  Office of Consumer Financial Protection&#8212;a government office&#8212;of with working for Chase, to steal mortgage payments and finally, Veterans&#8217; homes. But, if you&#8217;re just going to read it and say, &#8220;Pity&#8221;, maybe not. Thanks,&#8212;JJ These people are incorribible liars. There are many shades of Neolliberalism.&nbsp; I feel the most important thing overlooked by the &#8220;It&#8217;s all the greedy corporations fault&#8221; crowd is the the government is NOT there to protect you.&nbsp; It is part of the problem and activly participates.&nbsp; Elite businessman and Elite politicians are different sides of the same coin.&nbsp; It is a public-private partnership.&nbsp; Look up the &#8220;Keating 5&#8221; politicians from the S&amp;L crisis of the late 80&#8217;s.&nbsp; Same old story.&nbsp;  So what is the answer?&nbsp; The best motivator IS the free market.&nbsp; That means: 1) If you screw up, you take the loss and not the tax payer.&nbsp; 2) End the FED.&nbsp; It is a PRIVATE banking cartel, no matter what your econ prof told you.&nbsp; They both create money and lend money.&nbsp; Why should we pay a group of banks to do what the constitution already mandates the government do?&nbsp; Employees of the FED are NOT paid by the Federal goverment.&nbsp; They are paid by the banking cartel, unless they are currently taking a stint in the Treasury or other government agency&#8230; only to return to the bank at a later date.&nbsp; We do not have a free market, we have a market largely controlled (through the artificial setting of interest rates) by the FED.&nbsp; EVERY bubble in history has been fueled by cheap money, low interest rates.&nbsp; 3) LESS Governement: Hoodini, in a quest to contact his late mother, offered anyone a large sum of money if they could have the &#8220;spirits&#8221; untie them after Hoodini did the tying and placed them in a closet.&nbsp; No one collected.&nbsp; He tied them with a short piece of fishing string.&nbsp; Anyone can get loose from a hundred feet of rope. Regulation has to be simple and tight!&nbsp; Don&#8217;t fall for &#8220;We just need better government&#8221; - it will never happen.&nbsp; Especially since both parties get uber amount of campaign money from the financial sector. Interesting theory&#8230;let Wall Street, a bank, or any other con artist run whatever scam they want because &#8220;the free market&#8221; will ensure that they can only make a big haul and abscond with the loot - with other people&#8217;s futures - once. &#8220;So they can only abscond with the loot once&#8221;.&nbsp; Well, big business and government, despite any of the regulations, continually abscond with the loot!&nbsp; Bubble/bust repeat. So what is your answer?&nbsp; We just need more honest politicians with the best interest of the common folks in mind?&nbsp; Dream on.&nbsp; You can have all the regulation you want - it doesn&#8217;t do jack if the people running the scams know they get to KEEP the loot.&nbsp; Where are the indictments of the super wealthy behind Citi and Gloldman?&nbsp; Don&#8217;t hold your breathe.&nbsp; The people in government and at the FED are almost ALL x and future employees of these very institutions.&nbsp; Capitalism doesn&#8217;t work any better than cronyism when the laws are ignored.&nbsp; What does are current gov do for us?&nbsp; Launder money for drug cartels - no problem -&nbsp; just a little fine.&nbsp; Screw people out of there homes and jobs, don&#8217;t sweat it - the taxpayers will keep your yacht payments coming.&nbsp;  The institutions that you think are there to help are really the cause of most of our ills.&nbsp;  Again, what is your solution?&nbsp; I know.&nbsp; Just more regulations by our altruistic politicians. In the first half of the 1970s, the Republicans sold out to Big Oil - and aligned themselves with Big Oil and the Islamic OPEC nations against the American people and the United States of America.&nbsp; They did that by enforcing America&#8217;s addiction to oil through the blockade of all attempts to conserve energy, initiate mass transportation measures, or develop alternative energy. Flush with Big Oil&#8217;s money, they reinterpreted the staggering economic shocks caused by the equally staggering and wildly variable price of energy into &#8220;the rich weren&#8217;t getting richer fast enough&#8221;...and inflicted voodoo economics upon America - an economic theory that is essentially permitting the wealthy few to keep more of whatever they divert from the many to themselves will result in the many getting more. I.e., flatly self-contradictory. That incentivizing of greed in turn resulted in the Republicans - the tools of that wealthy few - teaming up with the neoliberals (dishonest Republicans, no more) inflicting deregulation and inequitable free trade upon America. I.e., the rules which had ensured that the wealth of the many was protected from the rapacious few were discarded and, worse, the few - incentivized by voodoo economics - were enabled to dispense with the &#8220;cost&#8221; of the American people in their role as &#8220;labor&#8221;. In short, the decay of America began when the rules which you so lightly dismiss were either discarded entirely or biased to enable the wealthy few to divert wealth away from the many. So yes, I do want &#8220;more regulation&#8221; - back to the level at which America was the land of mutual prosperity and &#8220;the American Dream&#8221; rather than a fiscal rape victim whose ability to defend herself and look to &#8220;the general Welfare&#8221; as demanded by our Constitution is compromised by the lack of morals, ethics, and patriotism of the Republicans/Tea Party/libertarians - the collective followers of Ayn Rand&#8217;s creed of self-gratification is paramount. The Republicans - the right in general - are examples of that sort of adolescence unrestrained.&nbsp; Even if you set aside the lies that they used to involve America in their wars, ask yourself:&nbsp; What kind of irresponsible behavior is running two wars off the books, absolutely unfunded??? The right claims that rules inhibit them, and they&#8217;re right:&nbsp; Rules force them to behave like adults whenever they have power as political or corporate leaders&#8230; When the right is allowed to operate without rules, they act like juveniles and you end up with the America of today:&nbsp; Indebted, stained with the dishonor of Guantanamo and torture, and forever known - for the rest of human history - as the nation that lied itself into invading the sovereign nation of Iraq. Nice, to have a historical legacy of providing the analogy for the implausible:&nbsp; &#8220;Sure, that&#8217;s as likely as the United States finding WMDs in Iraq.&#8221; Re:&nbsp; &#8220;the solution is free markets&#8221;&nbsp; in September 2008 we had a systemic crisis, even money market funds fell below par.&nbsp; If the Fed hadn&#8217;t intervened by buying illiquid debt and recapitalizing the system, we could have seen a repeat of something as bad as the Lombard banking crisis, which destroyed Europe&#8217;s economy. First all financial  markets are regulated.&nbsp;  The kind of public exchanges we have in the US, don&#8217;t exist in more lawless parts of the world. The problems with deregulated financial markets are threefold, first there is no limit on speculators and gambling  -we have seen 3 massive speculative collapses since 1980  S&amp;L, LTC and 2008 - second  the more risk a financial entity is willing to take on the larger it becomes relative to the market  which means they become to big too fail because they bring down the financial system;&nbsp; third financial entities gamble with other people&#8217;s money, so when they collapse depositors can be wiped out. I appreciate your free market hypothesis but without proper regulation financial markets will always created bubbles and the main players in them will always become too big to fail, hence regulation is desperately needed. The other problem with the notion of free markets is that certain economic assumptions about efficiency and stability are clearly false.&nbsp;  Joe Stiglitz got a nobel prize for proving that slight asymmetries in information in markets result in huge inefficiencies with the profits accruing to the well-informed. Also,&nbsp; economists assume honesty,&nbsp; they exclude rigged markets from their efficient market hypothesis.&nbsp; In the real world financiers are always fighting to rig or game markets.&nbsp;  Look at Enron for example, bankers went to jail for the fraud they committed.&nbsp; On a bigger scale, consider this about 3-5% of world GDP comes from the illicit drug trade  ALL OF THAT MONEY GETS LAUNDERED.&nbsp;  Banks actively participate in corruption.&nbsp; In fact, I was just chatting with a  banker friend who was commenting about how blatant the laundering was when she at a bank she worked for in Puerto Rico. I am not asking you to change your neo-liberal free market ideals, I am only asking you guys to get beyond the sophmoric idealizations and work to set up healthy markets with decent regulations.&nbsp; Just trusting that the idealized concepts of free market theory are always going to lead to a stable financial system with realistic pricing is foolish given the past 30 years of failed experiments (and we can go back much farther if we want). What he missed, of course, is the fact that those politicians are being corrupted by the practitioners of capitalism.&nbsp; And the amount of corruption grows with the liquidity of those few who are themselves corrupt and so willing to corrupt government; a feedback loop, thanks to voodoo economics, that spells the destruction of America. So he has a valid point whether he intended to make it or not:&nbsp; Until we stop Wall Street and big banking from buying politicians - until we reform campaign finance, eliminate that anti-democracy weapon that is Citizens United, and close &#8220;the revolving door&#8221; - we&#8217;re not going to see anything but the continued economic and strategic decay of America that is the result and consequence of the wealthy few working with politicians to prioritize the greed of that wealthy few over the needs of the American people and the United States of America. It doesn&#8217;t matter if the death of the United States of America is a consequence of the atomic bomb or the inability of America to defend herself conventionally thanks to the gutting she is taking at the hands of rapacious, ravening few:&nbsp; America will still be dead, and tens of millions of Americans will go with her. That is to be prevented. The appointments to powerful government positions that the Republicans make when they have the political power are drawn from a pool of such&#8230;which can make for entertaining reading: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/09/10/AR2008091001829.html That helps prevent the American people from digging a little deeper and coming to the conclusion that anybody can unintentionally create programs that can be corrupted, but it takes the truly corrupt to go ahead and exploit the opportunity. http://archives.hud.gov/remarks/martinez/speeches/presremarks.cfm First, I am not a Republican.&nbsp; I was a state coordinator for the Ron Paul campaign.&nbsp; That is a whole different matter.&nbsp; What is critical is that those persons, like you and Steve, and the others that have taken the time to read and comment on this article, learn to work together for a better system. The whole sophmoric mentality that the Dems are for the little guy and the Reps are for the big cats is silly.&nbsp; They are all out for themselves.&nbsp; Period.&nbsp; There may be a few Reps and Senators that really do have the average American in mind.&nbsp; But by and large it is all about winning. So when Steve touts the Dems he is just a Redskins fan blasting the Cowboys.&nbsp; Silly and not very productive.&nbsp; The simple truth:&nbsp; Both are for bigger governemnt - the Dems and Reps both support huge spending on the military.&nbsp; Ridiculous spending that could be put to much better use.&nbsp; Like as in  easily feed the whole world for several years for what they spend in a singal year.&nbsp; Then there is the social welfare spending.&nbsp; I am 100% for a safety net.&nbsp; Then again, as an inner city landlord, I see the despartate fight for all the druggies and drunks, and scammers to get on the &#8220;disability&#8217;&#8221; line.&nbsp; I do not need white suburbanites to enlighten me on the plight of the poor.&nbsp; They are my clientelle.&nbsp; But I am not a very good businessman.&nbsp; After a housing court judge heard how long I had let a family stay before finally evicting them she said &#8220;Are you a landord or a charity?&#8221;.&nbsp; I digress. Yes, it would have been very painfull to let Citi fail.&nbsp; But they should have been allowed to go bankrupt.&nbsp; The government certainly could have helped make it as smooth as possible.&nbsp; In any event, if the government was going to bail anyone out, it should have been the tax payers and low income home owners.  What if they would have given the bailout money to everyone on the tax rolls?&nbsp; The homeowners could pay down their mortage.&nbsp; The non-homeowners would have extra momey to spend.&nbsp; People would say &#8220;That&#8217;s crazy!&#8221;..&nbsp; Is it not more ridiculous to give the money to the very bankers that caused the collapse (with the help of their friendly one-time and soon to be again employees currently working at the FED)?&nbsp; Instead, we bail the banks.&nbsp; They pump up their bonuses and forclose on millions of home owners.&nbsp; The homes sit empty!!!!&nbsp; The cities have to tear them down because the banks won&#8217;t maintain them OR pay city property tax.&nbsp; Now that is idiocy.&nbsp;  If you feel like an interesting read, and it&#8217;s free on the net, try http://bastiat.org/en/the_law.html&nbsp;  . The point is that we need to all work together to examine the real systemic problems with our government and our economics.&nbsp; Let&#8217;s leave the &#8220;your team sucks&#8221; stuff to those who spend all there time reading the sports pages. I may be completely wrong.&nbsp; But my opinion is that you will never get money out of politics, so the next best thing is to make governemt smaller so that it has less say over our lives.&nbsp; So it is not the governemnt that picks the winners and the losers.&nbsp; But again, I cannot explain this in a few short paragraphs and surely not as well as others who have written on the subject. Finally.&nbsp; If you believe government is the answer, just what shoudl it do?&nbsp; Keep in mind that they will do what the money tells them to do, unless of course you can get money out of the system.&nbsp; It has been my experience that people would not want to be rich and powerful if it did not mean they would be powerful.&nbsp; In other words, able to infuence governments.&nbsp;  I am for gay marriage.&nbsp; I am for a women&#8217;s right to end her pregnancy.&nbsp; I am against mindless, endless wars.&nbsp; I am for tight, effective govenment regulation where needed.&nbsp; I am an agnostic.&nbsp; I refuse to be defined as a Rep or a Dem or a Libertarian, or any other group.&nbsp; I call them as I see them.
Everyone thought that closely-watched hedge fund manager David Einhorn, the founder of Greenlight Capital, is short Herbalife because of this cryptic message in his fourth quarter letter to investors.†  On May 1, 2012, Einhorn asked some questions during an Herbalife conference call that immediately caused the stock price to tank. † Here's why we don't think the reference to "iron supplements" is about Herbalife, but actually about his iron ore short. † From his Q4 letter:†  Back in October at a hedge fund conference in Dallas, Einhorn said that he's shorting iron ore. Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund titan Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square, is shorting because he thinks it's a "pyramid scheme." †Ackman is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero.† UPDATE:†The†Wall Street Journal's Juliet Chung reports†that Einhorn shorted Herbalife last year and it was †profitable for Greenlight. †Einhorn does not currently have a bet on the†multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. †It's also unclear how big his short was and what the profits were, the report said.
Greenlight was down 4.9% in the quarter bringing the fund's year-to-date returns to 7.9%, according to the letter. In the letter, Einhorn lays out a bullish case for Vodafone. He said he wouldn't be surprised if Verizon decided to buy all of Vodafone to gain ownership of Verizon Wireless. † "Maybe there is an investment banker with time on their hands reading this letter," he writes. Here's the excerpt:  †
AP ImagesHedge fund hot-shot David Einhorn, the founder of Greenlight Capital, sent out his fund's fourth quarter letter to investors yesterday.¬† The results were disappointing. Greenlight was down 4.9% in the quarter making its year-to-date return 7.9%. ¬† Still, that doesn't seem to get him too down. ¬†His¬†latest letter is actually surprisingly upbeat and witty. ¬† Here's an excerpt:¬†  Greenlight is short Green Mountain Coffee Roasters(GMCR), long Apple and short iron ore. ¬†He's also long Marvell Technologies, which was his "biggest loser" in 2012. ¬†He still thinks the stock has an opportunity to sprint in 2013.¬† SEE ALSO: David Einhorn Is Shorting Iron Ore &gt;
BAKOKO / FlickrOn the heels of this morning‚Äôs report of lower-than-expected increase in home prices, Deutsche Bank economist Carl Riccadonna remains bullish on housing and its impact on the economy. In a new note to clients, he projects home price appreciation between 5 and 10 percent for the year ahead.¬† He further explains why this is good news for households as well as the extent to which the wealth effect magnifies consumer spending: ‚Ä¶price appreciation enables households to refinance debt, thereby reducing interest expenses, as well as tap into home equity via lines of credit or cash-out refinancing‚Ä¶ The prevailing estimates of the wealth effect on consumption from home price appreciation is generally believed to be around 0.05 to 0.10. In other words, a one dollar increase in home values lifts consumer spending by five to ten cents. Based on projections for home price appreciation, Riccadonna indicates consumer spending should receive a boost between $43 and $172 billion, which ‚Äúis substantial considering that real consumer spending increased by $178 billion over the past four quarters.‚Äù "Through its direct and indirect effects, the housing sector alone could potentially contribute as much as 2% to real GDP growth this year," write Riccadonna. SEE ALSO: 12 States Where Homeowners Are Deep Underwater &gt;
THE house-price boom that preceded the financial crisis was remarkable for its scope and scale. With a very few exceptions, there seemed only one way for prices to go: up. Things have been more diverse since, and our latest review of house prices is a picture with dramatic chiaroscuro. A brightening outlook for America stands out against the darkening tones of the beleaguered economies on the periphery of the euro area. In the countries we track, house prices are rising and falling in equal numbers. Over the past year prices have jumped most in Hong Kong (see table), prompting further government efforts to cool the market. They have dropped by 9.3% in Spain, the heaviest faller. The overall trend is down, however, since in three of the countries where prices are rising they are doing so at a slower pace than a year ago--in Canada, for example, they are up by 3.3% compared with 7.1% 12 months ago. A similar diversity characterises valuations. To gauge whether homes are cheap or expensive we use two measures, both of which compare current estimates with a long-run average (in most countries, going back to 1975). This average is our benchmark for "fair value". The first gauge is a price-to-rents ratio. This is analogous to the price-earnings ratio used for equities, with the rents going to property investors (or saved by homeowners) equivalent to corporate profits. The measure displays a massive range, from a whopping 78% overvaluation in Canada to an undervaluation of 37% in Japan. The other measure, the ratio of prices to disposable income per person, stretches from a 35% overvaluation in France to a 36% undervaluation, again in Japan. America‚Äôs housing-market revival looks sustainable in part because the sharp correction in house prices over the past few years has made homes cheap by historical standards. A year ago house prices were still falling, by 3.6%. There has been a turnaround since: the latest data show prices rising by 4.3%. But based on the ratio of prices to rents, houses are still 7% undervalued; judged by the price-to-income ratio, they are 20% below fair value. It also helps that mortgage rates are at historic lows and are likely to stay that way, since the Federal Reserve has promised to keep an extremely loose monetary stance for the next couple of years. The EconomistHomeowners may be coming up for air in America, but their plight is deepening across much of Europe. The agony is most acute in Spain, where declines have gathered momentum (the 9.3% fall in our latest round-up follows a drop of 5.5% the previous year). Other big euro-zone economies are also heading in the wrong direction. In Italy and the Netherlands the pace of decline has quickened; in France prices are now edging down after a brief recovery. European valuations are most stretched in France, by as much as 50% judging by rents and by 35% on the basis of incomes. This compares with around 20% overvaluation on both counts in Spain, despite the price falls to date. But any house-price collapse in France is likely to be modest compared with Spain‚Äôs. Spain‚Äôs bust reflects a massive oversupply of housing built in the construction boom, and an unemployment rate that rose to 26.6% in November, the highest in Europe. France‚Äôs unemployment rate has edged up to 10.5% but that is in a different league to Spain‚Äôs; its banks are in better shape than Spanish ones, too. The anomaly among Europe‚Äôs big economies is Germany, where house prices are rising by a restrained 2.7%, the same pace as a year earlier. Thanks to their good fortune in missing the housing party before the financial crisis, German homeowners have a decent chance of making further gains. Homes there are 17% undervalued compared with historical averages on both our measures. German purchasers can benefit from rock-bottom borrowing costs, unlike their counterparts in peripheral Europe. One of the lowest rates of unemployment (5.4%) in Europe further underpins the housing market. British house prices have posted only modest overall declines over the past five years (although rising rents and incomes have also helped bring things closer to fair value). But the British market may do rather better than still-stretched valuations suggest. For one thing, it does not suffer from the glut of empty homes that has created ghost towns in Ireland and Spain. And according to the Bank of England‚Äôs latest credit-conditions survey lenders are more willing to make mortgage finance available than at any time since the financial crisis. The number of mortgage approvals for new purchases is at its highest for almost a year. Overvaluation is especially marked in Canada, particularly with respect to rents (78%) but also in relation to income (34%). Mark Carney, the country‚Äôs central-bank governor, who is soon to jump ship to join the Bank of England, where he takes over from Sir Mervyn King in July, may have shown good market timing with his move to London as well as a deft hand in negotiating his lavish remuneration. Singapore and Hong Kong also look vulnerable to a correction, given the overvaluation on their price-to-rents ratios. Misalignments with our gauges of fair value can persist for a long time, of course. That may spare countries where house prices have clearly overshot from a painful bust, but it may also mean that some markets end up mimicking Japan‚Äôs long descent and badly undershoot. At some point, central banks will have to take away the balm of easy money. If housing markets remain so fragile when they are getting so much help, they may break when it is removed. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
eFinancial Careers, the world's leading career networking site for the financial services industry, has released their 2013 Hiring Trend Survey. For about a month (from December to January) they polled over 130 Wall Street recruiting and HR professionals from top firms around the world to get their take on this new year. In† a nutshell, Wall Streeters with 2-10 years experience in risk and tech have the best prospects. Hiring is picking up fastest in Asia and slowest here in the United States. As for salaries, expect them to stay flat or trend slightly higher. Now for the details. Here are some more trends from eFinancial Careers: Wall Street firms are also taking more time to find the right fit for each position, according to this survey, so make sure you're not a square peg for a round hole. Got it? Good.
YoutubeTruckers saw the Great Recession coming before anyone else.¬† So it pays to pay close attention to what they have to say. According to the latest release from the American Trucking Associations, the advanced seasonally adjusted (SA) For-Hire Truck Tonnage Index increased 2.8% in December, after surging 3.9% in November. This back-to-back increase was the best of gain of 2012. For all of 2012, tonnage was up 2.3%. In 2011, the index increased 5.8%. But not all the news was bullish: compared with December 2011, the index was off 2.3 percent ‚Äî the worst year-over-year result since November 2009. And the numbers are likely to continue to dip in the short-term as a result of new taxes, ATA Chief Economist Bob Costello said in the the association's statement. As paychecks shrink for all households due to higher taxes, I‚Äôm expecting a weak first quarter for tonnage and the broader economy. Since trucks account for the vast majority of deliveries in the retail supply chain, any reduction in consumer spending will have ramifications on truck tonnage levels. Here's a historical look: ATA SEE MORE: What America's Biggest Companies Are Telling Us About The Economy &gt;
The Realist understanding of international affairs is that it is a realm of competition. ¬†The competition is multi-faceted, taking place in politics and economics. ¬†It has a cultural dimension. ¬†It take place even in the writing of history. ¬† This competition spills over into the foreign exchange market. ¬†It did not begin with the unorthodox pursuit of monetary policy in high income countries beset with crisis. ¬†Even at Bretton Woods countries were jockeying for advantage. ¬†From the time that the dollar-gold standard of Bretton Woods became operational, the foreign exchange market was politicized. The US wanted the German mark and Japanese yen, for example, to be adjusted higher, rather than devalue the dollar. ¬†The attempt to re-start Bretton Woods with the Smithsonian Agreement was shaped by the conflict of national interest. This has also been the history of floating rate era. ¬†The hot capital flows into Germany and Switzerland resulted in a policy response of intervention and negative interest rates in the 1970s. ¬†Some observers attribute the 1987 equity market crash in part to Treasury Secretary James Baker threatening dollar depreciation if Germany did not stimulate its domestic economy. ¬†¬†When he was Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen threatened to allow the dollar to fall against the yen unless the Japanese government opened its markets more to US goods. ¬† At times, the high income countries coordinated intervention such as under the 1985 Plaza Agreement. ¬†At other times, countries, such as Japan, were forced to act alone. ¬†Western European countries have repeatedly sought to minimize the intra-European currency fluctuations; from the Snake, through the ERM to finally getting rid of national currencies altogether. ¬† Very few countries in the world seem to have ever felt completely comfortable with the ¬†prices that the foreign exchange market set. ¬†Indeed from Mexico's Tequila Crisis in 1995/95 through the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998, a number of semi-fixed exchange rates were broken after numerous and costly attempts to defend them. ¬†The large build up of reserves in emerging market countries is largely, though not solely, a reflection of resistance to currency appreciation and the pursuit of neo-mercantilist developmental strategies. Most of the wealthy Mideast countries retain pegged currency regimes. ¬† These days, it has become fashionable to talk of this pursuit of national self-interest over foreign exchange prices as a "currency war". ¬†¬† Although many seem to think it began with the unorthodox monetary policies pursued by the high income countries since the onset of the crisis, the tale of the tape tells a different story. ¬† ¬† Many observers are confused by the metaphor. ¬†They think it is real. ¬†Currency warfare devolves into outright protectionism and, voila, Smoot-Hawley-esque protectionism, a trade war.¬† Then a real shooting war. ¬†Q.E.D. ¬† Typically central banks want the external value of their currencies to move in the same direction as monetary policy. ¬†Given the synchronized economic downturn in the high income countries, it is not surprising that monetary policy has become synchronized and that most officials want weaker currencies.¬† And this is at loggerheads with the many of the leading emerging market currencies that are not willing to accept substantial currency appreciation.¬† At the same time that Bank of England Governor King warned against competitive devaluations this week, he suggested that sterling's relative strength has not done the UK any favors. ¬†The Bank of Canada, whose governor will soon replace King at the helm of the BOE, noted that the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar has hurt exports. ¬† Norway and Sweden have indicated that the strength of their respective currencies could influence the course of monetary policy decisions. ¬†Switzerland, with one of the largest current account surpluses, has effectively capped its currency. The rhetoric, much more than the action, of the new Japanese government, explicitly seeking a weaker yen, has irked many. ¬†Former Eurogroup head Juncker was off-message when he recently said the euro was dangerously high. ¬†German officials have been quick to clarify. First it was Finance Minister Schaeuble who was critical of Japan's "false understanding" of monetary policy. ¬†Then is was BBK's Weidmann who warned of the risks of politicizing the exchange rate. ¬†This was followed by Deputy Chairman of Merkel's CDU who expressed concern not just at Japan's competitive devaluation but also that if other countries follow, it could lead to a downward spiral. ¬† Russia has recently taken exception and has threaten to raise the issue at upcoming international meetings. ¬† South Korea has threatened to take action. ¬†The industry association for US auto makers protests (as they have since there were more than 300 yen to the dollar). ¬†It is unusual for Fed officials to comment on the foreign exchange market, but the St. Louis Fed President Bullard recently expressed his concern. Following the war metaphor, we have often found it helpful to understand intervention as an escalation ladder.¬† The lower rungs may be different ways to verbally express displeasure at market prices.¬† Most of the time officials stay on the lower rungs.¬† Despite desire for weaker currencies, neither the Bank of Canada nor the Bank of England are about to intervene materially in the foreign exchange market, for example.¬† And if some countries cut interest rates to offset their currencies' strength, well, that is how the adjustment process is supposed to work. The World Trade Organization also helps act like a circuit breaker of sorts.¬† It offers a conflict resolution mechanism to prevent trade disputes from leading to exactly the downward spiral that many observers rightly fear.¬† There is no sign that this firewall has been threatened. When officials talk about currencies reflecting fundamentals, they often mean external balances.¬† Japan has swung from a trade surplus to a trade deficit.¬† In fact, on a seasonally adjusted basis, it has not recorded a monthly trade surplus¬† since Feb 2011.¬† Exports have fallen on year-over year basis since May 2012 (and the December report due out first thing in Tokyo on Thurs is expected to show more of the same).¬† The OECD calculation of purchasing power parity has the yen about 14.6% over-valued at current levels.¬† Besides the relative size of the economies, it is not clear why the Swiss capping their currency has not drawn the same ire as the Japanese. ¬†¬† Indeed, one could argue that the Swiss move deflected more pressure to Japan and if the SNB had not pegged its currency, the new LDP government in Japan would not be talking the yen lower. While we do think Japanese officials would welcome a weaker yen, we see in the rhetoric an attempt to ease concern¬† that is is seeking an endless or even protracted decline.¬† The upcoming G20 meeting may reaffirm the commitment to market-based foreign exchange rates.¬† The push back may impact LDP policy intentions may making it less likely that it will seek to buy foreign bonds, which would be too close to material intervention. ¬† A real currency war remains a remote possibility.¬† The recent clash is largely in the realm of rhetoric and does not appear substantially different than what has been seen through the floating rate area.¬† The synchronized crisis and economic weakness has produced synchronized easing of monetary policy.¬† Officials typically want currency to be supporting not contradicting monetary policy signals.¬† Lastly, it is particularly noteworthy¬† that Japan's largest trading partner and regional rival China, appears not to have publicly protested the yen developments. Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
The Realist understanding of international affairs is that it is a realm of competition. ¬†The competition is multi-faceted, taking place in politics and economics. ¬†It has a cultural dimension. ¬†It take place even in the writing of history. ¬† This competition spills over into the foreign exchange market. ¬†It did not begin with the unorthodox pursuit of monetary policy in high income countries beset with crisis. ¬†Even at Bretton Woods countries were jockeying for advantage. ¬†From the time that the dollar-gold standard of Bretton Woods became operational, the foreign exchange market was politicized. The US wanted the German mark and Japanese yen, for example, to be adjusted higher, rather than devalue the dollar. ¬†The attempt to re-start Bretton Woods with the Smithsonian Agreement was shaped by the conflict of national interest. This has also been the history of floating rate era. ¬†The hot capital flows into Germany and Switzerland resulted in a policy response of intervention and negative interest rates in the 1970s. ¬†Some observers attribute the 1987 equity market crash in part to Treasury Secretary James Baker threatening dollar depreciation if Germany did not stimulate its domestic economy. ¬†¬†When he was Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen threatened to allow the dollar to fall against the yen unless the Japanese government opened its markets more to US goods. ¬† At times, the high income countries coordinated intervention such as under the 1985 Plaza Agreement. ¬†At other times, countries, such as Japan, were forced to act alone. ¬†Western European countries have repeatedly sought to minimize the intra-European currency fluctuations; from the Snake, through the ERM to finally getting rid of national currencies altogether. ¬† Very few countries in the world seem to have ever felt completely comfortable with the ¬†prices that the foreign exchange market set. ¬†Indeed from Mexico's Tequila Crisis in 1995/95 through the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998, a number of semi-fixed exchange rates were broken after numerous and costly attempts to defend them. ¬†The large build up of reserves in emerging market countries is largely, though not solely, a reflection of resistance to currency appreciation and the pursuit of neo-mercantilist developmental strategies. Most of the wealthy Mideast countries retain pegged currency regimes. ¬† These days, it has become fashionable to talk of this pursuit of national self-interest over foreign exchange prices as a "currency war". ¬†¬† Although many seem to think it began with the unorthodox monetary policies pursued by the high income countries since the onset of the crisis, the tale of the tape tells a different story. ¬† ¬† Many observers are confused by the metaphor. ¬†They think it is real. ¬†Currency warfare devolves into outright protectionism and, voila, Smoot-Hawley-esque protectionism, a trade war.¬† Then a real shooting war. ¬†Q.E.D. ¬† Typically central banks want the external value of their currencies to move in the same direction as monetary policy. ¬†Given the synchronized economic downturn in the high income countries, it is not surprising that monetary policy has become synchronized and that most officials want weaker currencies.¬† And this is at loggerheads with the many of the leading emerging market currencies that are not willing to accept substantial currency appreciation.¬† At the same time that Bank of England Governor King warned against competitive devaluations this week, he suggested that sterling's relative strength has not done the UK any favors. ¬†The Bank of Canada, whose governor will soon replace King at the helm of the BOE, noted that the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar has hurt exports. ¬† Norway and Sweden have indicated that the strength of their respective currencies could influence the course of monetary policy decisions. ¬†Switzerland, with one of the largest current account surpluses, has effectively capped its currency. The rhetoric, much more than the action, of the new Japanese government, explicitly seeking a weaker yen, has irked many. ¬†Former Eurogroup head Juncker was off-message when he recently said the euro was dangerously high. ¬†German officials have been quick to clarify. First it was Finance Minister Schaeuble who was critical of Japan's "false understanding" of monetary policy. ¬†Then is was BBK's Weidmann who warned of the risks of politicizing the exchange rate. ¬†This was followed by Deputy Chairman of Merkel's CDU who expressed concern not just at Japan's competitive devaluation but also that if other countries follow, it could lead to a downward spiral. ¬† Russia has recently taken exception and has threaten to raise the issue at upcoming international meetings. ¬† South Korea has threatened to take action. ¬†The industry association for US auto makers protests (as they have since there were more than 300 yen to the dollar). ¬†It is unusual for Fed officials to comment on the foreign exchange market, but the St. Louis Fed President Bullard recently expressed his concern. Following the war metaphor, we have often found it helpful to understand intervention as an escalation ladder.¬† The lower rungs may be different ways to verbally express displeasure at market prices.¬† Most of the time officials stay on the lower rungs.¬† Despite desire for weaker currencies, neither the Bank of Canada nor the Bank of England are about to intervene materially in the foreign exchange market, for example.¬† And if some countries cut interest rates to offset their currencies' strength, well, that is how the adjustment process is supposed to work. The World Trade Organization also helps act like a circuit breaker of sorts.¬† It offers a conflict resolution mechanism to prevent trade disputes from leading to exactly the downward spiral that many observers rightly fear.¬† There is no sign that this firewall has been threatened. When officials talk about currencies reflecting fundamentals, they often mean external balances.¬† Japan has swung from a trade surplus to a trade deficit.¬† In fact, on a seasonally adjusted basis, it has not recorded a monthly trade surplus¬† since Feb 2011.¬† Exports have fallen on year-over year basis since May 2012 (and the December report due out first thing in Tokyo on Thurs is expected to show more of the same).¬† The OECD calculation of purchasing power parity has the yen about 14.6% over-valued at current levels.¬† Besides the relative size of the economies, it is not clear why the Swiss capping their currency has not drawn the same ire as the Japanese. ¬†¬† Indeed, one could argue that the Swiss move deflected more pressure to Japan and if the SNB had not pegged its currency, the new LDP government in Japan would not be talking the yen lower. While we do think Japanese officials would welcome a weaker yen, we see in the rhetoric an attempt to ease concern¬† that is is seeking an endless or even protracted decline.¬† The upcoming G20 meeting may reaffirm the commitment to market-based foreign exchange rates.¬† The push back may impact LDP policy intentions may making it less likely that it will seek to buy foreign bonds, which would be too close to material intervention. ¬† A real currency war remains a remote possibility.¬† The recent clash is largely in the realm of rhetoric and does not appear substantially different than what has been seen through the floating rate area.¬† The synchronized crisis and economic weakness has produced synchronized easing of monetary policy.¬† Officials typically want currency to be supporting not contradicting monetary policy signals.¬† Lastly, it is particularly noteworthy¬† that Japan's largest trading partner and regional rival China, appears not to have publicly protested the yen developments. Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Flickr / ecstaticistPBS' Frontline program on Tuesday night broadcast a new one-hour report on one of the greatest and most shameful failings of the Obama administration: the lack of even a single arrest or prosecution of any senior Wall Street banker for the systemic fraud that precipitated the 2008 financial crisis ó a crisis from which millions of people around the world are still suffering. What this program particularly demonstrated was that the Obama justice department, in particular the Chief of its Criminal Division, Lanny Breuer, never even tried to hold the high-level criminals accountable. What Obama justice officials did instead is exactly what they did in the face of high-level Bush era crimes of torture and warrantless eavesdropping: Namely, acted to protect the most powerful factions in the society in the face of overwhelming evidence of serious criminality. Indeed, financial elites were not only vested with impunity for their fraud, but thrived as a result of it, even as ordinary Americans continue to suffer the effects of that crisis. Worst of all, Obama justice officials both shielded and feted these Wall Street oligarchs (who, just by the way, overwhelmingly supported Obama's 2008 presidential campaign) as they simultaneously prosecuted and imprisoned powerless Americans for far more trivial transgressions. As Harvard law professor Larry Lessig put it two weeks ago when expressing anger over the DOJ's persecution of Aaron Swartz: "we live in a world where the architects of the financial crisis regularly dine at the White House." (Indeed, as "The Untouchables" put it: While no senior Wall Street executives have been prosecuted, "many small mortgage brokers, loan appraisers and even home buyers" have been). As I documented at length in my 2011 book on America's two-tiered justice system, "With Liberty and Justice for Some," the evidence that felonies were committed by Wall Street is overwhelming. That evidence directly negates the primary excuse by Breuer (previously offered by Obama himself) that the bad acts of Wall Street were not criminal. Numerous documents prove that executives at leading banks, credit agencies, and mortgage brokers were falsely touting assets as sound that they knew were junk ó the very definition of fraud. As former Wall Street analyst Yves Smith wrote in her book "ECONned": "What went on at Lehman and AIG, as well as the chicanery in the CDO [collateralized debt obligation] business, by any sensible standard is criminal." Even lifelong Wall Street defender Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve Chair, said in Congressional testimony that "a lot of that stuff was just plain fraud." A New York Times editorial in August explained that the DOJ's excuse for failing to prosecute Wall Street executives ó that it was too hard to obtain convictions ó "has always defied common sense, and all the more so now that a fuller picture is emerging of the range of banks' reckless and lawless activities, including interest-rate rigging, money laundering, securities fraud and excessive speculation." The Frontline program interviewed former prosecutors, Senate staffers and regulators who unequivocally said the same: It is inconceivable that the DOJ could not have successfully prosecuted at least some high-level Wall Street executives ... had they tried. What's most remarkable about all of this is that not even Wall Street had the audacity to expect the generosity of largesse they ended up receiving. "The Untouchables" begins by recounting the massive financial devastation the 2008 crisis wrought: "The economy was in ruins and bankers were being blamed," and recounts: "In 2009, Wall Street bankers were on the defensive, worried they could be held criminally liable for fraud. With a new administration, bankers and their attorneys expected investigations and at least some prosecutions." Indeed, the show recalls that both in Washington and the country generally, "there was broad support for prosecuting Wall Street." Nonetheless, "four years later, there have been no arrests of any senior Wall Street executives." In response to the DOJ's excuse-making that these criminal cases are too hard to win, numerous experts ó Senators, top Hill staffers, former DOJ prosecutors ó emphasized the key point: Obama officials never even tried. One of the heroes of "The Untouchables," former Democratic Sen. Ted Kaufman, worked tirelessly to provide the DOJ with all the funds it needed to ensure probing criminal investigations and even to pressure and compel them to do so. Yet when he and his staff would meet with Breuer and other top DOJ officials, those officials would proudly tout the small mortgage brokers they were pursuing, in response to which Kaufman and his staff said: "No. Don't show me small-time mortgage guys in California. This is totally about what went on in Wall Street ... We are talking about investigating senior level Wall Street executives, even at the Board level." (The same Lanny Breuer was recently seen announcing that the banking giant HSBC would face no criminal prosecution for its money laundering of funds for designated terrorist groups and drug networks on the grounds that the bank was too big to risk prosecuting.) As Kaufman and his staffers make clear, Obama officials were plainly uninterested in pursuing criminal accountability for Wall Street. One former staffer to both Biden and Kaufman, Jeff Connaughton, wrote a book in 2011 ó "The Payoff: Why Wall Street Always Wins" ó devoted to alerting the nation that the Obama DOJ refused even to try to find criminal culprits on Wall Street. In the book, this career-Democratic-aide-turned-whistleblower details how the levers of Washington power are used to shield and protect high-level Wall Street executives, many of whom have close ties to the leaders of both parties and themselves are former high-level government officials. This is a system, he makes clear, that is constituted to ensure that those executives never face real accountability even for their most egregious and destructive crimes. The reason there have been no efforts made to criminally investigate is obvious. Former banking regulator and current securities Professor Bill Black told Bill Moyers in 2009 that "Timothy Geithner, the Secretary of the Treasury, and others in the administration, with the banks, are engaged in a cover up to keep us from knowing what went wrong." In the documentary "Inside Job," when asked why there have been no such investigations, economist Nouriel Roubini replied: "Because then you'd find the culprits." Underlying all of that is what the Senate's second-highest ranking Democrat, Dick Durbin, admitted in 2009: The banks "frankly own the place." The harms from this refusal to hold Wall Street accountable are the same generated by the general legal immunity the U.S. political culture has vested in its elites. Just as was true for the protection of torturers and illegal eavesdroppers, it ensures that there are no incentives to avoid similar crimes in the future. It is an injustice in its own right to allow those with power and wealth to commit destructive crimes with impunity. It subverts democracy and warps the justice system when a person's treatment under the law is determined not by their acts but by their power, position, and prestige. And it exposes just how shameful is the American penal state by contrasting the immunity given to the nation's most powerful with the merciless and brutal punishment meted out to its most marginalized. The real mystery from all of this is that it has not led to greater social unrest. To some extent, both the early version of the Tea Party and the Occupy movements were spurred by the government's protection of Wall Street at the expense of everyone else. Still, Americans continue to be plagued by massive unemployment, foreclosures, the threat of austerity and economic insecurity while those who caused those problems have more power and profit than ever. And they watch millions of their fellow citizens be put in cages for relatively minor offenses while the most powerful are free to commit far more serious crimes with complete impunity. Far less injustice than this has spurred serious unrest in other societies. [The one-hour Frontline program can be viewed in its entirety here.]  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Just a few months ago, there was a lot of concern that "Dow Theory" was signalling an impending stock market sell-off.† In brief, the "Dow Theory" says that Dow Jones Industrial Average and Dow Transportation Average dictate which way the rest of the market will move. But they must be moving in tandem to draw any conclusions about market conditions. If one is making a new high, while the other is not doing well, you should be skeptical of the durability of the rally. Last fall, while industrial stocks had surged higher, transportation stocks (aka "trannies") had collapsed. But since the end of December, trannies have surged +10 percent, while the Dow is up about +6 percent. Here's the chart for trannies: Bespoke As a result, Dow Theorists are now saying a buy signal has been triggered: "The Dow Jones Industrial Average hit a new bull market high Friday of 13649 (and is currently adding to that), surpassing its fall peak and joining the Dow Jones Transportation Index (which is at all-time high territory at 5739) in sending a clearly bullish sign to the market," WSJ.com's Paul Vigna writes. Forex.com editors believe that even if the signal was not triggered Friday, it could still be coming soon: Presently, the Dow Industrial average is above its previous Q1 2012 highs, yet it still remains below the prior highs from September/October around 13,660/65. While this does not guarantee that equities will continue to move higher over the coming days and weeks (since the Industrials can still falter and make a lower high), it does project a rather bullish signal. For what it's worth, the godfather of Dow Theory, perma-bear Richard Russell, believes we are not close to the "buy" threshhold, according to Marketwatch's Mark Hulbert: Russell, who is editor of Dow Theory Letters, argued over this past weekend that the Dow industrials must close at a new all-time high above 14,164.53 to confirm the Dow transports ó not at just a new bull market high. These conflicting opinions show that Dow Theory is as much an art as it is a science. SEE MORE: Here's What The Biggest Businesses Are Telling Us About The Economy &gt;
It's unclear what's causing the move, but the dollar just spiked, causing the euro, gold, and stocks, and oil to drop. A trader told us that the dollar is just catching a bid, given the fact that it's been getting beaten up a lot lately. Meanwhile, other markets (like stocks) are increasingly looking like they are topping out. Below is the spike in the U.S. dollar index: Thinkorswim And the corresponding drop in the euro: Thinkorswim The S&amp;P 500 fell at the same time: Thinkorswim Gold did the same thing, but is battling back a bit faster than other markets: Thinkorswim The moves aren't big, but notably synchronized.
Bloomberg has an amazing team of reporters hunting down the world's billionaires. Some of these super wealthy are out in the open and living opulently, others are hidden and living modestly. Veteran billionaire tracker Matt G. Miller and his team will find them and rank them. And now Bloomberg has created a new data visualization tool that will let you see the world's richest in a way you've never seen them before. Not only can you filter billionaires by country, gender, and industry, but you can also track their wealth and rank on a day to day basis. Right now the list includes 100 billionaires, but expect this application to grow. Miller says he and his team have 100s of suspects and they're working every day.
Google FinanceThe stock markets continue to make their ways up. CNBC's Carl Quintanilla just tweeted that the "Dow is about 390 pts from it's all-time high." The Dow closed at an all-time high of 14,164 on October 9, 2007.¬† It hit an intra-day high of 14,198 on October 11, 2007. The S&amp;P 500 isn't too far from its all-time high of 1,565, which it also high on October 9, 2007. SEE ALSO: DEUTSCHE BANK: These Are The 30 Best Stocks Right Now &gt;
I monitor the 260-day moving sum of withheld income and employment taxes deposited at the US Treasury. It was $1,791 billion on December 18. It jumped $25 billion to $1,816 billion on January 18. Thatís a significant tax increase, especially if it is annualized, that could depress real GDP at least during the first quarter. The Treasuryís monthly data show that individual income taxes totaled $1,174 billion last year, while payroll taxes totaled $847 billion. Both increased last year along with payrolls. Of course, the good news at the start of this year was that Congress voted to make the Bush tax cuts permanent for 98% of American taxpayers. That was offset by the bad news about the higher payroll tax rate. That would certainly explain why the Consumer Sentiment Index (CSI) slipped in January to the lowest reading since December 2011. Joining the recent downdraft in the overall CSI was its present situation component, which had risen to a cyclical high during November.Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Going Vertical. (1) Climbing the Wall of Worry (WOW). (2) Living less dangerously this year? (3) Thereís still a worry list. (4) Fiscal drag is a drag in US. (5) Will Draghiís stealth bomber work in Cyprus? (6) Running out of warm and able bodies in China. (7) Itís getting hard to breathe in China. (8) Distracting the masses with xenophobic nationalism. (9) Yet many stocks are soaring, including many of our favorites. (More for subscribers.)
Justin Sullivan/Getty Well, this is amusing. At about 2:25pm Swiss time today, I surrendered my hard-won chair in one of the World Economic Forum conference lounges and headed upstairs to a suite of discreet meeting rooms. These rooms, which are owned and managed by the WEF staff, are rented by the hour, so world leaders can squeeze in as many secret meetings as possible. The head of a huge U.S. government agency had asked to meet with me, and that's not the sort of meeting I was going to say "no" to. So I headed upstairs at the appointed time, and was ushered into the assigned secret meeting room--which was at that moment being hastily cleaned of the debris left over from the last private meeting. (They turn these things like restaurant tables at Arby's). After five minutes of sitting by myself, I got an email from one of the many staff members of the head of the huge government agency who have been emailing me to set up and confirm the meeting. The staffer told me that the head of the agency was "running 10 minutes late." Fifteen more minutes went by, and then I got another email saying that the agency head was "almost there." And then, at 2:57pm, three minutes before our 30 minute meeting was due to end, one of the World Economic Forum monitors poked her head in the door. "Your people are here!" she chirped. "Great!" I said, wondering how I would squeeze my questions into the three minutes I would have with the head of the government agency before she or another WEF staffer booted us both out of the room. "Yes!" the staffer said, cheerfully. "Two women." Two women? Thinking maybe the two women were advance folks for the head of the agency, I told the WEF staffer that I was actually going to be meeting with a man. "A man!?" she chirped.¬† "You are not meeting with Marissa Mayer?" No, I was not meeting with Marissa Mayer.¬† But I would certainly go say hello to Marissa Mayer, who evidently had booked the room I was in for the half hour after I had it. I would go say hello because, well, I'm a big Marissa Mayer fan, and she's my uber-boss at Yahoo (where I'm a host of the Daily Ticker economics show.) But just as I was on my way down the hall to say hello to Marissa Mayer, who should suddenly show up but the head of the government agency. After an awkward greeting, I abandoned my Marissa Mayer mission and disappeared back into the meeting cube with the head of the agency for the remaining minute of our rental. I then learned, among other things, that the head of the agency had lost his phone, that he had the room booked for another hour, and that his next meeting was with... Marissa Mayer. That explained why the WEF staffer had assumed that I was meeting with Marissa Mayer. She assumed that I was the head of the government agency! But it left me in a bit of a pickle. Should I... Demand that the head of the government agency honor the meeting he had requested with me and make the CEO of a Fortune 500 company--who happens to be my boss--just stand there and wait? OR Promise the head of the government agency (who was genuinely and believably apologetic) that we would reschedule the meeting at our earliest convenience... and head back downstairs to the lounge to the hoi polloi lounge, while saying hello to my boss Marissa on the way. If I were the government official, I would certainly have been hoping that I would take Door No. 2. So I did. SEE ALSO: UNBOXING: The Davos Swag Bag
Chicken isn't the only thing that way more expensive than it used to be. Global food prices are more than double what they were in 2003, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nation's latest release. Take a look at this chart: Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations Notice how this chart gets especially crazy right around 2007.¬† According to research from anti-poverty advocacy group World Development Movement (WDM), this doubling of food prices could be be because big banks and hedge funds have been betting on food prices by the way of futures contracts. One of the biggest food speculators in the market is Goldman Sachs, which made an estimated $400 million from speculating on food, according to a report by WDM. "Goldman Sachs is the global leader in a trade that is driving food prices up while nearly a billion people are hungry,"said WDM's Christine Haigh. From the report: "The US has passed legislation to limit speculation, but the controls have not been implemented due to a legal challenge from Wall Street spearheaded by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, of which Goldman Sachs is a leading member. Similar legislation is on the table at the EU, but the UK government has so far opposed effective controls. Goldman Sachs has lobbied against controls in both the US and the EU." However, Nobel-prize winning economist Paul Krugman thinks this is all bunk. At least he did, in 2011, when global food prices hit an all time high. In a column he wrote for the New York Times on the subject in early 2011, he said that soaring food prices were more likely due to harvest failures than because of food speculators. SEE ALSO: A Crazy Chinese Deep Freeze Is Causing Vegetable Prices To Surge [PHOTOS] &gt;
Billionaire private equity tycoon Steve Schwarzman, the CEO of Blackstone,†spoke with Bloomberg TV's Erik Schatzker at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland covering a gamut of topics from taking Dell private to taxes. He told Bloomberg TV that Blackstone didn't even look at Dell explaining,†"this isn't your run-of-the-mill situationÖThis is a pretty unique set of circumstances with a fundamentally unleveraged company with an owner and founder that can put up a lot of the equity to make the deal happen..." On whether or not the Dell deal was a sign of the return of the mega leveraged buy outs from before the financial crisis, Scwarzman said, "I think that may be a little overblown." Their conversation also delved into politics.  Schwarzman, who publicly endorsed Mitt Romney's campaign for president, told Bloomberg TV that he likes Obama as a person. †However, he still thinks more people need to pay income taxes. "A tax solution that hits one half of 1% of the people is almost announcing that 99.5% of the people do not have a role to help fix our society."† He didn't specify the amount. Here's the full transcript courtesy of Bloomberg TV:† Schwarzman†on whether he's surprised to see Dell in buyout talks: "I thought that was a pretty clever thing of Michael to do. His stock was way down. They have a lot of cash. He is an owner/founder and so the form that your company takes is not as important as how well the company is doing. If he has optimism about his company and if the market is not appreciating it, he is actually in a pretty unique position to be able to take his stock, contribute it into the deal to provide a lot of the equity, and just deal with his company as a private company where he could make certain changes that would be perhaps more difficult in a public setting." On whether Blackstone ever considered buying Dell: "We did not look at that company. Part of that is in the PC business where it is a tough road. The financial elements of the deal are very clever. I think the issue will be how the business actually performs." On whether we're witnessing the return of the mega deal: †"I think that may be a little overblown. This is a pretty unique set of circumstances with a fundamentally unleveraged company with an owner and founder that can put up a lot of the equity to make the deal happen with a lot of cost cuts probably, from what I've heard. So this is not your run-of-the- mill situation. The private equity business, you know, has actually had a reasonable level of activity. We invested in that part of our business about $4 billion last year against a $16 billion fund, so the deals are not as big, but there are plenty of interesting opportunities." On what role Microsoft might play in financing the deal and whether this is a new model for the buyout industry: "Companies are cash rich because they lost confidence in the banking system in 2008 and 2009, so they each became their own banks. Their boards encouraged them to do it. They have lots of money without anything particular to do with it because the capital expenditure hasn't changed. You will see different ways where companies deal with the problem of very low interest rates, lot of cash on the balance sheets and this is one mechanism."† On whether we've turned a corner on the financial crisis: We are starting to turn a corner. It also depends on what geography or looking at. You have had the emerging markets slowed down, so that is not a wonderful thing. some of them are bottoming and starting to turn up. We have had U.S. growth suppressed in the 2% area, which is significantly less than one would have expected with the kind of stimulus and deficits we're running. Europe is pretty much in a no-growth situationÖWe do have stability. Europe has grown out of its crisis-of-the-moment mode. We have not completely lost a decade, but we're not exactly maximizing a decade. On whether he agrees with CEOs who say that America is the best place to invest for the foreseeable future: "America is a really good place to invest. Asia is also an interesting place with high-growth rates. And depending on what type of investing you do, there are certain areas in Europe that are also still good." On what happens if the U.K. leaves the EU: †I think that is a little unpredictable. The U.K. has always had an approach of avoidance towards the EUÖOn balance, probably a net bad thing. On whether the debt ceiling will turn out to be a non-event, like the fiscal cliff: "The debt ceiling has been pushed back because there are other mechanisms that can be used by the Republicans to in effect get the attention of the Democrats. i think the debt ceiling was an astonishingly lost opportunity. What fundamentally happened is we managed to raise $50 billion a year to lower deficits, which at that point were over a trillion dollars. So if you look at it, it was very, very minor payment done by only one-half of 1% of the people and the opportunity to make a grander bargain to bring our deficits under control and our entitlement spending was a potential opportunity there that was lost." On whether President Obama has done or said anything that makes him feel better about the country's future: "I like President Obama as a person and he is well intentioned. I do not know that we have clarity on our future situation. I am a great believer in including a large number of people in a solution. I think everyone has to have skin in the game. A tax solution that hits one half of 1% of the people is almost announcing that 99.5% of the people do not have a role to help fix our society. Regardless of the amount of money involved, in this case a huge amount of money that is needed, to basically not have an inclusive type solution is just philosophically something I do not think works well." On whether he has any regrets about endorsing Mitt Romney and speaking out strongly against Obama's administration: "I have never spoken against the president himself. Do I have any regrets? One regret is that the team I was involved with lost. That is a regret. We have to move on in our society." On whether he'll he write off the next four years and look ahead to 2016: "I do not think anyone can write off the next four years. That is a ridiculous way of approaching life. You have to engage and do the best thing that you can. I think it was unfortunate on the Republican side. There were some position taken on issues which drove away Hispanics and other minorities and a variety of other social issues that took an election that may have gone the other way and ended up as a 1.9% loss." Watch the interview below:†
Apple's earnings are coming today after the market closes. We will have the results as soon as they hit at this page, so tune in. In the meanwhile, here's what to expect. After a sustained 30% drop in Apple's stock since September, this earnings report is the most anticipated we can remember. There are a lot of questions surrounding Apple right now. In particular, investors want to get a true read on the state of the iPhone business. There have been multiple reports that Apple cut iPhone orders for this quarter. The severity of those cuts, and the reasons for them, vary from place to place, but it seems confirmed the cuts happened. This led analysts to start slashing their March quarter iPhone estimate and their full-year revenue and EPS outlook. As they've cut back their estimates, Apple's stock has crashed. And yet, despite paring back their March quarter expectations, many analysts have been bumping their iPhone estimates for the December quarter. Which makes this earnings report, as anticipated as it is, somewhat anticlimactic. Everyone is already focused on the March quarter. And Apple's guidance game makes it very hard to figure out what's really happening this quarter. Multiple analysts have called for Apple to deliver classic low-ball guidance. Unlike in the past, if Apple delivers super low guidance, the market could react negatively as the low guidance would confirm its fears that the iPhone business is in trouble. So, if you're an Apple bull, here's what you want tonight: A strong iPhone beat and guidance that isn't ridiculously low. On the earnings call, you're hoping Tim Cook comments on the reports coming from the supply chain and puts the rumors to bed. If you get just an iPhone beat, or just good guidance, we're not sure you're going to be happy. Before we wrap this up, there is one thing to note: This quarter is 13 weeks long. Last year's quarter was 14 weeks long. Therefore, year over year comparisons aren't going to be perfect. Further, last year Apple sold the iPhone 4S only in the holiday quarter. This year, the new iPhone, the iPhone 5 was out for a week before the quarter started. And it was also released in China for part of the quarter. So, comparisons between this quarter and the next are going to be messy. Here, via Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster, is what the buy-side is expecting from Apple: Again, we'll have the numbers as soon as they hit right here, so tune in.
In 1987 PBS released a documentary called 'Trader' featuring legendary hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones and his firm Tudor Investments. But the film was never given a chance to catch on. PTJ hated it, and bought up almost all the copies of the film as soon as he could. Every now and again a copy surfaces online (like yesterday ó it's already down) but the question generally remains ó why did PTJ hate the movie so much? At the time it was made, the market was shooting up but PTJ and his team were (correctly) calling a crash to come. In the film, they also show a lot of care for managing risk and taking care of their clients. There's even a look into the awesome charity work that PTJ does with kids in Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn. Some speculate that PTJ felt that his trading secrets were revealed in the documentary. Others suggest that he was embarrassed of how he looked while he was trading. Regardless, there's never been an official answer to this question so there's always room for more theories as to why PTJ killed this documentary, here are some of ours.
UPDATE: The FHFA U.S. House Price Index reading for the month of November is out. The index rose 0.6 percent in November, slightly below expectations of a 0.7 percent gain. October growth in prices was revised up to 0.6 percent from 0.5 percent previously. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; Below is the full text from the release: Washington, DC ‚Äì U.S. house prices rose 0.6 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from October to November, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency‚Äôs monthly House Price¬†Index (HPI). The previously reported 0.5 percent increase in October was revised upward to a 0.6 percent increase. For the 12 months ending in November, U.S. prices rose 5.6 percent. The¬†U.S. index is 15.2 percent below its April 2007 peak and is roughly the same as the August¬†2004 index level. National home prices have not declined on a monthly basis since January 2011. For the nine census divisions, seasonally adjusted monthly price changes from October to November ranged from -1.0 percent in the East North Central division to +2.1 percent in the¬†Mountain division, while the 12-month changes ranged from +0.5 percent in the Middle Atlantic¬†division to +14.8 percent in the Mountain division. FHFA uses the purchase prices of houses with mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to calculate the monthly index. Monthly index values and appreciation rate¬†estimates for recent periods are provided in the table and graphs on the following pages. Click here for complete historical data. For detailed information on the monthly HPI, please see the HPI Frequently Asked Questions¬†(FAQ). The next HPI release will be on Feb. 26, 2013 and will include monthly data for¬†December and quarterly data for the fourth quarter of 2012. Release dates for 2013 are available here. Important Note: Beginning with this news release, the HPI will be published at 9 A.M. EST. The table below breaks down the gains by region (click to enlarge): FHFA Click here for the full release &gt; ----------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Minutes away from the lone economic data release of the day in the United States ‚Äì the FHFA U.S. House Price Index, due out at 9 AM ET. Economists estimate that the index rose 0.7 percent in November after rising 0.5 percent the month before. We will have the release at 9 AM ET. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt;
From Michael Block at Phoenix Partners, the uber-quick guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Draghi says ‚Äúdarkest clouds‚Äù have lifted.¬† On 3/22/12, he said the ‚Äùworst is over.‚Äù¬† Nikkei down 2.08%.... now what for Japan?¬† Corporate earnings?¬† More repetitive pledges to destroy the yen? HSBC Flash PMI for China tonight.¬† Flash PMIs for Europe overnight.¬† IFO for Germany Friday.GOOG and IBM show how low bar and doubt in tech can drive the bus.¬† COH not so hot.¬† AAPL tonight.JC is highlighting how financials are hitting resistance. For more on what's happening this morning, see here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsUPDATE:†Mickey D's†earnings are out. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; The fast-food giant reported earnings of $1.38 per share and $6.95 billion in revenues, both above Wall Street estimates. The company also reported global comp sales up 0.1 percent in Q4. Analysts were looking for a 0.3 percent decline. While the main numbers look pretty good, McDonald's also noted that it sees top and bottom line growth remaining pressured going forward and that it expects January same-store sales growth to be negative. The stock is unchanged from yesterday's close in pre-market trading. Below is the full text from the release: OAK BROOK, Ill.,†Jan. 23, 2013†/PRNewswire/ --†McDonald's Corporation today announced results for the fourth quarter and year ended†December 31, 2012, reflecting higher revenues, operating income and earnings per share compared with the prior year. "Throughout 2012 we concentrated our efforts behind the global priorities that represent our greatest opportunities under the Plan to Win ó optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our Brand," said McDonald's Chief Executive Officer†Don Thompson. "McDonald's continued to grow by remaining focused on what matters most to our customers, although our results reflect the impact of the challenging global operating, economic and competitive environment. Our overall performance is a testament to the underlying strength of our business and our dedicated System of franchisees, suppliers and employees who continue to drive toward our mission to become our customers' favorite place and way to eat and drink." Full year 2012 highlights included: Fourth Quarter highlights included: McDonald's U.S. generated positive comparable sales and operating income results for the year despite ongoing economic and competitive pressures. Fourth quarter comparable sales increased 0.3% and operating income was relatively flat against strong prior year results. During the quarter, the U.S. focused on enhancing its value leadership position by balancing strong everyday value messaging with affordable and compelling premium menu options. For the year,†Europe†delivered comparable sales and constant currency operating income growth despite ongoing economic uncertainty throughout the segment. During the fourth quarter,†Europe's operating income rose 5% (up 7% in constant currencies) while comparable sales were down 0.6% due to negative comparable guest counts and strong prior year performance. The U.K. and†Russia†were key contributors to the segment's operating income performance for both periods. Emphasis on unique promotional food events, expanded value offerings and restaurant reimaging continued to provide an appealing customer experience and supported the segment's results. For the year, APMEA generated positive comparable sales and operating income growth. APMEA's fourth quarter comparable sales declined 1.7% and operating income was flat (down 1% in constant currencies) against strong prior year results. Positive quarterly sales and operating results in†Australia†were more than offset by ongoing weakness in†Japan†and other markets. Throughout APMEA, consumers continued to respond to the segment's compelling value platforms, great tasting premium menu selections and relevant convenience. Don Thompson†continued, "As we begin the new year, our average annual long-term targets in constant currency remain intact: Systemwide sales growth of 3% to 5%, operating income growth of 6% to 7%, and return on incremental invested capital in the high teens. We believe these targets remain realistic and sustainable for a company of our size and maturity. In 2013, we plan to invest about†$3.2 billion†of capital to open between 1,500 - 1,600 new McDonald's restaurants and to reinvest in our existing locations, including reimaging more than 1,600 locations worldwide. We are confident that now is an opportune time to invest in our restaurant portfolio in ways that will yield value for all stakeholders in the future." Don Thompson†concluded, "Moving forward, we remain focused on seizing the long-term opportunities in the global marketplace by leveraging our competitive advantages. We have a brand advantage in convenience, menu variety and value, a resilient business model, and the experience and alignment throughout the McDonald's System to navigate the current environment. For the near-term we expect top and bottom-line growth to remain pressured, with January's global comparable sales†expected to be†negative." ----------------- ORIGINAL:†Minutes away from the release of the McDonald's fourth quarter earnings report, due out at 7:58 AM ET. Analysts expect the fast-food giant to report earnings of $1.33 per share, down from $1.43 per share in the previous quarter. Fourth-quarter sales are expected to come in at $6.898 billion, down from $7.152 billion in Q3. In an earnings preview, Morgan Stanley analysts John Glass and† Sushama Dasari write: Weíre not wild-eyed optimists, but do think weíre edging closer to an inflection point. Much like the last two Qs, the 4Q will have its challenges, including possible neg comps and commensurate margin pressure. However, with this Q and likely Jan comp outlook, we are now closer to the last known bad data points (Feb &amp; Mar facing ~7.5% compares globally); then comparisons progressively ease, setting the stage for potential accelerated sales momentum. MCD still faces material challenges and must prove its new value efforts here and in Europe work, but the risk reward is becoming more positive. Glass and Dasari have an "Equal-Weight" rating on the stock. Deutsche Bank analysts Jason West and Justin Marshall raised their price target on McDonald's shares last week ahead of earnings to $101.00 from $91.76. The analysts, who have a "Buy" rating on the stock, wrote: We believe MCDís absolute and relative performance will improve in 2013. Big Mac faced a ìperfect stormî of headwinds in 2012, many of which are unlikely to repeat. These included a significant (and planned) step-up in G&amp;A spend, an ~18c f/x headwind, limited new product intros in the US, and a broad-based retrenchment in consumer spending (globally) against difficult SSS compares. While itís never easy sledding in fast food, we believe MCDís EPS growth is posted to accelerate starting in 2Q as SSS, G&amp;A, and f/x compares improve simultaneously. Buy. Oppenheimer analysts Brian Bittner and Michael Tamas are not quite as optimistic. In an earnings preview, they write: 4Q12 results and the "tough" data points we envision through 1Q13 are unlikely to coat MCD with the secret sauce needed for material stock appreciation. The consensus "buy" argument is based on easing comparisons that begin in 2Q13. We agree with the logic, but '13 estimates still lack identifiable catalysts for upside, in our view. Even as sales laps will ease, concerning headwinds such as margin pressures, limited sales slack and lack of major share drivers remain a constraint to earnings growth. We will re-evaluate our thesis if probability and conviction for earnings upside improve in 2H13, but for now we remain confident in our "Perform" rating. We will have the full release†at 7:58 AM ET. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; DON'T MISS: 18 Facts About McDonald's That Will Blow Your Mind &gt;
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesA woman walks by a Coach store in New York City. UPDATE: Coach shares are now off 13% pre-market. EARLIER: Very strange incident this morning, that you don't see very often. Coach just came out with earnings. EPS missed expectations at $1.23 vs. estimates of $1.26. Same-store sales fell 2%, vs. expectation of an increase of over 2%. The stock is off about 10% pre-market. But here's the weird thing. They were apparently leaked early by an article in WomensWearDaily. The article is gated, but a note from JPMorgan that we got about an hour ago had the details in there. COH ‚Äì WWD Article Published Overnight Citing Interview w/COH Appears To Have FQ2 Earnings Results In It (COH is Scheduled To Report @ 7amET Today) SSS, GM &amp; EPS All Miss St.¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† FQ2 NA SSS dn 2% vs. St. +2.7%, JPM +2.3%¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† FQ2 EPS $1.23 vs. St. $1.29¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† FQ2 GM flat/72.2% vs. St. 72.4%, JPM 72.7%¬† ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† CEO L. Frankfort gave an exclusive interview to WWD¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The ‚Äúdisappointing‚Äù results were pulled down by the co‚Äôs women‚Äôs handbag business in NA where SSS were down 2% which were offset by strength in Int‚Äôl (China SSS up DD%). COH acknowledged new competitors but said that macroeconomic factors (i.e. impact of Hurricane Sandy, fiscall cliff, etc.) &amp; the decision not to promote even as competitors increased markdowns played a role.¬† ¬∑¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† Article says that ‚ÄúCoach reported weaker than expected Q2 earnings today &amp; turned in its first quarterly negative same-store-sales figure since the recession hit.‚Äù
Twitter via @_KatherineWebbKatherine Webb is dating Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron. She's also a former Miss Alabama and now she has 82,000+ Twitter followers.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
There are those who use data to figure out the truth. And there are those who use data to tell stories they want to tell. These two objectives are very different. And whether you're interested in using data to figure out the truth--or in using it to tell a particular story--you should be aware of how easily data can be manipulated. Estelle Metayer of Competia tweeted this great screenshot from a presentation at the World Economic Forum. The presentation is by John Maeda, the president of design school RISD (Rhode Island School of Design). The screen shot shows clearly how the same data can be presented to tell two completely different stories--in this case just by changing the scale. On the left: Government spending is going through the roof! On the right: Government spending is stable. Estelle Metayer SEE ALSO: Unboxing The Davos Swag Bag
Yesterday we showed you a screengrab of David Tepper's Bloomberg interview, wherein he revealed than in 1978, he had a wild fro. It turns out, it once prevented him from getting a job. In the interview he said: "As a matter of fact, McDonald's. I tried to get a job at McDonald's. I couldn't get a job. They would not hire me. It was a problem to get a hairnet over the afro." Watch the full interview here. Bloomberg TV
Henry Blodget, Business Insider An amusing scene in Davos this morning. JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon was hanging with Bloomberg anchor Tom Keene at one of the conference center coffee bars. Tom Keene is the voice of Wall Street--his radio show kicks the day off every morning--but his voice is more familiar than his face. So it's startling to be reminded of how colossal he is. Meanwhile, Jamie Dimon was his usual brash, charming self. That particular conversation, Mr. Keene's handlers sternly warned some assembled looky-loos, was off the record. But Mr. Dimon has already said many things this morning that have gotten everyone talking. For example: SEE ALSO: UNBOXING: The Davos Swag Bag
Speaking at Davos, WPP's Martin Sorrell revealed the things that worry him: The Mideast, the US fiscal situation, Europe, and China. That prompted Tony Fratto to tweet: Tony Fratto That's totally correct. Even famous doomer Nouriel Roubini basically has the same list of concerns for the year. Everyone is super-tired of the same fears: Mideast tensions, unrest in Europe, hard landing risks in China, political polarization in the US. On the concern front, nobody has anything original to say, which is why a lot of people are just throwing in the towel now, and saying: Well, the crises are done. This is what hedge funder David Tepper said on Bloomberg yesterday, that there are no major negatives left. Something will come along that will be interesting, but at the moment, we've got cliche worries on the one hand, and on the other hand, people saying they can't think of anything to be concerned about.
Harvard professor Kenneth Rogoff, who made one of the most accurate economic predictions in history a few years ago, has issued a new outlook. Professor Rogoff, you might recall, co-wrote a landmark book about the aftermath of financial crises with his collaborator Carmen Reinhart. The book, "This Time It's Different," examined dozens of financial crises similar to the one the U.S. experienced in 2008-2009. Reinhart and Rogoff's conclusion after analyzing these crises was the the global economy would experience a long period of slow growth. And so it has. In the past several years, the US economy has grown at about 1%-2% per year, a far cry from the 3%-4% growth rates that had come to feel normal. So, what do Reinhart and Rogoff think will happen next? Professor Rogoff was getting a coffee this morning at the Davos conference at the same time that I was getting a tea. So I asked him. "Hopefully not as bad [as the last few years]," he said. He brought up the theme of this year's conference: "Resilient Dynamism." "I see the resilience," he said.† "But not the dynamism." So, in Professor Rogoff's view, it sounds like we're in for another okay-but-kinda-crappy few years.
Zilberman Sands Photography / FlickrDavid Bianco and Deutsche Bank's U.S. equity strategy team believe that the S&amp;P 500 will reach 1,575 by the end of 2013.¬† If we get a decent deal to address the sequestration, Bianco thinks the index goes as high as 1,600. But within the market, some stocks look better than others. In his latest note to clients, Bianco includes a list of the 30 stocks he likes right now. All of these stocks are buy-rated by Deutsche Bank analysts.¬† Each have a market capitalization over $10 billion, a price-earning ratio on 2013 EPS below 18, 2013 EPS growth above 5 percent, and a net debt to market cap ratio below 30 percent (excluding Financials). ¬†
* Investors expecting improvement in corporate revenues * Firms need $5 trln a year to meet market hopes: Accenture * Mismatch between macro and micro-level growth forecasts * Little appetite for M&amp;A but smarter technology in focus DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan 23 (Reuters) - Business leaders in Davos have plenty to worry about, from the euro zone to global geopolitical upheavals, but at heart their problem is simple: how to find new revenue in a low-growth world. Half a decade on from the financial crisis, investors want to see earnings driven by more than just cost cutting. Their focus now is on a return to sales growth, which presents the world's largest corporations with a $5 trillion challenge. That is the amount of extra revenue the 1,200 top global companies need to find each year simply to meet analysts' expectations, according to consulting firm Accenture. "The trouble is that stock markets' expectations of the ability of companies to grow far exceeds the underlying macroeconomic growth rates," said Mark Spelman, Accenture's global head of strategy. "So companies need to get beyond just thinking about emerging markets and rising middle classes and start to look at those segments where you are seeing significant consumer change, because there is a lot of latent growth in those segments." Increasingly, companies are seeking specific pockets of opportunity for sales growth. They remain cautious about major new investments, however, with confidence among managers in the near-term outlook for their businesses still weak. The annual PricewaterhouseCoopers survey of more than 1,300 chief executives worldwide found only 36 percent were "very confident" of their firm's prospects for revenue growth in the next 12 months, down from 40 percent a year ago. MACRO VS MICRO MISMATCH The mismatch between the sputtering global market for goods and services predicted by macroeconomists and the lofty numbers forecast by analysts following individual companies is striking. In all regions, analysts' forecasts for company revenue growth are well above prevailing views on underlying economies. While the World Bank last week cut its 2013 global growth forecast to 2.4 percent - and just 1.3 percent in advanced economies - analysts see company revenues expanding by 7.8 percent in Asia outside Japan, 3.8 percent in the United States and 2.4 in the euro zone, according Thomson Reuters data. And consensus forecasts call for 2014 sales to pick up even further, especially in the U.S., where a recovery, it is hoped, could be spurred by rapid growth in shale oil and gas supplies. Companies in the middle of the current hoped-for recovery are wary, as reflected in results from two of Europe's biggest manufacturers on Wednesday. Siemens warned that industrial demand was weakening, while Unilever said economic conditions were "tough", though it had countered this by faster innovation in its products. Longer term, CEOs are more optimistic, but there are bound to be questions over delivery, given that only around a tenth of companies in the S&amp;P Global 1200 index have seen revenue growth outstrip economic growth in each of the past three years. In the fight to buck the slow-growth trend, nimbleness is key as companies move away from broad-based bets to more targeted strategies that they hope will win market share. "Uncertainty is itself becoming more of a certainty," said Jonas Prising, who heads Manpower's operations in the Americas and southern Europe. "In this new environment, strategic flexibility becomes all important." M&amp;A AVERSION Mergers and acquisitions would be one way for corporations to buy growth - but CEOs remain reluctant to undertake large-scale deals, despite cheap credit and relatively low valuations. In fact, the focus of CEOs on M&amp;A is at the lowest level in six years, according to the executives surveyed by PwC. "M&amp;A activity is going to be very focused, very targeted and certainly nowhere near the levels that we saw over the past several years," said PwC International Chairman Dennis Nally. The calamitous nature of some bold deals from the recent past, such as those of miner Rio Tinto, whose CEO was sacked last week, will do nothing to encourage boldness by other business leaders. An important focus for companies now is on smarter ways to serve sections of their existing markets, while placing selective bets on new openings. For many, this involves embracing digital technology to keep pace with changes in how consumers buy goods and services - from shifting more resources to online sales to greater use of new tools to analyse behaviour. But new opportunities come in many guises. Luxury goods companies, for example, are aggressively growing their retail networks, especially flagship stores, particularly in growth markets, while companies in many sectors are chasing new service contracts that can lock in profits for years. Geography, too, remains a vital lever for managers to pull as they chase new sales. For Spanish companies struggling with a dire home market, Latin America has become a prime target because of their language advantage, helping the likes of telecoms giant Telefonica. Others are betting that the U.S. market will indeed surge back this year, including German carmaker BMW and fashion house Hugo Boss. With $5 trillion to find, the world's business leaders can afford to leave no stone unturned. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
US equity markets are touching multi-year highs as investors increasingly allocate to the risk-on trade. But there are a few signals that may indicate some need for caution - at least in the short-term: 1. As discussed earlier (see post), consumer sentiment remains quite weak, which could easily create headwinds for corporate earnings. 2. Energy prices have been on the rise, with WTI crude oil at the highest level since September. 3. Regional manufacturing data isn't showing much improvement. The Richmond Fed index came in significantly below expectations.  What's particularly troubling about this index is that the component tracking manufacturing output prices declined while input prices rose. Not great for margins.  The Philadelphia Fed Survey and The Empire State Mfg Survey also both came in materially below expectations last week. 4. At the national level, activity remains subdued. The Chicago Fed National Activity Index today came in below analysts' forecasts. U.S. economic growth is still fairly weak.  5. From a technical perspective, the world all of a sudden turned bullish. According to Merrill Lynch, investor "cash allocations fell to the lowest level since February 2011" and "allocation to bonds fell to lowest level since May 2011". We may not yet be at a level professionals would view as a contrarian signal, but this should certainly signal a need for caution.
Flickr Images MoneyThe big news today is that David Cameron will propose a referendum on whether or not the UK stats in the EU. From SocGen's Kit Juckes, here's what that means for the UK pound. Basically it's just part of a perfect storm that includes a potential loss of the AAA and weakening economy, meaning pound pounding may be in store: †One man who may find it easy to talk down his currency is David Cameron. The pound is already under pressure. Promising a referendum on EU membership can send it lower.† Cameron will deliver his delayed speech on the UK's relationship with Europe this morning, and press comments suggest he is going to promise a referendum on EU membership in the next parliament, should the Conservatives be in power at that point. I don't believe Mr cameron wants the UK to leave the EU, but he does want to change the relationship with the Euro Zone countries as they move towards closer ties in the wake of the crisis of recent years. The risk, obviously, is that a promise of a referendum will see firstly, little enthusiasm from the UK's European partners to re-negotiate the terms of membership, and secondly, growing concern abut what economic isolation could do for the UK. A vote won't happen until 2017, if at all, but the pound can react much quicker than that and this is another potential drag. A weak economy, a triple-A credit rating in danger of downgrade, export volumes which are lower than they were in 2008, and a more central bank† than the ECB, is not a recipe for a strong pound. Today's labour market data will need to avoid disappointing if we are to avoid another rapid spike higher in EUR/GBP to 0.85 and beyond. For more on the referendum, see here &gt;
Business InsiderThe world's most prestigious and important conference kicked off in Davos, Switzerland yesterday. At this conference, world leaders gather to discuss topics that are considered to be of vital importance to the world. For the past two years, the most popular article I have written about the Davos conference (by one measure) is the "unboxing" of the Davos swag bag. This is not because the Davos swag bag is a particularly awesome swag bag. It is because,¬† it seems impossible not to conclude, the most interesting thing about the Davos conference from the perspective of those who are not at the Davos conference is the Davos swag bag. With this in mind, we once again bring you...
Business InsiderThe world's most prestigious and important conference kicked off in Davos, Switzerland yesterday. At this conference, world leaders gather to discuss topics that are considered to be of vital importance to the world. For the past two years, the most popular article I have written about the Davos conference (by one measure) is the "unboxing" of the Davos swag bag. This is not because the Davos swag bag is a particularly awesome swag bag. It is because,¬† it seems impossible not to conclude, the most interesting thing about the Davos conference from the perspective of those who are not at the Davos conference is the Davos swag bag. With this in mind, we once again bring you...
Wikimedia CommonsFourth quarter earnings season is in full swing. According to FactSet, just over 10 percent of companies in the S&amp;P have reported their financial results, and two thirds have beat expectations on revenues and estimates. However, these announcements are about more than EPS.† Through their press releases and earnings calls, these companies reveal what's really going on in the world from their unparalleled perspectives. We've listened to the latest earnings calls and read through the earnings call transcripts to fill you in on what executives are saying about the world and where it's headed. Generally speaking, companies are bullish on China, bearish on Europe, and increasingly trying to cope with regulatory and technological changes.
Markets are generally drifting a bit lower today. US futures are down a it. Spain is off 0.27%. Italy down 0.6%. Germany flat. The big loser though? Japan, which has seen its market weaken ever since the Bank of Japan announcement just over 24 hours ago. The Bank of Japan on Tuesday announced plans to¬† raise its inflation target, but its bond buying program was more tepid than expected. So the yen has strengthened, and the Nikkei is going down. It fell 2% last night.
