AP Republican and Democratic leaders came out of a big meeting at the White House without any visible progress in talks over the ongoing government shutdown and the upcoming need to raise the nation's borrowing limit.† Both sides came out of the meeting with the exact same positions they've had all along. With no solution and with both chambers adjourning for the night, it's on to Day 3 of the federal government shutdown.† "The one thing we made clear ó we are locked in tight on Obamacare," Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid told reporters outside the White House.† House Speaker John Boehner was the first leader to come out of the meeting. He made a short statement, said that President Barack Obama reiterated he would not negotiate, and left without taking questions. Reid and House Minority leader Nancy Pelosi came out after Boehner, and they attempted to pin the blame on him for not being willing to put the Senate's so-called "clean" continuing resolution on the House floor.† "I can only conclude that they wanted to shut down government," Pelosi said.† Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who attended the meeting, did not talk to reporters afterward. Pelosi also called for a debate over raising the debt ceiling to be taken off the table in the discussions. "Closing the government is bad," she said. Combining that with a potential default on U.S. obligations, she added, is "cataclysmic." But there's seemingly no end in sight for either budget battle. Earlier on Wednesday, Reid made Boehner an offer to go to conference on a long-term budget†if the House passed the "clean" continuing resolution to open the government. Boehner rejected the offer. The House, meanwhile, passed a series of piecemeal bills that would reopen certain, more popular parts of the government. Democrats have rejected a piecemeal approach, and Obama threatened a veto.† Meanwhile, Obama gave an interview to CNBC, where he described himself as "exasperated" over the constant "governing by crisis."†He also said that Wall Street should be concerned, this time, over the gridlock in Washington. "I think this time's different. I think they should be concerned," Obama said.
Courtesy of AerialAesthetics.comFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need To Focus More On State Estate Taxes (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors need to start paying more attention to state estate taxes, writes Michael Foltz of Chicago-based Balasa Dinverno Foltz in a new WSJ column. 18 states and the Washington D.C. have their own estate taxes, as different from federal estate taxes and each state has different tax exemptions he points out.¬† "Where a client retires is a very relevant question. Some clients may be willing to relocate to states that have beneficial tax laws. However, for those who don't want to move, one way to mitigate state estate taxes is to adopt estate-planning strategies in a jurisdiction where there is no tax. This can be done even if you don't live there." The 'Smart Money' In The Stock Market Has Been Headed For The Exits Since May (Business Insider)  Even as stocks have made new all-time highs since May, the "Smart Money Flow Index" has been heading lower. The index is "calculated by taking the action of the Dow in two time periods: the first 20 minutes and the close," according to Bloomberg. "The first 30 minutes represent emotional buying, driven by greed and fear of the crowd based on good and bad news. There is also a lot of buying on market orders and short covering at the opening. Smart money waits until the end and they very often test the market before by shorting heavily just to see how the market reacts."¬†  Advisors Should Not Become Their Clients' Best Friends (WealthManagement.com) Financial planners often get to know about their clients' wealth but also about their relationships. And it isn't advantageous for either if the client sees them as "friend" or "foe" writes Patricia Angus, in a new WealthManagement.com column. Instead she thinks its best to find a middle ground.¬† "I‚Äôve found that genuinely caring about the client‚Äôs welfare and expressing that in a¬† ‚Äúfriendly‚Äù way, can certainly help the client-advisor relationship, so long as the advisor understands where the lines ought to be drawn.¬† On the other side, an advisor probably can‚Äôt be effective professionally if she holds the in disdain.¬† It‚Äôs the advisor‚Äôs duty to stay aware of when the relationship has gotten too close or if the distance has gotten too far apart.¬† If either situation arises, it might be best if the advisor could have an¬† ‚Äúit's not you, it‚Äôs me‚Äù conversation to either set the relationship on a more balanced course or end the professional relationship graciously. Either way, the advisor should consider what‚Äôs best for the client." Investors Are Still Confident On Their Fixed Income Investments¬†(Investment News) The idea is that whenever the Dow makes a high that isn't confirmed by the index "there is trouble head." The DJIA has made three new all time highs since May and none of them have been confirmed by the index, reports Business Insider's Matthew Boesler. 72% of investors are still confident about their fixed income investments, according to a survey of 1,000 investors with at least $100,000 in investible assets, by Guggenheim Investments. "I think investors are encouraged by the breadth of choices becoming available to them in fixed income," William Belden of Guggenheim told Investment News. "And while you've seen some recent redemption activity overall on the heels on rising interest rates, there are pockets of fixed income, like defined maturity, bank loans and shorter-duration products that continue to experience positive inflows and carry the characteristics that investors look for from fixed income ‚Äî steady income and stability of principal." The Research Managers That Made The Cut For FA's 2013 All-Star Research Managers Team (FA Mag)  Financial Advisor magazine has named the research managers for their 2013 All-Star Research Managers team. The¬† 1. Melissa Joy, partner at Center for Financial Planning. 2. Lydia Sheckels, chief investment officer (CIO) at Wescott Financial Advisory Group LLC. 3. Justin Pawl CIO and Thomas Villalta, Director of Investment Research at Covenant Multifamily Offices. 4. Lew Altfest, CEO and CIO; Andrew Altfest, executive vice president; Ekta Patel, managing advisor; and Peter Jun, investment analyst at Altfest Personal Wealth Management. 5. Brad McMillan, CIO; Simon Heslop, senior vice president, asset management; Brian Price, director, asset management, James McAllister, manager investment research; and Meagan Swanson, senior fixed income analyst at Commonwealth.
Silk Road, an underground e-commerce site known for trafficking illegal drugs, has been shut down. Its alleged founder, Russ Ulbricht, aka "Dread Pirate Roberts" or "DPR," has been arrested. Silk Roaders are bumming. And it's a little bit hilarious. Here are 10 choice quotes from reddit's Silk Road thread on this new turn of events.reddit reddit reddit reddit
APCNBC just broadcasted an interview with Obama. This is the key line: JOHN HARWOOD: You mentioned calm. Wall Street's been pretty calm about this. The reaction I would say, generally speaking, has been, "Washington fighting, Washington posturing, yaddah, yaddah, yaddah." Is that the right way for them to look at it?† PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: No, I think this time's different. I think they should be concerned. And ó I had a chance to speak to ó some of the financial industry who came down for their typical trip. And I told them that ó it is ó not unusual for Democrats and Republicans to disagree. That's the way the founders designed our government. Democracy's messy. For more on the interview, see here.
Oneras via Flickr For many individuals, reinvesting dividends may be among the most obvious and automatic rules for building wealth, and with good reason ñ it can be an easy way to get more shares of the funds or company stock you already own, often at a lower cost than buying new ones using your trading account. Whether you notice it or not, the dividends you're paid are often reinvested automatically for you, especially if you own mutual funds. These dividend payouts are an increasingly important part of the average person's portfolio, with bond yields near historic lows. Companies are paying record levels of dividends. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index companies have sent shareholders $300 billion worth in the last 12 months, according to S&amp;P data. The average dividend yield is a bit over 2.5 percent, and people have flocked to dividend-paying stock funds as they abandon bonds. Many brokers manage the reinvestment transactions for the shares their clients hold, helping reduce paperwork for the programs, which can be daunting. Fund companies nearly always offer them for the funds they sell investors. But be careful. Dividend reinvesting, sometimes done through dividend reinvestment plans, or DRIPs, can be a drain on your savings if you are not handling payouts the right way. Many people are not even aware of what happens to their dividends when they land as cash in their accounts. Taking a look at how your account is set up to manage fees and optimize payouts can add up to serious money in the long term. [See:†10 Target Date Funds Producing High-Grade Nest Eggs.] Here are things you can do to make sure you are making the most of valuable dividends. Make sure you know how your dividends are paid.†It sounds simple, but a lot of dividend payouts are wasted or misused. You can set up your account so the payments go directly into a money market ñ where yields are near zero now but you have access to cash when you need it. Or they might be automatically reinvested in the fund or individual stock. "The reinvestment election can be selected or de-selected at any time," says Steve Balaban, a financial advisor at Williams Financial Group. It's true for mutual funds, both equity and debt, and for individual stock positions, he adds. Bond dividends arrive as cash payouts that normally are not part of a DRIP unless you are a very large investor. The choice can be automatic, but the decision should not be.†Whether you reinvest dividends should depend on your overall investment needs. The reinvestment should reflect whether you are building your savings or nearing the time you need the income. "If you are investing for the long term, then reinvesting dividends is usually a good idea," says Arden Rodgers, financial advisor and principle of Arbus Capital Management LLC. "Dividends provide a large part of the total return of equity investments." [Read:†3 Ways You May Be Throwing Away Money Without Realizing It.] Watch out for hidden fees.†Sometimes you will be charged for reinvesting dividends in a company's stock if you're participating in a DRIP. Even if you are getting a discount on the share purchase of 2 percent to 4 percent, a commission for those reinvestment purchases of the shares could be added to the cost and could eat away at the discount. While there is often not a direct fee for participating in a DRIP and it's usually cheaper than buying shares on the open market, there may also be a transaction fee for acquiring the shares for your account. Some reinvestment plans will deduct some of the dividend payment to cover fees. Brokers each have their own way of handling such costs, so you will need to check. Also, don't forget to consider the "opportunity cost" of reinvesting in the same fund or company over and over versus what you might make elsewhere. Remember that investment funds and companies often have a vested interest in keeping you in their shares, but it might not be the best idea for your own retirement savings plans. Make sure your investment does not throw your allocations out of line.†It might not seem like a big deal, especially if you are thinking about a dividend paying 1 percent or 2 percent on common shares. But if you are in a speculative high-yield bond fund that manages a 10 percent yield and you are automatically reinvested, it could throw your portfolio out of whack in a hurry. [Read:†Understand the Science of Saving for the Future.] Even reinvesting relatively small payouts can gradually nudge your allocations away from where you'd like them. "Over time, reinvesting dividends can push your portfolio out of balance compared to your target asset allocation," Rodgers says. Make the most of compound interest by staying invested.†Reinvesting "keeps you from having a cash drag on your returns if you do not reinvest the cash dividend right away," Rodgers says. The upside to automatically adding to your investments is that you're saving no matter what. Behavioral finance studies show that by making your savings automatic, you are more likely to save than if you need to actively choose to do so. In a study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Harvard University researcher Brigitte Madrian found that the number of participants in workplace savings plans nearly doubled when people were "auto-enrolled," compared to the number who did so if they needed to opt in to a plan. Dividend reinvesting applies the same principle. While people investing in equities have often ignored dividends, they are worth paying attention to and can add up to big money over time. Rodgers notes that the S&amp;P 500 index is up about 53 percent over the past five years. If you followed a plan of reinvesting dividends on S&amp;P shares, your return would be 71 percent. So the upside is there if you are committed to owning stocks and can handle their associated risk, and if you don't need dividends for other purposes like income. "If the client is in the distribution phase of their life, I will most frequently recommend that they not be reinvested," Balaban says. "I don't believe introducing market risk into the equation is in the client's best interests when I know the income is going to be withdrawn."
Twitter/@CNBCPresident Barack Obama told CNBC's John Harwood in an interview Wednesday afternoon that he is "exasperated" over repeated congressional budget battles. "I've bent over backwards to work with the GOP during my Presidency," Obama said. "So, am I exasperated? I'm exasperated because this is entirely unnecessary. "I am exasperated with the idea that unless I say to 20 million people, 'You can't have health insurance,' they will not reopen the government. That is irresponsible." Emphasizing that he believed House Speaker John Boehner would be able to pass the Senate's so-called "clean" continuing resolution, Obama told Harwood†that he wouldn't engage in "serious negotiations" until Republicans pass a bill to keep the government funded. "John Boehner has not been willing to say no to a faction of the Republican Party who are willing to burn the house down," Obama said. The interview comes amid the ongoing government shutdown, which is in its second full day†with no apparent end in sight. It also comes about two weeks before Congress needs to raise the nation's $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.† And it's part of a clear strategy to enlist allies in Wall Street and the business community in the two budget battles.†Obama said that Wall Street should be concerned that a faction of Republicans were, in his eyes, willing to let the U.S. default on its debt in order to push "ideological" demands. "I think this time is different. This time, I think, Wall Street should be concerned," Obama said to Harwood. Obama will meet with congressional leaders at the White House at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday.† Here's the full video of Obama's appearance on CNBC:† 
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJohn Zangas (L), who identified himself as a federal employee, and Janette Dunder (R) protest against the current government shutdown at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 2, 2013.It's day two of the U.S. government shutdown. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Aj Gill via YouTubeTesla's stock was down over 7% to a low of $175.40 today, but pared some of its losses to close down 6.24% at$180.95. It appears that shares began to tumble in the last half hour on reports that a Tesla Model S car caught fire on Washington State Route 167. Some speculated that the video highlights problems with the car's battery. Though others rushed to point out that the battery is located in the back of the car. Here is Tesla's response to the accident via Jalopnik: "Yesterday, a Model S collided with a large metallic object in the middle of the road, causing significant damage to the vehicle. The car‚Äôs alert system signaled a problem and instructed the driver to pull over safely, which he did. No one was injured, and the sole occupant had sufficient time to exit the vehicle safely and call the authorities. Subsequently, a fire caused by the substantial damage sustained during the collision was contained to the front of the vehicle thanks to the design and construction of the vehicle and battery pack. All indications are that the fire never entered the interior cabin of the car. It was extinguished on-site by the fire department." In its 10-Q Tesla noted: "Our vehicles make use of lithium-ion battery cells, which have been observed to catch fire or vent smoke and flame, and such events have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional concerns, about the batteries used in automotive applications. "The battery pack in the Tesla Roadster and Model S makes use of lithium-ion cells. We also currently intend to make use of lithium-ion cells in battery packs that we sell to Toyota and Daimler as well as any future vehicles we may produce. On rare occasions, lithium-ion cells can rapidly release the energy they contain by venting smoke and flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as well as other lithium-ion cells. Highly publicized incidents of laptop computers and cell phones bursting into flames have focused consumer attention on the safety of these cells. More recently, multiple Chevrolet Volt battery pack fires, followed by a government investigation into the cause of such fires focused considerable public attention, as well as the attention of NHTSA, on the safety of electric vehicles. "These events have raised concerns about the batteries used in automotive applications. To address these questions and concerns, a number of cell manufacturers are pursuing alternative lithium-ion battery cell chemistries to improve safety. We have designed the battery pack to passively contain any single cell‚Äôs release of energy without spreading to neighboring cells and we are not aware of any such incident in our customers‚Äô vehicles. However, we have delivered only a limited number of Tesla Roadsters and Model S sedans to customers and have limited field experience with our vehicles, especially Model S. We have also only delivered a limited number of battery packs to Toyota and Daimler. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that a field or testing failure of our Model S or other battery packs that we produce will not occur, which could damage the vehicle or lead to personal injury or death and may subject us to lawsuits. We may have to recall our vehicles or participate in a recall of a vehicle that contains our battery packs, and redesign our battery packs, which would be time consuming and expensive. Also, negative public perceptions regarding the suitability of lithium-ion cells for automotive applications or any future incident involving lithium-ion cells such as a vehicle or other fire, even if such incident does not involve us, could seriously harm our business." Earlier today, Baird analyst Ben Kallo downgraded Tesla to neutral, from outperform based on valuation. "Since our initiation, TSLA has significantly outperformed the market through solid execution, technology validation, and brand creation. Although we continue to be bullish on TSLA‚Äôs long-term prospects, we think the stock appreciation reflects its technological leadership and several milestones that could contain execution risk. We would look to become more constructive on execution related pullbacks or significant advances in battery technology." The stock is still up 434% year-to-date. Google Finance Here's the video that's being passed around: 
It's Friday but you suit up anyway. Casual Friday had its moment in the early oughts but faded sometime just before the financial crisis. You're glad. You never looked that good in khakis and a polo shirt anyway. So while you trudge off for the subway, you pass some kid in sneakers, blue jeans, a T-shirt and a hoodie. Another damn start-up kid who can afford to cab it to work instead of taking the subway like a normal human being. Or maybe he works for†Google†or†Facebook. He might work for Barclays. The bank has recently put in place a policy of super-casual Fridays. Jeans, T-shirts, and even sneakers are acceptable on Fridays, according to people who work for the bank (and spoke on the condition of anonymity because banks keep everything top secret, even stuff like the rules of permissible footwear). The idea, apparently, is to make Barclays a better, cooler place to work. It's one of a number of initiatives the company is taking to make employees enjoy their workplace more. Not everyone is thrilled. In particular, some of the holdovers from the Lehman Brothers days are dismayed. One former Lehmanite expressed horror at the idea of going to work in sneakers. "I didn't become an investment banker to dress like a perpetual teenager," one Lehman vet said. "It's ridiculous. Please make them stop," said another. "It's like working at a start-up but without the IPO." Former Lehman CEO Dick Fuld is probably rolling over in his†Idaho hideaway. "It's a complete slap in the face to Erin Callan's personal shopper at Bergdorf," one former Lehmanite at Barclays said. (Callan was†the notoriously well-dressed CFO in the months leading up to Lehman's collapse.) A spokesperson for Barclays declined to comment about the policy or about what she was wearing as CNBC.com spoke to her.
CNBCScott Wapner and me.On CNBC this afternoon I mentioned that I hope Apple tells Carl Icahn to "stuff it." This startled some folks, so I figured I would explain this thinking in more detail. First, the back-story... Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn has found a new target:¬†Apple. Icahn says he bought a billion dollars worth of Apple stock last month, and that he has already had a phone call and dinner with Apple CEO Tim Cook. Over dinner, Icahn told CNBC's Scott Wapner yesterday, Icahn discussed his demand that Apple spend $150 billion buying back its own stock. Things "got a little testy" at that dinner, Icahn added. And no wonder. Because Apple CEO Tim Cook has much better things to do than spend his evening hours getting lectured by Carl Icahn about the virtues of short-term financial engineering. I'm generally a big fan of Carl Icahn. He's a smart, tough, bold, talented activist investor. He has helped whip a lot of lame, mediocre companies into shape. He's also very entertaining. The time he called into CNBC last year to rip into fellow billionaire Bill Ackman was probably the best half-hour in the history of financial television. Carl Icahn might be right that, if Apple borrowed a hundred billion dollars and used it to buy back its stock, Apple's stock price might rise, at least temporarily. But as a fellow Apple shareholder, I hope that Apple doesn't do that. Instead, I hope Apple tells Carl Icahn to get lost. Apple is one of the world's greatest companies. And it has much better things to do than waste its time on short-term financial engineering moves just to please a grasshopper-like investor like Carl Icahn. Michael Nagle/Getty ImagesI'm a big fan, Carl. But go hassle some other company.Apple has delivered extraordinary returns to its long-term shareholders over the past 15 years. It has done this by focusing on what it does best: Making great products that customers love. If Apple continues to make great products that customers love over the next 15 years, Apple's long-term shareholders will do just fine. And in the meantime, they'll earn a nice, fat dividend. If Apple did borrow ~$150 billion to buy back its own stock, meanwhile (it would have to borrow this money, because most of its own cash is located overseas and it can't use it to buy back stock without paying huge taxes), then Carl Icahn would just dump it and move on. Then Apple's actual investors, like me, would be left with a company with a mountain of debt and less cash and flexibility during a challenging period for the industry and company. If Apple stumbled in its actual business ‚Äî producing great products ‚Äî its temporarily financially-engineered stock price might fall. Carl Icahn wouldn't care, because he would be long gone. But Apple employees, customers, and investors like me would care. Because we would be stuck with a mountain of debt, a lack of cash, and a company that has a lot less flexibility. In fairness to Carl Icahn, I do think that Apple should return more cash to shareholders. I think it should increase its dividend and divert more cash flow to buying back shares. Doing this would not reduce Apple's flexibility or load it to the gills with debt. And it would make Apple stock an even more attractive investment. But spending a few more billion a year on dividends and buybacks, and rewarding long-term shareholders with this cash is a whole different ballgame than borrowing $150 billion to do a humongous one-shot buyback just to appease a loud and relatively small activist investor. (Yes, Carl Icahn owns a billion dollars of Apple stock. So what. When your company is worth $400 billion, a billion dollars amounts to a quarter of one percent. A billion dollars of stock doesn't even put Icahn in the top 20 Apple shareholders. Vanguard, Fidelity, Blackrock, Northern Trust, and dozens of other big institutional investors own a lot more Apple stock than Carl Icahn. So if Apple is going to listen to any shareholder demands, it should be theirs, not Carl Icahn's.) Over the past three decades, thanks to the professionalization of the money-management industry, U.S. corporations have gone from not giving a damn about shareholders (think the 1970s) to being way too in thrall to them (corporate profit margins are now at the highest level in history). This obsession with maximizing short-term earnings and stock returns, instead of balancing the interests of shareholders with customers and employees, is warping and hurting the American economy. In an effort to appease short-term traders, companies are cutting investment in future products, firing dedicated people, and, in some cases, reducing product quality. This behavior might temporarily add a couple of more points per year to the annual returns of Wall Street investors. But it's hurting our economy and companies ‚Äî and fellow Americans ‚Äî over the long run. Americans should be proud as hell of what Apple has accomplished. The company is a shining beacon of product-quality and success, and unlike many companies, it has also produced amazing returns for its shareholders. If Apple continues to focus on what really matters ‚Äî making great products ‚Äî Apple's stock price will take care of itself. Just as it always has. Short-term traders like Carl Icahn, however, don't give a damn about Apple or its products. ¬†They care about getting a quick score. If Carl Icahn had great product ideas for Apple, or great advice for telling Tim Cook how to resist the howls of short-term greed from Wall Street, then I, as an Apple investor, would welcome Carl Icahn's involvement with the company. But Carl Icahn doesn't want to help Apple make great products. He doesn't want to tell Tim Cook how to avoid getting sucked into the same short-term-greed game that has corrupted the decisions of many American executives. And he's not willing to let the process of Apple making great products make Apple's share price take care of itself. Carl Icahn just wants a payoff. So I hope Apple thanks Carl Icahn for his interest and, politely, tells him to shove off.¬† There are plenty of other companies Carl Icahn can hassle to produce big quick returns. He can start with BlackBerry, for example. Thanks to Apple, BlackBerry's pretty much dead, anyway. Here's the CNBC segment:  
Attention all New York City commuters: Grand Central will finally open its long-awaited Shake Shack this Saturday, October 5th. The new outpost will be located in the lower-level dining concourse, according to Crain's New York, joining the likes of Magnolia Bakery, Junior's Restaurant, and Zaro's Bakery. The 34th Shake Shack location will have a few original menu items, including the chain's new hand-cut fries, on-the-go ShackMeister Ale bottles, and its own signature concrete dessert called the "GCT Crunch-stellation" with vanilla frozen custard, malt, Valrhona chocolate, and chocolate toffee pieces. The opening will bring the burger chain's two-and-a-half-year real estate saga to a close. Back in 2011, Shake Shack bought the 2,300-square-foot space for its new location, but former tenant Z√≥calo refused to vacate the premises, saying that the bidding process was "corrupted." It eventually filed for bankruptcy and was evicted in early 2013, according to Crain's. Crain's reports that Shake Shack's 10-year lease will be $100,000 higher than what Z√≥calo was paying, at $435,000 a year. New York Magazine's Grub Street food blog did the math, and said that it equals roughly 94,565 single ShackBurgers. The new Grand Central Terminal Shake Shack will be giving away sweatbands and "Shack Shades" to the first customers this Saturday, according to Crain's, so line up early.
Google FinanceAfter spending the morning deep in the red, stocks are coming back. The Dow is down 64 points after being down by as much as 138 points. This is a 0.4% decline for the day. The S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq are almost flat for the day. All of this comes on day two of the U.S. government shutdown. Earlier today, the ADP reported that U.S. companies added fewer jobs than had been forecast by economists.
REUTERS/ Keith BedfordBoston Fed President Eric Rosengren said the central bank should reduce the pace of its bond-buying program very slowly over the next few years only when the economic data begins to meet Fed expectations. Rosengren is known to be one of the more "dovish" Fed presidents, meaning in favor of accommodative monetary policy. In a speech in Burlington, Vermont, Rosengren said "disappointing" economic data, a looming government shutdown, and the spike in long-term interest rates made it "premature to begin reducing the rate of Fed asset purchases" in September. He said he was in full support of the central bank's decision to not taper quantitative easing, a move that stunned markets. "If the economy evolves as expected, policy should in my†view include only a very slow removal of accommodation over†the next several years,î Rosengren said. The move ìshould only occur when†the data ratify our forecast for an improvement in real GDP†and employment." Reducing accommodation prematurely would "risk slowing the sectors of the†economy that have shown the greatest strength ñ the interest-sensitive sectors that have†been most responsive to policy actions," Rosengren said. Read the whole speech at the Boston Fed's website.
redditThe alleged founder of underground e-commerce website Silk Road has been arrested.† The site's primary medium of exchange was Bitcoin, the digital, ostensibly anonymous currency. And right now, the talk on Bitcoin forums is pretty grim ó not least because the FBI's indictment indicates the feds are monitoring them. The criminal complaint alleges that Ulbricht went by the name "altoid" on Bitcointalk.org, one of the main Bitcoin discussion sites.† That has turned Bitcointalk users paranoid. "Did this forum give up information via a court order? How does one extract IP information and possibly deleted posts with a normal account?" "fcmatt" asked.† A user named "Rampion" called out "theymos," an administrator at Bitcointalk.org,†for possibly cooperating with authorities†(emphasis "Rampion's"): "Read the indictment. They are monitoring these forums (and much more), they looked how a guy called "altoid" mentioned SR very early on, he had registered that account with his real email (BTW, Theymos: how did they get the email through which he registered his btctalk account?). So they thoroughly monitored "Ross Ulbricht", and they realized he had the same interests of DPR - they wrote about the same books, liked the same videos... So they started to follow his moves... And they caught him."They are watching." There's some debate about how the arrest will impact the future of Bitcoin. After the news dropped, that caused Bitcoin prices to instantly fall.  Entrepreneur and "hacker" Nik Cubrilovic†says Silk Road may have processed up to 75% of all Bitcoins in existence.† "uhh, silkroad was a huge part of BTC economy.. its not just the bitcoins that will be dumped, its the impact on the btc economy itself..," VolcanicEruptor said. But†reddit user "brcreeker" argues†prices won't come down by much, since Silk Road may be just one of a host of similarly illicit sites: "There might be a sudden flash crash, but I cannot see this news dragging the price below $100. If you are computer literate enough to use Tor and Bitcoin, then you should be well aware that identical, and possibly better services are already in the pipe. This market is way too big to just leave on the table."† And some are actually welcoming the arrest, arguing Bitcoin's reputation will be improved if it is no longer associated with Silk Road, which largely trafficked in illegal goods.† "This may be good news since there is nothing holding bitcoins back from becoming mainstream anymore," ronimacarroni wrote.†
We've got ourselves a fight ladies and gentlemen. Sotheby's has responded to hedge fund manager Dan Loeb's call for its CEO to step down with a straight up refusal to acknowledge it at all.  Without even mentioning what Loeb said, the company called Loeb's comments 'incendiary and baseless,' in a press release and then changed the subject. Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point Partners, upped its stake in the auction house to 9.29% this morning. And with that also came a love letter from Loeb arguing that Sotheby's CEO William Ruprecht had to go, as he saw "no evidence" that Ruprecht had the stuff to lead Sotheby's into a more Modern and Contemporary art centered world. To keep this story short and sweet, lets just say that Sotheby's isn't having any of that. The company didn't even give Loeb an 'interesting idea, but no thanks.' Instead it said it would rather focus on its successes in Hong Kong. This does not sound like a company ready to surrender to an activist. Check out their full release below: New York, 2 October 2013 ñ Sothebyís (NYSE: BID) acknowledged todayís Schedule 13D filing byThird Point LLC. Sothebyís actions as a leader in the global art business have been producing superiorresults ñ including a share price increase exceeding the Standard &amp; Poor's Mid cap index over the one,five and ten year periods. The comprehensive capital allocation review already underwaydemonstrates the Companyís ongoing efforts to optimize the balance sheet, improve the cost of capitaland manage financial policies in a way that supports Sotheby's strategy and delivers outstanding valueto shareholders.Today, rather than debating incendiary and baseless comments, we are focused on serving our clientsí needs during this critical autumn sales season, including this week in Hong Kong, where our offerings are 77% higher than the same series last year ñ the highest estimate of any Sothebyís sale in Asia. We will comment on the communication from Third Point at the appropriate time.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueThe Jefferson Memorial is seen with its entry closed off in Washington, October 1, 2013.About 800,000 federal workers have been furloughed and aren't accruing pay. Hundreds of thousands more are working because they're "essential." They're on the job and accruing income, but the federal government cannot issue payments for that work until the government shutdown is over. All these workers losing pay is a problem, both for their families and the broader economy. But it doesn't become a really big problem until mid-October, when most federal workers are next scheduled to be paid. Most federal workers' next paychecks are due on Oct. 11 or Oct. 15, depending which of four major federal payroll processing centers serve them. So, if the shutdown is resolved by then, essential workers won't miss any pay. Furloughed workers will also be paid in full if Congress agrees to make them whole, as it has done in past shutdowns. Active-duty military service members and workers whose pay is not subject to congressional appropriation (such as postal workers) will be paid as usual, even if the government shutdown is not fixed. And the mid-October check is for work during a two-week period ending Oct. 4. Even if the government is still closed on Oct. 11 or Oct. 15, federal workers will get a partial paycheck, because 6 of 10 business days in the Oct. 4 pay period were in September.†Guidance†from the Office of Personnel Management makes clear that processing payroll for periods prior to shutdown is one of the exempted activities that is permissible during shutdown. That doesn't mean the shutdown doesn't matter yet, from an employee perspective or an economic one. Many federal workers are surely slowing down their spending in anticipation that they might miss a paycheck. But the effects will get a lot bigger if payments are actually missedóand even bigger if the shutdown remains ongoing at the end of October, when many employees would miss a full paycheck. This is why I'm skeptical of claims that a government shutdown "could last weeks"; members of Congress will be seeing much more acute economic effects in their neighborhood (Washington) at the end of the month than they are today. This is just one example among many of a problem that builds over time as the government stays shut down. For example, unlike most nutrition assistance spending, the state-federal Women, Infants and Children program (WIC) is subject to appropriation and the government shutdown cuts off its federal funding. But states have flexibility to tap contingency funds and money left over from 2013 to pay for beneficiaries' food and infant formulaófor a period of days or weeks, at least. A lot more problems can be papered over in a short shutdown than a long one. As time passes and the government stays shut, more of those problems assert themselves, and continuing the shutdown becomes less and less tenable.
Silk Road, an anonymous Internet marketplace known as a destination for buying illegal drugs, has been seized by the FBI and its alleged owner arrested. The news has prompted Reddit's Silk Road community, r/SilkRoad, to freak out. Here are some of the most recent topics: Reddit Most of the discussion is limited to one thread, however: "SR shutdown fallout discussion". On this thread, it appears that some people have lost some serious money (they are not getting much sympathy though): Reddit Others are worried that they may not get their drugs: Reddit There are worries that users' data could be compromised: Reddit Those with orders in transit are worried that the vendors won't get paid: Reddit Some are worried about how they will order illicit supplies now: Reddit Others worry about the price of Bitcoin: Reddit There's some theories that a Silk Road alternative, Atlantis, may have been behind the seizure somehow. Atlantis itself, which billed itself as a "flashier" alternative to SR, was shut down last month: Reddit For at least one person, however, there's a bright side: Reddit
APSenate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) has made House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) an offer to end the ongoing government shutdown ‚Äî pass the Senate's "clean" continuing resolution that would reopen the government, and he will immediately appoint conferees to a budget conference between the House and Senate. This isn't really a "new" offer. Senate Democrats have been pushing for a budget conference since April. And they have pointed out that Republicans have blocked a potential budget conference 18 times. But it comes after¬†the House, scrambling on Monday night,¬†passed a motion to form a conference committee¬†with the Senate to iron out differences in the six-week continuing resolution. Reid and other Democrats objected to this, saying Republicans are trying to negotiate with a "gun to our heads." And the Senate killed the House motion on Tuesday. Michael Steel, a Boehner spokesman, said the offer was a non-starter. ‚ÄúThe entire government is shut down right now because Washington Democrats refuse to even talk about fairness for all Americans under Obamacare. Offering to negotiate only after Democrats get everything they want is not much of an offer," Steel said. In his letter to Boehner, Reid drew an analogy to Republicans' current objects to the Affordable Care Act to his opposition to the Iraq War.¬† "I hated the Iraq War. I think I hated it as much as you hate the Affordable Care Act," Reid wrote.¬† "There were many gut-wrenching nights when I struggled over what I needed to do to end the carnage. In those days, when President Bush was Commander in Chief, I could have taken the steps that you are taking now to block Government funding in order to gain leverage to end the war. I faced a lot of pressure from my own base to take that action. But I did not do that. I felt that it would have been devastating to America." The full letter is below: Harry Reid letter to John Boehner 
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVGluskin Sheff's veteran economist David Rosenberg is out with a new note debunking what he calls the "biggest myth around," the idea that the U.S. consumer has not been contributing to the economy. "Far from it ó the contribution the consumer is making in terms of a long-term commitment to the economy is rather impressive, in view of all the fiscal headwinds and what has been a challenging jobs market," Rosenberg wrote to clients. Real consumer expenditures on big ticket durable goods rose a hefty 0.8% in August on top of a 0.4% gain in July and a 1% bounce in June. Perhaps it would be too cheerleading to report that such outlays have risen for seven months in a row. The three-month trend is running at a not-too-shabby 9.3% annual rate and the YoY trend is running north of 8%. What is holding back much of the spending has been services, many of which are imputed by the government. The burst of durable goods spending has transcended the booming automotive sector. I say "booming" fully recognizing that motor vehicle sales dropped in September to a 15.24 million unit annual rate from 16.02 million in August ó the lowest reading since April but the reality is that calendar distortions were at least partly at play ó 23 selling days versus 28 in August and 25 in September of last year (and sales volumes are up more than 4% from then). But as the government shutdown drags on, consumers may face even stronger "fiscal headwinds."
He's back! Hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who has a reputation for his vitriolic letters and emails, has sent a scathing letter to Sotheby's, the activist investor's latest target.† This time around Third Point CEO is a bit more toned down than he has been in the past, but he still, calls for the CEO to step down. Rough, but his old letters were worse. Back in the day Loeb would slam company CEOs for being the worst he's ever seen and accuse them of "tooling around." Of course, he politely signs them "Very truly yours, Daniel S. Loeb" or "Sincerely, Daniel S. Loeb."† We've compiled some of his best gems he's sent to company execs in the past. [via danloebletters.blogspot] We have also included some of his more colorful emails that were made public.†
The U.S. government is still shut down. "We estimate the current shutdown would reduce growth by 0.2pp in Q4 on an annualized basis if it lasted a week, and 0.4pp if it lasted two weeks," wrote Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips. As you can see in the chart, the biggest impact on growth in the near-term will come from the fact that employees won't be getting paid. "Compensation of federal employees is counted as federal consumption in the national accounts, so each day that federal employees do not go to work and are not paid results in a reduction in federal consumption," added Phillips. "For every day of shutdown, federal compensation in Q4 is reduced by $400 million, or $1.6 billion at an annual rate." Phillips' estimates don't account for some of the collateral damage the shutdown could have. "Beyond the direct effect on federal consumption, if the shutdown continues for an extended period, the uncertainty it creates could also lead to downward pressure on growth, at least temporarily," added Phillips. Assuming the government eventually comes back online, however, much of the lost growth should be recouped. "Growth would bounce back in Q1 2014 by roughly the same amount as the negative effect in Q4, once the level of federal spending returned to its non-shutdown level," he added. "However, beyond the restoration of compensation spending to its non-shutdown level, since most of the effect of the shutdown is a cancellation of spending and only a small portion would be a delay into the next quarter, we would not expect the level of overall federal spending in Q1 to be boosted by the delayed spending from Q4 by more than a small amount." For now, each day the government is closed, the more growth will shrink. Goldman Sachs
A trend is, by definition, a passing thing. Often it's passing because in some small way, deep down we know it's wrong ó take the the Macarena for example. I think we all really knew that was a mistake. The same thing can happen in fashion. Creatives on high don't always have the everyday lives of the people that wear clothing in mind when they dream up their lines every season, and the styles that they create aren't necessarily meant for everyone. Yet, some of that fantasy does make it to retailers for the rest of us and, as such, become wider trends. That doesn't mean, however, that they're a good idea for you. Or anyone. Below we've compiled a short list of men's fall fashion trends that we've seen popping up in magazines, on blogs, and in stores that will hopefully be forgotten by next year. Just because it's on the rack, doesn't mean it should be on your back. Now for the list: @cjzero The Color Orange: It's safe to say that we all can't dress like Dwyane Wade. It's even safer to say that orange is a dangerous color for many, many people. Even the most tasteful dressers make mistakes with this delicate hue. Tread with caution, or even better, don't tread at all. † flickr, buyalex Sweatpants: If you want to pay $98 dollars for a pair of trendy sweatpants, that's your affair, but please do not wear them outside your house. The price tag doesn't make them any less unattractive and sloppy looking. † Nordstrom Pleated trousers: We don't want to nix these completely, because we've seen a few cool ones. But listen, you didn't like wearing them in third grade because they were bunchy and uncomfortable. Remember that feeling, keep your eyes open, and be very, very cautious with your pleated pants (if you insist on buying them). † Vincent Samaco Fedoras: We've talked about the dangers of fedoras before. If you're not one of the precious, precious few people that can pull these off, you will look like you're either playing dress up, or are about to grab a cane and start tap dancing. Vimeo Turtlenecks: This is a photo of famed billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones. It's a screenshot from a PBS documentary about him made back in the 1980s called 'Trader.' After it aired, PTJ bought up all the copies of the documentary and made sure it was never shown on TV again. This turtleneck may be one reason why. Alright sirs, be careful out there.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingLiberty Media Corp. chairman (and #1 landowner) John Malone arrives at the annual Allen and Co. conference at the Sun Valley, Idaho Resort July 12, 2013. Land remains a hot investment, and America's wealthiest individuals are snapping up property at breakneck speed. The 100 biggest private landowners in the U.S. added 700,000 acres to their holdings in the past year, according to CNBC's Robert Frank. That means they now¬†control more than 30 million acres, or 2% of America's land mass. The Land Report has just released its list of America's biggest private landowners for 2013. Media tycoon John Malone, who owns 2.2 million acres ‚Äî more than twice as much land as the state of Delaware¬†‚Äî tops the list for the third year running. We're taking a closer look at the top 25 landowners. You can download the full report at The Land Report.
Bloomberg TV screenshotBillionaire hedge fund manager David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital was on Bloomberg TV's "Market Makers" moments ago.† The famed short-seller says that he's still short Green Mountain Coffee Roasters.† He admitted that it's been "one of the tougher things in our portfolio this year."† "The books are over caffeinated, if you will," he said.† Einhorn said he doesn't think Green Mountain sells anywhere as near as much coffee as they say.† He pointed out that the CEO wouldn't get into the numbers at a recent analyst conference. †"We don't do straight math," the CEO said, according to Einhorn. "If you're not going to get into this now at an investor conference, when are you going to get into this?" He predicts that they're going to miss on earnings at some point this year.† The stock was last trading down more than 2.7%. †It looks like it moved lower on Einhorn's comments.† Einhorn will be presenting at the inaugural Robin Hood Investment Conference next month along with other big name money managers, including Julian Robertson, Stan Druckenmiller, Daniel Loeb, Bill Ackman, Paul Tudor Jones, etc.† All of the money raised for the conference goes to charity.† Here's the Green Mountain chart:† via Yahoo! Finance
CNBCScptt WapnerWelcome CNBC viewers! CNBC anchor Scott Wapner has been kind enough to ask me to come on his show to talk about the articles I wrote last week about how I think there's a "decent chance" of a stock market crash and crappy stock returns for the next decade†and why I'm not selling despite that.†I figured you might want some more information about my thinking, so I've provided links to the articles below. I'm also reprinting one of the charts I published in those articles, which shows how high today's corporate profit margins are and how profit margins tend to (violently) return to their average over time. I also hope Scott and I can briefly discuss Scott's interview with Carl Icahn yesterday about Icahn's demand that Apple spend $150 billion of cash buying back its own stock. I'm a big fan of Carl Icahn, but as a fellow Apple shareholder, I hope Apple tells Icahn to stuff it. I also hope that Apple CEO Tim Cook doesn't waste any more time having dinner with Carl Icahn. (Not because having dinner with Icahn wouldn't be fun and entertaining ó I'm sure it would be. Because Tim Cook has better things to do than have dinner with Carl Icahn and get harangued about financial engineering.) Back to the stock market call.. First, I should stress that I am not a short-term trader and that I don't know or particularly care what the market is going to do "next." If the market charges higher from here over the next 6-12 months, that wouldn't surprise me and would be completely fine by me. (I own stocks and index funds, and I'm not selling them.) My "call" is a long-term call, and it's about what I think stocks will do over the next decade, not next week or next month. Specifically... I think that, over the next decade, stock prices relative to normalized earnings will return to their long-term average. Today's stock prices do not seem expensive relative to this year's earnings, but that's because this year's earnings are based on the highest corporate profit margins in history. In the past, super-high profit margins like today's do not remain super-high for long. On the contrary, they "regress to the mean," often violently. And when they do, they often take stocks down with them. Today's stock prices relative to normalized earnings, meanwhile ó earnings calculated based on average profit margins ó are very high (about 25X earnings). I think that, at some point over the next 10 years, either via a decline or by moving sideways, stock prices will return to a more normal 16X earnings. Here's the chart of today's record-high profit margins. Note how unprecedented this level of profitability is. And note how, in the past, earnings have always regressed quickly to (or below) the mean. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Bottom line, I think the S&amp;P 500 will return about 3% per year over the next decade, a far cry from the 10% that most people expect. So why am I not selling my stocks? Because my portfolio is already adequately diversified between stocks, bonds, cash, and real-estate. And because none of those other assets are any more attractive to invest in right now. (Bonds have low yields and will get demolished if inflation picks up. Real estate is again expensive. Cash is earning nothing.) On a relative basis, 3% annual returns actually don't look that bad. Thanks to CNBC for having me on and thanks for watching. If you would like more details about either the stock outlook or my investment strategy, please read the articles below. I Think There's A Decent Chance That Stocks Will Crash Here's Why I'm Not Selling My Stocks Even Though I Think The Market Might Crash
What I like best about the Larry Benedict chapter in Jack Schwager's¬†Hedge Fund Market Wizards¬†book is that it opens with a story about repeated failure. Before becoming the uber-successful founder of Banyan Capital Management, Benedict failed and failed repeatedly but kept at it, using the proper discipline to assure that failed trades wouldn't knock him out of the game and never looking for a shortcut to make up for them. Here he discusses why this is so important: Why do you think you have been successful whereas so many traders fail? Since I started in the business, I have seen a number of traders who ended up committing suicide or being homeless. The one trait they all shared was that they had a gambler's mentality. When they were losing, they were always looking for that one trade that would make it all back. I learned early on that you can't do that. This is a business where you have to work. That's what I do. Every day I make hundreds of transactions. I grind out the returns. If you look at my daily returns, you will see there are very few big up days. A lot of traders (or investors) approach this business with the idea that one or two "big" moves are going to change their lives. Or that after a string of small loses, one coup de grace is going to get them "back to even" or make up for the slump. And while this is certainly possible, it is not likely. Moreover, for every success story you can find in which a huge gamble paid off, you will find countless tales of woe. Larry Benedict's above comment got me thinking about my friend Greg Harmon at Dragonfly Capital, whom I often link to. Greg has¬†been crushing the S&amp;P 500¬†since he's launched the blog and newsletter service in 2011. But he's not done so because of a big call, he doesn't point his bat at the centerfield stands and talk about 10-baggers or grand slams. No, Greg grinds it out, exactly like Benedict discusses. In his recently posted examination of the Dragonfly track record, Greg notes that he's done 765 trades over two years, with 484 wins and the rest losses or break-evens. He's using very specific entries and exits, working with equities and options, playing both sides of the market. This isn't a 9-to-5 gig or a pastime, he's a professional. Trading is a business in which you have to work. Larry Benedict will tell you that, Greg Harmon will tell you that, and anyone who's made it will probably say the same. Bernard Baruch, one of history's greatest market participants,¬†made his first rule of investing¬†"Don't speculate unless you can make it a full-time job," and this is still pretty elemental advice decades later - in fact, in today's markets it's probably¬†even harder¬†for the hobbyist trader. Hitting it big can happen randomly, and to anyone, but then what? Can you do that twice? Thrice? Probably not. So the question is whether or not "grinding it out" is really what you want to do -¬†is really something that you are capable of doing. The statistics say that you are probably not, emotionally or physically, but no one will fault you for trying. Just make sure it's what you really want, because if it works out, it will only be because you've earned it.
CNBCScptt WapnerWelcome CNBC viewers! CNBC anchor Scott Wapner has been kind enough to ask me to come on his show to talk about the articles I wrote last week about how I think there's a "decent chance" of a stock market crash and crappy stock returns for the next decade†and why I'm not selling despite that.†I figured you might want some more information about my thinking, so I've provided links to the articles below. I'm also reprinting one of the charts I published in those articles, which shows how high today's corporate profit margins are and how profit margins tend to (violently) return to their average over time. I also hope Scott and I can briefly discuss Scott's interview with Carl Icahn yesterday about Icahn's demand that Apple spend $150 billion of cash buying back its own stock. I'm a big fan of Carl Icahn, but as a fellow Apple shareholder, I hope Apple tells Icahn to stuff it. I also hope that Apple CEO Tim Cook doesn't waste any more time having dinner with Carl Icahn. (Not because having dinner with Icahn wouldn't be fun and entertaining ó I'm sure it would be. Because Tim Cook has better things to do than have dinner with Carl Icahn and get harangued about financial engineering.) Back to the stock market call.. First, I should stress that I am not a short-term trader and that I don't know or particularly care what the market is going to do "next." If the market charges higher from here over the next 6-12 months, that wouldn't surprise me and would be completely fine by me. (I own stocks and index funds, and I'm not selling them.) My "call" is a long-term call, and it's about what I think stocks will do over the next decade, not next week or next month. Specifically... I think that, over the next decade, stock prices relative to normalized earnings will return to their long-term average. Today's stock prices do not seem expensive relative to this year's earnings, but that's because this year's earnings are based on the highest corporate profit margins in history. In the past, super-high profit margins like today's do not remain super-high for long. On the contrary, they "regress to the mean," often violently. And when they do, they often take stocks down with them. Today's stock prices relative to normalized earnings, meanwhile ó earnings calculated based on average profit margins ó are very high (about 25X earnings). I think that, at some point over the next 10 years, either via a decline or by moving sideways, stock prices will return to a more normal 16X earnings. Here's the chart of today's record-high profit margins. Note how unprecedented this level of profitability is. And note how, in the past, earnings have always regressed quickly to (or below) the mean. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed Bottom line, I think the S&amp;P 500 will return about 3% per year over the next decade, a far cry from the 10% that most people expect. So why am I not selling my stocks? Because my portfolio is already adequately diversified between stocks, bonds, cash, and real-estate. And because none of those other assets are any more attractive to invest in right now. (Bonds have low yields and will get demolished if inflation picks up. Real estate is again expensive. Cash is earning nothing.) On a relative basis, 3% annual returns actually don't look that bad. Thanks to CNBC for having me on and thanks for watching. If you would like more details about either the stock outlook or my investment strategy, please read the articles below. I Think There's A Decent Chance That Stocks Will Crash Here's Why I'm Not Selling My Stocks Even Though I Think The Market Might Crash
APPresident Barack Obama has invited Congressional leaders to a meeting at the White House to discuss the ongoing government shutdown and the debt ceiling, White House spokeswoman Amy Brundage said. Obama has invited Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker John Boehner, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to the White House. Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Boehner, said the Speaker had accepted the invitation.¬† ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre pleased the president finally recognizes that his refusal to negotiate is indefensible. It‚Äôs unclear why we‚Äôd be having this meeting if it‚Äôs not meant to be a start to serious talks between the two parties," Buck said in a statement. The federal government is in the second day of its first partial shutdown in 17 years, with no end in sight. The debt ceiling needs to be raised by Oct. 17. On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said that the Treasury was using its "final extraordinary measures" before the deadline.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe rise in yields on Treasury bills that mature around the time the Treasury will hit the debt limit has inverted the yield curve.Yesterday, we pointed out that the front end of the Treasury bill yield curve was blowing out, resulting in an inverted curve. The rise in yields on shorter-dated T-bills (specifically, those bills maturing between October 17 and October 31) relative to those on longer-dated bills suggests that the market is starting to respect the possibility that Congress may not come to an agreement on the debt ceiling before the Treasury runs out of money on October 17, which would place those bills in default if the ceiling is not raised in a timely manner. The chart is popping up a lot in notes to clients this morning from Wall Street strategists and economists as well. Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research"The Treasury bill market is clearly indicating concern about upcoming debt ceiling deadlines," says Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips. "In our view this is the direct result of the increasing acrimony in Washington. Starting with the bill maturing on†October 17<U+2015>the day the Treasury Department has suggested it would exhaust its borrowing authority<U+2015>bill rates are elevated, suggesting lower investor appetite for holding these securities. The distortion in the bill curve is most apparent in the security maturing on†October 31,†just after Treasury is likely to have depleted its cash balance.† This unusual 'humped' pattern is similar to that seen in late July 2011 during the last debt ceiling standoff." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, BloombergBofA Merrill Lynch analysts pointed it out as well, calling the T-bills maturing between October 17 and October 31 the "debt ceiling danger zone." Reports suggest that money-market funds with fiduciary duties that invest in T-bills are avoiding these specific maturities due to risk of delayed interest payments from the Treasury.
REUTERSAnother day, another legal headline for JP Morgan. Federal prosecutors believe¬†Javier Martin-Artajo, the former JPMorgan Chase trader facing criminal charges in connection with the bank's "London Whale" trading loss, will be extradited to the United States¬†to face trial. At a conference on white collar crime, U.S. attorney Lorin Reisner said, "We have a¬†pretty good extradition agreement with Spain.. I expect [that Martin-Artajo]¬†will return to the U.S. via the extradition process," The New York Times' Ben Protess and Peter Lattman report. Spanish authorities are expected to cooperate with the U.S. attorney's office in New York, according to the Times. As for Julien Grout, the other former JP Morgan employee connected with last year's multibillion-dollar loss, Reisner said extradition could be "more complicated." Grout returned home to France, which does not typically extradite its citizens. Bruno Iksil, the "London Whale" himself, will avoid prosecution thanks to a deal with the government. He's expected to testify against his former colleagues. Read the full report at the New York Times &gt;
Today activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb filed a letter with the SEC calling for William Ruprecht, the CEO of Sotheby's, to step down. Loeb argued that he sees "no evidence" of Ruprecht's capability to continue leading the company. Since August, Loeb's fund, Third Point, has upped its stake in the auction house to 9.29%, but since then things have been pretty quiet ó strange for an activist investor known for calling CEOs out for "tooling around" on private jets and saying that they should be kicked out of their companies "by a well worn boot planted in the backside." So this letter shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone, but as usual, it's an interesting read. Loeb argues that while Ruprecht led the company valiantly through the financial crisis, his time has now passed. The art market is becoming more and more dominated by Contemporary and Modern art, and Sotheby's just isn't in the game. The house's main competitor, Christie's has taken market share in newer markets like China and the Middle East and in the face of that competition, Loeb argues, Ruprecht has basically shrugged his shoulders. He writes: We have heard many excuses ñ but no good reasons ñ why Sothebyís competitive position is deteriorating, such as: ìChristieís is buying market share and making uneconomic deals to make headlines,î or ìChristieís is private and doesnít have to disclose its guarantees.î These pretexts are poor substitutes for the truth: despite its advantages of historical superiority, a more prestigious brand, and a publicly traded currency with which it can attract, motivate and reward top talent, Sothebyís has languished while Christieís has thrived. Of course, this wouldn't be a love letter from Loeb if there was no mention of the CEO's lifestyle or compensation package. So here that is: Emblematic of the Companyís misalignment with shareholder interests are both your own generous pay package and scant stock holdings by virtually all Board members. Third Pointís current stake represents nearly 10 times the number of fully-vested shares held by Sothebyís directors and executive officers. Your personal holding of 152,683 shares, representing a mere 0.22% interest, is particularly noteworthy because you have been an employee of the Company since 1980 and its CEO since 2000. In sharp contrast to your limited stock holdings is a generous package of cash pay, perquisites, and other compensation. We see little evidence justifying your 2012 total compensation of $6,300,399 in both salary and PSU awards valued at over $4 million, seemingly based on a mysterious target not disclosed in any of the Companyís public filings... For the dismount, Loeb says he is willing to join the Sotheby's board immediately and appoint directors that can take the company into the future, unlike Ruprecht. It is... time, Mr. Ruprecht, for you to step down from your positions as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer... you have not shown the innovation or inspiration the Company sorely needs to play offense today. Sothebyís requires a CEO with sufficient knowledge of the global art markets to make critical decisions, who can move seamlessly around the globe building the business and strengthening client relationships. Respectfully, we do not see evidence that you are the right person to repair the Company and drive its growth in todayís dynamic global art market. Of course, it's signed "Sincerely, Daniel S. Loeb".
Clients pulled $2.1 billion from Jeff Gundlach's $35.1 fund in September, Bloomberg's†Alexis Leondis reports. It's not really the bond oracle's fault. His DoubleLine Total Return Bond fund has bested 97% of rivals over the past three years.  But investors have yanked a total of $118 billion from bonds from May 31 through September 18 largely due to fears that the Federal Reserve would begin tapering its bond purchases, according to Bloomberg. ìDoubleLine is sharing in the outflows weíre seeing throughout the fixed-income world,î DoubleLine analyst Loren Fleckenstein†told Bloomberg. ìWith the investment mood becoming more cautious with regard to fixed income, seeing DoubleLine go from a high-growth phase to a period of consolidation was to be expected.î Gundlach's fund has returned 0.3% year to date, beating out 92% of similar funds, according to Bloomberg. Read the full report at Bloomberg &gt;
Looks like some members of the Occupy Wall Street Movement have adopted a new mantra: If you can't beat 'em, join 'em. In September, an offshoot group called the Occupy Money Cooperative (OMC) began raising money to create a prepaid debit card.¬† The card, which works like any other prepaid debit card, has a fee structure that includes a $1 monthly fee, a $1.95 fee for A.T.M. withdrawals, and $1 for balance inquiries. The card is integrated with Visa, though OMC promises that ‚Äúa larger percentage of the revenue will flow to the OMC, rather than Visa ‚Ä¶ A big change.‚Äù¬† To be fair, OMC isn't exactly buying completely into the run-of-the-mill banking game. Its debit card is part of a larger effort by the group to create a nonprofit banking services cooperative. The co-op hopes to create an alternative to the for-profit banks by establishing a full-service financial organization (including checking accounts, loans, and financial education) that is controlled by the ‚Äúusers,‚Äù not shareholders. ‚ÄúWe launched [the Occupy Money Cooperative] because we felt that the way the for-profit banking industry operates in the U.S., it intrinsically exposes the U.S. economy to risk and makes us vulnerable to the consequences but, above all, fails many millions of Americans who don‚Äôt have bank accounts and are denied banking services,‚Äù founder and director Carne Ross, of the nonprofit advisory group Independent Diplomat, told Forbes. The OMC works like a credit union in that it is democratically owned by its members. Credit unions, however, have restrictions on who can be members. Occupy Money Cooperative will be open to the public.¬† If this sounds a whole lot like a bank dressed up in a Guy Fawkes mask to you, you aren‚Äôt alone. In a Reddit AMA in August, Ross answered questions from a skeptical, and often antagonistic group of Redditors who asked whether or not Ross and the cooperative were simply appropriating the Occupy brand for their own devices. Ross was unequivocal in his assertion that Occupy and the cooperative have the same principles and are committed to the same goal.¬† Ross revealed during the AMA that the OMC will have regular member meetings, discussions, and elections for board members. It will also have ‚Äúcompletely open accounting, while protecting the personal information of customers/members.‚Äù The group is currently looking to fundraise $900,ooo to get the cooperative off the ground. In keeping with their promise for transparency, the cooperative has detailed where that money will go.¬†
Gold is surging today after a big, 3.0% down-day yesterday. The yellow metal is up 2.1%, trading at $1313 an ounce. That's up about $20 since the release of a lackluster ADP employment report at 8:15 AM ET. Overnight, gold fell as low as $1276. The chart below shows the move: Thinkorswim
APThe ongoing government shutdown is only the appetizer to this fall's real fight ó the debt ceiling. As the shutdown drags on, it seems increasingly likely that the two debates will become one. Analysts have long warned that the debt ceiling has higher stakes than the shutdown. The latter may prove a drag on quarterly GDP, but the former could spell economic catastrophe if handled incorrectly. The question now is: Will House Republicans be more willing to bend over the debt ceiling than the budget? Here's Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips: Our first reaction is that it is probably a negative compared to where things seemed to stand heading into the shutdown. At that point, it initially appeared that the duration would be reasonably short ó perhaps a few days ó and that this would allow Republicans to demonstrate their commitment to blocking implementation of Obamacare without risking major negative consequences. If the two issues are combined, Phillips†writes, the "consequences of a mistake are much higher." Though, Phillips believes congressional leaders will get their act together before letting the U.S. government default for the first time in history. "The debt limit is the main risk and we remain confident that while congressional leaders have been unwilling to compromise on the less risky shutdown question, they will do what is necessary on the debt limit," he writes. "In fact, it is our sense that part of the reason the shutdown has taken place is because congressional leaders knew a showdown would occur on one of the fiscal deadlines, and it was less risky to have a dispute on the spending bill than on the debt limit."
AP ImagesPage Six's Emily Smith reports that CNBC's "Money Honey" Maria Bartiromo may have to be deposed in the divorce case of the former Citi exec who got in trouble for flying her around on the bank's corporate jet.¬† Back in 2007, Todd Thompson, then-head of Citi's wealth management unit, was fired by then-Citi CEO Chuck Prince for his spending habits and friendship with Bartiromo, according an article that ran on the front page of the Wall Street Journal. The Journal also reported that on a return flight from a trip to Asia he booted other Citi execs off the corporate jet and flew alone with Bartiromo.¬† This was widely criticized in the financial media sphere at the time.  However, CNBC's then-parent company General Electric 's CEO Jeff Immelt¬†backed Bartiromo at the time¬†saying she didn't do "anything wrong." Then-NBC Universal CEO Jeff Zucker also said she did "nothing wrong."¬† Rumors also swirled that the anchor and the banker were having an affair, Page Six¬†points out. That was never confirmed, though.¬† They were both married at the time. Bartiromo has been married to Jonathan Steinberg since 1999.¬†¬†¬† Several months after his ouster, Thompson even told Reuters when they asked about his relationship with Bartiromo¬†that it was¬†"an inappropriate question." He also maintained that he had "an appropriate relationship" with her. According to¬†Page Six, which cites court documents filed by Thompson's wife's lawyer, Bartiromo may be subpoenaed and deposed in their divorce case. ¬† A source close to Bartiromo told¬†Page Six she has not been served with any papers.¬†
w≈Çodi, FlickrAnother poll ‚Äî this time from CNN/ORC ‚Äî shows that Republicans are pretty OK with the possibility of breaching the debt ceiling. According to the poll, 52% of Republicans would consider it a "good thing" if the debt ceiling is not raised, compared with 40% who said it would be a "bad thing."¬† Overall, 56% of Americans said this would be a bad thing, and 38% said it would be a good thing. On Tuesday night, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew sent a letter to Congressional leaders¬†notifying them that the Treasury was using its "final extraordinary measures" before an Oct. 17 deadline. In the CNN/ORC poll, the possibility of breaching the debt ceiling is described as one in which the "government will not have enough money to pay all of its debts and keep all existing government programs¬†running."¬† This aligns with a recent Washington Post/ABC poll, which found that Republicans split 25-61 against raising the debt ceiling. The poll showed that overall, voters believe that by a 46-43 margin, Congress should raise the nation's debt limit before a mid-October deadline ‚Äî perhaps¬†underestimating the consequences of the last near-crisis. In that poll, however, a¬†vast majority of Republicans ‚Äî and the vast majority of Americans overall ‚Äî said that¬†not¬†raising the debt ceiling would "cause serious harm" to the U.S. economy. By a 66-27 split, Republicans¬†are aware¬†that failure to lift the nation's borrowing limit could inflict serious consequences. Overall, 73% of Americans believe it will cause serious harm. According to the CNN/ORC poll, Republicans would take the brunt of the blame from a public that, overall, thinks it would be a bad thing if the debt limit is not raised. 53% of respondents said they would blame Congressional Republicans, while 31% would blame President Barack Obama. On Tuesday, Obama blasted Republicans in a speech from the White House Rose Garden and cast them as potential "deadbeats" for thinking about the possibility of not raising the borrowing limit. "Think about that. If you buy a car and you've got a car note, you do not save money by not paying your car note. You're just a deadbeat," Obama said. "If you buy a house, you don't save money by not authorizing yourself to pay the mortgage. You're just going to be foreclosed on your home. That's what this is about." Obama has said he won't negotiate over the debt ceiling like he did in 2011.
EIAThe shale revolution has gotten a lot of attention in the past few years, and rightfully so. But during pretty much the exact same time, a solar boom has occurred, as you'll se in the chart at the right. It shows percentage growth of various forms of electricity generation. Solar is up 700% since 2001. Fossil fuels and nuclear barely even register. We've lately been documenting the rise of solar, including a new world record in solar efficiency and how solar generation has¬†already begun wreaking havoc on utilities. ¬† But we wanted to chronicle how solar has been able to explode in the past decade. No one thing has helped push solar over the top. It's more like a bunch of events building to a head. Even before Columbia University astrophysicist James Hansen¬†published his warning in 2005¬†that climate change was spiraling out of control ‚Äî¬†and then was told by the Bush Administration to keep quiet¬†‚Äî there was concern about rising temperatures and more extreme weather. The very first line of¬†the New York Public Service Commission's 2003 introduction¬†to their proposed Renewable Portfolio Standard is, "We are increasingly concerned with the effects on our climate of fossil-fired generation." According to Hansen's model, ocean heat content ‚Äî the amount of heat, as measures in Watts, in the ocean ‚Äî had increased 600% in the previous decade: James Hansen When they first introduced a renewable portfolio standard, the New York Public Service Commission noted that energy prices were becoming increasingly volatile after a decade of stability Here's what they were talking about (for reasons you'll see in a moment we've extended out the dates): first is natgas, second is oil FRED FRED Gas prices began to feel effects from shut-ins caused by hurricanes, while oil prices shot upward as a result of global demand. Plus, peak fossil fuels apparently had come back on everyone's minds. "Inasmuch as there is a finite supply of natural gas and other fossil fuels,¬†over-dependence on such will leave the State vulnerable to price spikes and possible supply disruptions," the commission said.¬† Twenty nine states plus Washington DC now have enforceable renewable portfolio standards (RPS), meaning a¬†percentage of an electricity supplier's¬†sales or new generating capacity must be green.¬†The two previous steps help explain why more than half of states with RPS adopted their standards between 2004 and 2007, according to a University of Michigan study.University of MichiganSixteen of these have specific requirements for solar (the biggest solar generators like California don't even need them).¬†DSIRE Net metering allows a homeowner with a renewable power supply to sell electricity back to their utility. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 mandated that all public utilities offer net metering upon request.¬†bkusler/flickr The Energy Policy Act also created federal incentives for solar ‚Äî a¬†30% investment tax credit (ITC) for commercial and residential solar energy systems. Between 2006 and 2007, the amount of solar electric capacity in the U.S. doubled.¬† The ITC, as originally conceived, was only supposed to last until that year, though it ended up getting an initial one-year extension. But then the ITC received a major expansion ‚Äî in Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, aka The Bailout, of all places: Of all the items on this list, this may be the most consequential. For almost a decade, European countries poured billions of dollars into their renewable sector, with solar often leading the way. Germany was at one point spending¬†‚Ç¨1.5 billion a year¬†on its solar industry.¬† It paid off there: Between 2000 and 2008 photovoltaic generation increased from 32 million to 4.4 billion kilowatt hours.REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach Sheep graze between the solar panels of a solar park in Waghaeusel, 20 km (12 miles) southeast of Karlsruhe, March 21, 2011. As a result of Europe's head-first dive into solar, the Chinese began rolling out enormous quantities of solar modules, ultimately capturing a full 25% of the market:Stefan de Haan/iSuppli Not surprisingly, solar module costs plummeted:MIT Technology Review/Lawrence Berkeley National Lab This ultimately led to a big fight, with Europe accusing China of dumping. The U.S. also ended up imposing tariffs last fall, and President Obama actually got in trouble during the 2012 campaign for spending stimulus dollars on less expensive Chinese panels. As the New York Times noted, tariffs often to backfire: "The opponents argue that the duties would make it more expensive for American families and companies to install solar systems."¬† The Commerce Department ended up structuring the tariffs such that U.S. firms could buy Chinese-made solar panels from other countries, and GTM Research's Shayle Kann told the New York Times that there wouldn't be much of an impact.¬† But the supply glut created by the Europe-China dynamic is expected to last until next year ‚Äî meaning costs are going to remain pretty low. Moore's Law dictates that computer processing speeds increase exponentially every year thanks to ever-improving technology.¬† The same phenomena is now true in solar: every year, solar cells get incrementally more efficient, meaning they're able to convert more electrons into energy. The following chart from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory shows what this looks like:NREL While these represent efficiencies achieved in a lab, efficiencies on retail panels¬†have gone up more than a third of a basis point each year since 2000, ¬†from 11.2% to 16.1%.¬† This helps explain why Colorado's public utility just declared solar to be cost competitive with gas.
The comeback for the U.S. bond market is due to the Federal Reserve‚Äôs (Fed) decision that economic data have not being strong enough to begin slowing the pace of its bond-buying program in addition to generally disappointing economic data since the Fed‚Äôs meeting on September 18. This week provides the widely watched Institute for Supply Management (ISM) report on manufacturing on Tuesday, October 1, 2013 and the employment report (if the government agency‚Äôs staff is working) on Friday, October 4, 2013. Strong readings may lift stocks and bond yields, while readings on the weak side could exacerbate pressure on markets. In general, the economic numbers are expected to be similar to those of recent months. In addition, last week‚Äôs (September 23‚Äì27, 2013) declines in both stocks and bond yields reveal market participants are worried about the economic impact of a government shutdown and breaching the debt ceiling. The stock market decline of about 2% from the recent peak set on September 18 has been modest, perhaps because the average S&amp;P 500 decline during government shutdowns‚Äîwhich have taken place 16 times over the past 37 years, including seven times in the 1980s, and lasted anywhere from one to 21 days‚Äîis only about 2%. A shutdown of even up to a few weeks should not have sharp negative consequences for the stock market. However, the bigger issue is a breach of the debt ceiling on October 17, given the remote but heightened threat of default on some U.S. obligations if lawmakers fail to increase the limit on total U.S. federal government debt. Fear over the threat posed by the debt ceiling seems well contained at this point. For example, the VIX, often called the "fear gauge," is currently around 16 and not the 48 seen in August of 2011, when the debt ceiling was last the subject of a battle in Washington and stocks fell 17%. Also, default concerns currently seem minimal with the discount on the one-month T-bill at a mere 2 basis points versus 17 basis points at the peak of fear in early August 2011. As we wrote last week, the stock market pullback is part of the "kick-the-can" pattern we have seen numerous times this year ahead of a resolution to "kick the can" on various issues to a future date. This is driving market volatility and a pattern of performance this year that echoes 1967, a year when: LPL FinancialSource: Bloomberg, LPL Financial ResearchThe S&amp;P 500 Index is is an unmanaged index, which cannot be invested into directly. The returns do not reflect fees, sales charges or expenses. Index performance is not indicative of any particular investment. ¬†The similarities between 1967 and 2013 suggest that if the pattern continues to hold, as we believe it may, lawmakers will eventually ‚Äúkick the can‚Äù on the fiscal issues, and the concerns leading to the current pullback may give way to a resolution that powers a comeback for U.S. stocks later this year, as we saw in 1967.
Italian prime minister Enrico Letta has won a vote of confidence in the Italian parliament, foiling Silvio Berlusconi's plan to force a collapse of Letta's fragile coalition government. At the same time, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi is delivering his monthly press conference following the ECB's monthly policy meeting. Despite Draghi's efforts to come across as dovish, the euro is surging against the dollar. The ECB president said in the opening remarks to his press conference that ECB interest rates will stay low for an extended period of time, and that risks to the euro area growth forecast remain on the downside. In the Q&amp;A, Draghi said that the ECB Governing Council had discussed a rate cut, something economists predict may happen later this year. Draghi also said in response to a question about the strength in the euro that while the central bank doesn't target the exchange rate, it acknowledges that exchange rate developments are important for growth and the ECB is attentive to them. Over the weekend, Berlusconi tried to undermine Letta by†announcing the resignation of several ministers†of Berlusconi's own PDL party†from Letta's cabinet. However, Italian markets have gained in recent days as it became clear that many PDL senators would go against Berlusconi and cast a vote of confidence in Letta and his government. The chart below shows the move in the euro against the U.S. dollar: Thinkorswim
APPresident Barack Obama has canceled two planned stops on what was a planned weeklong trip to Asia, the White House said Wednesday morning, because of the ongoing federal government shutdown. Obama will not make the final two stops of the trip in Malaysia and the Philippines. He is still scheduled to fly overseas Friday and visit¬†Indonesia and Brunei. The White House said that Secretary of State John Kerry would visit Malaysia and the Philippines in Obama's place. The announcement comes as the shutdown enters into its second day with no clear end in sight. Here's the White House's readout of Obama's call to¬†Philippine¬†President Benigno Aquino: Last night, President Obama called President Aquino of the Philippines to inform him that, due to the government shutdown, he will not be able to go forward with his planned travel to the Philippines. The President reaffirmed our strong alliance with the Philippines and respect for President Aquino's leadership, and committed to travel to the Philippines later in his term. He also noted our shared commitment to the security of the Philippines, and the broader security and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region, and told the President that Secretary Kerry would travel to Manila in his place. He also noted the deep ties between our peoples, including so many Filipino-Americans who have enriched our country. And to Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak: Last night, President Obama called Prime Minister Najib of Malaysia to inform him that, due to the government shutdown, he will not be able to go forward with his planned travel to Malaysia. The President reaffirmed the close partnership that he has forged with Malaysia and respect for Prime Minister Najib's leadership, and committed to travel to Malaysia later in his term. He also welcomed Malaysia‚Äôs strong leadership of the Global Entrepreneurship Summit, and conveyed to the Prime Minister that Secretary of State Kerry would lead a U.S. delegation to Kuala Lumpur, including Secretary of Commerce Pritzker and U.S. Trade Representative Froman. Prime Minister Najib expressed his understanding and said that he looked forward to welcoming the President to Malaysia in the near future. From the Rose Garden on Tuesday, Obama scolded Congressional Republicans and urged them to "move on" from opposition to the Affordable Care Act. He said they should pass a "clean" continuing resolution that keeps the government funded, and he also urged a clean lift in the nation's debt ceiling. "This shutdown is not about deficits. It's not about budgets. This shutdown is about rolling back our efforts to provide health insurance to folks who don't have it. It's all about rolling back the Affordable Care Act," Obama said. "This, more than anything else, seems to be what the Republican Party stands for these days. I know it's strange that one party would make keeping people uninsured the centerpiece of their agenda, but that apparently is what it is."
European Parliament / FlickrAs expected, the European Central Bank's board of governors elected to leave¬†the key benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.50% and the deposit facility rate on hold at 0.0% at the conclusion of its October policy meeting. ECB President Mario Draghi will hold his monthly press conference and Q&amp;A at 8:30. Analysts expect Draghi to attempt to send markets dovish signals during the presser. "The ECB is now faced with a EURUSD showing signs of trending higher and a Fed set to increase this by printing more money to compensate for the government shutdown," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale currency strategist Sebastien Galy. "The odds are it will leave the ECB pushing back against the Fed." Below are the opening remarks from Draghi's presser. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. I would like to thank Governor Noyer for his kind hospitality and express our special gratitude to his staff for the excellent organisation of today‚Äôs meeting of the Governing Council. We will now report on the outcome of today‚Äôs meeting, which was also attended by the Commission Vice-President, Mr Rehn. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the¬†key ECB interest rates¬†unchanged. Incoming information and analysis have further underpinned our previous assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output growth, and confidence indicators up to September confirm the expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low levels. Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by the outlook for price stability and promoting stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the forward guidance provided in July. The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time. This expectation continues to be based on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the medium-term outlook for price stability. With regard to money market conditions, we will remain particularly attentive to developments which may have implications for the stance of monetary policy and are ready to consider all available instruments. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the¬†economic analysis. Following six quarters of negative output growth, euro area real GDP rose, quarter on quarter, by 0.3% in the second quarter of 2013, also supported by temporary factors related to unusually adverse weather conditions in some euro area countries earlier this year. Developments in industrial production data point to somewhat weaker growth at the beginning of the third quarter, while survey-based confidence indicators up to September have improved further from low levels, overall confirming our previous expectations of a gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, output is expected to recover at a slow pace, in particular owing to a gradual improvement in domestic demand supported by the accommodative monetary policy stance. Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit from a gradual strengthening of external demand for exports. Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer appear to be gradually working their way through to the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. In addition, real incomes have benefited recently from generally lower inflation. This being said, unemployment in the euro area remains high, and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity. The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside. Developments in global money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other downside risks include higher commodity prices in the context of renewed geopolitical tensions, weaker than expected global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries. According to Eurostat‚Äôs flash estimate, and broadly in line with expectations, euro area annual HICP inflation decreased in September 2013 to 1.1%, from 1.3% in August. On the basis of current futures prices for energy, annual inflation rates are expected to remain at such low levels in the coming months. Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the recovery. Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to be firmly anchored in line with price stability. The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating in particular to higher commodity prices as well as stronger than expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, and downside risks stemming from weaker than expected economic activity. Turning to the¬†monetary analysis, data for August indicate that the underlying growth of broad money (M3) and, in particular, credit remained subdued. Annual growth in M3 continued to be broadly stable at 2.3% in August, compared with 2.2% in July. Annual growth in M1 remained strong but decreased to 6.8% in August, from 7.1% in July. Net capital inflows into the euro area continued to be the main factor supporting annual M3 growth, while the annual rate of change of loans to the private sector remained weak. The annual growth rate of loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) stood at 0.4% in August, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -2.9% in August, compared with -2.8% in July. Weak loan dynamics for non-financial corporations continue to reflect primarily their lagged relationship with the business cycle, credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps to establish a banking union will help to accomplish this objective. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A¬†cross-check¬†with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. As regards¬†fiscal policies, euro area countries should not unravel their efforts to reduce deficits and put high government debt ratios on a downward path. The draft budgetary plans that countries will now deliver for the first time under the ‚Äútwo-pack‚Äù regulations need to provide for sufficiently far-reaching measures to achieve the fiscal targets for 2014. Governments must also decisively strengthen efforts to implement the needed¬†structural reforms¬†in product and labour markets. These reforms are required not only to help countries to regain competitiveness and to rebalance within the euro area, but also to create more flexible and dynamic economies that generate sustainable economic growth and employment. We are now at your disposal for questions. Click here to stream a live broadcast of the presser ¬ª
In the wake of the ADP private-sector payroll creation release at 8:30 AM, S&amp;P 500 futures are sinking and bonds are surging. ADP's report estimated that 166,000 private-sector payrolls were created in September ‚Äì below consensus estimates for 180,000, and August's 176,000 reading was revised down to 159,000. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading down 0.7% at levels around 1677, versus levels around 1681 prior to the release. Meanwhile, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.4%. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 5 basis points lower at 2.60%. Thinkorswim
ADPSome historical contextAccording to ADP, U.S. companies added 166,000 private payrolls in September. This was a bit weaker than the† 180,000 jobs expected by economists. Even worse, the August number was revised down to 159,000 from an earlier estimate of 176,000. "At face value, the ADP report suggests the Fed was right to delay the tapering of its monthly asset purchases last month," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "But most of the other recent evidence on the labour market has been more upbeat. Initial jobless claims are still close to 300,000 and yesterday we learned that the ISM manufacturing employment index strengthened further in September. There is now clearly more downside risk to our above consensus forecast that non-farm payrolls increased by 220,000 last month. But given the ADP survey's patchy record, particularly based on the initial estimates, we're not ready to revise that non-farm payrolls forecast down." Here's a breakdown by size: Here's a breakdown by industry: At this point, thanks to the government shutdown the Bureau of Labor Statistics will not be publishing the official jobs report on Friday.† As such, the economy-watching world will be focused on the ADP's alternative. This chart from ADP shows just how good it really is as a proxy: ADP "[T]here has been a growing case for the ADP report to get more attention than it did in the past; its reliability seems to have improved since Moodyís replaced Macroeconomic Advisers as the compiler of the data late last year," said High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan.† "ADPís misses have averaged 38Kówithout regard to signóin the 11 months since Moodyís took over, down from 63K in the previous 11 months. Of course, that is just an average. Misses have ranged from -63Kówith payrolls weaker than ADPóto +57Kówith payrolls stronger than ADP. Last monthís miss was -24K, with the ADP series up 176K and private payrolls in the BLS report up 152K; total payrolls rose 169K."
REUTERS/Jason ReedWilliam Gross, Manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. (PIMCO)In his latest monthly Investment Outlook letter, PIMCO's Bill Gross, warns that the Federal Reserve will keep it's benchmark interest rate low for longer than the market expects. Gross looks back at what the recent uptick in rates did to the housing market: ...The critical question to ask in terms of the level and eventual upward guide path of the policy rate is how high a rate can a levered economy stand? How much wood can a woodchuck chuck? How high a rate can a homebuyer handle? No one really knows, but weíre beginning to find out. The increase of over 125 basis points in a 30-year mortgage over the past 6ñ12 months seems to have stopped housing starts and importantly mortgage refinancings in its tracks. It was the primary ìfinancial conditionî that Chairman Bernanke cited in his September press conference that shifted the ìtaper to a tinker to a chanceî that maybe they might do something next time. The 30-year mortgage rate of course is connected to the policy rate and its pricing in forward space. All yields in composite are what an economy has to hurdle in order to grow at historically hoped-for rates at 2ñ3% real and 4ñ5% nominal: Treasury yields, mortgage yields, corporate yields and credit card yields, all in composite.... Ever since the financial crisis, the U.S. housing recovery has been one of the most encouraging economic stories in the world. Below is a chart of the refinancing activity Gross is referring to via Calculated Risk: Calculated Risk "If you want to trust one thing and one thing only, trust that once QE is gone and the policy rate becomes the focus, that fed funds will then stay lower than expected for a long, long time," added Gross. "Right now the market (and the Fed forecasts) expects fed funds to be 1% higher by late 2015 and 1% higher still by December 2016. Bet against that. " Read the whole letter at PIMCO.com.
APWhat if they called it "Cruz-care"?One of the big mysteries about the government shutdown is why Republicans are so furiously opposed to the Affordable Care Act, a.k.a., Obamacare. Yes, the Act has many problems, not the least of which are its high costs and mind-boggling complexity. But the Act's overall goal, which seems achievable, is to make health insurance more affordable for tens of millions of Americans. And although one can be frustrated about some details, it seems strange that this should cause a party to rage and howl and shut down the government. (On the contrary, it seems like the sort of thing that a certain kind of leader might justifiably be proud of ó helping his or her constituents and their families gain access to something so basic and important.) So why are the Republicans so outraged about Obamacare? There are different theories. The Republicans themselves say that Obamacare will destroy the country. They rarely explain that assertion, though, so it's hard to know what they actually mean. They say that Obamacare will destroy the economy, by forcing businesses to spend more on health care costs and compliance and, in some cases, by hiring part-time workers instead of full-time ones. This may be true at the margin, but companies have long been spending more on health care and reducing health care benefits for their employees while shifting more of the costs onto them. (This is in part because our current system, in which employers pay for health care, is deeply flawed.) But the truth is that, for most companies, Obamacare just isn't that big a deal. I run a company, and that's the way I would characterize it: It's a little deal but not a big deal. It's not going to cause us to change our hiring plans or fire anyone. They say that Obamacare violates the Constitution. †Lots of people said this after the government voted Obamacare into law, but the Supreme Court said that they're wrong. So this argument doesn't hold much water, either. Outside the Republican Party, there are different theories. Some say the Republicans just hate anything that Obama likes. Based on the last five years, there's seems to be plenty of evidence to support this theory. But there seems to be even more than that going on here. Another theory, popular last year, is that the Republicans don't like the tax increases that are necessary to pay for Obamacare. But the Republicans don't talk about these taxes (or the deficit) anymore when they air their objections to Obamacare.† Another theory is that the Republicans are just "crazy." †Although it does seem odd to be so rabidly opposed to something that will likely help so many Americans, writing a whole political party off as "crazy" seems like a throwaway. So why do the Republicans hate Obamacare? Eduardo Porter floats an interesting theory in the New York Times. The Republicans hate Obamacare, Porter suggests, because they're terrified that Americans are going to like it. Specifically, they're terrified that some of the tens of millions of Americans who will have greater access to health insurance under Obamacare will realize that the new law is actually not going to destroy the country ó that, in fact, it is going to improve life for tens of millions of Americans, including, importantly, many who vote Republican. Many of the Americans who will benefit from Obamacare, Porter points out, are relatively poor red-state Republicans who are currently devout supporters of the Republican Party. For decades, the Republican pitch to these voters has been that "less government is better." If Obamacare works the way it is supposed to, however, it's possible that "more government" might actually seem to be better ó and that many die-hard Republican voters might realize that. After all, even now, before Obamacare has really gotten going, Americans actually very much like the specific benefits of Obamacare ó as long as you don't call it "Obamacare." As Michael Hiltzik reported in the LA Times yesterday, when Americans are asked whether they like "Obamacare," a majority say no. But when Americans are asked whether they support what Obamacare actually does, they love it: Here are figures from†Kaiser's March 2013†poll: Tax credits for small businesses to buy insurance: 88% in favor. Closing the Medicare drug benefit doughnut hole: 81% in favor. Extension of dependent coverage to offspring up to age 26: 76% in favor. Expanding Medicaid: 71% in favor. Ban on exclusions for preexisting conditions: 66% in favor. Employer mandate: 57% in favor.† What Americans don't like is the "individual mandate," which forces them to buy health insurance. This is understandable ó no one likes to be forced to do anything. And it's true that this provision is probably what gives the Republicans their most persuasive firepower in attacking the law. But the big reason the "individual mandate" is in there is that all the other benefits would be entirely unaffordable without it. If more Americans end up liking Obamacare, including some Americans who have bought into the "less government is better" pitch, this would be bad news for the already increasingly marginalized Republican Party. So that's certainly one interesting theory about why the Republicans hate Obamacare so much ó because they're worried that their constituents are actually going to like it. But throwing away old positions and embracing new ones is a big part of politics. So maybe the Republicans should stop fighting "Obamacare" and just call it "Cruz-care."
Some say that ìtoo big to failî status is worth two ratings notches, pushing ratings up to AA+ instead of AA-, or AA instead of A. A Morningstar report, noted in Australian Banking and Finance (AB&amp;F) this morning, gives a clearer definition of why Australiaís majors are so strong. From AB&amp;F: Australiaís largest four banks dominate an oligopoly that gives them a durable structural competitive advantage, ensuring theyíll earn excess returns over the very long term. This enables the banks to prosper compared with major banks elsewhere in the world and gives Morningstarís analysts confidence that the banks will have global sector-leading returns on equity for the foreseeable future. Thus Morningstar has upgraded the banks to having a wide ìeconomic moatî, joining only one other bank in its global bank coverage universe and two other companies in its Australian stock coverage. An economic moat is a ìsustainable competitive advantage that allows a firm to generate positive economic profits for the benefit of its owners for an extended period of time.î Basically, the majors have scale advantages, cost advantages, efficiency advantages, investment advantages, capital advantages ñ flowing from their ability to use internal ratings based capital allocation against assets, funding advantages, competitive advantages and so on. But what AB&amp;F highlights is that it is the government that largely controls some, if not all, of these advantages, and could act to level the playing field should it chose this path. Might be something to throw in the mix for the Governments new banking inquiry. You can read the AB&amp;F story here Greg McKenna is a current director and former treasurer of mutual ADIs and a proud member of the Customer Owned Banking Industry. Follow Greg McKenna on Twitter Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter Read more posts on Business Insider Australia ª
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe "Smart Money Flow Index" has been headed lower since May, even though the stock market has continued to make new all-time highs since then. What is the SMFI? A description of the indicator from Bloomberg: The Smart Money Flow Index is calculated by taking the action of the Dow in two time periods: the first 20 minutes and the close. The first 30 minutes represent emotional buying, driven by greed and fear of the crowd based on good and bad news. There is also a lot of buying on market orders and short covering at the opening. Smart money waits until the end and they very often test the market before by shorting heavily just to see how the market reacts. Then they move in the big way. These heavy hitters also have the best possible information available to them and they do have the edge on all the other market participants. To replicate this index, just start at any given day, subtract the price of the Dow at 10 AM from the previous day's close and add today's closing price. Whenever the Dow makes a high which is not confirmed by the SMFI there is trouble ahead. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has made three new all-time highs this summer. The first one came in May, the second one in August, and the the third in September. However, those new highs haven't been confirmed by the Smart Money Flow Index, which has been trending lower since the first new high made by the Dow in May. In September, when the Dow made its third new all-time high, the SMFI was able to rise above its previous peak at the August high on the Dow ó so there is no clear trend of "lower highs" in the SMFI as the Dow makes "higher highs." Still, the SMFI indicator suggests that a lot of the buying has been happening in the first 30 minutes of trading.
Markets are growing more anxious about the risk of a U.S. default if the debt ceiling isn't raised by Congress before the deadline. Joseph Cotterill posts this chart from BofA/ML showing the interest rates on various short-term government T-Bills. As you can see, right around the "danger zone" (around October 17, when the debt ceiling is due to be breached) investors are demanding a higher yield to hold those assets, reflecting some degree of concern and risk that the government's timely redemption of these bonds won't occur.BofA/ML
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (R) laughs as Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (L) makes a joke about Republican opposition to federal health plans at a rally to celebrate the start of the Affordable Care Act (commonly known as Obamacare) at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 1, 2013. The U.S. government began a partial shutdown for the first time in 17 years, potentially putting up to 1 million workers on unpaid leave, closing national parks and stalling medical research projects.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Normally, at 8:30 AM on the first Friday of every month brings us the Non-Farm Payrolls report, AKA The Jobs Report. As a preview to that, the private payrolls company ADP releases their own mini-version of that report on the preceding Wednesday at 8:15 AM. ADP isn't a perfect analogue for the Non-Farm Payrolls report, since it only covers private sector workers, and the sample size is smaller. Still it's something people pay attention to, even if it's commonly mocked because on a month-to-month basis it can be pretty different from the official number. But this is no normal month. Barring an agreement to open the government before Friday morning, there will be no Non-Farm Payrolls report. That means for labor-market data junkies, this week's ADP is The Big Show. It's like if the star athletes or actors go on strike, and they have to bring in the alternates. This is ADP's chance to shine. Per Calculated Risk, the official forecast is 175,000, down a hair from 176,00o last month. And again, while ADP is frequently criticized for not getting the number "right" the truth of the matter is that on any medium timeframe, it basically does get the number right. Here's a look at the monthly ADP number (red line) vs. official private payroll number (blue line). Sure they don't align perfectly each month, but ultimately they're pretty similar. FRED †
Italian stocks had a monster day yesterday (gaining over 2%) and they're surging again today (up over 1.3%) despite the fact that for the most part, markets are weak around the world. The reason is that the threat from Silvio Berlusconi's party (the PDL) to topple the government of Enrico Letta, has failed. Enough of PDL's own members of government are supporting the existing coalition, so that the government isn't collapsing. Over the weekend and on Monday it had appeared as though this might be a risk. Here's the intraday chart of Italy's FTSE MIB stock market index. FTSE MIB
GettyIt's ironic: The GOP is the party that most frequently talks about the importance of reducing "uncertainty" in the economy, so as to get businesses to invest more, and yet it's the party behind the most disruptive economic episodes we've seen since the financial crisis. Nothing could possibly cause more uncertainty than threatening not to raise the debt ceiling, and indeed the 2011 episode coincided with economic weakness, and a dive in consumer confidence. So the negative effect is real, even if the threat ultimately doesn't materialize. Both Lydia DePillis and Paul Krugman have posts reflecting on this uncertainty hypocrisy. So what's this really all about? There are two things you need to know. The first is that "uncertainty" has had nothing to do with our overall weakness. The primary drivers of the poor recovery are poor end demand, household deleveraging, and austerity. We've seen unprecedented cut backs (especially at the state and local level) during times of economic weakness, exacerbating a bad situation. The other thing you need to know is that "uncertainty" is just a pretext for passing policies that business leaders like. The greatest elucidation of this came from Cisco CEO John Chambers last† year, when he praised the government of the UK, which at the time was badly lagging the US in terms of its recovery (it still is, though lately it's been improving). Chambers praised the Cameron government for being "pro-growth" and establishing "predictability" (which is the same thing as certainty), and then when he was talking about specifics, he specifically cited the UK's stance on repatriating foreign cash. Now this is a huge deal in the US for tech giants. Companies like Cisco, Apple, Microsoft and a host of others have huge cash piles from money made overseas that they haven't repatriated to the US because they would be taxed again on that money. They've agitated for years to get these rules changed. Now there may be benefit to changing the rules (though it's not simple) but nobody would consider foreign cash to be even a 10th order problem for the economy right now. It's probably something that can be improved, but it's not why job creation has been so mediocre. Fixing it would make John Chambers and his shareholders very happy, but it wouldn't mean a real change in the US economic trajectory. And so this whole notion of the importance of certainty always ends up turning into the need to fix this or that for businesses (taxes, healthcare, regulations). None of this is to say these issues don't need address, but they're not anywhere near the core of our problems since the crisis.
Wikimedia CommonsFrom Deutsche Bank, their ultra-fast assessment on the impact of the shutdown and the debt ceiling fight: We estimate a one-tenth reduction in Q4 GDP for each week of the shutdown initially, but a dragged shutdown into third week could intensify the reduction toward two-tenths. Our estimate for ADP‚Äôs employment number, which is a reasonable proxy for BLS payroll data in the last one year, is +170k, the same as our forecast for private payrolls.¬† Uncertainty of the government shutdown should provide a short term tailwind to a consolidation of the summer‚Äôs sell-off. We remain comfortable with our y/e forecast for 2.5% 10y, but a more acute scare in the budget and debt ceiling process could push yields even lower in the short run.
WASHINGTON (AP) ó Having failed to persuade their traditional Republican allies in Congress to avert a government shutdown, business leaders fear bigger problems ahead, and they're taking sides with a Democratic president whose health care and regulatory agenda they have vigorously opposed. President Barack Obama is embracing the business outreach, eager to employ groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Wall Street CEOs to portray House Republicans as out of touch even with their long-established corporate and financial patrons. Yet, the partial closing of the government and the looming confrontation over the nation's borrowing limit highlight the remarkable drop in the business community's influence among House Republicans, who increasingly respond more to tea party conservatives than to the Chamber of Commerce. On Wednesday, Obama is hosting chief executives from the nation's 19 biggest financial firms. Moreover, the Chamber of Commerce has sent a letter to Congress signed by about 250 business groups urging no shutdown and warning against a debt ceiling crisis that they say could lead to an economically disastrous default. The divide between some GOP lawmakers and the corporate groups that have helped shape the Republican agenda in the past is partly a result of a legacy of the Wall Street bailouts of 2008-09 and a changing communication and campaign finance landscape that has weakened the roles of corporate donors and of the major political parties. Interviews with House Republicans from all regions of the country demonstrate the corporate community's waning clout. Most of these lawmakers say local business owners and chambers of commerce have not raised the potential economic downside of a government shutdown or debt default. Rep. Ted Poe, R-Texas, like many of his colleagues, said the overwhelming message he hears from business owners is their dislike of Obama's health care overhaul, which is at the center of Congress' impasse and the government shutdown. Likewise, Rep. Steve Chabot, R-Ohio, said he mostly hears business owners complain "about the negative effects of 'Obamacare' upon their ability to do business and hire people." When Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., was asked if he had heard business groups express fears of a government shutdown's economic impact, he replied: "No. And it wouldn't make any difference if I did." Still, major business groups are raising alarms, citing the economic cost of a shutdown and warning of even more serious consequences if Congress doesn't act quickly to raise the $16.7 trillion borrowing limit, which the government is expected to hit around mid-October. The letter circulated by the Chamber of Commerce urges lawmakers to raise the debt ceiling "in a timely manner and remove any threat to the full faith and credit of the United States government." It also acknowledges Republican fears over the unsustainable growth of major benefit programs such Medicare and Social Security and the need for a more business-friendly tax system. But in a rejection of the tactics of House Speaker John Boehner, the letter urges Congress to pass first a short-term spending bill, then raise the debt ceiling, "and then return to work on these other vital issues." That advice is being ignored by the GOP-led House. "There is an element of the more independent, tea party coalition Republicans that, frankly, don't listen to very many people," said John Engler, the former Republican governor of Michigan and now president of the Business Roundtable, one of the groups that signed the chamber letter. "They are on a mission, often defined on the basis of their view of the world, and they aren't paying very much attention to what this means beyond maybe their own districts." Concerned, the Chamber of Commerce is preparing to participate in political primaries, protecting friendly lawmakers from conservative challengers. "Clearly we're getting to a point where we need a Congress that's going to be productive, proactive and create a stable environment for economic growth and job creation," said Scott Reed, a Republican political consultant who is advising the chamber on its strategy. A changing environment has given conservatives plenty of tools to challenge establishment Republicans by using new technology and social media to organize and mobilize highly motivated voters. Campaign finance laws have also given donors a greater playing field that is not limited to the political parties. What's more, the bank bailouts of 2008 and 2009 soured the public, which resulted in a new wave of populist Republicans in 2010 driven by a decentralized tea party movement that was not beholden to the GOP establishment. As a result, said Kevin Madden, a former senior House Republican leadership aide and an adviser to Mitt Romney' presidential campaign, the political parties, congressional committee chairmen and big donors no longer wield the clout they once did. "Now it's more of a bottom-up model, where you see these grass-roots organizations and grass-roots voters are now empowered and they feel they have a stronger voice," he said. "There is less of an emphasis on the parties. They used to have much more outsize control over who the candidates were and what party discipline was. Now a lot of that is gone." Rep. Tim Huelskamp, R-Kan., emphasized that point. "I'm from a district that pretty much ignores Washington," he said. "If you say government is going to shut down, they say, 'OK, which part can we shut down?'" Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
NASALast night, US Treasury Secretary Jack Lew came out and said that the Treasury was close to exhausting its "extraordinary measures" that it has to keep funding itself (once it's no longer able to issue new debt) and that the US WILL hit the debt ceiling on October 17 as planned. This warning is unprecedented in that it's coming in the middle of a tense government shutdown. The growing conclusion is that this will not be a short one-or-two day shutdown (no real progress was made yesterday) and that it could extend all the way until the debt ceiling, which will force some kind of negotiation. From Manu Raju, Jake Sherman, and Carrie Budoff Brown at POLITICO: On Capitol Hill there were signs only of the two sides digging into their respective corners, with the House Republican Conference having what several sources described as their best conference in months after Speaker John Boehner‚Äôs demands to gut Obamacare prompted the budget impasse. And at a private Democratic lunch in the Senate‚Äôs ornate Mansfield Room, speaker after speaker heaped praised on Reid for his no-compromise stand, attendees said. And increasingly, the two policy disputes ‚Äî raising the debt ceiling and keeping the government funded in the new fiscal year ‚Äî seemed bound to become tied together. ‚ÄúIt will all get solved at one time,‚Äù said Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.). There's good and bad news. The good news is the action is starting now, and the market and the outside world has been forced to focus on this, thanks to the fact that the government is (partially) closed. That means pressure begins soon in getting a deal. The bad news is that this turns into one giant big bang. As Paul Ryan has said, by rolling it all together, the GOP gets maximum leverage.
Pete Souza (Official White House Photograph)Markets tumbled on Monday, as it became clear that the US government would shut down. Then the government did shut down Monday night, but on Tuesday markets rallied sharply. Now they're lower again. US futures are off over 0.5% across the board. Japan got totally smoked last night, losing over 2%. And Germany lost 0.69%. The chatter now is how this could drag on for awhile, and might not get resolved until we hit the debt ceiling (on October 17), and there's of course no solution to that.
