AP Photo/File  Before a roaring crowd on Wednesday, President Barack Obama delivered a highly anticipated speech commemorating the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington.† It was every bit as inspirational as it was a call to action ñ to celebrate the progress America has made in closing the gaps of racial disparity while also remembering how very far we have left to go. "To dismiss the magnitude of this progress, to suggest, as some sometimes do, that little has changed ñ that dishonors the courage and the sacrifice of those who paid the price to march in those years," Obama said. "But we would dishonor those heroes as well to suggest that the work of this nation is somehow complete. The arc of the moral universe may bend towards justice, but it doesn't bend on its own."† With Obama's message in mind, we decided to turn to a recent study from the Pew Research Center, which sheds a lot of light on how Americans themselves feel about how far we have yet to come in closing the fault lines along racial disparity.† Here are several charts showing exactly where we have succeeded and where we are falling behind.† Pew Research Center  Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center  Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center Pew Research Center  Pew Research Center
Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs' housing sector current activity indicatorThe U.S. housing recovery has been one of the most encouraging economic stories in the world since the financial crisis. However, mortgage rates have been on the rise, and recent housing data have been raising red flags. "A number of housing indicators<U+2015>including new home sales, housing starts, and new purchase mortgage applications<U+2015>have softened in recent months relative to their trend over the past year," wrote Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey and Marty Young in a note to clients on Monday. All of this is illustrated in Goldman's proprietary housing sector current activity indicator (CAI), an aggregation of various housing market series, which has turned down. Worries really piqued in the wake of Friday's awful new home sales report. Here's UBS's Sam Coffin with the recap: The new home sales report for July was very weak, not only because of a 13.4% decline to 394k annual rate in July (cons 487k, UBSe 500k) but also because of downward revisions to the prior three months. June was revised to 455k from 497k; May was cut to 439k from 459k; and April was trimmed to 446k from 453k. That softness is at odds with increased builder confidence and with householdsí positive assessments of homebuying conditions It also seems out of line with mortgage purchase applications, whose recent softening appears to reflect seasonality. (See charts.) Home price measures certainly do not show soft demand. That said, this was an undeniably weak report and raises the possibility that higher mortgage rates are having a larger effect on sales than we anticipated. What makes the new home sales report even more interesting is that it's arguably the most up-to-date indicator of housing.† Here's Guggenheim Partner's Scott Minerd: ...New home sales are booked when a contract is signed, a key difference from existing home sales, which are booked months later when the deal closes. As such, new home sales are the most current indicator of housing activity. This makes the recent collapse of new home sales exceptionally disturbing. All told, there has been a 20.7 percent decline in new home sales in June and July. We would view any other business that experienced a 20 percent decline in activity over a two month period as in a highly difficult position. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich points to another up-to-date high frequency housing market indicator: mortgage applications. As interest rates have climbed, mortgage rates have followed suit. The cost of a 30-year conventional mortgage is now at about 4.7%, up from 3.6% in early May, and the monthly mortgage payment on a median US house has increased roughly $200 during the same period. As rates (and mortgage costs) have risen, mortgage and home sales activity has started to falter. A recent Mortgage Banker Association survey shows loan activity down by more than 50% from a May peak... For the most part, economists also say that this is just one month's worth of data. But they also argue that the data is worth watching closely. So what are the implications? Well, investors will certainly be concerned about what this means for 1) monetary policy and 2) the economy. 1) On Monetary Policy Interest rates began trending higher in May after the Federal Reserve said that it could soon begin tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. These purchases ó which are formally referred to as Large-Scale Asset Purchases or informally referred to as quantitative easing ó consist of $40 billion worth of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and $45 billion worth of Treasury securities. These purchases were intended to suppress interest rates, so there are concerns that the tapering, or reduction, of these purchases could lead to higher rates. Most economists expect some form of tapering to begin in September.† But it's unclear what that tapering will look like. That brings us to the paper presented by Northwestern's Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium this past weekend in Jackson Hole. Here's the recap from Goldman Sachs' Sven Jari Stehn and Marty Young: While the Jackson Hole conference was less eventful than in previous years<U+2015>in light of the lack of a keynote address from a member of the FOMC leadership<U+2015>a number of interesting academic studies were presented. In particular, a paper by Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen (or "KVJ" for short)<U+2015>presented by Krishnamurthy at the conference<U+2015>argues that QE has more narrow effects on asset prices than Fed officials have typically proposed. First, KVJ present evidence that MBS purchases have been more effective than Treasury purchases in lowering mortgage rates and, thus, supporting the economy. The reason is that they find only limited evidence for a broad "duration removal effect," through which taking out duration risk from the Treasury market boosts other, riskier, asset prices. Instead, they argue that Treasury purchases work mainly through a scarcity effect that pushes down Treasury yields but leave riskier asset prices largely unchanged. Purchases of MBS<U+2015>which lower private borrowing costs more directly<U+2015>are therefore a more direct and more effective way to boost the economy. Second, KVJ argue that within mortgages, purchases of newly issued (current coupon) MBS have been more effective in lowering mortgage rates than higher coupon MBS purchases. The basic intuition for this is that purchases of current coupon MBS are more effective in encouraging new MBS issuance. KVJ's main vehicle for establishing these results is an event study that looks at the response of different asset prices to the Fed's announcement of its unconventional policy steps. In short, the purchases of mortgage-backed securities have been more effective than the purchases of Treasury securities. With this in mind, it is quite possible for the Fed to taper by 1) tapering its Treasury purchases while maintaining its $40 billion worth of MBS purchases or 2) tapering its Treasury purchases while increasing its MBS purchases. In other words, the Fed may be able to taper while keeping mortgage rates low. 2) On The Economy Over and over again, we've heard experts cite the housing recovery for growth in everything from consumer spending to corporate profits to GDP. But a peaking housing market doesn't spell doom for the economy. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg wrote a note addressing this concern. Here's an excerpt: ...For the here and now and immediate future, no, I am not worried about the housing revival peaking out. There is no evidence that when this happens, the economy suddenly rolls over and plays dead. Quite the opposite. A peaking in the housing market right now would be perfectly normal ó normal defined as the historical norm... ...Housing always peaks early in the business cycle. The lag between the peak in housing and the peak in the economic cycle is typically 40 months, not three months. And if the peak was one million in housing starts last March, it will be the first time that has ever happened (and I do understand that the world is different post-crisis as it relates to credit availability and demographics). The two lowest peaks ever in U.S. housing starts were 1.8 million units in the mid-1960s and the late 1990s. So it is unclear that one million was the peak this time around, and higher mortgage rates have to be viewed in the context of improving job market conditions. And even if one million was the peak, the time lag between the peak in the residential sector and the next recession is just far too long for me to fret about right now. Inflation, the yield curve, the unemployment rate and housing all scream early-cycle to me, though the stock market, the boom/bust ratio, productivity and capacity utilization rates in industry suggest mid to late cycle. So I do acknowledge that it is not 100% clear as to where we are in the business cycle right now ó but the yield curve tends to win out and is so steep that it would be bizarre to be talking about the expansion being long in the tooth at the current time (though the equity market looks fully priced to say the least). Rosenberg has been one of the more bearish economists on the Street since the financial crisis. But he has always been one of the sharpest. So we can't help but be encouraged by this. Ultimately, yes there are reasons to be concerned about the housing market. And if it is indeed turning, the Fed has the capacity to stimulate it. And even if the housing market does deteriorate, it does not mean the economy is doomed.
Courtesy StanttStantt co-founder Kirk Keel.A new menswear company is basing its business model on the premise that most men's shirts don't fit.† Stantt co-founder Kirk Keel told Business Insider that his research showed that small, medium, large, and extra-large size shirts only fit about 15% of men correctly.† The Hoboken, New Jersey-based company offers more than 50 shirt sizes for men's polos and button-ups based on waist, arm length, and chest measurements.† The company has raised about $36,000 of a $60,000 Kickstarter goal in recent weeks. We talked to Keel about his vision for a new way to buy shirts.† BUSINESS INSIDER: What are some common problem guys run into when buying clothes? Kirk Keel: The two biggest issues we've seen are the poor fit of standard sizes and inconsistency in sizing between brands. Each brand uses different sizing standards so a medium from brand A is different than a medium from brand B, making finding something that fits even more of a hassle. Also, we often see that the standard sizes may fit in one place, but not the other. For example, a taller, skinnier guy may have to buy a large to get sleeves that are long enough, but then the shirt is really baggy around the waist. Or a shorter guy may buy a medium that fits his chest and waist really well, only to find that the sleeves are too long. I could go on and on... StanttStantt co-founder Matt Hornbuckle. BI: How did you get the idea for Stantt? KK: We were frustrated by not finding clothes that fit. It's been an issue for as long as we can remember, and once we started to talk to other guys about it, we realized that this was a problem nearly every guy dealt with. The industry standard of small, medium and large just wasn't cutting it and almost all guys were forced to settle for something that doesn't fit exactly like they wanted. So, we decided to do something about it. BI: Why did you focus on casual clothing? KK: We were inspired by the feeling a man gets from putting on his favorite suit. It fits like a glove, making him feel confident and empowered. The problem is getting that same level of fit in casual clothes today is impossible unless you're willing to take on the time and expense of getting something tailored. At Stantt, we think feeling great in what you wear should extend beyond the custom suit or expensive tailored shirt and into the staple pieces a guy wears every day. BI: What's your background?† KK:†Myself and co-founder Matt Hornbuckle††have a combined 18 years of experience in marketing, brand development, and supply chain with several fortune 500 companies. Most recently, we were at Johnson &amp; Johnson managing big consumer brands.† BI: How accurate is your sizing system? KK: †We want to make it simple for all guys to get a great fit. Based on our testing to date, we expect that the shirts will give over 95% of guys a great fit. As with any new technology, we know that there will be a learning curve, but we are already focusing on refining and expanding the sizes to ensure that all guys can easily get shirts that they look and feel great in. BI: How could this change the retail industry? KK:†With the technology thatís now available, new ways of doing things are possible ñ ways that can challenge the status quo and disrupt industries. While weíre still at the beginning of the journey, we think we can become the gold standard in menís apparel and set a new standard and consumer expectation when it comes to fit. †
ReasonTV / YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Most Important Question Investors Can Ask Themselves (Forbes) The most important question an investor can ask himself, according to Phil DeMuth is "what is your edge as an investor?" Unlike Warren Buffett, most of us aren't market-beating stock pickers. But by admitting this, investors can have an edges or advantage over other investors.¬† Admitting this allows for 1."The low-cost edge" ‚Äî Accept that you can't beat the market and become a smart indexer. "Instead of trying to beat the market, we can be the market." 2. "The kitty-management edge ‚Äî We can buy-and-hold.¬† We can rebalance every year, even when it hurts.¬†¬† We can harvest tax losses.¬† We can know ourselves well enough so that we don‚Äôt overinvest and then sell in despair when the market gets kneecapped.¬† We can hold plenty of cash so we can sleep nights."¬† The bottom-line is very few of us have a real edge, instead DeMuth writes that investors should admit they don't have an edge and make that their edge.  Advisors Need To Help Clients Comply With FACTA (The Wall Street Journal)  The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) passed in 2010 require foreign financial institutions with U.S. clients to report their clients' earnings to the IRS, writes Paul Nixon of London-based Vestra U.S. Wealth Management in a new Wall Street Journal column. "After the announcement of FATCA, there was a knee-jerk reaction here in the U.K. for investment firms to abandon their U.S. clients for fear of the impending legislation," he writes.¬† In the UK many financial institutions he points out want to or are in the process of walking away form their U.S. clients. But Nixon writes "the legislation makes sense, given the fact that there are more than six million Americans living outside the U.S. and only 600,000 were filing their taxes." Instead he thinks advisors along with accountants and lawyers should work together to make sure their clients are compliant.  CITI: Gold $3,500 (King World News) Gold trading has been fairly choppy since April. But the precious metal is now 20% off of its lows. In an interview with King World News, Citi's Tom Fitzpatrick writes that he expects gold to get to $3,500. "Within the gold dynamic, we believe this recent correction was very similar to what the gold market witnessed from 1974 to 1976 -- as the equity markets recovered from the bear market bottom in 1974.¬† In this instance, very recently gold went 14% below the 55-month moving average, exactly as it did back in 1976. "After the low in gold in 1976, the equity market peaked 4 weeks later.¬† So far, following the $1,181 low in gold, the peak in the equity markets has been 5 weeks thereafter.¬† And as we started that historic upward movement in gold, beginning in 1976, this was also when the equity market peaked and went into a corrective phase, and that is when gold really came into its own. "So we believe we are back into that track where gold is the hard currency of choice, and we expect for this trend to accelerate going forward.¬† We still believe that in the next couple of years we will be looking at a gold price of around $3,500." Investment Advisors Need To Review Their Business Continuity Plans And Improve Responses After Emergencies (SEC) The SEC's Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (OCIE) has issued a risk alert on "business continuity and disaster recovery planning for investment advisers." This comes in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy and is intended for investment advisors to reassess their business continuity plans and speed up the time it takes to recover from an emergency. "The Risk Alert makes observations in the following areas: 1. Preparation for widespread disruption. 2. Planning for alternative locations. 3. Preparedness of key vendors. 4. Telecommunications services and technology. 5. Communication plans. 6. Reviewing and testing" The Greatest Risk To Bond Investors Is That Inflation Will Rise Again (Project Syndicate) Martin Feldstein has previously warned that long-term interest rates would rise and push bond prices lower causing investors to lose more in terms of value than they would gain in terms of the difference between the bonds' interest rate and the rates on short-term deposits. Now he says inflation poses the biggest threat to bond investors.¬† "The greatest risk to bond holders is that inflation will rise again, pushing up the interest rate on long-term bonds. History shows that rising inflation is eventually followed by higher nominal interest rates. It may therefore be tempting to invest in inflation-indexed bonds, which adjust both principal and interest payments to offset the effects of changes in price growth. But the protection against inflation does not prevent a loss of value if real interest rates rise, depressing the value of the bonds. "The relatively low interest rates on both short-term and long-term bonds are now causing both individual investors and institutional fund managers to assume duration risk and credit-quality risk in the hope of achieving higher returns. That was the same risk strategy that preceded the financial crisis in 2008. Investors need to recognize that reaching for yield could end very badly yet again."

It's National Bow Tie Day†ó a great day to celebrate famed bow tie-wearers from Winston Churchill to Bill Nye the Science Guy. And if you don't know how to tie one, it's also a good opportunity to pick up on what many consider to be a lost art (Not sure you can rock a bow tie? Here's how.). David Goldberg, Founder and CEO of Freshneck.com (a Netflix-like subscription service for ties, bow ties, and other accessories) recently gave us step-by-step instruction†how to properly tie a bow tie. Watch below for step by step instructions: Produced by Daniel Goodman
ÔªøAP Photo/Louis LanzanoE. Stanley O'Neal, the first black executive at Merrill, has that white clients might make it harder to be a black broker at Merrill.The news Wednesday that brokerage giant Merrill Lynch is paying $160 million to settle a lawsuit claiming it discriminates against black brokers is a huge deal. Merrill has been fighting the class action for eight years and even unsuccessfully asked the Supreme Court to hear the case. The settlement is much higher than the sums other Wall Street firms have paid to make similar suits go away, The New York Times points out. (Morgan Stanley paid $18 million to settle a racial bias suit in 2008.) George McReynolds, a 68-year-old broker who still works for Merrill, initially filed the lawsuit in 2005 and later got other brokers on board. Here are the worst allegations in the most recently amended complaint: 1) When McReynolds first sued Merrill in 2005, there were zero African-American brokers in 552 of Merrill's 639 offices. PACER The red parts of a map in the complaint [below] show the states where Merrill employed no African-American brokers. 2.) Black brokers at Merrill allegedly had an extremely high attrition rate. In the years prior to the lawsuit, 75% of African-American "trainee" brokers left before the training period was over, the suit said. 3) While Merrill publicized "diversity" initiatives, the firm allegedly didn't take those efforts seriously. One manager allegedly called the firm's diversity program a "public relations thing." If he were running the program, he said, he'd "hire a smart white guy and have a black guy for the face," according to the complaint. 4) Black brokers at Merrill said they were excluded from company-related golf outings because they were happening at clubs that didn't allow African-Americans. 5) African-American brokers were seen talking in a group in a New York office of Merrill and were asked, "Are you planning an uprising?" according to the complaint. 6) Merrill employees allegedly called some black brokers "niggers" and were never punished. One manager said to a non-black broker, "Are you going to let a nigger beat you?" according to the complaint. 7) Not only did Merrill's few black employees have to put up with racist language, they also got paid less, according to the complaint. The firm ranked its employees by putting them in five "quintiles" based on the amount of money they earned from commissions. Seventy percent of the firm's African-American brokers with at least 10 years of experience were in the bottom two quintiles, while white brokers were more evenly distributed. Chicago lawyer Linda Friedman, who represents the brokers, provided The New York Times with details of the settlement. Merrill is refusing to confirm the terms of the deal, though. In court documents, Merrill has made this statement on its non-discrimination policies: "Merrill Lynch has a company-wide policy prohibiting racial discrimination. It partners with African-American organizations in recruiting diverse brokers; provides diversity training to local managers; and ties local manager compensation to the hiring, retention, and success of diverse brokers." Merrill has still acknowledged that black brokers haven't always fared well there. "We are working toward a very positive resolution of a lawsuit that was filed in 2005 and enhancing opportunities for African-American financial advisers," Merrill spokesman Bill Halldin told the Times on Tuesday.
East Hampton Town Police Department Goldman Sachs managing director Jason Lee has been¬†indicted on a rape charge, Bloomberg's Chris Dolmetsch is reporting. The charges come after Lee, a banker at the firm since 1998, was arrested in his East Hampton rental home following the alleged assault of a 20-year-old woman. A spokesperson with the Suffolk County District Attorney's office said the indictment is sealed until his court date. Lee was celebrating his birthday with a friend on the night of the incident. The two met a group of foreign students at a restaurant before eventually taking the party to Lee's rental home pool. At some point during the evening, Lee and the 20-year-old victim went into the house and the alleged assault occurred. Originally called to the scene to report a stolen vehicle, police reportedly found Lee hiding in his car after his alleged victim told officers she wished to press charges for rape. Last week, Lee's lawyer denied the charges, saying his client is an¬†"investment bank managing director who has never been in trouble in his life, never accused of any impropriety at all."
REUTERS/Marko DjuricaHumans have remarkable control over their own happiness. In her book, "The How of Happiness: A New Approach to Getting the Life You Want," psychology professor Sonja Lyubomirsky says a person's happiness is 50% due to genetics, 10% due to circumstances, and the remaining 40% is "within our power to change." But it takes work. That's why we've compiled 25 different ways to boost your mood. Happiness is different for each person, but hopefully at least one of these methods will help you find your inner sunshine.
The full name of the March on Washington, which took place 50 years ago today, was The March On Washington For Jobs and Freedom. Among the marchers' demands was a minimum wage of $2. Via Think Progress' Igor Volsky, here's how they put it: A national†minimum wage act that will give all Americans a decent standard of living. (Government surveys show that anything less than $2.00 fails to do this.) Igor Volsky How much would that be today? $15.18. That's today's inflation-adjusted equivalent of $2 back then. Check it out: †FRED In case you didn't know, the federal minimum wage today is $7.25.
REUTERS/Larry DowningCrowds line the Reflecting Pool to witness the 50th anniversary ceremony of the 1963 March on Washington, with the Washington Monument in the background, August 24, 2013.Stocks recovered some of yesterday's losses. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
APElon Musk is just that good.Steve Jobs was a marketing master who turned a near-bankrupt Apple into the most valuable company in the world.¬† But many people are starting to believe Elon Musk is better than Steve Jobs ever was.¬† There's an insatiable thirst for tech innovation right now, and Musk seems to be one of few people taking moonshots. He¬†is the founder of SpaceX and electric car company Tesla. Musk is also the brains behind the Hyperloop, a hypothetical transportation system that could get people from New York to California in 30 minutes. Musk, like Jobs, has already had a massive consumer hit too. He co-founded PayPal in 1999, which completely transformed online transactions. Tesla's soaring stock is just one example of Musk's wild popularity. Although it's only expected to deliver 20,000 cars in 2013, the stock has risen more than 400% in the past year to a $20 billion market cap.¬† CNBCTesla's valuation is sky-high and its stock is up 400% since last year. Another example can be found on question and answer site, Quora, where thousands of people are expressing their pro-Muskness. The most upvoted answers are unanimous: Elon Musk isn't the next Steve Jobs. He's better.¬† Dolly Singh has worked with Musk for years. She joined him as Head of Talent Acquisition at SpaceX and calls Musk "brilliant, dynamic, charismatic" and "an exceptional freak of nature." She also says this: "In my humble opinion, Mr. Jobs in all his greatness has nothing on Elon. Elon is¬†Wernher von Braun,¬†Howard Hughes,¬†Henry Ford,¬†Bill Gates, Steve Jobs and every other badass all rolled into one." Her reasoning: Musk has taught himself everything from design to building rocket ships. He's read tons of literature plus he's an engineer. He's not just imaginative like Jobs was, but he also has the ability to build everything himself. Currently, 1,200 people have upvoted her response.¬† Another answer with more than 3,000 up votes lists all the ways Musk is not Steve Jobs (such as, "Steve Jobs patented everything; Musk hates patents") and concludes:¬† "Elon Musk isn't the next Steve Jobs. He is far beyond and better than Steve Jobs ever was."
Wall Streeters have a penchant for pulling pranks on each other¬†and they're usually pretty funny. But this Velociraptor chase from a game show in a Japanese office takes the prize for the best prank ever. [via i09.com] Watch below:¬† 
Here's the latest map from the St. Louis Fed showing which states' students keep falling behind on their student loans. "With a few exceptions (e.g., the Midwestern states of Michigan and Indiana), northern states have lower delinquency rates than southern states," the Fed says. St. Louis Fed ¬† And here's the overall non-inflation-adjusted growth in student debt ‚Äî we're almost at the trillion mark: New York Fed via St. Louis Fed
Deccan ChronicleIndian bureaucracy is famously the worst in Asia, and one of the worst in the world.¬† Businessmen will often complain about how long it takes to get things done in India. And how it typically involves greasing someone's palm.¬† An incident involving Bhaskar Rao, the inspector general of police for internal security, is a truly epic case of bureaucratic waste. The Deccan Chronicle reports that in addition to being the inspector general of police for internal security, on Aug. 1 the government made him the inspector general in charge of training. Since then, Rao has been writing letters to himself. From the Deccan Chronicle: "As the Inspector General of Police, Internal Security Division, Bhaskar Rao has to write to IGP, Training, Bhaskar Rao that his men from the Karnataka State Industrial Security Force need to be sent for training for which the date should be fixed at the earliest. "He then goes back to the office of IGP, Training in Carlton House and replies to the letter that he had sent to himself a day before from his office as IGP, ISD on Richmond Road with the training schedule for the KSISF. "In a letter addressed to IGP, ISD, Bhaskar Rao states that in response to ‚Äúyour letter seeking dates for training of your men we are sending you the following schedule as under. This cannot be changed‚Ä¶‚Äù s/d IGP, Training, Bhaskar Rao." A shortage of Indian police service (IPS) has meant the top tier often get handed extra responsibilities and titles. "I have to do my work and there has to be consistency in correspondence," Rao told the Deccan Chronicle. "There are times when I have to dictate a stern letter to myself beca¬≠use of the delay in res¬≠ponse from myself from the other office." Rao says he will continue to correspond with himself until someone else is appointed to the position of IGP Training.' (Via Mike Hudack)
REUTERS/Eric GaillardA shop owner, who gave his name as Yohan, uses an electronic cigarette near a poster which reads "electronic cigarette, free trial" in his shop in Nice June 7, 2013. France intends to ban electronic cigarette smoking in public places by imposing the same curbs enforced since 2007 to combat tobacco smoking. E-cigarettes is officially a $1 billion per year business. This is according to Wells Fargo data cited by V2 Cigarettes, a major online electronic cigarette retailer. Sales in brick and mortar stores are now at $700 million annualized, while online transactions are expected to tick at least $500 million.¬† ‚ÄúWhen combined with online sales,¬†the industry has now exceeded $1 billion for the first-time ever, with the consumption of e-cigs likely surpassing that of traditional cigarettes in the next decade,‚Äù Wells Fargo's Bonnie Herzog said.¬† Here's V2's full release: Miami, FL ‚Äì V2 Cigs (www.v2cigs.com), the worldwide online leader in electronic cigarettes with over 1 million customers, today announced that, for the first-time, the electronic cigarette category has surpassed $1 billion in annual sales across both traditional and digital retail channels. Wells Fargo Securities also projects total 2013 retail sales to reach a record $1.7 billion by the end of the year‚Äîan increase of at least 240 percent, respectively, over the previous year‚Äôs estimated $500 million mark. ‚ÄúConservative data indicates that traditional electronic cigarette retail sales on an annualized basis is $700M,‚Äù said Bonnie Herzog, Managing Director and Senior Beverage and Tobacco Analyst at Wells Fargo Securities. ‚ÄúWhen combined with online sales, the industry has now exceeded $1 billion for the first-time ever, with the consumption of e-cigs likely surpassing that of traditional cigarettes in the next decade.‚Äù E-cig retail sales through online channels will total an estimated $500 to $625 million in 2013. As America‚Äôs largest volume online retailer of electronic cigarettes and the third-largest overall electronic cigarette company in the world, whether on or offline, V2 will own at least 20 percent of the total online market with year-over-year sales doubling in 2013 to well north of nine figures. ¬† Established in 2009 as an online-first retail brand, V2 announced a partnership with National Tobacco Company (NTC) in April of this year to distribute their world famous e-cig products to traditional retail outlets across the nation. With more than one million customers spread evenly across the country, V2 is perfectly positioned to drive online buyers into traditional retail locations. Through the partnership with NTC, V2 products are now sold in over 10,000 outlets nationally, including HESS gas stations, with the company fully deployed in no less than 35,000 retail locations by December 2013. ‚ÄúOver the past few years, traditional retail brands have been transitioning online‚Äîbut today we‚Äôre seeing a new trend with the most successful online brands moving into retail,‚Äù said Andries Verleur, CEO of V2 Cigs. ‚Äú2013 was already on track to be our best year, in excess of nine figures in net sales, but post-NTC, our long-term growth will be unparalleled. Our strategy demonstrates the competitive power of developing high-demand brands online first and making them available to a wider audience at retail.‚Äù After debuting in traditional retail outlets only several months ago, offline sales already account for more than 20% of V2‚Äôs total net sales, with offline retail expected to outpace online sales in 2014. V2 Cigs is the flagship brand of VMR Products. V2Cigs.com receives over 6 million unique monthly visitors. For more information about V2 Cigs, please visithttp://www.v2cigs.com.

Today is the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. We've made a lot of gains in improving racial equality since then. But a chart from Pew shows that that only goes so far, showing poverty rates by race since 1963. After four decades of gains for blacks, we are now moving backwards (that is, upwards). Today, 28% of African-Americans are below the poverty line, compared with just 10% for whites. Check it out: Pew For added measure, here are a few unemployment charts showing the economic gap between blacks and whites remains large: Overall unemployment: FRED Unemployment among men: FRED Unemployment among women: FRED
Mark Wilson / Getty ImagesJamie DimonJPMorgan Chase is currently facing a slew of problems from the London Whale trading loss to subprime mortgage lawsuits from the financial crisis.† Once the darling of Washington, D.C., the bank has now received regulatory inquiries and investigations from the DOJ, CFTC, SEC, multiple state attorneys general, the European Commission, UK Financial Services Commission, Canadian Competition Bureau, and Swiss Competition Bureau, according to its most recent 10Q filing.† It seems like every other day there's a new negative headline regarding the bank. †Today we've had three new ones.† We've included a rundown of the issues the bank has been dealing with lately:†
Mark Wilson / Getty ImagesJamie DimonJPMorgan Chase is currently facing a slew of problems from the London Whale trading loss to subprime mortgage lawsuits from the financial crisis.† Once the darling of Washington, D.C., the bank has now received regulatory inquiries and investigations from the DOJ, CFTC, SEC, multiple state attorneys general, the European Commission, UK Financial Services Commission, Canadian Competition Bureau, and Swiss Competition Bureau, according to its most recent 10Q filing.† It seems like every other day there's a new negative headline regarding the bank. †Today we've had three new ones.† We've included a rundown of the issues the bank has been dealing with lately:†
Here's how you know punditry and predictions are total BS. This brief video shows Pat Robertson (!) correctly predicting the 2008 global recession, and oil going to $150/barrel. If Pat Robertson can nail an economic call, that really just demonstrates how silly the whole thing is. (Great find by Eddy Elfenbein) 
The EIA says US oil production hit¬†7.61 million barrels a day last week. That's the most since October 1989. In case you didn't know, there's a shale boom going on. But moving weekly average production is also influenced by prices, and since Aug. 21 WTI futures are up 6.53%. They're up 1.23% today to more than $110. Here's the chart: EIA
On the other hand, while US stock prices have been quite resilient this summer, the currencies, bonds, and stocks of emerging market (EM) economies have been getting clobbered. This has happened because global investors fear that the consequences of prospective Fed QE tapering will be more severe for the EMs than for developed economies. That‚Äôs only part of the story. The fact is that the forward earnings of the MSCI Emerging Markets composite peaked at a record high during the week of August 4, 2011 and has been trending lower since then. Analysts‚Äô consensus estimates for both 2013 and 2014 also are falling, and at a faster pace in recent weeks. Net earnings revisions have been negative for the past 30 months. Revenues still are rising for the companies included in the MSCI EM index, but at a significantly slower pace since 2011 than during the global economic recovery of 2009 and 2010. The big story is the collapse of the forward profit margin since early 2011 from around 8.5% to 6.5% now. The likely cause of that is rising labor costs. The recent rise in oil prices must also be squeezing margins. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Arab Winter. (1) Anxiety attack about US attacking Syria. (2) Geopolitical premium in oil prices rising again. (3) From spring to winter in the Middle East. (4) An Arab world war between Sunnis and Shiites. (5) Meet the Hatfields and McCoys of the Middle East. (6) A short guide to the region. (7) Bibi‚Äôs warning. (8) Why Syria matters to oil prices. (9) Putting a lid on valuation, for now. (10) Emerging markets had issues before the price of oil moved higher. (11) EM profit margins have been squeezed significantly. (More for subscribers.)
Robert Galbraith/ReutersLike everyone else, I'm already bored of the new products Apple is expected to launch on September 10th. A gold iPhone that looks just like the black and white iPhone? A cheaper iPhone with a plastic cover? Big whoop. Based on the videos, images, and information that have already leaked about Apple's upcoming launch, the only remaining question seems to be what price Apple is going to sell the cheaper iPhone for. Yes, it's come to that. The only buzz and excitement about Apple's first real product launch in almost a year concerns the price of one of the new products--a new product that most people in the United States won't even be interested in buying, because the U.S. market has carrier subsidies that already make older iPhones cheap or even "free." So, like everyone else, I've caught myself bemoaning Apple's "lack of innovation" in recent years. But the truth is that we're all just spoiled. We all got used to a short burst of amazingly fast Apple innovation at the end of the Steve Jobs years--the launch of the Apple TV, iPhone, and iPad product categories--and assumed that Apple would continue to launch massive new product categories at this rate forever. We had no real right to think that. Apple's history hadn't trained us to think that. But when remarkable innovation comes to seem like normal behavior, you get used to it. And you expect it to continue. Which, not surprisingly, it hasn't. Because it was an anomaly. The fact is that Apple has really only released 4 new products in the past 12 years. And one of them, as Apple is fond of pointing out, is still mostly a "hobby." What are these products? * The iPod* The iPhone* Apple TV* The iPad Yes, there have been many interim product launches, in which Apple has released updated and innovated versions of these products, but the basic products are still the same. And when people complain about Apple's "lack of innovation" in recent years, they're not referring to product evolutions and updates. They're referring to totally new product categories. (Apple has also obviously released a whole lot of new Macs and software updates over the past couple of decades. But all those, as cool and innovative as they are, are just updated versions of the same personal computers and laptops and software that Apple has been making for 30 years. So those don't satisfy people's hunger for "innovation," either.)† What Apple fans really want is for Apple to give birth to another whole new product category. There are two big candidates for this new category, both of which appear to be in some stage of production: * The iWatch* The iTV Some analysts are clinging to the hope that Apple will still pull the TV rabbit out of the hat before the end of this year. But the same analysts thought that Apple would do the same thing last year, and, so far, there have been few signs that Apple will actually do that. (Earlier this year, I floated the theory that Apple originally intended to launch the TV at the end of last year but that something went wrong. That still seems plausible to me. There just seems to have been too long a gap between product announcements of any kind for Apple to have planned such a vacuum. But maybe my expectations, too, have just been warped by the big new products launched in the late Steve Jobs years.) The iWatch, meanwhile, appears to be a 2014 or 2015 product category.† If you step back and look at Apple's history over the past 10-15 years, you realize quickly that it is only now that the company is getting "due" to release a major new product line. It has been just over three years since the company launched the iPad. And even if you include Apple TV as a major product line, three years is about the average gap between Apple's major product introductions in the past decade. Until 2001, Apple basically only made Macs. Then it launched the iPod. Fully five years later, in 2006, Apple launched Apple TV. Then, a year later, in 2007, it launched the iPhone (which quickly supplanted the iPod) Then, three years later, in 2010, Apple launched the iPad. That's it. Four new products in 12 years, an average of one every three years. Yes, the burst of new product categories from 2006 to 2010 spoiled us and trained us to think that, every year or two, Apple would unveil some massive new category and immediately dominate it. And, yes, in the last couple of years, Apple has lost its edge in not only its existing product categories and pricing--some smartphones and tablets are considered better than Apple's iPhones and iPads, and many are cheaper--but allowed other companies like Samsung to beat it to market with new product categories. (Samsung is expected to launch its own iWatch in a couple of weeks). But based on its average time between major product launches in the last decade, Apple is only now becoming "due" to launch a new one. Disclosure: I own Apple stock.
REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales missed expectations falling 1.3% month-over-month in July. This was worse than expectations for pending home sales to stay flat. On the year pending home sales to were up 8.6%, better than expectations for a 7.9% rise. This compares with a 0.4% month-over-month decline, and a 9.1% YoY rise in June. "The modest decline in sales is not yet concerning, and contract activity remains elevated, with the South and Midwest showing no measurable slowdown," said NAR chief economist Lawrence Yun in a press release. "However, higher mortgage interest rates and rising home prices are impacting monthly contract activity in the high-cost regions of the Northeast and the West." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: Of course this isn't the only disappointing data we've seen. There's been a string os such data.  New home sales plunged 13.4% in July to an annualized pace of 394,000 units. Meanwhile, S&amp;P Case-Shiller home prices slowed to 12.07% YoY in July, compared with 12.2% in May. Housing starts missed expectations as well coming in at annualized rate of 896,00 units in July. Economists have been watching for the impact of higher mortgage rates on pending home sales activity and other housing data. The 30-year mortgage rate hit a new two-year high of 4.58% in the week ending August 22. Investors watch this number because it is considered a leading indicator of the housing market. The PHSI looks at all homes where a contract has been signed but the sale is not complete.
REUTERS/Nigel RoddisIn his first speech since taking the helm at the Bank of England, Mark Carney said he expects a decline in the unemployment rate to take some time. The Bank of England announced forward guidance when it delivered its inflation report earlier this month. At the time Carney said forward guidance is based on 2.5% consumer prices and 7% unemployment rate. The unemployment rate is currently at 7.8%. The monetary policy committee (MPC) committed to maintaining its bank rate at 0.5% until unemployment rate fell to a threshold of 7%. While delivering the inflation report, Carney added that until that threshold is reached the MPC would not reduce its asset purchases, subject to price and financial stability. In today's speech he said there are three key reasons it could take some time for the unemployment rate to fall to 7%. "First, while the outlook for growth has improved considerably in recent months, growth prospects over the next three years are solid not stellar. The MPCís current forecast is for growth to average around 21/2% per year over the next three years, just below its historical average rate of 23/4%. That suggests spare capacity will be used up only gradually. "Second, a great many jobs need to be created to bring unemployment down. A fall in unemployment from its current level to 7% over three years would mean well over three quarters of a million new jobs created ñ and given the shrinkage in the public sector, over a million new jobs in the private sector. "Third, a recovery in growth does not necessarily mean faster job creation and lower unemployment." He also said he is willing to increase stimulus if expectations of higher bank rates begin to impact the economic recovery.† †In today's speech delivered in the East Midlands he reiterated that idea: "Three weeks ago the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) did something it has never done before: we gave clear, quantitative guidance about the future path of monetary policy. Specifically, we announced that we do not intend to raise Bank Rate at least until the unemployment rate falls to 7%, provided there are no material threats to either price or financial stability.1†† †All nine MPC members agreed to set monetary policy in future according to this framework of forward guidance. "That does not mean Bank Rate will automatically rise when unemployment falls to 7%. Nor is 7% a target for the unemployment rate ñ it should ultimately fall well below that level. Before the Great Recession, the UKís unemployment rate stood at just over 5%. The 7% threshold is instead a staging post along the road to recovery. When unemployment reaches 7% the MPC will reassess the state of the economy and the appropriate stance of monetary policy.... "The upward move in market expectations of where Bank Rate will head in future could, at the margin, feed into the effective financial conditions facing the real economy. The MPC will be watching those conditions closely. If they tighten, and the recovery seems to be falling short of the strong growth we need, we will consider carefully whether, and how best, to stimulate the recovery further. Our forward guidance was clear that, although we would not reduce the stimulus until the recovery is secure, we would if necessary provide more." Click here for the entire speech ª
REUTERS/Alexander Demianchuk A man fishes on a bank in the waters of the Black Sea in Sochi, the host city for the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics, April 25, 2013. Picture taken April 25, 2013. Bloomberg's Mark Sweetman reports Russia canceled a bond auction after only one bidder took part in the sale. The government was offering $379 million-worth of 10-year notes at 7.70%-7.75%. It's the second time in four months, and third in less than a year, that the country's finance ministry had to declare an auction invalid ‚Äî on May 29, a surge in yields forced the cancellation of a $1.1 billion Ruble sale. Yields climbed 13 bps yesterday to 7.79%, and are up about 100 bps since April: Trading Economics The weakness seen in Russian bonds (as well as the Russian ruble) are consistent with the general weakness seen in all emerging markets lately.
The Indian rupee is getting blowtorched again, slumping 3.7% to a record low of 68.84 to the dollar. The currency has been tanking lately. On Tuesday, it posted its biggest daily percentage fall in 18 years. Check out the chart of the rupee against the US dollar (via Bloomberg): Bloomberg
After falling by more than 20% from its recent highs, gold is now nearly 20% off of its lows. Citi's top technical analyst Tom Fitzpatrick has been a long-time bull on gold. And in a new interview with King World News' Eric King, Fitzpatrick reiterates his view that the yellow metal could head to $3,500. ‚ÄúWithin the gold dynamic, we believe this recent correction was very similar to what the gold market witnessed from 1974 to 1976 -- as the equity markets recovered from the bear market bottom in 1974.¬† In this instance, very recently gold went 14% below the 55-month moving average, exactly as it did back in 1976. After the low in gold in 1976, the equity market peaked 4 weeks later.¬† So far, following the $1,181 low in gold, the peak in the equity markets has been 5 weeks thereafter.¬† And as we started that historic upward movement in gold, beginning in 1976, this was also when the equity market peaked and went into a corrective phase, and that is when gold really came into its own. So we believe we are back into that track where gold is the hard currency of choice, and we expect for this trend to accelerate going forward.¬† We still believe that in the next couple of years we will be looking at a gold price of around $3,500.¬† As the gold/silver ratio plummets near 30, this would also suggest a silver price above $100.‚Äù To be clear, this is not Citi's house view. According to Bloomberg, Citi metals analyst David Wilson is much more cautious with year-end targets of $1,150 in 2013, $1,145 in 2014, and $1,250 in 2015. Read more about Fitzpatrick's near-term views on gold and silver at KingWorldNews.com.
Wikimedia Commons(Reuters) -¬†U.S. government¬†housing finance authorities are pressing¬† JPMorgan¬†Chase &amp; Co for at least $6 billion to settle lawsuits over bonds backed by subprime mortgages, according to a person familiar with the matter. The company is arguing that it should pay less to settle the claims by the U.S. Federal¬†Housing Finance Agency, according to the source, who was not authorized to speak for attribution. The FHFA litigation is among a raft of legal issues¬†JPMorgan¬†is trying to work through in addition to investigations over its $6.2 billion "London¬†Whale" derivatives loss of last year. An FHFA spokeswoman declined to comment. The FHFA, which oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, sued¬†JPMorgan¬†over some $33 billion of securities two years ago and also sued at least 16 other financial institutions. The lawsuits alleged that the banks misrepresented how well they had checked the underlying mortgages and charged that they did not meet investors' criteria. As borrowers fell behind in payments, the value of the securities fell, causing losses. The securities at issue in the talks with¬†JPMorgan¬†include bonds that were sold by¬†Washington Mutual¬†and Bear Stearns, two troubled institutions that¬†JPMorgan¬†took over with government encouragement during the financial crisis. Some banks have already settled mortgage litigation with government officials who are trying to make the banks bear more of the cost of the housing crisis.¬†Switzerland-based UBS settled with the FHFA for $885 million in July. Citigroup Inc and¬†General Electric Co¬†have also reached settlements. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, entities sponsored by the¬†U.S. government, were seized by the government in 2008 and received $187.5 billion to stay afloat. The Financial Times¬†reported the amount being sought from¬†JPMorgan¬†over the mortgage securities on its website earlier on Tuesday. JPMorgan¬†has spent about $5 billion for legal costs in each of the past two years. The company raised its estimate of possible losses in excess of its reserves to $6.8 billion at the end of June from $6 billion three months earlier. (Reporting by David Henry in New York and Margaret Chadbourn in Washington; editing by Gary Hill and Matthew Lewis)
If last night the year¬†1993 was notable for India, as the Rupee had its largest plunge since March of that year two decades ago, today 1993 is just as memorable for CNBC. The reason: according to the latest Nielsen data, in July the financial network's prime (25-54 demographic) viewership just tumbled to a fresh 20 year low of just 37,000, the lowest since, you guessed it, March of 1993. Why is this a problem? Considering CNBC came on air in its current post-FNN incarnation in 1991, the core viewership is now about as low as it has ever been for the struggling broadcaster which as recently as 2007 was ranked as the¬†19th most valuable cable¬†channel in the US.¬† Now: not so much. Total viewership fared a little bit better: it too plunged last month dropping to just 128,000, but that was the lowest in "only" just under a decade, or since September 2004. At the current pace of viewership declines, however, the 2004 low of 118,000 will also likely be taken out quite soon. Finally, CNBC's Fast Money (-32% Y/Y), Mad Money (-42% Y/Y) and Kudlow (-52% Y/Y) all had¬†all time low ratings¬†in the "all viewers" category in August 2013. Is the exodus from CNBC an issue of content credibility, or just retail revulsion to manipulated, centrally-planned markets, or even simpler, just not enough disposable income to daytrade, we will leave the $64,000 answer to CNBC's proud new owners. Zerohedge
Unnamed officals from U.S. and Israeli intelligence agencies reportedly claim that intercepted communications involving top Syrian officials prove that the Syrian government was responsible. Noah Shachtman of Foreign Policy reports that U.S. intelligence services overheard an official at the Syrian Ministry of Defense exchanging "panicked phone calls with a leader of a chemical weapons unit, demanding answers for a nerve agent strike that killed more than 1,000 people" and caused "neurotoxic symptoms" in thousands. On Saturday the German magazine Focus, citing a former Mossad officer,†reported that Israel's electronic intelligence Unit 8200 intercepted the communication of the Syrian army during the attack. "The analysis has clearly shown that the bombardment with poison gas missiles was made by Syrian government forces," according to the†officer. Shachtman also reports that it was unclear who ordered the attack, citing a U.S. intelligence official who wondered if there was a "sort of general blessing to use these things" or if each attack requires specific orders from the top. "We don't know exactly why it happened," the official told FP. "We just know it was pretty fucking stupid." Arab diplomats told The Wall Street Journal that Israeli spy services provided the CIA with "intelligence from inside an elite special Syrian unit that oversees Mr. Assad's chemical weapons" indicating that certain types of chemical weapons were moved near the Eastern Ghouta region of the capital in advance of the attack. The U.S. spy agency reportedly verified the intel. U.S. officials told WSJ that Mr. Obama's aides reviewed satellite images that officials said showed how continued shelling by the Syrian army ó which was launching "Operation City Shield" against rebel positions in the area ó destroyed evidence of chemical-weapon use. Syrian weapons expert and blogger Eliot Higgins has done extensive analysis on intact rocket shells found at the site of the apparent attack and noted that "a high explosive warhead ... would serious damage the rocket on impact." FP's intelligence source and his colleagues reportedly came to the conclusion that the weapon was filled with nerve agent as opposed to a conventional explosive. "Why is there so much rocket left? There shouldn't be so much rocket left," the intelligence official told FP. Higgins concluded that the evidence seems to "strongly indicate the munition was fired from the north, where 6-8km away you'll find a number of military installations, connected by a 2km road to the 155th Brigade missile base." Taken together, the information convinced the administration that Assad's forces had used chemical weapons against its own people. France, the UK, and Germany as well as Turkey back U.S. military action. Last week a Reuters poll found that about 60% of Americans are against any type of U.S. intervention in Syria, while just 9% support it. The White House reportedly plans to announce at least some of its evidence before taking any military action. David Kirkpatrick and Mark Landler of The New York Times report The Arab League said that "responsibility falls on the Syrian regime" but did not support retaliatory military action by the U.S. The New York Times notes that "Egypt, still the most populous Arab state with the largest Arab military, disagreed" with Saudi Arabia over explicitly condemning Mr. Assad for launching the attack. (Such a condemnation would help the West justify military action.) Nevertheless,†Obama administration officials told The Times that they were satisfied with the Arab League statement. Any attack would likely be limited, reportedly involving a barrage of sea-launched cruise missiles from four Arleigh Burke-class destroyers†in the eastern Mediterranean and lasting no more than two days. On Tuesday The New York Times, citing U.S. officials, reported that the "the initial target lists included fewer than 50 sites, including air bases where Syriaís Russian-made attack helicopters are deployed." On Tuesday State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said that the goal of the operation would ìnot about regime change.î On Wednesday UN envoy Lakhdar Brahimi said it seemed that "some kind of substance" had been used near Damascus on August 21, but emphasized that any U.S. military action would need to be approved by the United Nations Security Council. The UK has drafted a resolution to be put forward to the United Nations Security Council, which includes two countries ó China and Russia (which has backed Assad from the beginning) ó that have blocked any previous actions against Assad. On Tuesday†Kevin Baron of Defense One reported†that†the U.S. has decided that it does not need UN or NATO approval for a strike.†
August has been a relatively quiet month for major market-moving news. However, the relative calm belies the mountain of uncertainty that the global economy continues to face. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian has repeatedly warned investors not to get too comfortable. In an email to Business Insider this morning, El-Erian forwarded his list of 8 major questions facing markets and the economy today. From El-Erian: Stocks are down this month, but the S&amp;P 500 is up 14% since the beginning of the year. Will markets continue to climb this wall of worry?
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel reads situation room files during a cabinet meeting at the Chancellery in Berlin, August 28, 2013.The world is watching Syria closely as tensions rise in the wake of what appeared to be chemical weapons attacks. Meanwhile in Europe, Germany is in campaign mode with parliamentary elections coming in September. Everyone expects Chancellor Angela Merkel to see a big victory. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker argues that the conflict in Syria, the parliamentary elections in Germany, and the direction of the euro are all connected. And all of it should have implications in the financial markets. Here's Redeker in his FX Morning note: Syria and the German election. The escalation of the Syrian conflict comes at an unwelcome time for Chancellor Merkel, so far running a successful election campaign. German public opinion is against any German involvement in the conflict. In 2002, it was Chancellor Schroederís anti-Iraq war rhetoric winning him the election. International military conflicts at election times tend to support Germanyís political left, thus reducing Merkelís chances of continuing the CDU/FDP coalition with the current margin. Should Merkel fail to secure a majority with her current junior coalition partner, the FDP, then we believe that EUR will develop a temporary rally. Hence, an escalation of the Syrian conflict has the potential to lift EUR. The German elections will be held on September 22.
REUTERS/Muzaffar SalmanA Free Syrian Army fighter walks past a torn poster amid the rubble in the old city of Aleppo, August 27, 2013. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
The fact that rich people often think they're better than poor people is one of those unspoken truths of society. We all know it happens, even if no one likes to admit it. Luckily, we've got the research to prove it. In a series of studies, University of California at Berkley¬†Psychologist Paul K. Piff tested the links between social class, entitlement, and narcissism. "Americans may be more narcissistic now than ever, but narcissism is not evenly distributed across social strata," Piff wrote. "Higher social class is associated with increased entitlement and narcissism." Here's how he proved it:¬† Study 1: Piff selected two groups of 100 or so adults to take a¬†questionnaire that measured the extent to which they felt they deserve more than others.¬†Next, he had them look at a picture¬†of a ladder with 10 rungs representing people with different levels of income, education, and occupational prestige. Participants had to select a rung to represent where they felt they stood relative to others. Findings: Wealthier people, particularly those whose parents were highly educated, were significantly more likely to think they deserved more than others. Combined with the second test, Piff found that the higher people put themselves on the ladder, the higher their sense of entitlement. Study 2:¬†Study groups completed something called a "Me Versus Other" scale to show how they see themselves versus others. Subjects choose between seven sets of four circles, in which the circle containing the word "me" is larger or smaller compared to the three circles containing the word "other." The larger the "me" circle you pick, the more likely you're a narcissist.¬†Then they chose from¬†40 two-statement pairs (eg: ‚ÄúI like to look at myself in the mirror‚Äù or ‚ÄúI am not particularly interested in looking at myself in the mirror‚Äù), with one answer indicating narcissism.¬†Afterward, they listed their income level. Findings:¬†¬†Upper-class individuals were significantly¬†more prone to increased narcissism, which is in part due to their greater sense of entitlement.¬† Study 3:¬†Piff first had participants answer a series of questions about their financial upbringing. As they left the study room, they were asked to pose for a photograph for another study and told that there was a mirror down the hall where they could check themselves out before the photo was taken. Findings:¬†¬†More than 60% of the participants used the mirror, and Piff found upper class people were significantly¬†more likely to want to see themselves first.¬† Study 4:¬†Piff wanted to see whether simply reminding people of egalitarian values could change their levels of narcissism. He asked one group of people¬†to list three benefits of regarding others as equals. He asked another group to list three activities they did during an average day. Afterward, both groups took a questionnaire meant to show their sense of entitlement. Findings:¬†People who thought about egalitarian things showed much lower entitlement than those in the control condition. "Bringing emerging social class theory to bear on the issue of historical trends in narcissistic personality, my research reveals that recent rises in narcissism may be most pronounced among upper-class individuals and less accelerated, if increasing at all, among lower-class individuals," Piff concluded.
Gold is getting attention lately, but if you haven't noticed, it's been on a huge 2-month run. Here's a chart going back awhile. You can see how sharply it's taken off since the beginning of July, when it was briefly below $1200/oz. From FinViz: FinViz
Every time the market starts to dip a little bit the media starts going on and on about the the Volatility Index which is widely reported as the ìfear gaugeî. †In case youíre not familiar with the Volatility Index (aka, the VIX), itís the implied 30 day volatility of the S&amp;P 500. †But thereís two sides to the volatility coin. †And the VIX doesnít only represent the implied downside volatility, it just measures the implied volatility. So, itís not surprising to see this good bit of research from Tobias Levkovich about the VIX and its reliability as an indicators of future returns (via Business Insider): ìLooking back at volatility data reveals that there are much higher probabilities for market gains when the VIX is sitting between 10 and 15 than when it is in the 20-25 range,î wrote Citiís Tobias Levkovich in his August chartbook. ìLevels of 20-25 do not generate good probabilities of market gains.î Ö At the low 10-15 range, the 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month returns were positive 74.4%, 85.0%, and 87.9% of the time, respectively. At the low 20-25 range, the 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month returns were positive 58.0%, 55.8%, and 60.5% of the time, respectively.î In other words, the VIX doesnít really tell you where the market is headed. †It just tells you that some irrational apes expect it to be volatile, which is a lot like relying on the variance of the sun rising to make your next trade decisionÖ.
Getty Images/Athit PerawongmethaTOKYO (AP) ó Japan's nuclear regulator on Wednesday upgraded the rating of a leak of radiation-contaminated water from a tank at its tsunami-wrecked nuclear plant to a "serious incident" on an international scale, and it castigated the plant operator for failing to catch the problem earlier. The Nuclear Regulation Authority's latest criticism of Tokyo Electric Power Co. came a day after the operator of the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant acknowledged that the 300-ton (300,000-liter, 80,000-gallon) leak probably began nearly a month and a half before it was discovered Aug. 19. In a meeting with agency officials Tuesday night, TEPCO said radioactivity near the leak and exposure levels among patrolling staff started to increase in early July. There is no sign that anyone tried to find the source of that radioactivity before the leak was discovered. On Wednesday, regulatory officials said TEPCO has repeatedly ignored their instructions to improve their patrolling procedures to reduce the risk of overlooking leakages. They also said TEPCO underestimated the potential impact of the leak because underground water is shallower around the tank than the company initially told regulators. Earlier this week, Japan's industry minister said the government will take over cleanup efforts. The authority originally gave a Level 1 preliminary rating ó an "anomaly," to the tank leak. Last week the authority proposed raising that to Level 3 ó a "serious incident" ó and it made that change after consulting with the International Atomic Energy Agency. The IAEA's ratings are designed to inform the international community, and changing them does not affect efforts to clean up the leak by the government and TEPCO. The 2011 Fukushima disaster itself was rated the maximum of 7 on the scale, the same as the 1986 Chernobyl accident. "What's important is not the number itself but to give a basic idea about the extent of the problem," said authority chairman Shunichi Tanaka. "I've seen reports that this is a dire situation but that's not true." Tanaka said there is a much larger ongoing problem at the plant: massive amounts of contaminated ground water reaching the sea. But that problem cannot even be rated under the IAEA's International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale because it is unknown exactly how much ground water is escaping, how contaminated it is and what effect it is having on the sea and marine products. TEPCO has recovered some of the water that leaked from the tank but says some of it may have reached the sea through a rainwater gutter. TEPCO has built hundreds of tanks to hold radioactive water, some of which is ground water that made its way to the plant, but hundreds more tons of contaminated water are believed to be entering the sea each day. The plant suffered triple meltdowns after the massive earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. TEPCO is putting tons of water into its reactors to cool them and is struggling to contain the resulting waste water. ___ AP writer Elaine Kurtenbach contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Reuters Oil has been rising lately, as the prospects for some kind of strike in Syria seem like almost a sure thing. But why does Syria really matter to oil? Michael Wittner at SocGen has produced a special 3-page note for clients on the matter of what a strike would mean for the oil market. He notes that Syria itself is not a real player in the oil market, so that's not the issue. The concern is "spillover." And he's got his eye on Iraq, where violence is getting worse, and where the fighting in Syria has a parallel. Wittner writes: Our big worry is Iraq. The Sunni vs. Shiite conflict in Syria has a direct parallel in Iraq, and the violence in Iraq has reached levels not seen since 2008. For oil, the northern pipeline carrying Kirkuk grade to Ceyhan, Turkey in the Med has been repeatedly attacked for the last 2-3 months, reducing exports from 350 kb/d to under 200 kb/d (on average). Our concern is that the oil-directed attacks move south and potentially disrupt the 2 Mb/d of Basrah grade exported through the Basrah port complex on the Persian Gulf. There are signs that the non-oil violence (bombings, etc) may be moving south, and oil-directed attacks may follow. Iran, who is Syria‚Äôs only state ally in the region (Hezbollah and Russia are Syria‚Äôs other allies), may choose to stir up such attacks, in order to hurt the economies of the Western countries by causing an oil price spike. Base case scenario: $125 for Brent We believe that in the coming days, Brent could gain another $5-10, surging to $120-$125, either in anticipation of the attack or in reaction to the headlines that an attack had started. In our base case, we assume an attack begins in the next week. If it takes longer, and there are no signals that an attack is imminent, the oil price uplift from the entire Syrian situation will start to fade. Our base case scenario does not include any actual supply disruptions resulting from the US-led attack on Syria. Upside scenario: $150 for Brent If the regional spill over results in a significant supply disruption in Iraq or elsewhere (from 0.5 ‚Äì 2.0 Mb/d), Brent could spike briefly to $150. Oil is up again this morning, although modestly.
India's rupee continues to be the most hated currency in the world. It's been talking non-stop, and it's doing so again today. Via XE.com, the US dollar just surpassed 68.00 against it for the first time. XE.com
The Dubai MallEarlier in the day, the big Mideast stock markets were getting obliterated for the second straight day. Dubai was down over 6%, with Saudi Arabia close behind. Now things have stabilized a little bit, as Dubai is now off 2%, and Saudi is flat. But the Syria-driven market jitters are still the big theme, as oil briefly surged this morning, and gold continues to climb. It's now at $1427. Meanwhile, several of the weak emerging market currencies that everyone is beating up on continue to fade. The rupee is at a new low. So is the Turkish lira.
