The Church of Scientology ran a Super Bowl ad in a bunch of cities. It seems clear where they got their inspiration from. 
Cash flow has stalled for the world's major gold producers despite high gold prices, which probably means we're heading for a gold production cliff, according to National Bank Financial. That means higher prices.¬† From NBF's mining analyst team, led by Steve Parsons:¬† As gold companies grew, too few large deposits have been discovered to sustain current production rates. Though, in recent years, the development of a handful of large mines and the threat of others to follow provided the useful impression that the Production Cliff would be deferred, at least to the point where it was perceived to be a next-cycle problem. No such luck. Project congestion marked by capacity constraints and resultant delays and cost pressures has forced a more orderly sequencing of projects. High-quality projects have stayed at the front of the queue with delays, while the rest have seen significant delays or, worse, been shelved. .... Moreover, the prospect for a material supply contraction also bodes well for higher gold prices or, at least, solid underpinning. Here's the chart ‚Äî the decline is set to begin around 2017: National Bank Financial Parsons and co. conclude: On an aggregate basis using mine and project reserves, we forecast an increase in gold production over the next three years as Barrick, Newmont, Goldcorp and Yamana complete the construction and ramp-up cycle for projects that are already in the queue. Thereafter, starting in approximately 2017, production declines are in the cards for nearly all companies as the project queue and discovery frequency are inadequate to replace production. SEE MORE: 12 Gold Charts That Will Make Gold Bulls Furious &gt;
Where did all the cars go? Since the recovery officially began, nearly ever major indicator has improved ‚Äî unemployment, payrolls, productivity, etc. But not traffic. Here's the chart for Vehicle Miles Driven, data for which comes from the Department of Transportation (via Bill McBride). It's flatlined since the recession: Calculated Risk¬† And here's INRIX's "gridlock index" (blue), which measures the average travel time of a commute above free-flow conditions during peak hours, plotted against gas prices. INRIX¬† So what's changed? As we can see from the chart above, gas prices are barely part of the story. The answer from experts seems to be that no one knows, or more specifically, we can't tell what part of the trends is cyclical versus structural." "So many are seeing the young with no interest in cars and driving ‚Äì at the same time that joblessness among the young is colossal ‚Äì not to mention their parents joblessness ‚Äì or their college loans," Alan Pisarski, a transportation and traffic trends analyst, told us by email.¬† Many factors that would influence the data have barely budged in a decade: population ¬†growth, worker growth, driver's licenses, vehicles owned, Pisarski says. The average travel time to work in 2000 was 25.5 minutes ‚Äì in 2011: 25.5 minutes. Bill McBride basically agrees. While some of it is a sign we have not fully recovered, he writes, it's also a function of the aging of the overall population and changing driving habits of young drivers. He concludes: "With all these factors, it may be years before we see a new peak in miles driven." SEE MORE: The 23 Best Charts Of The Week &gt;
@daraconn2A photoshopped image of Spanish PM Mariano Rajoy appearing via teleconference with Angela MerkelThanks to the ECB's promise that it will backstop the government bond market, if necessary, the acute financial crisis from the past couple of years is basically over. But there have always been risks. For one thing, the economy is horrible, and people can only accept that before so long before society starts to tear apart. And then there's always been politics, and the worry that these governments will lose the support of the public, and be seen as corrupt. That's what's going on now. In Spain, a country that's always been one of the biggest worries, there are calls for PM Mariano Rajoy to resign amid a big corruption bombshell in a Spanish newspaper. Via Email, economist Frederik Ducrozet of Cr√©dit Agricole explained to Business Insider the overall cause for concern: It looks bad for Rajoy facing such a massive pressure all of a sudden, mostly because no obvious alternative is available in terms of leadership. This also give Catalunia and other regions a fresh opportunity to contest central policies. And, of course, it happened at a time when activity is still very weak and a risk to fiscal sustainability. Italian politics are getting more unstable. EU cohesion could be more broadly impacted. True, there is always the OMT backstop to cap any sell-off in Bonos but clearly we are approaching the danger zone. It should be interesting watching Europe again for a bit. Spain's stock market (the IBEX) dived on Friday amid this scandal, the end of a short-selling ban, and bad bank numbers. There's Italian politics. There's the ongoing bailout of Cyprus. And then there's the ultra-strong Euro ostensibly harming German exporters, who are watching their Japanese competitors enjoy a weakening yen. This week there's an ECB meeting. Should be interesting. For more on the situation in Spain, see here &gt;
NBCOutgoing Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta warned on "Meet the Press" Sunday that Congress potentially letting the sequester go into effect would be "shameful and irresponsible," and it would "damage the readiness" of the U.S. "Meet the Press" host Chuck Todd, who was filling in for David Gregory this week, asked Panetta about the potential effects of the sequester ó†automatic, across-the-board spending cuts that will affect most areas of government spending beginning on March.†Sequestration would force the Pentagon to make across-the-board cuts of 16.3 percent in this year alone. "I certainly hope not," Panetta said when asked if he thought the sequester would happen. "If Congress stands back and allows sequester to take place, I think it would really be a shameful and irresponsible act." Panetta said, though, that the Pentagon has to be prepared for it.† "We have to prepare for it, because, you know, there are members up on Capitol Hill that are saying, 'Oh no, we're gonna stand back and let sequester happen.' Let me tell you, if sequester happens, it is gonna badly damage the readiness of the United States of America. We have the most powerful military force on the face of the Earth right now."It is important in terms of providing stability and peace in the world. If sequester goes into effect and we have to do the kind of cuts that will go right at readiness, right at maintenance, right at training, we are gonna weaken the United States and make it much more difficult for us to respond to the crises in the world." Thus far, neither Republicans nor Democrats have been willing to budge to come to a deal to avert the cuts in the sequester†ó though neither side, admittedly, wants it to take effect come March 1.† "No one will tell you they want the cuts. But no one will tell you that we'll definitely make them less damaging," one House Republican aide told Business Insider last week. Watch the clip of Panetta below:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
Suddenly, the Spanish government is swirling in a massive corruption scandal. Late last week, the Spanish newspaper El Pais published documents, which purport to show that the party of ruling PM Mariano Rajoy has been taking illegal donations for years. Opposition politicians are calling on Rajoy to resign, a move that would bring unwanted political instability to one of the Euro's most vulnerable nations. Rajoy is remaining defiant, and yesterday he held an emergency televised address to rebuke the claims. However, this image of reporters covering Rajoy via monitor is being used to make him look like a coward. AP The internet is having a field day. Via @daraconn2, here's a fake image of Rajoy having a press conference with Angela Merkel @daraconn2 And via Juan de Lorescha, here's Rajoy getting the adulation of his party. @jlorescha And here's a crude comparison of Obama and Rajoy. For Obama it says: Here's A President Appearing. For Rajoy, it says: Here's A F*&amp;(ing Disgrace. @jlorescha Spain's IBEX fell 1.6% on Friday amid this growing issue, more banking sector losses, and the end of a short-selling ban. Watch this space on Monday.
With all the chest-bumping and back-slapping going on over the stock market's comeback this week, it makes us appreciate even more the kind of finance experts who aren't afraid to take a step back, look at the big picture, and tell everyone to calm down already. Helaine Olen is certainly one of those people. The writer behind the new book called "Pound Foolish: Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry," Olen†tears down some of the biggest names ññ and common pieces of financial wisdom ññ in the business one by one.† "[My book] will tell the story of how we were sold on a dream ññ a dream that personal finance had almost magical capabilities, that it could compensate for [stagnant] salaries, income inequality, and a society that offered a shorter and thinner safety net with each passing year," she writes.† Needless to say, we were intrigued, so we called up Olen this week for a chat on how consumers may have been duped all along.† Here's an excerpt from our discussion. We'll post more later: Business Insider: You make a case against following the gospel of gurus like Orman, Bach and Ramsey. You also point to pressing economic issues that are at the root of struggling consumers' financial problems. But do you think seeking personal finance guidance is a bad idea ññ even if it provides some sort of short-term relief?† Helaine Olen:†The point of my book is not totally to give people financial advice. I just wrote this whole book taking down the industry and the first question [reporters have] is well, what else can people do? My point is obviously, there are people you can read like [MSNMoney's] Liz Weston ... and I still swear by 'Personal Finance For Dummies.' I think for what it's worth, it's the least intimidating thing out there.† But I think the greater problem is an economic problem. We've been turning to personal finance to fix an economic problem. You're not gonna fix 325 million Americans in this sort of economy. Probably in a great economy, it's not going to make sense. We need much greater help.† BI:†There is some good financial advice out there, including plenty of experts who have championed low-cost, long-term investing, and the like. Part of the problem you address it that it's Jim Cramer and other talking heads that get all the attention in the press, right?† HO: People really take this stuff seriously. I mean, they think what theyíre watching on CNBC is [real]. I don't know the process in which this works but people think they're getting some kind of inside scoop. Even if somebodyís dumping mass information on CNBC, the second they say it, it's no longer insider information. It makes it the definition of non-information. You and I can sit there and say it's sport and it's funny, but you know people take this stuff really seriously. BI: So should cable news stop letting these sorts of guests on the air?† HO: Well, they don't have a functioning business model if they get up there and say, hey, 98 percent of our readers would be better off investing in a low-cost index fund. So they don't. And maybe they really believe they're helping people. Regardless, we all know that work has prompted many ill-fated things over the years BI: These days, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the FTC have both stepped up when it comes to protecting consumers from cracks in the financial services industry. Do you think it's enough?† HO: We desperately need more regulation and any regulation out there will help. Is enough being done? Absolutely not. My particular bugaboo at this point is to get the fiduciary duty extended. Retirement accounts are [regulated by] the Department of Labor and [investment] brokers are regulated by the SEC. Oviously we need much more regulation.† Check back soon for more from our chat with Olen.† SEE ALSO: 7 signs you might be living beyond your means &gt;
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderIt really looks like the investment industry is trying to get investors to participate in this "great rotation" from bonds to equities. According to Charlie Gasparino (via Josh Brown) some clients of UBS are about to get a shocking letter in the mail. UBS is planning a mass mailing to many of its brokerage clients alerting them that they have been reclassified as ‚Äúaggressive‚Äù investors following a recent change in its market outlook that some people inside the firm say reflects growing bearishness in the bond market, particularly over the long term, the FOX Business Network has learned. The report goes onto note that the letter is controversial inside the firm. Some view it as an attempt to pre-emptively avoid legal issues if investors sustain a large loss in the bond part of their portfolio in the future. Others worry that the move will be jarring, and prompt a general client exodus. And problem with all of this is that "bonds" can mean a variety of assets, from ultra-safe Treasuries, to very safe blue-chip bonds (which hardly yield more than Treasuries) to junk bonds, which trade more like equities, and which have gone on a gigantic run. Again, so much talk about the great rotation and so forth. A story like this might make you wonder if it's going too far, and if it's all a bit forced.
In earlier parts of our interview with Paul Krugman, we discussed the deficit and the economy and the way technology was affecting inequality. Another popular topic right now is Japan, and whether Shinzo Abe, the new Prime Minister, can make good on his desire to stoke inflation, and get the country out of its decades-long liquidity trap. In this segment, Krugman explains that one of the problems with modern central banking is that people believe their too credible in their desire to stamp out inflation when it starts to pick up. So in other words, the Central Bank may say it will let growth and inflation run hot for awhile (so that nominal GDP can catch up to trend) but nobody believes that they'll actually do that. What Japan may be in the process of doing -- by having the Bank of Japan take orders from the Ministry of Finance and the new Prime Minister -- is solve this problem, by having the bank commit to being irresponsible. Watch below. Produced by Business Insider Video
Bloomberg TVFor years, investors have watched in disbelief as the 30-year bull market in fixed-income assets has raged on, leaving bears in the dust. The bond skeptics are having another moment, as talk grows of a "great rotation" from bonds into equities, as rates finally start to rise, and the economy turns back into the old normal. Dan Fuss of Loomis Sayles is the third bond fund manager to be called a "bond god" (the other two are Bill Gross and Jeff Gundlach). He is strongly of the view that the current fixed income market is out of control, and that a reckoning is coming. From Bloomberg: ìThis is the most overbought market I have ever seen in my life in the business,î Fuss, 79, who oversees $66 billion in fixed-income assets as vice chairman of Boston-based Loomis Sayles &amp; Co., said in an interview in London. ìWhat I tell my clients is, ëItís not the end of the world, but for heavenís sakes donít go out and borrow money to buy bonds right now.íî ... ìThe world is changing,î said Fuss, who started in the investment business when Dwight Eisenhower was U.S. President. ìWe are coming off a period of very low interest rates because the central banks have been buying the bonds. Interest rates are going to go up.î The idea of the bond bull run coming to an end is a bit more popular, it seems, within the equity side of the world, where analysts are (to some extent) cheerleading the shift from fixed income into bonds. That being said, Bill Gross has clearly been skeptical of the bond market for awhile (having been burnt on a short in 2011).
APHarry Reid said today on ABC's "This Week" with George Stephanopoulos that any deal to solve the looming batch of budget fights must, "without question," include more forms of revenue as a means to further deficit reduction. Reid set up the prospect of the elimination of subsidies to some oil and natural gas companies, invoking former Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney to make the case for some new revenue-boosting measures. Congress faces the¬†looming sequester that will start to take effect on March 1, the possibility of a government shutdown at the end of March, and the need to raise the nation's debt ceiling again in August. "We need to keep our eye on the prize and continue doing something about spending," Reid said. "But I think that what we need to do is do some of the things that Mitt Romney talked about. He said there's some low-hanging fruit. There are a lot of tax loopholes that should be closed. I agree with him. We haven't done that." Reid called for ending some oil and gas subsidies, something Romney suggested during the campaign would be something he could agree to as part of a budget deal.¬† Reid signaled that following Wednesday's lackluster GDP report that was blamed on a plunge in military spending, saying the massive, across-the-board cuts of the sequester are not the right way to go about further deficit reduction. "The American people are on our side. The American people don‚Äôt believe in these austere things," Reid said. "We believe that the rich should contribute. We believe we should fill those tax loopholes ‚Äî get rid of them, I should say. And that‚Äôs where we need to go. And I've got a pretty good fan base for that: the American people. Republicans, Democrats, and Independents."
Bloomberg via YouTubeDecember new home sales fell 7.3 percent prompting concerns about the impact of new homes on existing inventory. Declining inventory has helped boost home prices and has been one of the biggest factors aiding the U.S. housing recovery. Overbuilding has naturally been seen as a potential risk to the housing market. But Bank of America's Michelle Meyer writes that there are three reasons not to worry about optimistic homebuilders that will overbuild.¬† Meyer has previously warned that (overall) inventory tends to build up in the first quarter when the weather is better and before school begins. "Sellers therefore tend to put their home on the market in anticipation of the spring selling season," she said in an email interview. "This means inventory rises at the beginning of the year and falls through the spring/summer as sales are completed." SEE ALSO: Optimists Are Ignoring Two Key Points About The U.S. Housing Recovery &gt;
By:¬† Peter Schiff Friday, February 1, 2013 In Switzerland, it's not just the clocks that are cuckoo. Over the past four years Swiss politicians and central bankers have gone on an unprecedented buying spree of foreign exchange reserves. In 2012, their cache swelled to as much as $420 billion worth of various currencies, primarily the euro. This figure is a seven-fold increase since 2008 and equates to 70% of the country's annual GDP.¬†The sum translates to $200,000 per family of four, enough to keep the Swiss in clocks, chocolates, and fondue for many years to come. The Swiss leadership will claim the money has been "invested" with an eye to the future, but what they've done is impoverished themselves in the present.¬† Although such a decision seems perverse, it makes perfect sense when seen through the lens of today's presiding economic thinking. For the past few generations Switzerland has enjoyed some of the strongest economic fundamentals in the world. The country boasts a high savings rate, low taxes, strong exports, low debt-to-GDP, balanced government budgets, and prior to a few years ago one of the most responsible monetary policies in the world. These attributes made the Swiss franc one of the world's "safe haven" currencies. But in today's global economy, no good deed goes unpunished.¬† Central bankers around the world, particularly in Washington, Frankfurt and Tokyo, have been engaged in a massive and coordinated campaign of currency debasement to combat the recession. But for years the Swiss refused to join in the printing parade. As a result, investors around the world wisely decided to park their savings in the reliable Swiss franc. From December of 2008 to August 2011 the franc appreciated an astounding 59% against the U.S. dollar and approximately 30% against the Japanese yen. More importantly, the franc gained 42% against the euro. As the Eurozone completely surrounds Switzerland, its trade with those countries represents the vast majority of its international transactions. During this massive run up in its currency,¬†the Swiss economy continued to prosper. Wages and purchasing power increased and GDP grew consistently faster than other countries in Western Europe.¬†Despite generally positive export statistics, some Swiss exporters noticed that at times the strong franc put them at a disadvantage against foreign competitors. In addition, the strengthening currency helped keep a lid on consumer prices, giving Switzerland a consistently low inflation rate with occasional bouts of actual deflation. Despite the fact that Switzerland was an island of economic health amidst a sea of problems, the reigning economic orthodoxy convinced¬†Swiss leaders that their strong currency was a burden rather than a blessing. More pointedly, the rise in the franc was seen as a repudiation of the expansionary policies occurring in other countries. And so the Swiss government decided to join the currency killing party. In early August 2011, the Swiss National Bank took a series of steps to reverse the fortunes of the franc. In the simplest terms, they sold francs and bought foreign currencies, most notably the euro. The announcement included a promise to buy unlimited quantities of foreign exchange to maintain a floor of 1.20 francs per euro. In so doing, the Swiss essentially outsourced their monetary policy to the Eurozone. Any moves taken by the European Central Bank would need to be matched by the Swiss.¬†Ironically, it was fear of this outcome that kept the Swiss from adopting the euro in the first place.¬†Despite the former bias toward independence, the Swiss have de facto adopted the euro anyway. Since that time, the franc has fallen 16% against the dollar, Swiss foreign exchange reserves have skyrocketed, and investors who bought francs as a means to escape debasement have been betrayed. ¬† Productive nations generate excess goods and services that can be sold abroad and their growth and stability attract investment funds from abroad. These conditions will tend to increase demand for the nation's currency, thereby pushing up its price. A strong currency keeps capital and raw materials costs low, enabling more productive workers to earn higher real wages. But according to most economists, a strong currency will bring down an economy because it destroys international competitiveness and can even lead to lower prices (deflation) which they see as economic quicksand. These fears have ignited a "global currency war" in which countries are expending huge amounts of national savings in order to ensure that their currencies stay cheap.¬†In today's economic logic we must fail in order to succeed.¬† But it is very easy to have a weak currency. All that is needed is an unlimited willingness to print. A strong currency requires real fiscal discipline and actual production. Yet,¬†like the weight loss TV show, economists believe that the winner of a currency war is the biggest loser. You win not by killing your competitors, but by killing yourself! It's like a student convincing his parents that an "F" is a better grade than an "A." And if a straight "F" report card results in parental accolades rather than anger, the students will lack any incentive to improve performance. Similarly, as nations like Switzerland strive to reduce their own grades, the failing nations have a reduced incentive to change their study habits. Without outside support, nations with collapsing currencies would see huge increases in consumer prices. The resulting fall in living stands would force productive reform. I take the minority position that just as it is better to be rich than poor, a strong currency is better than a weak one. Although much more credentialed economists may try to muddle the arguments, the truth may be seen when a particular position is taken to its logical extreme. If a weaker currency is preferable to a stronger one, then logic would dictate that a currency of no value will be preferable to one with an infinite value. But how would economies with these drastically different currencies operate? It is true that the country with the zero value currency will tend to see full employment and strong exports.¬†The relative low cost of labor will mean that the locals could be easily employed in even the most marginal activity. But since holders of other currencies will be able to outbid the domestic population for all of their production, everything produced will be exported. Imports will be zero as the local population would be unable to afford anything produced in countries with more valuable currencies. As a result, actual consumption would be extremely low. In essence this economy would be analogous to impoverished, subsistence level economies such as Bolivia, Zimbabwe, and Haiti. In contrast, a country with an infinitely valuable currency would see the best of all possible worlds. Even the smallest amount of money would allow citizens to buy huge amounts of goods from abroad. An evening's babysitting money would deliver more purchasing power than months of hard labor in poorer countries. The strong currency would mean that consumption would soar even while hours worked fell. Savings would increase in value, and people would have more ability to travel and pursue leisure activities. In essence, we are describing a rich economy. Placed in such a context, it's easy to see the preferred option. Those who believe in the benefits of weak currencies do not specify when a falling currency becomes a bad thing. Clearly there must be a tipping point where lost purchasing power overcomes supposed gains in growth. Yet they are silent on that point. My position is that a rising currency is always good. No magic tipping point needs to be identified. The problem is that economists now believe that the goal of an economy is to provide employment, not goods and services.¬†They see a job as an end in and of itself, rather than as a means for people to get the things they really want. But if we can get all that we want without having to work, who needs to bother? A strong currency takes us closer to this goal. It is a testament to how far the "science" of economics has fallen that this goal has been utterly forgotten. But this junk science is killing real growth. As long as this "black is white" ideology remains in place, the biggest printers will continue to be the biggest actual losers.¬† To order your copy of¬†Peter Schiff's latest book,¬†The Real Crash: America‚Äôs Coming Bankruptcy ‚Äì How to Save Yourself and Your Country,¬†click here. For in-depth analysis of this and other investment topics, subscribe to¬†Peter Schiff's¬†Global Investor¬†newsletter.¬†CLICK HERE¬†for your free subscription. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
The S&amp;P 500 Index closed above 1500 for the first time since 2007 on Friday, January 25, 2013, after rising for eight days in a rowóthe longest streak of daily gains since a nine-day run ended in 2004. Speculation has emerged that the long-awaited rotation by investors from bonds into stocks may finally have arrived and is powering the rally and, if so, that it has a long way to go. While we are also awaiting the rotation of investment flows from bonds into stocks, we think the latest speculation is premature and that the stock market rally may be due for a pause or a modest pullback. Lipper, the fund flow tracking service, has reported inflows into stock mutual funds each week so far this year, providing some evidence that investors are finally favoring stocks after years of selling. However, the details of the data reveal that the money is not going to U.S. stock funds and not coming from bonds: The details of the data reveal that there is no evidence of a rotation from bonds into U.S. stocks, yet. The only rotation that appears to be taking place is out of money market funds into international stock funds, which continue to see steady inflows. Another reason not to get overly excited about this development is inflows to U.S. stock mutual funds have been a good contrarian indicator for the stock market in recent years. For example, the last time U.S. stock mutual funds experienced a monthly inflow was April 2011ójust as stocks peaked for that year on April 29, 2011 [Figure 1]. Prior to 2011, the inflow in April 2010 took place just before a stock market slide that began on April 23, 2010. LPL Financial The inflows we have seen this year are likely part of the normal pattern of inflows in the early part of the year that have been followed by outflows during the rest of the year. The real test of investorsí appetite for U.S. stocks will be later this year, as we see if the flows to U.S. stock mutual funds can buck the seasonal pattern that typically shifts to outflows. Many individual investors consider the risk in investing to be the likelihood of suffering a loss during a quarter or a year, rather than the risk of missing longer term investment objectives. This is why they have shifted out of stocks and into bonds so consistently in recent years despite solid, but volatile, stock market performance. Investors have sought the perceived safety evident in the steady but relatively low return of bonds at the expense of potentially undershooting their long-term goals. A long-term rotation from bonds to stocks is likely to begin sometime this year, as yields finally start to rise following a 30-year decline that boosted bond market total returns and pushed bond valuations to highs. High-quality bonds may begin to suffer losses, and the growing dividends per share coming from stocks become more attractive with stock market valuations near 20-year lows. However, those claiming that it is already underway are premature and may be in for disappointment if they expect the stock market rally to continue each week in the months ahead.
Time Inc.There are obvious differences between the banks of yore and the giant institutions where our salaries get direct-deposited today. In the 1960s, bank tellers were real bank tellers. And it was a time when the economy was doing well, interest rates were high, and the average American had more discretionary income than ever before. The average man was spending so much money, that he had started to borrow money in order to do so. And the banks more than willing to oblige. Here's an excerpt from "Our Flashy, Lovable, Open-Handed Banks," by Herbert Brean, published on May 9, 1960 in the now defunct LIFE magazine. "Once banks were put-in institutions," commented a New York banker recently, 'Now they are take-out institutions.' The modern banker doesn't wait for you to ask for money. He presses it on you. Many banks today will encourage a new customer to write checks before he has deposited a nickel. 'You're not borrowing enough," a Salt Lake City banker enthusiastically upbraids his customers. "Take some more!'" And because business was booming, older commercial banks were facing fierce competition from savings and loans associations and new upstarts banks who wanted in on the action. But deposit rate ceilings were in place back then, and this meant that such financial institutions couldn't compete on rates. First, they gave away absurd amounts of free stuff. "When a customer opens a savings account in a modern bank, he may reasonably expect a premium or giveaway, but he is not getting his money's worth if he accepts free flower seeds, flowering shrubs or dwarf palms. These are passÈ. When the Gibraltar Savings and Loan Association opened a new office in Beverly Hills last year, it commemorated the event by raffling off a new car, a blue mink stole, a color TV set and a dozen transistor radios. It fed and entertained new customers and gave them 5,000 sets of stainless steel flatware, 1,000 cigarette lighters and 3,000 desk memo pads." In the 1960s banks gave away wall clocks, dinnerware, sterling silver candlestick compotes, coffeemakers, kitchen cutlery sets, lady's billfolds, photo albums, cameras, bird-cage planters, cleaver sets, record albums, scholarships etc. At Christmas, the Manhattan Savings bank would flood its lobby to stage an ice-skating show. Later, the bank would drain the lobby, and host a dog show featuring "midget handlers." The "average man" wasn't enough business for these banks, so they started targeting women. They would lure them in with powder rooms and free lessons on subjects like "how to install a zipper." They also targeted children. "Deposits may come in nickels and dimes, but BOA (Bank of America) finds it profitable to send representatives to collect them. Society National Bank of Cleveland has a similar programówith sixth graders as tellers. At this bank's main office, juvenile business is transacted in a special room with a low counter to enable 10-year-olds to look the teller in the eye and appraise his trustworthiness." Of course, those days are long gone. Read the full article by Herbert Brean here.
By EconMatters Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM), the world‚Äôs biggest energy company by market cap, said its 4Q profit rose to a five-year high boosted by its refining arm from growing supplies of cheap U.S. oil. However, Delta Airlines (DAL) can‚Äôt tell a similar success story with its newly acquired refinery.¬† Delta paid $150 million for a Phillips 66 refinery in Trainer PA last May aiming to save $300 million a year in future fuel costs.¬† At the time, many analysts see this acquisition as a smart fuel hedge move by Delta. ¬†However, as I previously discussed, since, the actual implementation of this potential fuel cost savings could be quite problematic. ¬†¬†¬†  IATA Further Reading ‚Äì When An Airline Buys An Oil RefineryDuring a time when most refiners are reporting good earning numbers as price gain of petroleum ¬†products have outpaced stagnant WTI crude prices, Delta reported loss of $63 million at the Trainer refinery in 4Q, and expects more losses of up to $100 million in 1Q 2013. Delta chalked it up to Sandy, the super storm.¬† However, as Platts reported that in a Dec. 2012 investor call, Delta executives said Trainer plant relies on crudes at about $4/b above Brent (The plant is old and relies on expensive imported crude feedstock mostly from Nigeria.)¬† Platts concluded that Delta is most likely selling gasoline and fuel oil (distillate) at a loss based on the current crack spread (to Brent).¬† Gasoline and fuel oil accounts for more than half of Trainer‚Äôs production. Furthermore, according to Platts,¬†‚ÄúRefining experts who have done computer simulations tell JFI that Trainer economics theoretically only work using a crude slate of distillate-rich crudes such as Nigerian Forcados, which typically trade at a large premium to Brent crude.‚ÄùAlso, there seems to be another indication of troubles in Delta‚Äôs vertical-integration strategy of purchasing a refinery as a fuel hedge.¬† The ex-oil-trader-turned-Delta-VP-of-Fuel, Jon Ruggles, left the company quite abruptly late last year.¬† Ruggles, a key person behind the Trainer refinery deal, was hired away from Merrill Lynch less than a year ago to head Delta‚Äôs trading operation.¬† Rumor has it that Ruggles' exit from Delta was somehow related to losses at the Trainer plant.¬† The latest from Delta executives is that they now expected Trainer to have $280 million in savings in 2013 and refine 80% if the airline's domestic jet fuel requirement.¬† And there could still be hope for Trainer yet as Delta indicated in a recent SEC filing that the company is considering getting the cheaper Bakken crude by railcar.¬† Given that transporting crude by railcar adds about $22 a barrel to the cost of oil, it is hard to imagine the economics could improve much at Trainer with the current Brent premium ¬†over WTI at only around $19 a barrel.¬† To put it another way, if it were as easy as shipping Bakken oil via railcars, wouldn‚Äôt you think ConocoPhillips, who‚Äôs only been in the oil business dating back to 1875, would have figured it out long before dumping the Trainer asset? ¬† Now thinking the worst is over after extensive restructuring and consolidation in the airline sector, most Wall Street analysts have turned optimistic towards the airline industry. ¬†Delta Airlines stock has climbed 25% in the past year outperforming the broader Bloomberg United States Airline Index, which includes Delta Airlines. ¬†Investment houses like J.P. Morgan already raised Delta‚Äôs 1Q 2013 profit estimate, citing lower fuel prices and strong travel demand. Bloomberg Further Reading - The Market Rally Tells Us Nothing About the EconomyHowever, the fact remains that flying is a commodity, and crude oil prices are expected to remain flat at least in the next two years due to subdued economic growth and demand.¬† That means the same major factors that‚Äôs been negatively impacting the airline sector -- weak world GDP, high fuel prices and fierce competition‚Äì will still be there, at least in 2013 and 2014, with many down side risks such as the euro zone, and Iran. So in general, any increase in airline profitability would be hard-earned from things like efficiency gain and capacity reduction.¬† IATA On top of the tough macroeconomics, Delta has one more down side risk than peers ‚Äì Trainer Refinery.¬† And as if that‚Äôs not bad enough already, Delta management projects nonfuel unit costs will increase 6% to 8% for the March quarter and 4% to 6% for fiscal 2013 due to salary increases and Capex. ¬† ¬† IATA, which represents about 80% of global carriers, forecast the average global airline industry profit margins will improve but remain thin at 2.9% in 2013.¬† So it is hard for me to share the same optimism as JPM regarding Delta or even the airline sector as a whole.¬† ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
Courtesy of AirPanoForeclosure activity increased in 120 of the 212 biggest metropolitan real estates, according to RealtyTrac's latest foreclosure report. Foreclosure activity increased in eight of the 20 largest metros in the country, said the report, led by Tampa, Miami, Baltimore, Chicago and New York. Florida cities accounted for eight of the top 20 foreclosure rates in the country. We drew on the report to highlight the 12 metros with foreclosure savings higher than 30 percent.
