REUTERS/Issei KatoJapan's Nikkei stock index is up another 0.8% today, hitting a new 6-year high. 2013 has been a banner year for Japan, as financial markets have responded quite favorably to "Abenomics" which is the economic stimulus strategy put forward by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which consists of aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus. There are signs that Abenomics is working to get Japan out of its deflationary slump. Certainly markets like it, with both stocks and the yen responding favorably. So what does the future hold? Hopefully for Japan, the economy continues to break out as businesses invest more and consumer spend. But it's not a slam dunk. And there are some reasons to be concerned. Japanese corporate cash hordes climbed to record highs last quarter, which is the exact opposite of what you'd hope to see if the economy were entering into some kind of self-reinforcing recovery. What you want to see is inflation start to lift, prompting businesses to want to invest to take advantage of that. But that's not actually happening. Surveys do indicate that higher spending is on the way, but it's not happened yet. So we'll see Meanwhile, Shinzo Abe's personal approval ratings have been tanking lately. This makes pushing forward on measures of economic reform (or getting anything else done) more difficult and give strength to opponents pushing for a different approach. As for inflation, it's true that Japan is getting some (finally) but a substantial portion of it has come from importing expensive energy (because the yen has weakened). Real core inflation isn't actually doing much. So it's a mixed bag. There's some inflation and perhaps some export competitiveness. And companies say they're going to spend more, but aren't doing so yet. As 2013 comes to a close, it's not quite ready to declare victory for Abenomics.
REUTERS/ Eddie Keogh FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Things Everyone Needs To Keep In Mind As They Prepare To Rebalance Their Portfolios (Morningstar) Stock market gains have been strong in recent years, many might consider rebalancing their portfolios now. Christine Benz, director of personal finance at Morningstar has five tips to get this done. 1. "Assess asset allocation across multiple asset pools." Investors might have different "pools of money" but asset allocation is more important for all of them as a whole than it is for individual portfolios of IRAs, company retirement accounts and so on. 2. "Address asset-class/sub-asset-class weightings all at once." Look at asset, sector or geographic allocations, do them together. 3. "Keep tax efficiency in mind." 4. "Be prepared to tinker." This is more likely in the case of actively managed funds. 5. "Get over your trepidation about buying bonds."  The Use Of Target-Date Funds In 401(k) Plans Rises In 2012 (FA Mag) Target date funds are funds that rebalance assets based on a future date, and typically get more conservative closer to retirement. And the use of target date funds inf 401(k) plans continues to increase, according to a report by the Investment Company Institute and the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The report found that 41% of 401(k) participants held target-date funds in 2012 with 15% of their assets invested in them. This compared with 39% that held target-date funds at the end of 2011 the previous year, with 13% of their assets invested in them. The Biggest Financial Story In The World Is Playing Out In China (Business Insider) Forget the Fed taper, the biggest financial story in the world right now is playing out in China, according to Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management. China's seven-day repurchase rate climbed to 8.94% and some argue that this is a repeat of the credit crunch we saw in June. But what's the biggest take away from this? "I think it's starting to dawn on people just how fragile, and what's the word I'm looking for, tangled China's financial system has become," Chovanec told Business Insider. "A lot of people say they hold $3.5 trillion in reserves, they own the banks, which is all true, though the bit about the $3.5 trillion in reserves is irrelevant. But people would say stuff like it's inconceivable that we would see any form of financial instability in China. Well what we're seeing is a form of financial instability."It takes place in the context of a week ago when a major trust blowing up. So it's not some kind of isolated thing, we see yields rising across the board, we've seen a major trust product blow up, the latest of many that did not garner the same attention. Credit risk is rising, you talk to most Chinese officials, they'll admit credit risk is rising. And we see overall debt levels rise dramatically in China. And we've got the interbank lending market, which is keeping everyone from defaulting, is on the verge of a breakdown. Because once you get above 10% the market begins to break down." Strong Years For Stocks Are Followed By More Strong Years For Stocks (LPL Financial)  The S&amp;P 500 is expected to give 25 - 30% returns in 2013 and some worry that we're in for a correction in the new year. But LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop¬† writes that 25-30% returns aren't that rare, and have occurred in five other years. The S&amp;P 500 has offered 15%-20% returns in eleven years.¬† "Historically after a one-year total return in the 25‚Äì30% range, the S&amp;P 500 has followed it up by more solid years of gains," according to Kleintop. "In fact, most of the years were actually followed by several years of strong gains, as was the case in 1943, 2003, and 2009." LPL Financial FINRA Is Proposing A New System To Spot Red Flags In Sales Misconduct (FINRA)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is looking for comments on a proposal called Comprehensive Automated Risk Data System (CARDS) that could help it spot "'red flags' of sales practice misconduct and help us identify potential business conduct problems with firms, branches and registered representatives," FINRA's executive vice president Susan Axelrod said in a press release.¬†¬† "In its first phase, the CARDS program will increase FINRA's ability to protect the investing public by utilizing automated analytics on brokerage data to identify problematic sales practice activity. FINRA plans to analyze CARDS data before examining firms on site, thereby identifying risks earlier and shifting work away from the on-site exam process."
Oxford Said Business SchoolBOSTON (Reuters) - Herbalife is still engaged in improper recruiting tactics and is likely violating multi-level market restrictions in China, activist hedge fund manager William Ackman wrote to his investors on Monday. The billionaire investor on Monday told clients in a letter, seen by Reuters, that he would soon be releasing findings that his own investigation into the nutrition and weight loss company has turned up. So far, he said that he has shared those findings only with regulators. "Our next presentation, among other issues, will include an analysis of the three principal sources of revenue growth for the company: Internet-based lead generation, nutrition clubs, and the company's China operation,"¬†Ackman¬†wrote. Herbalife prohibited "lead generation" methods to find new distributors at the end of June, butAckman¬†said the practices, promoted by the company's top distributors, are still being used. Herbalife spokeswoman¬†Barbara Henderson¬†said the company has no comment. The battle over Herbalife as been one of Wall Street's enduring dramas this year as it pittedAckman¬†against other prominent hedge fund managers including Carl Icahn, the company's biggest shareholder. A year ago¬†Ackman¬†called the company a pyramid scheme, something the company has vehemently denied, and he predicted the share price would sink to zero when regulators shut the company down. ACKMAN¬†STICKING WITH SHORT POSITION Ackman¬†also said he was sticking by his $1 billion bet short selling Herbalife's stock which he made public a year ago and which has cost his $12 billion¬†Pershing Square Capital Managementas much as $700 million in losses, people familiar with the fund have estimated. Herbalife's stock price has surged 146 percent this year to $81.03, having gotten a sizable boost last week after accountants found no material change in the company's reaudited financial statements. However, at the beginning of December, overall¬†Ackman's fund Pershing Square was up roughly 10 percent for the year and¬†Ackman¬†did not provide updated performance numbers in the letter. Pershing Square restructured the Herbalife bet in the last few months as the share price kept rising. "We continue to believe that our Herbalife short position offers an extremely compelling, and, as now structured, even greater asymmetric payoff than before because of the stock price's substantial rise," he wrote. Herbalife,¬†Ackman¬†wrote, has spent tens of millions of dollars to discredit his hedge fund, trying most recently to persuade Pershing Square investors to redeem from the fund. Investment bank "Moelis &amp; Company¬†even offered to stop this campaign if we would agree to no longer push our regulatory agenda and to refrain from any further public statements,"¬†Ackmanwrote. But he said he thinks Herbalife and Moelis may have quit their campaign "as a result of media scrutiny." (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; editing by Clive McKeef)
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNext semester, 200 lucky Princeton students will have the opportunity to take†The Great Recession: Causes, Consequences, and Remedies with professor Paul Krugman. The reading list is stacked (and we can't believe that only 178 students are currently signed up†to take a class with a Nobel Prize winner, according to Princeton's office of the registrar). "The course will begin by reviewing the causes of the recession that began in December 2007. It will concentrate on consumer behavior, financial markets, unemployment, and the housing sector," according to the course description. "The role of public policies in contributing to the economic crisis and in ending the crisis will be explored. The state of the recovery will be assessed and monitored." Regular Krugman readers will recognize many of the texts from his bloggings at the New York Times, but it's cool to see them laid out all syllabus style. You can follow along at home all semester. Things get a little more free-form by April, but the midterm is on March 12, kids (via David Dayen): Feb. 3: Overview Eichengreeen and OíRourke, ìA Tale of Two Depressionsî† DeLong, ìThe Great Depression from the perspective of todayî Nick Crafts, ìIf only it were the 1930sî NIESR Feb. 5: Basic short-run macro† Hicks, ìMr. Keynes and the classicsî  Krugman, ìIS-LMentaryî David Romer, ìShort-run fluctuationsî Feb. 10: The Great Moderation  Bernanke, ìThe great moderationî Blanchard and Simon, ìThe decline in U.S. output variabilityî Feb. 12: Bubbles  Shiller, ìFrom efficient markets theory to behavioral financeî  Greenspan 2004 Minsky moment FCIC report,†part III  Feb. 17: Crisis models  Diamond-Dybvig Gorton, ìSlapped in the faceî Bernanke, ìThe crisis as a classic financial panicî Feb. 19: The panic  FCIC report, part IV  Feb. 24: Bailout  TARP Feb. 26: Stimulus  Romer-Bernstein Assessment CBO on ARRA Where the money went Mar. 3: War among the economists  Krugman on economists Fama Cochrane Lucas Mar. 5: The end of the panic Economic Report of the President, 2010 Mar. 10: Global spread and stabilization IMF World Economic Outlook IMF Mar. 12: Midterm Mar. 24: The euro Euro@10 Mar. 26: The euro crisis  OíRourke and Taylor Eichengreen et al, ìThe mother of all sudden stopsî Mar. 31: Austerity debates I: Short-run effects  Krugman, Liquidity preference Krugman, ìMyths of austerityî Alesina and Ardagna IMF I IMF II Apr. 2: Austerity debates II: Debt  Greenlaw et al, ìCrunch timeî De Grauwe Reinhart-Rogoff and all that Apr. 7: Monetary debates I, Inflation or deflation?  Meltzer, ìInflation nationî Feldstein, ìInflation is loomingî  CFR symposium 2009 Krugman Apr. 9: Monetary policy II, quantitative easing  The data Blinder, a primer Woodford on forward guidance Abenomics, TK  Apr. 14: Unemployment, structural or cyclical  Edward Lazear Beveridge curve analyses TK Apr. 16: Hysteresis  DeLong and Summers Reifschneider et al April 21: Long-run fiscal outlook Latest CBO projections  April 23: Crisis stories  Blanchard on Latvia IMF on Iceland  April 28: Secular stagnation?  Summers speech Krugman on Summers  April 30: The new normal?
Ever since his Tweet about Portuguese debt haircuts apparently caused the country's bond yields to spike, Bill Gross and his giant PIMCO bond fund's Twitter feed has been a big must-follow. This afternoon, Gross¬†offered two year-end Tweet-thoughts about what's moving markets these days.¬† His answer: artifice.  That is, there have been few fundamentals ‚Äî "real growth and investment" ‚Äî to support recent returns.¬†Rather, he says, an "artificial" prosperity has been created via central banks that is similar to the "artificial" prosperity created by Bitcoin holders. ¬† Check it out: Gross:Part 1of 2: We live not in a new gilded age but a bitcoin age where artificial money (from central banks) creates temporary prosperity Gross: Part 2 of 2: Real growth and investment must be the focal point.
The S&amp;P 500 is heading for returns of between 25% and 30% for 2013.¬† Exceptional? Not totally.¬† LPL Financial 's Jeff Kleintop has compiled the historic frequency of stock returns on the S&amp;P 500 since 1927. It turns out that 25%-30% gains range is not terribly rare: there have been five other years that saw such gains. In fact, the gains range with the highest frequency on the S&amp;P 500 is 15%-20%, with eleven years.¬† Okay, now what? Kleintop also circled the five years that followed the 25%-30% gains years ‚Äî and the average returns for those periods comes to 12%, with four of the five years posting double-digit gains. He writes: "Some may fear an outsized gain in the stock market during 2013, is surely¬†to be punished with losses in the coming year. However, historically after a one-year total return in the 25‚Äì30% range, the S&amp;P 500 has followed it up by more solid years of gains. ...In fact, most of the years were actually followed by several years of strong gains, as was the case in 1943, 2003, and 2009." All of this may sound counterintuititive, especially when financial advisors are out there telling clients to expect average annual returns of around 10%. But keep in mind, those are just average. Kleintop tweeted about this today: Flaw of Averages: At 28% in 2013, S&amp;P 500 annual returns have been in the long-term average range of 5-10% in only 8 of the past 86 years. ‚Äî Jeffrey Kleintop (@JeffreyKleintop) December 23, 2013 In other words, strong gains in stocks are usually followed by...strong gains in stocks. Chart:¬† LPL Financial
Philipp KlingerFans of gold have long argued that aggressive monetary policy around the world ó the likes of which we've seen since the financial crisis ó would cause the price of the shiny yellow metal to climb. They would often publish charts overlaying the price of gold and the size of a central bank's balance sheet as proof. For years, that correlation seemed to hold. The theory was that ongoing economic and financial woes would force central banks to keep stimulating, which would in turn devalue local currencies. And in a flight for safety and wealth preservation, investors would flock to gold. Not in 2013. "Gold lost its role as a safe haven against systemic risk in 2013," writes SocGen's Patrick Legland and Daniel Fermon. "The Italian elections, the Cyprus bail-in and even the U.S. shutdown and debt ceiling failed to drive gold higher." Legland and Fermon say that financial markets began to price in the reduction of quantitative easing in the early part of the year. "This maintained pressure on the†gold price throughout the year, as the expansion of central†bank balance sheets was considered to be a key gold driver," they write. Now that the Fed has indeed announced the tapering of its asset purchasing program, "gold (and silver) will no longer benefit from the Fed's unlimited liquidity." For what it's worth, tapering does not mean balance sheet reduction. Rather, its a deceleration asset purchases. Regardless, the relationship between central bank balance sheets and the price of gold has died. Gold, below the $1,200 mark, is basically at a three-year low right now.†Check out the chart. RIP: Societe Generale
The end of the year holiday season can be a huge money suck as people buy gifts for family, friends, and coworkers. But we should also remember to thank the people who make our lives easier throughout the year: building superintendents, babysitters, hairstylists, dog walkers, and a whole host of other people. The question, of course, is how much? We spoke with etiquette expert Patricia¬†Napier-Fitzpatrick of The Etiquette School of New York to find out more about holiday tipping and gifting. She helpfully broke down her recommendations and advice on who ‚Äî and how much ‚Äî to tip. Park Avenue Documentary"We have to be very good to the service staff in our buildings because they're very good to us,"¬†Napier-Fitzpatrick explained to Business Insider. "Take into account how long you've been in the building, how important their service is to you, the frequency of the service, and the quality, plus what you gave last year." Superintendent: $50 ‚Äì $200 Doorman/Concierge: $50 ‚Äì $150 Elevator Operator: $25 ‚Äì $50 Porters/Handymen: $25 ‚Äì $50 Parking Garage Attendants: $25 ‚Äì $75 Flickr/belljar77The standard here is to give one week's pay to one month's pay, but it varies by how long they've been with you. "If you've had a nanny for five years, you'd probably give her more than one week's salary,"¬†Napier-Fitzpatrick said. "You'd probably give her a month's salary." Housekeeper/Maid: One week‚Äôs pay, or less if not a weekly service Nanny: One week to one month‚Äôs pay, and a small¬†gift from your child Au Pair: One week‚Äôs pay and a small gift from your child Babysitter: One night's pay, plus a small gift from your child Daily Dog Walker: One day‚Äôs pay Day Care Provider: $25 to $75 each, and a small gift from your child *Teachers/Coaches: Small gift from your child *Child‚Äôs Teacher: A small gift from you and one from your child *Coaches/Tutors/Music Teachers: A small gift from your child *Be sure to check with the school before you give cash or gift cards to make sure it's acceptable.¬†Napier-Fitzpatrick told us another great way to give back to the teacher is for all parents to get together and get him or her a single gift certificate so that no one parent looks bad. AP/Diane BondareffThis is less mandatory than the first two categories, but if you use a service all year round like a personal trainer or hair stylist, you should give them a little gift. "Most of these people we're tipping all year, so we don't have to go overboard," Napier-Fitzpatrick said. "But at least give them the cost of one service." Hair Stylist/Colorist: The cost of one visit, or a gift equaling that amount Shampoo Person: $10 or a small gift Manicurist/Pedicurist: $15 ‚Äì $25, or a small gift Massage Therapist: $15, or a small gift Personal Trainer: One session‚Äôs cost, or a gift equaling that amount Flickr/NinaZedAgain, base these tips on how often you used their services in the past year. Dog Groomer: A fourth or half the cost of one grooming session Newspaper Delivery Person: $25 ‚Äì $50 or $10 if once a week. Mail Carrier: Gift up to $20 in value (there are legal restrictions on what USPS workers can accept) UPS/FedEx Regular Driver: $20 ‚Äì $25 Trash Collector: $10 -$20 each. Pool Cleaner: Cost of one cleaning Gardener: One week‚Äôs pay, or less if they work for you occasionally Make sure to put the money in a holiday card and an envelope. "All of the stationary stores today sell money cards, which have a 'Happy Holidays!' message with a nice little pouch for cash," Napier-Fitzpatrick added. You can give a check, but it's best to go to the bank and take out crisp dollar bills. Write a little note, such as: "Thank you for your service throughout the year, we really appreciate you making our lives easier" and sign your name at the bottom. And last but not least, try to give the tip in person. "People appreciate it,"¬†Napier-Fitzpatrick said. "It's a personal touch."
REUTERS/William GularteHector Chacon, a Guatemalan firefighter dressed as Santa Claus, rappels down from the Belize bridge to give toys to children living under the bridge, in Guatemala City, Dec. 22, 2013.Yes, the markets were open today. And yes, they rallied again to new all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Aly SongChinese interest rates have been spiking again. After a credit crunch in June, we saw the seven-day funding rate, a measure of funding, surge to 8.94% on Monday, though at one point this went up to 10%. This was the highest level since it hit 9.29% during the run up in rates in June.¬† But these aren't isolated incidents. We're seeing increased credit risk as defaults are rising, and bond yields are surging across the board. Patrick Chovanec, chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, told Business Insider in a telephone interview, that China's financial system has "high blood pressure." He said China's interbank lending market is "a petri dish of risk," and that this is the most important financial story this holiday season. Here are some key points from our interview with Chovanec: Here's the entire interview: Business Insider: What's behind the rise in Chinese money market rates?  Patrick Chovanec: Well I think the underlying issue here is that China has been increasingly dependent on rampant credit expansion to finance its investment boom, and also to paper over losses from investments that have gone bad. And what that means is that more and more credit is needed to generate less and less real output. The People's Bank of China (PBoC) is very aware, and has been aware for many years of the danger of rapid credit expansion and that both it's fueling rising bad debt and also causing inflation, particularly asset inflation in the property market in China. But when they try and dial it back even a little bit, not tighten, just try to rein in the rate of credit expansion, they find that you've got banks and investment vehicles and companies that are overextended and can't meet their obligations. That means that they either they have to pull the rug out from under them or essentially accede to their need for cash. There's some people saying this is the PBoC, the Chinese government, trying to take control of the banking system. And in a sense it is but they are playing catch up and every time they do try they try, to use the word clamp down overstates it, that's the problem, every time they try to impose any kind of discipline over the rate of credit expansion, they risk provoking a crisis. So they end up accommodating the rampant credit creation that's already taking place. They're presented with a fait accompli - we've lost all this money or we have to roll over these debts, accommodate us or else. BI: Some are saying this is like the credit crunch we saw in June...  PC: The roots of it are the same, maybe not the immediate causes, you can point to different immediate causes of why you know at the end of the year there's a particular need for cash. You have a couple of things going, the first is that for two years now, we've had at the end of every quarter there's a spike in the interbank lending rate, used to go up to 5%, which is now nothing, it used to go from 2-5%. What would happen was, small banks throughout China would blend, and they would turn then to the larger banks, and that's the way the interbank lending market has worked in China traditionally. It's the large banks are the ones that are basically the recipient for deposits, and the small banks throughout China are the ones that spearhead lending. And so it's the opposite of the way it used to be in the United States, with the money center banks, where basically you had all the smaller banks in the country that were taking in deposits and then they would send the money to New York to the interbank lending system, and those banks would be the main lending banks. It's the opposite of that. And the reason it is the opposite is that a lot of China's deposit growth is driven by its current account surplus, and to some degree what used to be a capital account surplus. And the large banks were the recipients of those deposits. What happened was that every quarter, to meet the reserve requirement ratio, so every quarter the reserve requirement ratio became a real constraint in the beginning of 2011. We saw every quarter it would spike. They would make the loans and say we have to cover our positions. We have to get the cash to meet reserve requirement and that would place pressure. What subsequently happened, on top of that, that continues to be the case, but it's become more complex. The shadow banking system has both allowed banks to overextend themselves even further, in the hope that they can bring a bunch of stuff on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter. And the other thing that happened is there are a lot of instruments roll over at the end of every quarter and they are supposedly just investment instruments and have nothing to do with the banks' balance sheets. They're not on the banks' balance sheets.¬† The money to cash them out is supposed to come from the investments themselves but they're not generating cash they're completely illiquid investments and so when they roll over the banks can just let them default, which they don't want to do. Not only do the have unhappy customers, they would have to default. So, what they end up doing, is they cash them out themselves and what that means is that there is a cash obligation that banks have, that shows up nowhere on their balance sheets. That's why I use the word shadow bank, because it's not just informal lending as it used to be, but it has really become a hidden balance sheet to the banks, and that balance sheet has both assets of questionable worth and cash liabilities and obligations that don't show up. If you look at their balance sheet you would never say this bank is illiquid. But when people show up and they want to cash out their products that they bought and the bank doesn't want to let them default, they need cash. It's not that the PBoC is unaware of it, but it's very difficult to gauge because it's not transparent. And also the PBoC has been trying for the past year or so to discipline the banks, to prevent them from going out and incurring these sorts of obligations, but once the obligations are created, they are there. And the PBoC is sort of presented with a fait accompli, 'okay you told us not to, but we did, and if you don't give us the cash to cover this then we're bust' and they [PBoC] say 'well okay, but don't do it again'.¬† BI: So, going forward, should we expect more of these rate spikes?¬†  PC: Yeah. Back in June I said we're going to see this again, this is not an isolated incident. People said this is an isolated incident, some kind of aberration, the PBoC did it internationally to show people who is boss. Maybe yes there is an element of them imposing some kind of discipline but when they try they get this hug result which they didn't expect and this is a chronic problem. I think I may even have said this to you, that China's financial system has high blood pressure. In June it had a heart attack, it wasn't fatal but the heart disease is still there. And it's not just the interbank lending market by the way. Everyone focuses on the interbank lending market but we've seen yields go up across the board in China. We've seen government bonds, we've seen corporate bonds, the rates go up steadily throughout the past several months. So this is not something that's sort of a fluke regarding the interbank lending market. Although the interbank lending market is a petri dish of risk. There are so many cross currents, there's so much circular money flows that goes through the interbank lending market to keep everyone liquid that's why it's the most complicated, the most fragile, and the most vulnerable to these sort of spikes. BI: So where does this leave the PBoC which on the one hand is going for reform but on the other is still injecting cash to alleviate the symptoms?  PC: This is where it's bigger than the PBoC and it's management of monetary policy. This is where after the Third Plenum and the big report that was issued, everyone was so excited about it and I said wait a minute, because the biggest problem that they have is the fragility of the banking system. That they are on a runaway credit train and they have to rein it in, but the moment they try and rein it in they get which was always a reason why they shied away from it in the past, but also defaults. And that's where de-regulation of interest rates and accountability they look great on paper, but when you try and put it to practice then the imbalances have become so great, that there's a real cost to be paid. And this reminds me of back in April after they had a lending boom¬† and GDP nevertheless slid, instead of producing a bump, it slid, Premier Li and he said we can no longer use credit fueled investment stimulus to drive growth, we have to engage in real reform, real rebalancing, shift to a new growth model and it's back to a month before when he stood before the MPC and said reform is going to be painful like slitting our wrists. So, I¬† think there was this recognition on his part that this was a dead end, that yes you could kick the can down the road, but this road was a dead end. And that moving away from it would be very painful.¬† But look what happened in May going into June, you had a government bond issue fail and then you had the June credit crunch. Again, the moment you try to dial it back, even a little bit, you get something where they say okay, we capitulate, we have to provide whatever cash is necessary to keep everybody liquid. And again what you effectively do is cede control of monetary policy to the shadow banks, not in the sense that this is some kind of agenda they have. It's just the model that pushes out investment led growth through insatiable demand for credit but is generating less and less real result. The question is how do they get over it? When you're in a hole the first you do is stop digging. BI: The PBoC's open market operations don't even seem to be helping... PC: It's hard to tell what the PBoC is doing right now. And it was hard to tell in the after math when they move from their transparent mechanism like reverse repos, but what we saw in June was to directly providing assistance without any announcements, to key banks. I've heard there were TARP like sums involved in order to ensure liquidity. We don't know, they might announce they're doing something but we wont know the amount, the conditions, or the recipients. They can certainly do that and we may not even be fully aware of the level of intervention. That's why it was a little difficult to interpret what was happening in the wake of the June liquidity crunch. It sounds like with these SLOs they're moving in that direction of direct under the table assistance to key banks, on an undisclosed basis. We'll see it with rates falling they'll do whatever they have to do to bring the rates down. But it doesn't solve the problem, it alleviates the symptoms of the problems. But it actually makes the problem worse. BI: There was an FT report about propaganda officials telling financial journalists to tone down the coverage of the rise in money market rates and the liquidity squeeze we're seeing... PC: It was reported by the Financial Times and the only thing I know about that is what I read in the article. But I do think that that is significant. If this really was something that was not a concern I think they would brush it aside and they would say talk all you want about it,but we've got it under control. I always think that whenever they say okay don't talk about this, it's obviously something worth talking about. When they protest too much, and it's obviously something. It just seems to me it shows their anxiety over a situation that is not easily containable. It is easily resolvable in that the PBoC can print as much money as it wants, and yes you can bring rates down and you can have plentiful liquidity in the system. But then what have you done? You've basically waved the white flag, you've said okay we're not going to rein in credit at all, in fact we're going to give you as big of a punch bowl as you could possibly want. They could that but that would only make it worse because the lending continues, the bad debt continues to rise, you have to roll over even more bad debt, and the demand for cash becomes even greater. And in the mean time you're pumping all this money in, and its going into the property market and bidding up property prices like crazy.¬† BI: What is the biggest takeaway from this for investors? PC: The biggest takeaway, when I was writing on the risk of financial instability in China two years ago, most people would laugh like that's ridiculous. And I think it's starting to dawn on people just how fragile, and what's the word I'm looking for, tangled China's financial system has become. A lot of people say they hold $3.5 trillion in reserves, they own the banks, which is all true, though the bit about the $3.5 trillion in reserves is irrelevant. But people would say stuff like it's inconceivable that we would see any form of financial instability in China. Well what we're seeing is a form of financial instability. It takes place in the context of a week ago when a major trust blowing up. So it's not some kind of isolated thing, we see yields rising across the board, we've seen a major trust product blow up, the latest of many that did not garner the same attention. Credit risk is rising, you talk to most Chinese officials, they'll admit credit risk is rising. And we see overall debt levels rise dramatically in China. And we've got the interbank lending market, which is keeping everyone from defaulting, is on the verge of a breakdown. Because once you get above 10% the market begins to break down. BI: How would you describe China's financial system in one sentence? PC: I don't think people have appreciated how much China's financial system has changed in the last three years. It is unrecognizable from what it was. I'm not going to be flip and say it's a Ponzi scheme, but the risk of real financial instability China has been neglected by people for a long time. BI: Is there anything else you think our readers should know? PC: One thing I would add is we think of China as an emerging market, that's going to go through it's own emerging market crisis and it's not going to affect the rest of the world. But it's the number two economy in the world. The global financial system doesn't have that much direct exposure, but there's a lot of indirect impact through China's real economy, through currency flows, capital flows in particular, we've see the U.S. dollar carry trade over the past several months. I would say what's going on in China right now is the most important story over this holiday season. It's the most important financial story out there now. I mean honestly compared to QE, they reined in QE purchases by $10 billion a month,¬† big deal, compared to the idea that you could have the financial system in the second largest economy in the world really go haywire.
REUTERS/Neil HallIf you're considering going to Wall Street, you should really know what you're getting into. Yes, you will get paid better than average people all over the world. Yes, you will get to learn new things constantly. And yes, you will be involved in important deals (well, hopefully). You're also likely to meet some extraordinary people. However, there are downsides, and they are generally all in your head. A Wall Street veteran, who will remain anonymous, gave us a laundry list of ways working on the Street can actually ruin your life. Wall Streeters have to deal with a distorted sense of money, questions about self-worth, arrested development and most importantly, the fact that they never ever have enough time. They can try and pay for it, but that only gets you so much. The point is ‚Äî you better love finance if you're getting into this business, because it's going to take over your life.
YouTube/Goldman SachsAlicia GlenAlicia Glen, the former head of urban investment at Goldman Sachs, will serve as deputy mayor for housing and economic development, Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio announced this morning. Glen, 47, oversaw Goldman's financing of New York's bike share program, Citi Bike, "as well as billions of dollars of projects in low-income neighborhoods," the Wall Street Journal reports. She also served as an assistant commissioner for housing finance from 1998-2002.¬†From the Journal: Ms. Glen said, that ‚Äúthe tale of two cities is not OK. It is not OK for us to live in this city and to tolerate the inequality.‚Äù She discussed improving the film, technology, advanced manufacturing and light industrial industries in the city, and ‚Äúabout making smart, strategic investments to spur job creation.‚Äù Ms. Glen said she supports Mr. de Blasio‚Äôs plan to tax high-income earners to fund universal pre-kindergarten programs ‚Äî and said she believes her colleagues at Goldman would also support it. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm a banker so I did the math, and that‚Äôs about $3.57 a day, and that‚Äôs a latte,‚Äù Ms. Glen said. It's somewhat of a strange choice for de Blasio, who painted himself as a kind of economic everyman in contrast to Mayor Bloomberg's cozy relationship with Wall Street. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal ¬ª
"Investors have been bidding up money market yields since the Fed started tapering, and conversations with hedge fund investors suggest that many of them expect the market to challenge the Fed‚Äôs forward guidance." That's Steven Englander, Citi's global head of G10 FX strategy. He's referring to yields on 3-month eurodollar futures contracts, which continue to rise today, as they have in every trading session since the Federal Open Market Committee announced last Wednesday that the Federal Reserve would begin winding down its quantitative easing program of large-scale asset purchases. For whatever reason, the FOMC has decided it no longer wants to own a third of the bond market. Instead, it wants to rely on "forward guidance," which consists of individual Committee members' prognostications on the most likely path of short-term interest rates, to continue delivering monetary stimulus to the economy. The "dot chart" below shows the FOMC's current forward guidance, updated at last Wednesday's meeting. The median Committee member forecasts short rates at 0.75% by the end of 2015 versus current levels around 0.25%. Federal ReserveNote: Each shaded circle indicates the value (rounded to the nearest 1/4 percentage point) of an individual participant‚Äôs judgment of the appropriate level of the target federal funds rate at the end of the specified calendar year or over the longer run. The eurodollar forward market, meanwhile, is pulling forward expectations for when the FOMC will first hike rates, as the next chart shows. The market is projecting a steeper path of rate hikes than the Fed ‚Äî i.e., as Englander says, market participants are already beginning to challenge the Fed's forward guidance. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Thinkorswim)The eurodollar forward yield curve has been shifting to the left since the FOMC announced the first "tapering" of QE as market participants price rate hikes sooner rather than later. The FOMC's forward guidance is currently tied to a 6.5% unemployment rate "threshold" such that it won't consider rate hikes until unemployment falls below that level. In an attempt to offset the effects of tapering on short rates, the FOMC "enhanced" its forward guidance Wednesday by stating that short rates would likely remain at current levels (i.e., no hike) until "well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal." As the eurodollar chart above illustrates, however, markets are beginning to test this "enhanced" guidance, putting them on course for a confrontation with the Fed. Why is this happening now? There are a few reasons. First and foremost, economic data have been surprising to the upside. Job growth is accelerating, GDP growth appears to be robust, private-sector surveys suggest the economy is booming, and while inflationary pressures haven't yet manifested in actual inflation data, they are on the rise nonetheless. Meanwhile, at the margin, fiscal policy appears to be improving, and economists expect reduced fiscal drag in 2014 to finally unshackle economic growth. All of this suggests the economy could improve faster than the FOMC expects, putting them behind the curve with regard to monetary policy. The other big reason, of course, relates to the FOMC's decision to begin winding down QE, which is part of the reason why the market is beginning to lose faith in forward guidance. Priya Misra, head of U.S. rates strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch, argues that QE reinforces forward guidance, and without it ‚Äî especially in the context of accelerating economic growth ‚Äî the efficacy of that guidance "is going to be much weaker." She points to the work of Michael Woodford, an academic economist prominent in monetary policy circles. "Woodford has done a lot of work on QE, and he has made the point that QE helps reinforce forward guidance," says Misra. "In fact, he says that's the only good use of QE. It's not saying that forward guidance without QE would not be effective, but he says that a key way that QE helps the economy is that it strengthens forward guidance." "So, if you take that argument to its next conclusion," she concludes, "without QE, forward guidance should be weaker." So, how far will the Fed let this action in short-term interest rate markets run, and what can it do to re-establish faith in its forward guidance in the absence of QE? It does have a few options. It could lower the unemployment rate threshold to 6.0% from 6.5%. Indeed, it appeared that prior to last Wednesday's FOMC meeting, markets were pricing in such action, and the FOMC didn't deliver, instead opting to add the "well past" language highlighted above to its statement. How markets would react to such a move now and its implications, therefore, is unclear. The other option the Committee has, which Misra refers to as its "nuclear option," is going back to calendar-based guidance, the type it used before implementing the "data-dependent" guidance it uses now. This would, in effect, reassure market participants that the FOMC will not be swayed by an improving economy. However, that puts them in a bind if the economy does in fact improve faster than it expects ‚Äî and this reduced flexibility is the reason the FOMC switched from calendar-based to data-dependent guidance in the first place. These dilemmas form the core of the thesis that the market's faith in forward guidance ‚Äî or lack thereof ‚Äî is shaping up to be the biggest story for investors in 2014. If economic data continue to improve in the manner that has characterized the past few months, market participants could be in for some serious volatility.
Alcohol makes a great holiday gift for a number of obvious reasons, and it's always fun to try something new.¬† Our friends at FindTheBest came up with a list of exotic bottles from each category of liquor.¬† These aren't your typical bottles of booze ‚Äî they're expensive, strange, and difficult to find ‚Äî but they're sure to be a unique gift for the liquor enthusiast in your life. They'll definitely want to show these off to their guests. Prices are approximate Whiskey Each bottle of this Canadian whisky is aged 15 years,¬†and it's gold like "the first brushing of the sun upon the snow-covered lakes of the Bras d‚ÄôOr." This particular bottle also got plenty of media attention when the Canadian distillers were sued for their label's alleged misleading use of the Scottish word "Glen."¬† Pappy is the "white whale" of bourbons, so rare and coveted that a 20-year-old bottle sold for $1,190 at an auction in October. 195 bottles of the aged bourbon were stolen from a Kentucky warehouse just a few days later in what was suspected to be an inside job.¬† Rum The seven-year-old Panama rum is named after porn star Ron Jeremy and distilled by 72-year-old Cuban master distiller Francisco "Don Pancho" Fernandez.¬† According to Wine Enthusiast Magazine, this Barbados rum named after the famous clothing retailer has plenty of delicious flavor, including "baking spices, most notably, cinnamon, nutmeg and vanilla bean; further aeration reveals coffee bean, cocoa, new saddle leather and toasted marshmallow." Liqueur This rich liqueur is made using real Vermont Grade A maple syrup, and it's only available in¬†Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine, New Jersey, California, Nevada, and by special order in Montana and Pennsylvania. Available only in the fall months, this is the first pumpkin pie cream liqueur to hit the market. Best served chilled, it's also great in coffee and cream-based cocktails.¬† This is a rare Romanian gin that won double gold at the 2010 San Francisco World Spirits Competition. ¬† It's probably safe to say you won't find another bottle with a name as ridiculous as this Norwegian gin. ¬† According to the manufacturers, this Canadian vodka is filtered three times through 500-million-year-old Herkimer diamonds. It's sold in a bottle shaped like a crystal skull.¬† This award-winning vodka comes from far-away Kazakhstan. Brandy Produced high in the Chilean Andes, this pisco is "distinctly sweet and floral, but it¬ís the sexy midnight-blue bottle with white stars and clear panels that truly attracts attention," according to Wine Enthusiast Magazine.¬† This South African brandy is aged for 10 years in French oak barrels. It was named "Best Brandy in the World" by the International Spirits Challenge in 2011.¬† Tequila Carlos Santana owns the brand that makes this extra anejo tequila, the first single-barrel tequila program in the world. ¬† This premium reposado tequila was created specifically for the show "Entourage," after this particular label became an important part of the story line.¬†
ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - New Yorkers are largely optimistic about the city's future as¬†Bill de Blasio¬†prepares to be sworn in as the next mayor on January 1, according to a poll released on Monday. De Blasio, who will take over from Mayor Michael Bloomberg and will be the first Democrat to lead the city in two decades, won a resounding victory in November after campaigning to confront economic inequality, improve police and community relations and expand access to city services like pre-kindergarten. Two-thirds of city voters say they are hopeful about de Blasio, while nearly six in 10 voters think he will change New York for the better, the poll by the¬†Marist College Institute¬†for Public Opinion showed. "Coming off a huge election victory, expectations are sky high for what¬†Bill de Blasio¬†will do for the city as mayor,"Lee Miringoff, the poll's director, said. But he warned: "If de Blasio is evaluated on whether or not he's able to close the income gap, that's going to be tough." While de Blasio's favorable rating has slid since the campaign, more New Yorkers say his "political ideology" is the right one for the city, the poll found. In a city where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans six to one, about half of Republicans say that de Blasio, who has an unabashedly liberal bent, will do more harm than good as mayor. More than seven in 10 black voters and about two-thirds of Latinos think de Blasio will change the city for the better, but just under half of white voters share that view. With just over a week to go before his inauguration, some political watchers have balked at the pace of de Blasio's appointments. While he has made a number of key appointments -- including¬†Bill Bratton, a veteran law enforcement official, as his next police commissioner -- other top jobs, including schools chancellor, remain unfilled. Meanwhile, Bloomberg, who took office just months after the attacks of September 11, 2001, and has led the city for three terms, will leave office with a 49 percent approval rating. Half of voters say they will remember Bloomberg as one of New York's best mayors or as an above average mayor. Two in 10 rank him as below-average or one of the city's worst mayors, while three in 10 will remember him as average. "He was not someone who aroused great passion -- for or against," Miringoff said of the outgoing mayor. "He was always more in the middle." New Yorkers are less set in their views about the city's next first lady,¬†Chirlane McCray, who will have an office inCity Hall¬†and who de Blasio has said will take an active role in his administration. While about half of city voters have a favorable view of McCray, the other half have never heard of her or are unsure how to rate her. (Reporting by Edith Honan; Editing by Kevin Gray and Leslie Adler)
Investor Byron Wien says his #1 concern for 2014 is that corporate profit margins may be rolling over. Byron Wien is right to worry that record high corporate profit margins can't last. Here are two reasons why. One is that worker wage growth is on the rise. After trending down for the past several years, the year-over-year rate of growth in average hourly earnings growth is on the rise. And this is likely to continue as the jobs market gets tighter. Higher wages for workers equals lower profits for corporations. FRED Another reason to worry has to do with the composition of corporate profits. This chart from Cullen Roche uses the famous Kalecki equation, which shows where corporate profits come from. ¬†Corporate profits are affected by personal savings (which is a drag), foreign trade, and government deficits. With government deficits expected to decline, and the foreign sector expected to be mediocre (don't expect a huge year for emerging markets) it's going to be a tough year for corporate profits, even if the economy does much better. Cullen Roche So higher wages, lower government deficits, and weaker foreign trade could conspire to put stress on corporate profits in 2014.
LinkedInSuccessful people don't mess around when it comes to their working space. A desk has to be a place where you can be productive, healthy, and comfortable for many hours, day in day out. Craigslist founder Craig Newmark prefers a sparse desk, while Peter Guber, co-owner of the L.A. Dodgers, keeps his desk "crowded" with memorabilia "to create an un-intimidating environment for business associates." Michael Moritz,¬†Chairman at Sequoia Capital, keeps a bottle of emergency whiskey "for the bad surprise."¬† And some professionals don't work at a desk at all. As a part of¬†LinkedIn's¬†‚ÄúView From My Desk‚Äù¬†series, some of the most successful professionals in the world revealed where they work. We're publishing the highlights with permission.
Corporate profit margins are at all-time highs. The stock market's bulls and bears are willing to agree with this fact. But that's about it. The bears are convinced that margins are doomed to mean revert. Among other things, they note that companies are no longer able to squeeze further productivity out of their workforces. They also warn that rising interest rates mean higher interest expenses. The bulls will acknowledge that margins are at risk of pulling back especially if revenues fall or if the economy goes into recession.† But for now, they don't see much giveback. Furthermore, they believe that margins are in a structural upswing as companies have slashed their exposures to debt and increased their exposures to low-cost, high margin overseas regions. Blackstone's Byron Wien thinks this is a crucial story. In fact, when Business Insider asked Wien for what he considered to be the most important chart of the year, he sent us a chart of historical profit margins on the S&amp;P 500. "This chart worries me," said Wien. "Profit margins are at a peak and they appear to be rolling over. This could mean trouble for 2014 earnings." Blackstone, WisdomTree
@UKSigmaChi/TwitterA great new Bloomberg News article shows how Wall Street is dominated by members of college fraternities, and how far bankers will go to help out their brothers. Interviews with dozens of fraternity members "showed a network whose Wall Street alumni guide resumes to the tops of stacks, reveal interview questions with recommended answers, offer applicants secret mottoes and support chapters facing crackdowns," according to Bloomberg reporters Max Abelson and Zeke Faux. Conor Hails ‚Äî the president¬†of the¬†University of Pennsylvania's Sigma Chi chapter ‚Äî¬†told Bloomberg News how his fraternity membership helped him land a connection at a¬†Barclays Plc¬†recruiting event when he approached a banker using the house's secret handshake. "We exchanged a grip, and he said, 'Every Sigma Chi gets a business card.' We're trying to create Sigma Chi on¬†Wall Street, a little fraternity on Wall Street,"¬†Hails said. Other fraternity members currently on Wall Street said they would use campus recruitment trips to secure their brothers interviews ahead of other candidates who may have been more qualified. Bloomberg News also reports that these connections sometimes happen unintentionally. Jeff Librot ‚Äî a former president of¬†the University of Delaware's Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter ‚Äî found that his membership came in handy when he applied for a Bank of Montreal internship.¬† Unprompted, a banker responded to Librot's application with an email featuring the phrase "Phi Alpha" ‚Äî SAE's secret motto ‚Äî and the fraternity member eventually got the internship. Check out the full story about fraternity members on Wall Street at Bloomberg News ¬ª
REUTERS/Chris Keane Growth in China ó now put on hold ó wasn't the only reason for Bitcoin's insane surge in November. The U.S. Senate also held two days' worth of hearings on the digital currency, giving it a mostly favorable. Meanwhile, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke submitted a letter to the Senate stating digital currencies like Bitcoin "may hold long term promise." But opportunities for the media to directly and publicly ask a regulator about the government's stance on Bitcoin have been limited.† Until this morning. † On CNBC's "Squawk Box," host Joe Kernen got Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker to acknowledge that at this point, the Fed has no interest in meddling with Bitcoin.† Here's the full exchange:† Lacker: "It's private money.†They're going to have trouble†gaining market share if its†value's going to fluctuate so†much.†But it'll be interesting to†watch.† Kernen: "But what is the position of†the fed from a policy†perspective if there is one?†Or what do you think the†position of the U.S. government†should be on Bitcoin,†or other virtual currencies?" Lacker: "That's ó for what they're†doing, it's a free market and I†don't see why they have an†interest in stopping it ó at this point." Bitcoin prices are back up to more than $680, after hovering around $600 for most of the weekend.
Feng Li/Getty ImagesDespite a hefty cash injection into the economy, China's 7-day repo rate (the†benchmark for interbank lending)†spiked to 9.8% Monday, the highest level since this summer's liquidity crunch roiled Chinese financial markets. It's bad news for the Chinese economy, so China is mandating local reporters†avoid using the term "cash crunch"†in their stories, reports the FT's†Jamil Anderlini and Simon Rabinovitch. Reporters were warned not to "hype" stories about liquidity issues, according to the FT. It's actually an unusual move for China. As the FT notes, the government rarely interferes with financial journalism in order to bolster the impression that Chinese markets are just as open and reliable as its developed market contemporaries. But overall,†China famously†hates negative press. The country has reportedly†refused to renew visas†for about two dozen New York Times and Bloomberg reporters after stories from the organizations shed light on the wealth of elite Chinese families. Read the full report at the FT ª
Every year, billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones decorates his gorgeous Greenwich, Connecticut Belle Haven Estate with a spectacular holiday light show. † He makes it so the public can drive their cars over to his waterfront estate and view the festive light show. †The lights are actually synchronized to music that's broadcasted on a local radio station. †PTJ's daughter, Caroline, has even performed songs in the past for the occasion. †† The fund manager certainly gets into the holiday spirit when it comes for decorating. †He even threw a big party at his estate earlier this month. †The Stamford Advocate reports that Usher was in attendance this year.† In case you missed it, check out some images and videos from this year's display:††    Christmas lights display at Paul Tudor Jones Mansion. #Greenwich #CT pic.twitter.com/awLophkr1f Most amazing Christmas display at Paul Tudor Jones' in #Greenwich #CT with synced music! Worth 45 min wait pic.twitter.com/H07IBLK9yF
The U.S. economic recovery story just keeps getting more exciting. Last Friday, we learned that GDP grew at a 4.1% rate in Q3. Today, we got confirmation that growth continues to be robust in Q4. Personal spending grew 0.5% in November, and October's growth rate was revised up to 0.4% from an earlier reading of 0.5%. "Today‚Äôs personal income data shows consumers bought a proverbial ton of services from companies in October and November," said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "This means, hang on to your hats, and please check my math, real consumer spending is running 3.6% in the fourth quarter of 2013.¬† It has not run this fast since way back in 2010.¬† Consumers are spending more now than they did in 2011 and 2012 when Obama and the Republicans gave them a payroll tax holiday, cutting the tax rate from 6.2 to 4.2 percent for two years." "Current quarter real GDP growth looks to be running near 4%," tweeted Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna after the report. "No wonder the unemployment rate is dropping so fast." However, that same report showed that core PCE, which is the Federal Reserve's preferred measure of inflation, is up just 1.1% year-over-year. This is well below the Fed's long-term target of 2%. "Economics is going to have a new puzzle to contemplate," said Rupkey. Indeed, the story used to be that the economy was growing to slowly and that too much stimulus risked inflation. Nowadays, we're talking about the economy getting stronger, yet prices can't seem to get off the ground. "While the likely rebound in consumer spending in Q4, the previous recuperation of income, and recent solid employment gains will provide policymakers with encouragement that the household sector is gaining strength, the continued softness of PCE inflation will provide reason for caution," said Barclays Michael Gapen. Still, the resilience of the American consumer is something worth celebrating. "Net net, consumers are spending at the fastest rate this quarter than any time since 2010," reiterated Rupkey. "That should tell you something.¬† Washington headwinds of uncertainty?¬† Forget about it.¬† With numbers like these, 2014 is shaping up to be the better tomorrow we have wanted to see ever since the recession ended almost five years ago.¬† Bet on it." Barclays
One of the biggest market cliches we've seen in the last few weeks is that, though the bull market rockets forward, it's becoming increasingly a "stock-picker's market." That's market jargon for the idea that individual stocks are increasingly doing their own thing as opposed to moving in unison. This chart from Bespoke Investment Group shows what's going on. "As shown, 70% of the stocks in the index are currently above their 50-day moving averages, which is well below the breadth levels seen as recently as October when the index experienced its last big breakout to new highs," Bespoke writes. "Throughout the year, we've seen breadth decline with each successive breakout, so it has definitely become more of a 'stock-picker's market' late in the year." Check it out: Bespoke¬†
REUTERS/Jeff HaynesThe¬†final results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index surged to 82.5, matching preliminary estimates published earlier this month. However, since the preliminary results were released, the Wall Street consensus estimate was revised even higher to 83.0, so the final results failed to meet those heightened expectations. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 98.6 from November's 88.0 reading, while the economic outlook sub-index advanced to 72.1 from 66.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead rose to 3.0% from 2.9%, while inflation expectations five years ahead fell to 2.7% from 2.9%.
Joe Raedle / GettyIn the wake of a massive data breach,†Target Corp†suffered reduced customer traffic over one of the busiest shopping weekends of the year,†the Wall Street Journal†reported. The number of transactions at Target fell 3 to 4 percent compared with last year's final weekend before Christmas, while, transactions at other retailers were strong, the Journal said, citing estimates by retail consultancy†Customer Growth Partners LLC. Target said on Thursday that hackers had stolen data from as many as 40 million credit and debit cards of shoppers who visited its stores during the first three weeks of the holiday season. At least 2 million shoppers who used bank debit cards at Target stores during its recent data breach are facing lower limits on how much cash they can take out of teller machines and spend at stores. "This is the worst possible time something like this could happen," Craig Johnson, president of Customer Growth Partners told the Journal. The consultancy firm estimates that U.S. retail sales on Saturday totaled $17 billion, exceeding those on Black Friday by $2 billion, according to the paper. A Target spokeswoman declined to comment to the Journal specifically on this weekend's results, saying the retailer reports sales on a quarterly basis. Target could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane)
The beauty of gifting quality alcohol is, quite simply, that the right bottle will compel the recipient to crack it open right away ‚Äî and share. So it's really in your best interest this holiday season to give the gift of liquor (responsibly). We headed to¬†Astor Wines &amp; Spirits¬†‚Äî Manhattan's Shangri-La of booze ‚Äî for some recommendations. Wine and spirits consultant Steven Bowles walked us through some of his favorites. If you have a tippler in your life, don't just go to the liquor section and buy something expensive with a fancy label.¬†There are plenty of special and rare items that won't break the bank. The prices used are Astor's (and you can purchase these bottles on¬†their website), but prices will vary. Steven Perlberg / Business Insider This single cask gin is unique to Astor, and carries a lot of flavors: "Woodsy pine, lemon balm, crushed rose petals, pepper and cinnamon spice." A richer and sweeter kind of gin. Origin: Oregon, USA ABV: 44% Price:¬†$44.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider A high-quality, single-cask bottle for the true tequila lover. This is for sipping, not shooting. Origin: Jalisco, Mexico ABV: 40% Price:¬†$49.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Charred oak gives this sipping rum some serious power. Rich notes of vanilla "with a playful, fruity vibrancy and grassiness that can only come from a top-quality sugar cane spirit" makes this a really complex rum. Origin: Barbados ABV: 43% Price:¬†$39.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Made with "virgin" potatoes from Cape Bj√§re, Karlsson's actually retains its true potato flavor. Gift this to anyone who likes a good up martini with fresh cracked pepper. Origin: Sweden ABV: 40% Price:¬†$31.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider A solid whiskey with caramel and vanilla flavors coming through. It's 18% rye, giving it a nice spiciness too. Origin: Massachusetts, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$41.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Bar Hill's distiller is a beekeeper and adds raw northern honey at the time of bottling. The result is "sweet, floral, and slightly herbaceous." Origin: Vermont, USA ABV: 45% Price:¬†$42.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Here's a special gift for the Don Draper on the go. A barreled Manhattan. That's right, the cocktail. Rye, sweet vermouth, and Angostura bitters thrown into rye barrels for 120 days, served ready to drink. Origin: Utah, USA ABV: 37% Price:¬†$49.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Another one from High West, the "campfire" delivers on its name. It really tastes like a camping trip, in a good way: Corn, toffee, maple, spicy vanilla, cherry, and a hint of peat smoke at the end. It's a blend of Bourbon, rye, and peated scotch ‚Äî great for an all-around whiskey lover looking for something different. Origin: Utah, USA ABV: 46% Price:¬†$52.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Peat-malted Scottish barley gives this single malt whiskey honey, bitter chocolate, and sweet malt notes. Plus, it's a pretty rare, small-production bottle. Origin: Oregon, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$53.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Japanese whiskies like Yamazaki are already pretty popular in the U.S., but the Nikka is slightly less common. It's a really nice treat, and has that "exotic" alcohol gift feel. Origin: Japan ABV: 40% Price:¬†$69.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Oak barrels give this gin its darker coloration. "The sustained aromas transition to spicy, malty rye on the palate." Origin: New York, USA ABV: 44% Price:¬†$35.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider This is the biggest name on our list, but don't let that discourage you. "Baking cinnamon, vanilla, sweet cream, rye spice, acetone, and heady orchard fruits all leap out of the glass and lure you right in," according to Astor. For any Beam drinker, this is a holiday upgrade. Origin: Kentucky, USA ABV: 43% Price:¬†$40.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider New cognac drinkers will go straight to the Hennessey, just because. But the Fillioux are one of the last independent cognac producers in France, and this one is a cognac staple. "Fresh and primary, with a focus on beautiful florals, mouth-watering citrus, and almond notes." Origin: Grande Champagne, France ABV: 42% Price:¬†$68.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Rum (or "rhum") from Martinique has a purer, grassier feel. This one is aged 10 years in old bourbon and whiskey casks. "Roasted nuts, dark fruit, and warm spice make this a delightful body warmer." A winter rum if there ever was one. Origin: Martinique ABV: 42% Price:¬†$72.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Another tequila meant for sipping. "Distinct tropical citrus aromas and flavors are accented with whiffs of mint, spice, peppercorn and mineral-laden notes of rich, sweet and pure agave." Origin: Jalisco, Mexico ABV: 40% Price:¬†$54.99 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider One of the better single malt whiskies available for under $100, Armorik is matured in casks of Sauternes, a sweet French wine. "The resulting spirit is a fusion of rich nectar fruit complexity, creamy malt, nougat, and dry barrel spices." Origin: Brittany, France ABV: 46% Price:¬†$99.96 Steven Perlberg / Business Insider Glenfarclas is a Speyside like Glenfiddich and The Macallan, and has "notes of sherried fruit, a touch of vanilla, and a tingle of spice." The 12 year expression is reasonably priced, but Astor also carries the 40 year for¬†$500 a bottle if you're really going for it this holiday season. Origin: Speyside, Scotland ABV: 43% Price:¬†$53.99
As an international bon vivant, hopefully I have put something in here for everyone ‚Äì well almost everyone. ¬†If you‚Äôre going to a hockey game, it‚Äôs time to look for a new boss because it means he‚Äôs at the bottom of the food chain and there‚Äôs no point hitching your wagon to that star. ¬† Regular season hockey games are for analysts and sh---y brothers-in-law.¬† On a trading floor, it‚Äôs almost impossible to even give the tickets away.¬† But then again, we work in legitimate cities with real sports.¬† So if you are in Detroit, feel free to disregard.¬† But if that‚Äôs the case, you need a completely different set of survival tips right about now anyway. Going to a sporting event with your boss (and presumably clients and colleagues) is a complicated, nuanced, and often conflicting minefield to navigate. ¬†If it was so easy, then everybody would work at Goldman Sachs. To the point: 1. If it‚Äôs a weeknight, wear what you wore to the office.¬† If you show up in skinny jeans, you‚Äôre obviously not busy enough. ¬†If you are at a Miami Heat game, wear whatever you want because you don‚Äôt have a respectable, IRS-abiding job anyway. 2. No photos. No tweets. No Facebook posts. Act like you‚Äôve been there before. 3.¬†Bring a date, but not if she‚Äôs needy or insecure.¬† (Odds are that she is.)¬† First of all, most girls aren‚Äôt huge sports fans to begin with.¬† But more importantly, she‚Äôs going to feel like a 3rd¬†wheel when you‚Äôre talking with clients, colleagues, or your boss. ¬†And if you prioritize coddling her, you are going to look like an unprofessional d---head. 4. Stop checking your Blackberry. You both know that your boss is more important than you are, so if he‚Äôs not checking his, why the hell do you need to check yours?¬† It can wait. 5. Don‚Äôt wear a jersey‚Ä¶ unless it‚Äôs a f√∫tbol match. 6. If it‚Äôs a big game, and you‚Äôre on club/box level, do a lap. You never know who you might see‚Ä¶ unless it‚Äôs a Mets game; no one gives a f--k about Bill Maher or Keith Olbermann. 7.¬†If a work rival is there, get him wasted and convince him that the drinks girl working the suite wants to b--g him. 8. Remember, in 50 years, no one will watch baseball.¬† It was invented when there was absolutely nothing else to do.¬† So be mentally prepared to make 4 hours of conversation. 9.¬†While passion is a good thing, if you didn‚Äôt have a poster above your bunk bed as a kid, stay neutral.¬† No one likes a poser, and only Asian kids can get away with conveniently being ‚Äòdiehard‚Äô Manchester United or New York Yankees fans. 10. If it‚Äôs a cricket match (The Ashes?), don‚Äôt go unless you understand the sport. ¬†Chances are, if your boss is there, he loves it.¬† And not even Meryl Streep could pretend to enjoy that sport. 11. Clients come first. Keep it professional. Usually, they leave early, and if they don‚Äôt, it means they have a free pass for the night.¬† In which case, you are required to show them a good time.¬† Don‚Äôt bother saving the Flashdancers receipt (Matt Defusco?); just expense the next three ‚Äúdate nights‚Äù at Jean-Georges. 12. Bring a joke. But don‚Äôt use it unless someone else tells a joke first. 13.¬†Don‚Äôt be a sports d----e.¬† Nothing is worse than canned, feigned sports knowledge. ‚ÄúLampard saved the day, but I still don‚Äôt understand why Mourinho went with the 4-4-2.‚Äù ¬†F--k off. 14. If you‚Äôre at Wimbledon, do not drink Pimm‚Äôs. You don‚Äôt want to be that guy who passes out on the tube home with grass stains on his trousers. 15.¬†Check it out at GSElevator. 16. Talk about work when prompted, but otherwise, this is a chance to showcase your personality and find a connection. ¬†Seriously, it‚Äôs not that hard: travel, cars, wine, family, and sports. But drop the wannabe trader-speak and avoid saying ‚Äúyours‚Äù every time some d------bag (Vinay Jayaram?) mentions Duke. 17. If you are the office rock star, wear the latest outfit from the John Daly collection.¬† When you get to Arthur Ashe Stadium, tell everyone you thought it was the US Open at Bethpage. 18.¬†Check it out at GSElevator. 19. Don‚Äôt forget to tell any work rivals that ‚Äúeveryone is going to Wiggles in Rego Park after Serena loses.‚Äù ‚Äì Google it or ask Shahryar Mahbub. 20. Most importantly, your boss is always the benchmark of depravity.¬† If he‚Äôs sitting in first class on the plane to Hell, make sure you‚Äôre in the cockpit.
YouTube/movieclipsDario Perkins, director of global macro at Lombard Street Research, has put together an excellent guide to "how economists could take the fun out of Christmas." Read on below: ëIf you put two economists in a room, you get two opinions, unless one of them is Lord Keynes, in which case you get three.í As Winston Churchill noted, economists rarely agree on anything. And the topic of Christmas should be no different. Here is our guide to the macroeconomics of Christmas:  Keynesians ñ place a lot of emphasis on the ëmacro stabilizationí properties of Christmas. Ideally, they would vary the number of Christmases each year according to the state of the economy. This is best summarized by Paul Krugmanís depression paper ëWish it could be Christmas every dayí, in which he also acknowledges his love of British glam rock. The Keynesians would like to see a larger role for the state, including publically-funded Santas.  Austrians ñ Believe Christmas is dangerous because it inevitably ends with a nasty January hangover. Also worry about the moral hazard implications of gift-giving and the propensity for overinvestment in Christmas decorations. Reject the idea of ëpublicí holidays, arguing the free market would lead to a better outcome.  Monetarists ñ Convinced they are the only ones who know how Christmas ëreally worksí and quickly become frustrated with other economistsí lack of understanding. Their thinking can be reduced to a simple identity, though this is vulnerable to shifts in the velocity of Santaís circulation. Hardcore monetarists believe in the tight control of chocolate coins to prevent the hyper-inflation of waist lines and the hyper-activity of small children.  Chicago School ñ argue Christmas has no meaningful impact because gift-giving nets out. Fully rational individuals will anticipate this and adjust their behaviour accordingly.  Macroprudentialists ñ busy thinking up ways to ësmooth outí Christmas. They would like to ëlean againstí the festive season, perhaps by tightening credit and raising alcohol prices in mid-November and reversing these policies in early January. Some hardliners would like to introduce quantitative controls on Santaís toy factory.  Secular stagnationists ñ claim Christmas hasnít been as much fun since the mid-1990s, but canít really explain why. Perhaps it has something to do with the music.  And, of course, the central banks are equally divided: The Federal Reserve ñ big fans of Christmas and even have their own Santa lookalikey (though, unlike the real Mr C, he is set to retire soon). Becoming frustrated that Santaís sleigh isnít one of their policy tools and that they can only influence Christmas indirectly by giving presents to bankers and hoping they re-gift them to the rest of society. The ECB ñ Generally in favour of Christmas but have a small and powerful minority who believe gift-giving is immoral and must eventually lead to hyper-inflation. President increasingly frustrated with this groupís sobering impact on their annual Christmas party. The Bank of England ñ committed to enjoying Christmas on the 25th December, subject to several clearly specified caveats and ëknock-outí factors. Have produced a 24,000 page paper explaining how these work. The Bank of Japan ñ spent 20 years telling everyone Santa didnít exist and that Christmas was a waste of time. Have now changed their minds, but seem to have a credibility problem. And not forgetting: The UK government ñ See Christmas as a good opportunity for the Queen to educate the masses, but worried about its intrinsic ësocialist tendenciesí. Ideally would like everyone to work on Christmas day so the UK can better compete with China. (Plutocrats are excluded, to support the demand for yachts/jets/country houses.) Believes Santa should be re- deployed to take money from poor benefit recipients and re-gift it as state-subsidized mortgages to potential voters. US Congress ñ It just wonít feel the same this year without their version of the traditional Christmas family row. Follow Dario Perkins on Twitter: @darioperkins
A few years after leaving Wall Street, Scott Mead, a former top Goldman Sachs investment banker, made a remarkable discovery while moving some boxes from his attic. Or rediscovery, that is.¬† Mead, who is known for advising Vodafone's nearly $200 billion takeover of Mannesmann, brought down boxes of old his photographs, negatives and cameras that had not been touched in years. "I was aware it was sort of the physical baggage--the physical manifestation of some baggage we all park in our brains. ¬†So I brought these down just partly out of curiosity, partly for some inexplicable reason." He described this rediscovery process to us as "the most overwhelming experience."¬† Click here to see his photos &gt; "It was like traveling back in time," he explained adding that it was like "getting to know another person."¬† Mead, who grew up passionate about photography, spent the next year educating himself again and editing and printing these photos he had taken more than 30 years ago. ¬† "Since then, it has been a really amazing journey -- exhilarating, humbling and everything in between."¬† Eighteen months after bringing those boxes down, he put on an exhibition from several of the 8x10 negatives he found and printed called "Looking Back" at¬†London's¬†Hamilton¬†Gallery.  Since then, he has done a number of exhibitions. Of the photographs he sells, 100% of the proceeds go to charity. Mead has kindly shared some of the photos from his "Looking Back" portfolio with us in the slides that follow. A few things you should know about the collection before you see them ‚Äî The reason the images in this portfolio are round is because that's the way the human eye sees the world, Mead explained. This technique brings the viewer back to a more authentic perception of what an eye, or in this case the camera lens, sees. ¬†The black around it, particularly with the portraits, helps create a framing, highlighting the center of the compositions, he told us. ¬† Mead told us he first started taking photos at age 13 when he was given a press camera by his grandfather, who was a press photographer and journalist. ¬† From there, he taught himself how to develop photographs and spent a huge amount of time in his parents' basement. ¬† He was so enthusiastic about photography, that he studied it in high school and in college. ¬†He focused on photography intensively until his 20s. ¬† When he began his 22-year investment banking career, photography eventually moved to the back-burner. That being said, one of the key messages from his work is to highlight these beautiful moments that we might otherwise miss in our extremely busy lives. "They are about finding what are ordinary places, times of day, patterns of light or shapes which we often overlook in the day to day of all of¬†our¬†busy¬†lives and making them special through composition, print quality and balance‚Äîand hopefully conveying a sense of tranquility and peace," he told Business Insider.
AP Images/ Mary AltafferArt Cashin and the NYSE traders. Legendary New York Stock Exchange floor trader Art Cashin, the director of floor operations for UBS Financial Services, has released his annual Wall Street Christmas poem. ¬† The poem includes many of the year's events including the Fed, the Boston Red Sox, Anthony Weiner and Bitcoin. ¬† It's read to the tune of "Twas The Night Before Christmas."¬† Check it out:¬†  MONDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2013 A TRADITIONAL PRESENTATION ¬† ‚ÄòTis two days before Christmas and at each brokerage house The only thing stirring was the click of a mouse ¬† Down on the Exchange the tape inches along Brokers bargained and traded as they hummed an old song ¬† The Fed kept on printing yet few jobs did appear But it's time to move on so they'll taper next year ¬† Boston¬†won the World Series Baltimore¬†took the Bowl But Tiger still struggles to get the ball in the hole ¬† From Bitcoins to Binge-viewing brand new things did occur And the Prez took a selfie that caused quite a stir ¬† There was a government shutdown most folks called it a sham And to slow down the Senate a guy read "Green Eggs and Ham" ¬† In¬†Cleveland¬†three women finally freed of their fears Held captive by a mad man for nearly ten years ¬† The Pope said he resigned an occurrence quite rare A new Pope named Francis new sits in that chair ¬† Back tried Spitzer and Weiner they brought little to cheer But it‚Äôs Christmastime,¬†Alice and Santa is near ¬† So stop looking backwards have a cup of good cheer And kiss you a loved one raise your hopes for next year ¬† And amidst all the trading Christmas themes we will heed And share our good fortune with families in need ¬† And¬†tomorrow¬†they‚Äôll pause as we wait on the bell To sing a tradition a song for old ‚ÄúNell‚Äù ¬† Don‚Äôt let this year‚Äôs problems impede Christmas Cheer Resolve to be happy throughout the New Year ¬† And resist ye Grinch feelings let joy never stop Put the bad at the bottom keep the good on the top ¬† So count up your blessings along with your worth You‚Äôre still living here in the best place on earth ¬† And think ye of wonders that light children's eyes And hope Santa will bring you that Christmas surprise ¬† So play ye a carol by Mario Lanza Unless you are waiting to celebrate Kwanzaa ¬† Hanukkah‚Äôs over And Ramadan‚Äôs gone Different folks, different holidays yet each spirit lives on ¬† Whatever your feast is we hope you all still Find yourself just surrounded by folks of goodwill ¬† Tuesday, as the bell rings hark to your heart‚Äôs call And as Santa would shout Merry Christmas to All!
ShutterstockNovember personal income and spending data are out. Consumer spending rose 0.5% from a month earlier in November, in line with the consensus Wall Street estimate. October spending growth was revised up to 0.4% from the previous 0.3% estimate. Personal incomes, however, rose only 0.2%, below expectations for a 0.5% advance. In October, incomes fell 0.1%. "The weaker tone in consumer income suggests that despite recent improvement in labor market activity, incomes have thus far failed to rebound substantially, leaving consumers dependent on savings to finance the recent pickup in spending activity ‚Äì a largely unsustainable trend," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "While the 0.5% rise in real November spending activity should help buoy economic growth, if incomes continue to lag, the consumer spending tailwind to economic growth may begin to dissipate. We nevertheless expect consumer incomes to rebound in the coming months as economic growth shifts up a gear and the recently substantial pace of job creation leaves more income in consumers‚Äô pockets."
Paul deBerjeoisCore PCE rose 1.1% from a year earlier in November, unchanged from October's rate but below the consensus Wall Street forecast of a tick up to 1.2%. Core PCE is known as the Federal Reserve's favorite measure of inflation. There are signs that†inflationary pressures may be starting to build†across the economy, but as of yet, these pressures have not been manifested in actual inflation data. "Investors have been bidding up money market yields since the Fed started tapering, and conversations with hedge fund investors suggest that many of them expect the market to challenge the Fedís forward guidance," said Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi, in a note prior to the release. "So today a 1.1% y/y on the core PCE deflator would push the air out of the 'tapering is a prelude to tightening' balloon, while a 1.3% y/y would be a rallying cry to the 'Fed is behind the curve crowd'."
Gluskin SheffSurprisingly low inflation has been one of the biggest economic stories in the U.S. and abroad. So much so that some worry that we're falling into deflation. However, the deflation predictions may be a little extreme as signs of inflation are creeping back. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg wrote about it last week in his Breakfast With Dave note. He began with an illustration about psychology. (emphasis added) THE DEFLATION HOAX I spent the 19080s and 1990s on trading floors with old veterans from the late 1960s and 1970s who had only seen rising inflation and higher bond yields. They knew from nothing else and so it was very tough for them to buy into the disinflation theme and declining interest rates. In the periodic spasms to the upside they would say "Rosie, ya see, inflation is back". You see, they couldn't differentiate between what was cyclical and what was secular. And then I noticed in the 1990s and this past decade-plus, that we have an entirely new crew of bond traders on the desks, the sons, daughters, nephews and nieces of the old guard, who have only known disinflation, deflation, lower (minuscule) bond yields and radical Fed easing cycles. That is all they have known for their entire professional lives.†Their elders didn't see the great deflation coming, and the offspring don't see the remote prospect of a moderately higher inflation environment coming at any time on the forecasting horizon. They have become entrenched in the consensus view of demographic strains, excess capacity and demand deficiency (I was there once, but knew when to make the turn). That's how generational turnover can mess with forecasts. And that brings us to today. So here we have the CPI flat in November on the back of 1% gas-induced slide in energy prices. The core inflation measure rose an above-expected 0.2%, the most since July, and the deceleration in the YoY trend has in fact bottomed out now at +1.7% for three months running. While there has been mild deflation in the commodity space ó the core goods CPI has dipped 0.1% for three months running and now is at -0.2% YoY, but this cannot be expected to last indefinitely. At some point, resource prices will find a floor ó unless, of course, China slips into a downturn. After all, the industry capacity utilization rate is inching closer to 80% and on track to soon match the cycle highs of six years ago. But the hurdle for the deflation theme is what is happening with core services which actually jumped 0.3% in November, the fastest increase since January, and the YoY trend definitely carves out a bottom and has actually hooked up a tad to +2.4% on a YoY basis. What exactly is deflationary about that? Movie ticket prices up 1.2%. Vet services up 0.6%. Restaurants up 0.3%. Air fares up 2.6% on top of a 3.6% surge in October, the biggest back-to-back gains in over five years. Delivery services up 1% and rising now for four straight months and up at a 5% annual rate over the time. Hotel rates also soared 3.6% in the sharpest increase since October 2005! Oh, but there's no inflation. I forgot. Tight capacity utilization is being cited widely as a reason why wages are soon to increase. Among other things, slow medical cost inflation has been holding back prices. But this isn't expected to last. Inflation will certainly be something worth keeping an eye on. Later this morning, we'll get that November reading of core PCE, the Federal Reserve's favorite measure of inflation.
Pappy Van Winkle is an excellent bourbon that is hard to find to low production volume. If you see this "white whale," buy it, Tommy Tardie of the whiskey bar Flatiron Room tells Business Insider Video. He also shared what makes this bourbon so good and what other brands are worth trying. Produced by Justin Gmoser; Additional Camera by Daniel Goodman Follow BI Video: On Twitter 
Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus, has the roundup of what everyone is talking about today.† Read it and catch up fast: Good Morning! U.S. futures have an upbeat tone to them, led by a 65 basis-points pop in Nasdaq futures ñ primarily driven by AAPL, which is popping 4%+ and nearing the YTD peaks on the China Mobile deal. The E-minis are adding 40 basis points to new all-time intraday highs as the IMF ramps U.S. growth projections. Over in Europe, The DAX is the standout market, adding 60 basis points ó but EU volumes are off 30%+ to normal averages right now. Despite some weakness in EU debt, as banks move to dump ahead of the ECB assessment ñ the Fins remain in the green, adding 20 basis points. Keep an eye on Turkey, as their market is getting smacked again, and testing last weekís gap down lows as the political stability worsens. Japan was closed for Emperorís Birthday celebrations ó and eyes were on China short-term rates spiking near June crisis levels ñ but Chinaís market bounced small after longest string of losses in almost 20 years. Thailand is getting whacked for 1%+ this AM, as the Thai baht weakened to the lowest level since June 2010 on the political climate and capital flight. There was a large asset allocation trade in Treasuries in the illiquid overnight, which pushed the 10-year down to 2.84% ó but sellers have emerged from Europe, bringing the 10-year back unchanged on the session. The dollar is under pressure, as both yen and euro catch a bid. This is a natural headwind for commodities, but copper has a bid to it as CFTC data showed speculators sharply boosted their bullish bets. Gold is the worst performing commodity, under $1200/oz and nearing last weekís intra-day lows. In Energy, Brent is outperforming on the worsening situation in Sudan (3rd largest African reserves) ó while nat gas is leaping again here in the States, despite the abnormally warm weather, as CFTC shows a record long in the complex.†† We have heavy economic data at†8:30†this AM ó Chicago Fed, PCE, personal income and spending. U of Michigan Confidence at†9:55, a small POMO at 11, and some footprints for foreign central bank activity in the Treasury complex at†3pm.
Bloomberg TV"milkywaymasta" used this image to digitally mug Bloomberg's Adam Johnson.Bloomberg TV's Matt Miller is currently experiencing the "12 Days Of Bitcoin," a series for the business news television station. On Friday, Miller learned an important lesson. It was an experience that everyone should remember before they start moving their money into the digital currency. While on air, Miller surprised Bloomberg anchors Adam Johnson and Trish Regan each with $20 worth of Bitcoin. But as Johnson received the paper gift, he briefly exposed the QR code (see above). This act was effectively like sharing a bank account and PIN number. Immediately, someone lifted the QR code and stole the $20. This morning, Miller reported that he had engaged the thief ‚Äî someone who goes by "milkywaymasta" ‚Äî on Reddit. Here's "milkywaymasta": I was watching bloomberg where they are doing the "12 days of bitcoin". The guy that is hosting the series gave bitcoin gift certificates to the other two hosts. One of them opens up the certificate to reveal QR code of the private key. They then proceeded to show a closeup of the QR code in glorious HD for about 10 seconds. Hilarious....I took it, it was only $20 worth. It was exhilarating nevertheless. I'll send it back once Matt gives me a new address since someone else can sweep the old one. A segment on Bitcoin security and the importance of NOT showing the private key and also BIP0038 (Password Encrypted Private Keys) Wallets will be more than enough compensation. Blockchain confirmation and Public key of where i sent the bitcoin. Miller, however, is done with this person. Here's Miller: "so freaking classic but also a GREAT lesson in bitcoin security! you can keep the $20 -- well earned." As long as there are no laws in place for such thefts, one could probably argue that the money was indeed "earned." Regardless, a great lesson. Here's the Redditors statement and Miller's response from the Reddit thread: Reddit
REUTERS/Marko DjuricaA masked pro-European integration protester stands on a barricade during a rally in Independence square in Kiev December 22, 2013. European Union leaders said on Friday the door to a closer partnership with Ukraine remained open but not necessarily for the current Ukrainian leadership, which chose a bailout from Russia in preference to a trade deal with Brussels.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
December 23, 2013 marks the centennial of the passage of the Federal Reserve Act, which created what is now the most important economic institution in the world. ¬† To mark the occasion, we've compiled the 15 most YOLO ‚Äî which stands for "You Only Live Once," and means throwing all concerns overboard ‚Äî moments over the course of the Fed's 100 years. You would think that a body composed of economics and math Ph.Ds that conducts most of its operations on a computer would be devoid of drama.¬† You'd be wrong. Check it out. Jekyll Island Museum The idea to found the Fed was hashed out in secret over nine days in 1910 on a remote enclave off the coast of Georgia called Jekyll Island, owned by J.P. Morgan. Then as now, bankers were not the most well-loved people in America, so the participants traveled down to Brunswick slightly incognito, only referring to each other by first name. One of the men, a naturalized German industrialist named Paul Warburg who a key driving force for the Fed's creation, brought a shotgun on the train down to look like a duck hunter, despite never having dressed an animal in his life. Source:¬†Neil Irwin, "The Alchemists" St. Louis Fed One of the original proposals for the Federal Reserve banking system was to place a Federal Reserve Bank in Cincinnati. It would have covered Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana. It even made it into a final round of voting. But for practical and possibly political considerations ‚Äî one academic¬†says¬†local bankers charged political bias against Cincinnati's historic Republican leanings ‚Äî Cinci was placed under the control of Cleveland. Source:¬†St. Louis Fed Atlanta Fed Around 1920, the Fed decided it would open a branch in Havana, a major American tourist destination. Management of the office was split between the Atlanta and Boston feds. In 1926, Cuba's banking system began teetering, and the Fed decided it would step in to prop it up.¬†Forty-two pouches of registered mail were packed into the gunboat "Cuba," which took off at 5 pm on April 11 from Key West. ]The bank run was stanched, but the drama ended up jumping back stateside, when Washington began investigating charges that,¬†"on the way over from Key West to Havana the entire party from Atlanta became intoxicated" and that they arrived in Havana "in a disgraceful condition."¬† The inquiry ultimately proved inconclusive, but the deputy governor of the Atlanta Fed lost his post.¬† Source:¬†Atlanta Fed Google Images ¬†In 1927, the world economy was already showing signs of stress. So the heads of the central banks of France, Germany, and England, along with New York Fed President Benjamin Strong rented out the home of a U.S. Treasury official in Glen Cove, Long Island to try to work out a solution. The outcome of the meeting was inconclusive, though we obviously know what happened later ‚Äî the stock market crashed. But Strong pointedly cut out anyone from the Federal Reserve in Washington from attending, having deemed world finance his realm. Source:¬†"Neil Irwin, The Alchemists" Google Images Ben Bernanke has said that it was Meyer's Fed that prematurely ended what had obviously been a successful open-market securities purchasing program to stanch the Great Depression, causing the economy to relapse in 1932. Partially as a result, when President Roosevelt took power in 1933, he forced Meyer out. Meyer's next move? Buying the then-near-bankrupt Washington Post at a fire sale a month after leaving his post. So we have the prospect of a sitting Fed Chairman contemplating buying a major media outlet.¬† Source:¬†St. Louis Fed Wikimedia In 1933, the U.S. economy had entered a deflationary spiral ‚Äî no one was buying anything, and everyone was hoarding gold. ¬†To address the situation, President Roosevelt ordered the country to turn over their gold supplies. He also sought to take control of the Fed's gold supplies. Once gold was out of circulation, Roosevelt could better enforce his plan to reflate the economy. The cost of this would be the temporary end of Fed independence. Fed Chair Eugene Black was sympathetic, but figured the decision was best left to Congress. On Jan. 30, 1934, Congress passed the Gold Reserve Act and officially directed the Treasury to take over the Fed's gold holdings. To pay for them, a 100,000 bill featuring Woodrow Wilson was printed.¬† Source:¬†St. Louis Fed Wikimedia Marinner Eccles was born into a prominent Mormon family in Logan, Utah ‚Äî his father David founded and was the state's first multi-millionaire. Although he grew up with money, he ended his formal education at age 18 and went into business; by age 22 he is said to have made his first million. By sheer coincidence, he caught the attention of Stuart Chase, a well-connected national publicist, who happened to hear some of his speeches in Utah. Chase hooked him up with a close adviser to Roosevelt, and Eccles was invited to serve in the president's cabinet in 1933. Within a year, at the age of 44, he was appointed Fed Chair. Eccles served through Roosevelt's death and into the beginning of Harry Truman's administration. A Keynesian, Eccles also made sure the government had access to to cheap financing to enact Roosevelt's New Deal program. Eccles was also the principle architect of the current Fed structure, centralized the Fed's power into the Washington-based Board of Governors. The Fed's main building is now named after him. ¬† Source:¬†Marriott Library,¬†Richmond Fed ASSOCIATED PRESS Nixon had sometimes blamed Martin's fiscal hawkishness on his failure to beat John Kennedy in 1960. So when he came up for reappointment in 1970, Nixon declined to reappoint him. Instead he tapped Arthur Burns, he president of the National Bureau of Economic Research. As with anyone else in his ostensible administration, Nixon demanded complete fealty to his whims, and¬†transcripts show¬†the president repeatedly telling Burns he wasn't doing enough to boost the economy despite Burns' repeated warnings about the unforeseen impact of looser monetary policy. Nixon would later¬†plant a negative story about Burns in the press¬†that he was asking for undue salary raise at a time of economic difficulty. Burns was eventually proven correct but appears to have lost sight of his initial reservations: inflation averaged 6.6% during his eight-year term. Source:¬†Thomas Emerson Hall,¬†Journal of Economic Perspectives,¬†William Safire REUTERS This may be the most #YOLO moment in Fed history. To combat the inflation that had spiraled upward during Burns' and his successor Bill Miller, Paul Volcker raised interest rates to as much as 16% (by comparison rates are now at 0%) and essentially took the economy into temporary recession. It's not clear who first coined the phrase "shock therapy" to describe such drastic measures, but no one ever before Volcker purposely tanked the economy to save it. Money For NothingPictured center: Former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan (1987-2006) Appointed in 1987, Greenspan presided over the alleged Great Moderation of the American economy, and until everything started going south toward the end of his term, was widely credited with driving those gains. But he is now viewed by many as having been overly complacent about excessive growth, having done nothing to curb the "irrational exuberance" he himself called out in the mid-90s and which led to the 2000-2001 recession, and failing cool last decade's housing boom or reign in large financial institutions.Basically if you had a sexy, crazy '90s (Greenspan¬†married journalist Andrea Mitchell during his term; he was also¬†obsessed with Y2K) and then were forced to sober up in 2008, you lived the Greenspan Experience.¬†He has since¬†admitted some of his errors, but many hard not to look back on his administration as an intense period of kool-aid drinking.¬† Jeff Gunn/flickr The Kansas City Fed began holding an annual banking conference in 1978. For the first three years of its existence, almost no one showed up. So in a bid to entice higher-profile names, KC Fed officials decided to hold it in Jackson Hole, Wyo. ‚Äî the main vacation destination of then-Fed Chair Paul Volcker, who reveled in the area's world renowned fly fishing. It worked, and the remote town has hosted the most important economics conference in the world every August ever since. ¬† Source:¬†Alan Greenspan, "The Age Of Turbulence" Getty Images via mental_floss When you search Fed transcripts, you find a surprising amount of "laughter" recorded. By conventionally standards, the jokes are pretty lame, but it shows Fed governors and presidents are not so uptight as you'd imagine. The FOMC meeting that recorded the most instances of laughter, however, is somewhat ominous:¬†at the June 27-28, 2007 meeting, there were 81. The average is usually around 40. Six months later, the economy officially entered recession. ¬† People ¬† They say Washington is Hollywood for ugly people, but one day in 2006, Hollywood actually entered the Fed record. The housing market was already showing signs of cracks ‚Äî and everyone was wondering what to do about it. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher, arguably the most colorful Fed president, said he'd heard from one CEO that "only subject that has been more analyzed than the housing situation is the birth of Brad Pitt‚Äôs baby. "¬† Source:¬†Federal Reserve REUTERS/Robert Galbraith ¬†In 2006, inflation had begun leveling off, which economists weren't expecting. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher cited comments made by PIMCO bond fund chief Bill Gross that this was perhaps some cause for concern.¬†¬† "One need look no further than this morning‚Äôs Financial ¬†Times editorial or Bill Gross‚Äôs recent client letter‚ÄîI‚Äôve known Gross for twenty years, and I know he‚Äôs an oddball. Actually, I‚Äôd like that word struck from the record. [Laughter]¬†MR. MOSKOW. What do you want to substitute? [Laughter]¬†MR. FISHER. He‚Äôs increasingly addled, but his words do carry weight. In his recent client letter, he says, ‚ÄúInflation is leveling off at admittedly unacceptable levels.‚Äù Source:¬†Federal Reserve Rob Wile/Business Insider The NBER¬†has now determined¬†December 2007 was the month when the Great Recession began. Fed Chief Economist David Stockton did not see it that way at the time. Here is what he said, according to the FOMC transcript from that month: "Despite all the financial turmoil,¬†the economy avoids recession and, even¬†with steeply higher prices for food and energy and a lower exchange value of the dollar, we achieve some modest edging-off of inflation. So I tried not to take it personally when I received a notice the other day that the Board had approved more frequent drug-testing for certain members of the senior staff, myself included. [Laughter] "I can assure you, however, that¬†the staff is not going to fall back on the increasingly popular celebrity excuse that we were under the influence of mind altering chemicals and thus should not be held responsible for this forecast.¬†No, we came up with this projection unimpaired and on nothing stronger than many late nights of diet Pepsi and vending-machine Twinkies." Source:¬†Federal Reserve
Here's a great chart from M&amp;G Investments showing how all the world's big currencies did against the dollar this year. The Argentine Peso as a major gainer is not what you'd expect to see. On the other hand, the big losers are not surprising at all. Japan has engaged in aggressive monetary and fiscal easing, and then the rest are those emerging market economies that have been crushed. M&G Investments
This comes from a new working paper by David Yermack titled "Is Bitcoin a Real Currency?" Yermack looks at the historical trading behavior of Bitcoin and compares it other currencies. What he finds is that bitcoin is incredibly volatile and its exchange rate movements have no correlation with other currencies. The virtual currency's inherent stability makes it impossible to use it as a store of value. For this reason, Yermack concludes that bitcoin looks more like a speculative vehicle than a real currency. The following chart shows bitcoin's volatility compared to four other fiat currencies and gold: David Yermack
China's interbank interest rates surged again on Monday despite hefty cash injections last week by the central bank, suggesting money market stress remains as authorities maintain a prudent stance. The seven-day repurchase-agreement rate -- a benchmark for interbank borrowing costs -- rose to 9.8 percent, the highest since it hit 11.62 percent on June 20 at the peak of China's summer cash crunch that unnerved global markets, according to Dow Jones Newswires. "The spike in interbank rate indicates that the lack of market confidence has worsened the liquidity crunch," Wendy Chen, a Shanghai-based economist at Nomura Securities, told AFP. The rates, which serve as funding costs for pricing and investment, have been trending higher recently as the People's Bank of China (PBoC) had refrained from injecting further liquidity through a routine open market operation for two weeks. In a gesture to calm the market, the PBoC announced Friday that it had injected more than 300 billion yuan ($49.4 billion) into the financial system over a three-day period via the so-called short-term liquidity operations (SLOs). "Currently the banking system has excess reserves of over 1.5 trillion yuan, a relatively high level compared with the same periods in history," it said on its verified account on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo. The announcement followed a similar statement on Thursday that the bank had "appropriately injected" an unspecified amount of cash into the market through SLOs. The interbank market responded with brief signs of improving funding conditions earlier Monday. The repo rate began the day's trading at 5.57 percent, down from Friday's 8.2 percent, before rebounding. "More credit and further measures from the PBoC are probably required, to let the market regain its confidence, before the rate can become stabilised," Chen said. Chinese shares edged up Monday, with the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index ending up 0.24 percent at 2,089.71. But analysts warned that the gains will soon evaporate without fresh funds flowing into the stock market. The state-run Securities Times newspaper on Monday quoted analysts as saying that the central bank intended to signal to the market its "neutral but slightly tight" policy stance by keeping suspended its routine, more aggressive liquidity-releasing tools and appeasing the market only with SLOs. The SLOs are discreet, targeted exercises confined to a select group of 12 banks that are deemed crucial to the overall stability of China's financial system. They are a new tool the PBoC introduced in January. --Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this report -- ¬† ¬†
SpacexHere's a nugget from Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG): Needless to say, with earnings season behind us, the first Fed taper decision made and Washington -- budget in hand -- gone for the year, the remaining trading days in 2013 should be uneventful from a headline standpoint. At the same time and as weíve been noting, these final days of the year are historically quite strong. On average, the yearís final five and seven trading sessions are higher by nearly 1.0%. Admittedly, the frequency of down periods has been rising of late (while the final five days were green every year but two from 1960 through 1985, the yearís final five sessions have been flat or down in six of the last eight years with 2008 and 2011 serving as exceptions).
Next week I'll post some economic questions for 2014, but first here is a review of my†Ten Economic Questions for 2013.†After posting the list, I followed up with a discussion of each question. The goal was to provide an overview of what I was expecting in 2013 (I don't have a crystal ball, but I think it helps to outline what I think will happen - and understand when I was wrong).I've linked to my posts from the beginning of the year, with a brief excerpt and a few comments:10)†Question #10 for 2013: Europe and the Euro Even though I've been pessimistic on Europe (In 2011, I correctly argued that the eurozone was heading into recession), I was less pessimistic than many others. Each of the last two years, I argued the eurozone would stay together ... My guess is the eurozone makes it through another year without losing any countries or a serious collapse. Obviously several countries are near the edge, and the key will be to return to expansion soon. Note: unless the eurozone "implodes", I don't think Europe poses a large downside risk to the US. Correct: The Eurozone survived another year.† The good news is†it is now obvious to almost everyone that "austerity" alone†failed.† The bad news is†that many policymakers†remain blind to the obvious.††Even with bad policies, eventually the†European†economies will start to grow again.†† And it appears that is starting to happen now.† Of course many problems remain.9)†Question #9 for 2013: How much will Residential Investment increase?† New home sales will still be competing with distressed sales (short sales and foreclosures) in many areas in 2013 - and probably even more foreclosures in some judicial states. Also I've heard some builders might be land constrained in 2013 (not enough finished lots in the pipeline). Both of these factors could slow the growth of residential investment, but I expect another solid year of growth. ... I expect growth for new home sales and housing starts in the 20% to 25% range in 2013 compared to 2012. Forecast was a little high: We have start data through November, and starts this year are up 19% over the same period in 2012.††New home sales are up 15% through the first†ten months of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012.††This is a little below my forecast, but another solid year for housing.8)†Question #8 for 2013: Will Housing inventory bottom in 2013?† Correct: It appears inventory bottomed early in 2013, and inventory was up 5% year-over-year in November according to the NAR.† Inventory is still low, but this increase in inventory should slow the rate of house price increases.7)†Question #7 for 2013: What will happen with house prices in 2013?† Calling the bottom for house prices in 2012†now appears†correct. [E]ven though I expect inventories to be low this year, I think we will see more inventory come on the market in 2013 than 2012, as sellers who were waiting for a better market list their homes, and as some "underwater" homeowner (those who owe more than their homes are worth) finally can sell without taking a loss. Also I expect more foreclosure in some judicial states, and I think the price momentum in Phoenix and other "bounce back" areas will slow. All of these factors suggest further prices increases in 2013, but at a slower rate than in 2012. Forecast was too low: The Case-Shiller Comp 20 and National indexes both increased about 7% in 2012.† The†seasonally adjusted†Case-Shiller Comp 20 index was up 13.3% year-over-year in September, and the†National Index is up 11% through Q3†. Other indexes show less†appreciation - and†I expect price increases to slow - but my initial prediction for house prices this year was too low.6)†Question #6 for 2013: What will happen with Monetary Policy and QE3? I expect the FOMC will review their purchases at each meeting just like they used to review the Fed Funds rate. We might see some adjustments during the year, but currently I expect the Fed to purchase securities at about the same level all year. Correct: The Fed kept their purchases steady all year, and will start to reduce QE asset purchases in January (announced at the meeting last week).5)†Question #5 for 2013: Will the inflation rate rise or fall in 2013? I still expect inflation to be near the Fed's target. With high unemployment and low resource utilization, I don't see inflation as a threat in 2013. Forecast was a little too high: Inflation has been below the Fed's target all year. This is a significant issue for the Fed, and it appears my inflation forecast was a little high.4)†Question #4 for 2013: What will the unemployment rate be in December 2013? My guess is the participation rate will remain around 63.6% in 2013, and with sluggish employment growth, the unemployment rate will be in the mid-to-high 7% range in December 2013 (little changed from the current rate). Forecast was too high: The unemployment rate was at 7.0% in November.† I was too pessimistic on the unemployment rate because the participation rate has continued to decline.3)†Question #3 for 2013: How many payroll jobs will be added in 2013?† Both state and local government and construction hiring should improve in 2013. Unfortunately there are other employment categories that will be hit by the austerity (especially the increase in payroll taxes). I expect that will offset any gain from construction and local governments. So my forecast is close to the previous two years, a gain of about 150,000 to 200,000 payroll jobs per month in 2013. Correct: Through†November 2013, the economy has added an average of 173 thousand jobs per month - about as expected.2)†Question #2 for 2013: Will the U.S. economy grow in 2013?† [R]ight now it appears the drag from austerity will probably offset the pickup in the private sector - and we can expect another year of sluggish growth in 2013 probably in the 2% range again. Correct: It now looks like†GDP will increase in the 2.2% to 2.4% range for 2013.1)†Question #1 for 2013: US Fiscal Policy† [T]the House will fold their [early 2013] losing hand [on the debt ceiling] soon. ... Although the negotiations on the "sequester" will be tough, I suspect something will be worked out (remember the goal is to limit the amount of austerity in 2013). The issue that might blow up is the ìcontinuing resolution", and that might mean a partial shut down of the government. This wouldn't be catastrophic (like the "debt ceiling"), but it would still cause problems for the economy and is a key downside risk. And a final prediction: If we just stay on the current path†... I think the deficit will decline faster than most people expect over the next few years. Eventually the deficit will start to increase again due to rising health care costs (this needs further attention), but that isn't a short term emergency. Mostly Correct: The House did fold early this year, but I was wrong about the sequester (bad policy).† Unfortunately I was also correct†about the government shutdown.And†I was definitely correct about the deficit†decreasing faster than most people expected.† This has really surprised some policymakers (who unfortunately are still not paying attention).†Luckily 2014 is an election year, and with the recent budget agreement, I don't expect the House to be a huge downside risk next year (assuming Congress "pays the bills").Overall 2013 unfolded†about as expected.† I'm expecting†Stronger Economic Growth in 2014, and longer term,†the future's so bright ...
This weekend we wrote a long post about why inflation might come back. But it's kinda long. So if you don't to read it, here's something via UBS (which is predicting above-consensus inflation) that will take you like 2 seconds to read. UBS It's not the identical version of our argument. But pretty close close.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesIt's going to be a quiet week, but there's at least some action on the economic front today. Via Calculated Risk, there are two economic datapoints coming up: ï At 8:30 AM ET, the†Personal Income and Outlays report for November. The consensus is for a 0.5% increase in personal income, and for a 0.5% increase in personal spending. And for the Core PCE price index to increase 0.1%. ... ï At 9:55 AM, the†Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index†(final for December). The consensus is for a reading of 83.5, up from the preliminary reading of 82.5, and up from the November reading of 75.1. There's also a couple of relatively minor datapoints coming up, including the "Chemical Activity Barometer" (which monitors the chemical industry) coming out at 9.
Reddit/letterstosnapdragonGood morning!¬† It's a quiet start to what will probably be a relatively quiet week in world markets. Markets are rising modestly to kick thing off with US futures and European markets up between 0.2 and 0.3%. Japan was closed today due to a holiday, while Shanghai gained slightly amid ongoing fears of a credit seize up. This weekend was very quiet, in terms of economic or business news. Perhaps the largest event was Apple confirming its deal to sell iPhones through China's largest carrier, China Mobile.
