ReutersChinese food inflation was up 2.7 percent year-over-year in March, down from six percent the previous month. This decline was led by a 5.5 percent decline in pork prices. China is the world's largest pork consumer, and pork accounts for a significant chunk of the consumer basket. Pork prices have been falling since the Lunar New Year holiday. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects pork prices to stay weak in coming months for four key reasons: The hog-to-corn price ratio is below 6, "roughly a break-even level for pig farmers," according to Lu. A lower ratio suggests that pork profitability has declined and it would make more sense to sell corn instead. BAML "As the current sentiment is quite bearish on coming pork demand, itís likely that pig farmers would slash existing inventories of both breeding sows and hogs for slaughtering very soon (if that has not been started), which could accelerate the current pork price decline. "This may cause a downward spiral of pork supply and price in the near term, but the lowering pork supply may fuel up pork prices again when demand starts climbing in August. Such risks of pork price cycle coupled with the unfavorable base effects could lead to a rise in pork prices in 2H13 and 2014. "Fortunately, the Chinese government in recent years has put more emphasis on stabilizing pork supply by using anti-cyclical tools, while Chinese pig farmers have also got increasingly rational. So without any epidemic, the chance for spiking pork prices and food inflation could be small."† The Chinese government has already started buying pork for its national pork reserve to help support prices, considering inventories are at a record high: BAML This chart shows the recent decline in pork prices: BAML
APScott SassaUntil March of this year, Scott Sassa was one of the most influential media executives in the U.S. As president of entertainment and syndication at Hearst (it owns Cosmopolitan, among other titles), he cut deals with ESPN and Lifetime, and received a reported $6 million salary. He was a longtime friend of the Kardashian family. Sassa's most recent success was "The Bible," a joint project with Survivor's Mark Burnett for The History Channel that got record ratings. He was the executive producer of the show, which was so popular that its audience rivaled that of AMC's The Walking Dead in size. The two-hour conclusion of "The Bible" on Easter Sunday should have been Sassa's moment of triumph. Instead, he found himself unemployed, spending time with his kids on vacation in Hawaii, wondering how he can salvage his career after a man claiming to be the boyfriend of an escort sent Hearst's legal department copies of sexy text messages Sassa had sent. A source sent copies of those texts to Business Insider, along with emails exchanged between the boyfriend and Hearst. The messages have circulated among several Hearst executives. The texts are sexually graphic, and discussed drugs. They are not safe to be read aloud at work. But they aren't unusual. Go straight to the texts &gt; Sexting is so common as to be mainstream, and it sometimes seems as if everybody does it. Samsung has even made a funny commercial about sex-texting. While sexting feels intimate and exciting to those exchanging the messages, what is often forgotten is that texts have only limited privacy protections. They can be copied and forwarded any number of ways. Sassa's texts, for instance, were not passed on by him or the woman to any third party. Rather, they were purportedly discovered by her disgruntled boyfriend ‚Äî a man who may also have been her "business manager" ‚Äî who became annoyed at the relationship between the two. This, then, is a cautionary tale about the lack of privacy in the digital age. The texts do not show that Sassa ever met the woman, supposedly an escort going by the name "Kira" who worked for the Friends of Kari Ann web site in the Los Angeles area. They are simply messages between two consenting adults, conducted in private. Neither Sassa nor the woman have been accused of any wrongdoing. They are both single. In many ways, the messages were none of Hearst's business ‚Äî it wasn't even a workday when Sassa sent them. When reached, Sassa told Business Insider, "I just want to put this behind me." FriendsofKariAnn.comThis web site purportedly offered an escort named "Kira."UPDATE: The woman depicted in the photographs as "Kira" denied sending the messages. She told Business Insider that she never met Sassa, and claims her name and image are being used without her permission. She also says that the man who contacted Hearst is not her boyfriend, and that her phone was not used in the conversation.* The boyfriend, who does business under the name Ben Free, declined to talk on the record, although he did confirm the messages were genuine, and that he had an extensive criminal record which includes a conviction for assault. Three other sources familiar with the messages also confirmed to BI that the messages were Sassa's. Unsurprisingly, few people were willing to talk to us on the record about Sassa's fall. But speaking privately, those who knew him describe a driven, intense executive who is a great father to his children. Some in the media business have expressed sympathy for him. After all, would anyone want the messages they've sent to lovers exposed to their employers? Expect Sassa, after a brief break, to come back to the business in a big way ‚Äî we're told his phone is ringing off the hook with offers. "He was the smartest, most forward-thinking media executive I ever worked with," said one colleague. "He was taking Hearst into the 21st Century." Hearst, however, is a conservative company. "Everybody on the top floor is married with a wife and 2.5 kids and a picket fence," a source says. Sassa was single. Three female sources told us that they had nothing but respect for Sassa, that they felt the texts were an aberration and not reflective of his day-to-day dealings with women. They noted that the texts occurred on Christmas Day, when Sassa ‚Äî who lives in New York ‚Äî was stuck in a Los Angeles hotel room without his family. "Here's a guy who was displaced around the holidays, who was kind of lonely," one told us. By mid-March, The New York Post reported that Sassa was the victim of an extortion plot involving the messages, and on March 13 he resigned his position. Hearst likely gave him a large severance package. The following slides explain how it happened. They contain texts that use highly pornographic language and references to illegal drugs. They will likely be offensive to many readers. *Correction: An earlier version of this story used photographs that a source told Business Insider were of Kira. We now accept that the woman in the photos is not Kira. Apologies for the error.
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 2.1 percent in March, missing expectations for a 2.5 percent rise.¬† This compares with a 3.2 percent rise in February, to a¬†10-month high. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.9 percent in line with expectations.  PPI was down 1.6 percent the previous month.¬† Last month, food prices climbed 6 percent on the year. Food prices account for a larger part of the Chinese inflation basket and are therefore closely watched by investors, but the surge in February was attributed to the Lunar New Year holiday. In March, food prices were up 2.7 percent. Bank of America's Ting Lu expects food inflation to fall 1 percent, and for non-food inflation to fall one percent. China has set an inflation target of 3.5 percent for the year. While the central bank wants to keep inflation in check, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) wants to ensure growth says strong and this is likely to keep the central bank's hands tied.¬† Economist and Bloomberg BRIEF contributor Michael McDonough tweeted that inflation should pick up and eventually lead to tighter monetary policy. Here's an updated inflation chart via @M_McDonough: Michael McDonough
There's not much going on tonight, so you might as well enjoy Nouriel Roubini slamming gold bugs on Twitter. In addition to taking on gold he's also taking on famous gold advocate James Rickards and Bitcoin. Gold sinking towards 1500. Take that you delusional gold-at-$10k-bugs! JamesGRickards: Take that @nouriel" Silly cheating: you can always find a currency fallin re $ &amp; claim that gold is up re to it@jamesgrickards: @nouriel #Gold up 25% in yen. Yes gold is up also 100000000000% relative toZimbabwe $. So what? Nothin to do with gold @jamesgrickards: @nouriel #Gold up 25% in yen Gold peaked at 1900 in fall of 2011&amp; in spite of gold bugs claims it would skyrocket to 2k, 3k, 5k it has instead sunk towards 1500 since! Gold-bug suckers found another irrational useless bubble fad, the Bitcoin, the bubble flavor of the day. So they are dissin gold 4 Bitcoin @nouriel So you change the subject from #gold to #Bitcoin? Even an 8th grade debate team would be embarrassed by that move. @nouriel #Gold moves inversely to currency. Now #JPY is being trashed, so gold up in JPY space. When we trash #USD again, gold up in USD @nouriel #Gold does not rise or fall except for people like you counting in paper. "Lower" gold just means strong dollar. No surprise there
As we've been saying for awhile now: Get out your 'USDJPY 100' hats. The diving yen -- the result of a new push to ease monetary policy at the Bank of Japan -- has pushed the dollar vs the yen to around 99.50. Just last week it was below 93 and just last fall it was in the 70s. It could happen as soon as tonight. This chart shows the dollar vs. the yen going back several years. You can see what a move its made just since October. FinViz
Macy's, JCPenney, and Martha Stewart have returned to court after failing to reach an agreement in mediation.† Now, it will be up to a judge to decide what will become of JCPenney's planned home goods line with Martha Stewart, which Macy's says violates their existing agreement with the home maven. Insiders with direct knowledge of what's happening behind closed doors in court say that Macy's is playing hardball because it recognizes a chance to take out the competition. "Macy's sees the opportunity to inflict further damage on a struggling competitor," one person, who wished to remain anonymous, told us. "Martha Stewart is an attractive target for Macy's to get to JCPenney."† In mediation, it was clear that Macy's was going after JCPenney, the source said. The company's CEO Ron Johnson just stepped down after a disastrous year on the job.† "Macy's began mediation by asking for terms that it knew JCPenney wouldn't be able to give from a financial or business standpoint," the source said. "What they were asking for would have caused so much damage to the business." Five weeks later, Macy's hadn't budged.† "It wasn't a case where you start with your toughest and meet in the middle...we started and ended with nothing in the middle," the source said. † A tenant of JCPenney's turnaround strategy was its partnership with Martha Stewart, who was supposed to design a line of home goods. But shortly after then-CEO Ron Johnson made the announcement, Macy's announced that it planned to take legal action because it said that Stewart was violating the exclusive agreement she already had.† Johnson openly expressed the importance of the Martha Stewart line to his business, where sales are down a staggering 32 percent. "Martha could be the foundation of a reinvented home," Johnson†wrote in an email†revealed at court. "Macy's deal is key. We need to find a way to break the renewal right."† The highly-popular Martha Stewart would undoubtedly bring shoppers back to JCPenney, which faces more uncertainty than ever.† If Macy's succeeds in stopping the line, Macy's stands to gain an even larger share of the market.† Losing the Martha Stewart line would be "the final knife, the final dagger, into the heart of JCPenney," Brian Sozzi, CEO of Belus Capital Advisors, told Yahoo! Finance. A Macy's spokesman declined to comment on what happened in mediation, citing confidentiality.† Representatives at JCPenney and Martha Stewart Living didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.†
APOver the next several months, Congress will be embroiled in a political fight over the future of the United States government. So far, there have been four major budgets released. There's the conservative Republican Study Committee budget, the official House GOP Ryan budget, the official Senate Democratic budget and the liberal Congressional Progressive Caucus budget. It's a lot to keep track of. These four documents cover very nearly the entire political spectrum. On Wednesday the President will release his budget, a document that has already whipped up controversy on both sides of the aisle.† Here, we compare each of the budgets against the Congressional Budget Office baseline, the funding levels that are currently the law.† In each of these charts, the zero line is the current budget path. When the lines dip below zero, that means that the budget in question spends less, when the lines go above zero that means the government spends more than it normally would on that budget line.† All numbers are expressed in billions of dollars.† Here's the chart of total outlays of the budget. Observe how every budget except the Ryan budget initially spends more than normal in the initial year 2014, but eventually spends less than normal at various points down the line: Walter Hickey/BI Next is the chart of revenues. The Republican Study Committee budget cuts taxes, the Ryan budget keep taxes at their current rate, Senate Democrat budget raises revenues gradually over the next decade, and the CPC budget taxes significantly less over FY 2014 and 2015, then significantly more starting in FY 2016: Walter Hickey/BI The RSC budget cuts the most from the discretionary budget immediately, and the Ryan budget also cuts from the government early as well. The Senate Democrat budget increases discretionary spending in 2014 and 2015, then begins cutting in 2016. The CPC budget ó which includes an initial stimulus package ó increases discretionary spending initially, then eventually decreases it: Walter Hickey/BI Here, we break down the defense discretionary budget. Interestingly enough, every single budget is in agreement that the military budget should be cut: Walter Hickey/BI The exact opposite is seen with the Non-defense discretionary budget. The RSC slashes the non-defense discretionary budget, and the Ryan budget makes steeper cuts to this line than defense. The Senate Democrat budget increases, then decreases discretionary spending. The Congressional Progressive budget increases the annual funding by between $100 billion and $150 billion annually.† Walter Hickey/BI This chart is one of the most interesting, but also potentially one of the most misleading. While both the Ryan budget and the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget leave Social Security unchanged for the next decade, the Ryan fix to Social Security take place just outside of this window. In 2024, the Ryan budget would implement means-testing and privatization to Social Security: Walter Hickey/BI Here's what would happen to projected net interest payments over the next ten years. Plans that cut the budget faster pay less in interest: Walter Hickey/BI This chart can be somewhat misleading. After three years, the RSC budget hits a surplus. After 10 years, the Ryan budget hits a surplus. However, within two years, every single budget proposal is doing better than the CBO baseline budget.† Walter Hickey/BI The budgets each have different aims when it comes to handling the immediate burden of the national debt. The two GOP budgets want immediate reductions to the national debt, while the two Democrat budgets don't pursue immediate returns. Walter Hickey/BI Depending on what people want in a budget, these are the essentials of the plans. Still, they don't tell the whole picture. How cuts are achieved in each budget is contentious ó steep cuts to the military in the CPC budget, discretionary cuts in the RSC budget, the Ryan Medicare plan or the various stimulus packages in each ó and there's a lot more to it than charts.† Still, this is a good primer on what the dollars actually go to.†
Reuters/Shannon StapletonInterim CEO Mike Ullman.The news that Ron Johnson was out sent JC Penney's stock up nearly 11 percent. Then we found out that Mike Ullman would be his interim replacement hit, and the stock immediately plummeted.† There's a reason for that.† While Johnson erred on the side of changing too much too fast. Ullman is on the other, equally bad side of the spectrum. In his 6 years at JC Penney, he failed to make the changes the company desperately needed.† Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman explained his support for Johnson in a 2012 presentation.†We've excerpted the parts that explain why Ullman failed.
APFormer JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson is finally out after months of criticism and plunging same-store sales. Its "shares are down 51 percent and the company's market cap†has fallen $6.84 billion to $3.49 billion," reports CNBC. † Johnson was considered a visionary at Apple, but critics said his aggressive turnaround strategy ó inspired by his work with Steve Jobs ó just didn't work for JCPenney. He tried to upscale the brand, initially eliminating discounts and creating partnerships with major brands like Joe Fresh and Martha Stewart. But somehow everything backfired.† Although there are ways Johnson could have handled the turnaround more smoothly, in other ways he added value and has changed the company for the better.† Fund manager Bill Ackman, Johnson's most ardent supporter until last Friday, laid out several reasons he was bullish on JCPenney in a big presentation last May, including:† *Realizing that competing on price was a losing strategy. Although Johnson brought back coupons to JCP, there's no proof that this was the right one. To upscale a brand the way Johnson planned to do, you need to compete in ways other than price.† *Upgrading the store's look and feel. Before Johnson joined the company, JCP was known as a frumpy retail store with an unpleasant shopping experience. Johnson improved the store's image by creating the in-store shops and boutique model.† *Creating partnerships with major labels. Johnson brought on big names like Martha Stewart, Nanette Lepore and Joe Fresh, its last life line. Although the Stewart deal turned into a big fiasco since Stewart went to court over her previous agreement with Macy's, Johnson still brought more brand power and visibility to JCP by negotiating deals with high-end labels. *He created a more efficient cost structure. Although Johnson received a ton of criticism for massive layoffs during his tenure, there was also inherent value in streamlining operations by letting go of dead-weigh management.† Ultimately, Johnson was already dealing with a sinking ship, and at the mercy of Wall Street shareholders. Turnarounds take time ó and Johnson wasn't given enough.†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Gary Shilling Has Eight Investment Themes For The Grand Disconnect (A. Gary Shilling's Insight) In a new note, Gary Shilling highlights eight investment themes for the Grand Disconnect. "This Grand Disconnect between robust security markets and subdued at best economic reality, combined with central bank-set low interest rates, has spawned many distortions and a zeal for yield that almost completely ignores financial risks," These themes include 1. Treasury bonds 2. "Investment-grade bonds and dividend-rich stocks." 3. Small luxury stocks. 4. Consumer staples and food stocks. 5. Selected health care stocks and owning medical office buildings. 6. Productivity enhancers like tech companies. 7. The dollar against the yen, and Japanese stocks. 8. "North American energy producers ex-renewables." Shilling has dropped direct ownership of rental apartments from the list. He has also thinks commodities are bad investments.¬† Four Broker Teams Join Morgan Stanley's Wealth Management Unit (The Wall Street Journal) Four teams of brokers that manage a combined $765 million in assets have joined Morgan Stanley's wealth management unit. These broker teams include¬†Gaston Abello and Felix Jaimovich moved from Bank of America. Paul D. Emrick, Troy Hottenstein and Scott Holland left JP Morgan for Morgan Stanley. William Seabrook and Kathleen Chiappone joined from Wells Fargo. And¬†Robert Iocco and Francis Ciocari left Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. Morgan Stanley has lost about 70 veteran advisors since the start of the year.¬† Companies Are Using More Of Their Cash For Dividends And Stock Buybacks (Goldman Sachs) Corporations have typically used their cash balance for share buybacks, dividends, acquisitions, research and development and capital expenditures. But recently, they have been sending more cash back to shareholders. Goldman Sachs  Investors Should Prepare For 'April Anxiety' (S&amp;P Capital IQ) With stocks ending on a record high in the first quarter, S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall thinks investors are lulling themselves into complacency.¬† "History has shown that actual earnings frequently outpace expectations. What‚Äôs more, analysts are optimistic about forward guidance, based on the expected improvement in the global economic growth trajectory. "However, an elevated negative-to-positive guidance ratio and a variety of headwinds could cause Q1 2013 results to replace Q2 2012 EPS as the trough quarter for this earnings cycle. As a result, the uncertainty over Q1 2013 EPS growth and forward guidance will probably allow for a seamless transition of tension from March Madness to April Anxiety." SEC Settles With Woman Who Tipped Her Brother, Who In Turn Tipped Off SAC Manager (Thomson Reuters News &amp; Insight) The SEC has settled its lawsuit against ThanhHa Bao. Bao was charged with illegally tipping of her brother on earnings of medical devices company Abaxis Inc. Her brother was accused of passing the information on to a former SAC Capital Advisors fund manager Noah Freeman, and Samir Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management. The brother was sentenced to 366 days in prison and a fine of $400,000. Bao has agreed to pay $144,910 to settle her charges.
AP Photo/Mark LennihanInterim CEO Mike UllmanRon Johnson is out at JCPenney, and former CEO Mike Ullman will take his place in the interim.¬† The new leader represents a "kiss of death wrapped in a smile" for the retailer, which will likely go private soon,¬†Brian Sozzi,¬†chief equities strategist at¬†Belus Capital Advisors¬†told us.¬† He said that Ullman, who is known for his aggressive promotions, will set the company up for poor profits after it burned through available cash on its turnaround strategy, Sozzi said. Especially expensive were Johnson's shop-in-shops, which showcased certain brands in boutique-style formats in the stores.¬† "JCPenney has already plowed tons of shareholders funds into shop-in-shops, so an environment of Ullman‚Äôs 1980s promotional strategy sets the stage for poor returns on that investment right out of the gate," Sozzi said.¬† The timing of Johnson's departure is "telling," Sozzi said.¬† "You're already worried about what's going on there, you have new strategies that are in motion, you're still remodeling stores, and employee morale is even worse than ever," Sozzi said. "If they intended to stay public, it would make more sense to at least wait for Johnson to finish out parts of his strategy." It's possible that JCPenney is going to work things out "behind the scenes."¬† Firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC and Leonard Green &amp; Partners LP¬†are considering a potential buyout of¬†JCPenney,¬†reported Richard Collings¬†at The Deal. The company will likely hire a permanent CEO after the holiday season, Sozzi said.¬†
Global aluminum giant Alcoa just reported Q1 2013 earnings¬†‚Äì which were better than expected, but sales came in slightly below estimates. As part of its investor presentation, the company always includes the two slides found below. The reason we love these slides: they pack in a lot of information about the global economy. The first slide looks at demand growth from industrial end markets. The second slide looks at demand growth based on regional end markets. Of note is a big decline in demand from the North American trucking industry. The Chinese trucking industry, on the other hand, appears to be booming. The aerospace industry seems to be the key driver Alcoa is counting on for sales growth in 2013. In terms of the regional outlook, Europe is the clear laggard (no surprise there). Alcoa Alcoa
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozCNBC is reporting that Ron Johnson has been ousted as CEO at JC Penney, and will be replaced by his predecessor, Mike Ullman. It's a move that's not unexpected after huge losses, strategic missteps, and a 97 percent pay cut. ¬†But the final blow that pushed Johnson over the edge was losing hedge fund manager Bill Ackman's support. Ackman called the execution of Johnson's strategy "something very close to a disaster." This is a big deal because the billionaire investment was the guy who lured Johnson from Apple and for a long time his biggest supporter. Ackman also holds a seat on JCPenney's board and his hedge fund owns 18 percent of the company's shares. In August, in a letter to shareholders, Ackman said he was still confident in Johnson, but was already worried about execution: I have complete confidence in Ron Johnson and the new management team¬†he has assembled to execute a total transformation of this iconic U.S.¬†retailer. Ron has been at the job for eight months and has made¬†remarkable progress in many of the requirements for the turnaround.¬†The execution has not, however, been flawless. In particular, the¬†company has had a somewhat confusing pricing message and has struggled¬†to communicate the new business model and every-day value available in¬†the store. Ackman was a firm believer in Johnson's strategy, a position he explained at length in a presentation at the Ira Sohn investment conference. But in the end, the execution was so poor and the losses so huge that Johnson lost his support.¬†
Shares of JC Penney have gone on a wild ride in after-hours trading on news of turmoil in the executive suite. At around 5:00 PM ET, CNBC reported that Ron Johnson was out as CEO of JC Penney. As soon as the headline crossed, shares of JCP spiked by more than 10 percent. JC Penney had hired Ron Johnson from Apple to revamp its stores in an effort to boost sales.† However, his actions were actually followed by plummeting sales.† In its most recently completed quarter, same-store sales fell by 32 percent. Those after-hour gains slowly slipped and then tanked at around 5:30 PM ET, which was when management announced that former CEO Mike Ullman would return as interim CEO. Here's a look at the gut-wrenching swing in the after-hours session via MarketWatch: MarketWatch
AP ImagesAfter a tumultuous year and a half, Ron Johnson is replaced by former JCPenney CEO Myron "Mike" Ullman. This comes just a few days after fund manager Bill Ackman, who recruited Johnson for the top job and has been an ardent defender, finally came out and criticized him. Ackman was also critical of Ullman, and Liz Dunn of Macquarie Capital told CNBC that "there was probably disagreement on the board about bringing Ullman back. 'I think it's probably pretty awkward,' she said. 'Bill Ackman has made a point in many presentations saying how the stock did not perform well under Ullman's tenure at the company.'"¬† JCPenney's share price initially jumped after it was announced Johnson was out, but it tumbled after the company announced it was bringing back its old CEO.¬†CNBC reports that Ullman will receive a base salary of $1 million.¬† During Johnson's tenure, the company's same-store sales plunged, by 32 percent during the most recent fourth quarter. CNBC reports that¬†since 2011, "JC Penney shares are down 51 percent and the company's market cap has fallen $6.84 billion to $3.49 billion."¬† Here's the full press release about Ullman's appointment: Plano, Texas, April 8, 2013 - The Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc. [NYSE: JCP], today announced that Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III has rejoined the Company as Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. He has also been elected to the Board of Directors. Mr. Ullman is a highly accomplished retail industry executive, who served as CEO of jcpenney until late 2011. He succeeds Ron Johnson, who is stepping down and leaving the Company. Thomas Engibous, Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, said, "We are fortunate to have someone with Mike's proven experience and leadership abilities to take the reins at the Company at this important time. He is well-positioned to quickly analyze the situation jcpenney faces and take steps to improve the Company's performance." Mr. Ullman added, "While jcpenney has faced a difficult period, its legacy as a leader in American retailing is an asset that can be built upon and leveraged. To that end, my plan is to immediately engage with the Company's customers, team members, vendors and shareholders, to understand their needs, views and insights. With that knowledge, I will work with the leadership team and the Board to develop and clearly articulate a game plan to establish a foundation for future success." Mr. Engibous added, "On behalf of the Board of Directors, we would like to thank Ron Johnson for his contributions while at jcpenney and wish him the best in his future endeavors." About Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III Mike Ullman is a veteran retail industry executive with more than 25 years of experience who has served in leadership roles at several of the world's best-known retail companies. Prior to spending seven years leading jcpenney, as Chairman and CEO through November 2011 and Executive Chairman through January 2012, he served as Directeur General of the world's largest luxury group, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, in Paris; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DFS Group Limited, the world's leading travel retailer; and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of R.H. Macy &amp; Co., Inc. Mr. Ullman's prior retail experience also includes leading Wharf Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong and posts at Federated Department Stores earlier in his career. In addition, he previously served as a White House Fellow in the Reagan Administration, Vice President of Business Affairs at the University of Cincinnati, and as an International Account Manager for IBM Corporation. Mr. Ullman currently serves on the boards of directors of Starbucks Corporation   SBUX +0.55%   , Saks Incorporated   SKS +1.38%   , and the COFRA Group headquartered in Zug, Switzerland, and as Deputy Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He is an advisor to the board of directors of the Retail Industry Leaders Association and is a past Chairman of the National Retail Federation. He is also Chairman of the Board of Mercy Ships International, a global medical and human services charity. He previously served as a director of Ralph Lauren Corporation; Taubman Centers, Inc.; LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; Federated Department Stores; and Segway, LLC. This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements, which reflect the Company's current views of future events and financial performance, involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from planned or expected results. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the success of our transformation, the impact of changes designed to transform our business, competition and promotional activities, changes in merchandise styles and trends, changes in store traffic trends, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory, the implementation of our new store layout, the availability of internal and external sources of liquidity, our failure to retain, attract and motivate our employees, the reduction and restructuring of our workforce, the impact of cost reduction initiatives, a systems failure and/or security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or Company information, disruptions in our information technology systems or website, changes in our credit ratings, our failure to source and deliver merchandise in a timely and cost-effective manner, changes in our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors, restrictions under our revolving credit facility, potential asset impairment charges, risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, economic and political conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, the impact of holiday spending patterns and weather conditions, changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, legal and regulatory proceedings, significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets and other factors related to our qualified pension plan, the influence of our largest stockholders, the volatility of our stock price and our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties. Investors should take such risks into account when making investment decisions. We do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements as of any future date.
Aimee Groth, Business InsiderThere was a ton of hype over Ron Johnson taking on the CEO job at JCPenney a year and a half ago. Recruited by hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, Johnson bet his turnaround on making JCPenney look more like Apple, using a genius bar concept to influence how the new JC Penney stores will look. But as JCPenney sales declined and feedback from customers and employees was relentlessly negative, Johnson ran out of time. We attended Johnson's big presentation in January 2012, when he officially kicked off his turnaround strategy. He told a packed house that, "We can change a brand overnight. And we're going to do that starting 2.1.12."
Ron Johnson is out as JCPenney CEO.¬† Mike Ullman, the former chief executive of the company, will take the helm as interim CEO, the company said in a statement. CNBC first broke the story, citing an anonymous source. Shares initially soared 10 percent on the news that Johnson was leaving, but have been falling since it was announced Ullman was taking over.¬† Johnson took over the company 16 months ago and announced an aggressive turnaround plan, which included doing¬†away with the retailer's popular coupon program and creating shop-in-shops that showcased certain vendors.¬† But that strategy has largely failed, with sales down 32 percent in the fourth quarter.¬† As the company burned through available cash and resources, the industry was "taking bets" on when Johnson would get fired, reported¬†Richard Collings at The Deal.¬†Last week, it was revealed that his compensation package fell 97 percent.¬† Even Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager and investor who recruited Johnson, recently called his tenure a "disaster."¬† "One of the big mistakes was perhaps too much change too quickly without adequate testing on what the impact would be," Ackman said at a Reuters conference last week. Before his tumultuous tenure at JCPenney, Johnson was considered a visionary for his work on¬†Apple's retail stores. In the company statement, Ullman said he would work with customers, shareholders, and associates to make JCPenney better.¬† "While JCPenney has faced a difficult period, its legacy as a leader in American retailing is an asset that can be built upon and leveraged," Ullman¬†said. But JCPenney can't simply return to its old strategy, Liz Dunn, an analyst at Macquarie Capital told CNBC.¬† "I don't think they can simply return to the old strategy and all will be well," Dunn said. "They've got some big questions to answer and I think the release sort of hinted at that when Ullman said he's got some work to do to even figure out what's salvageable." Ullman served as JCPenney's chairman and CEO for seven years until November 2011, and was the company's executive chairman through January 2012. Here's the full release: (Thomson Reuters ONE via COMTEX) -- Plano, Texas, April 8, 2013 - The Board of Directors of J.C. Penney Company, Inc. [NYSE: JCP], today announced that Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III has rejoined the Company as Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. He has also been elected to the Board of Directors. Mr. Ullman is a highly accomplished retail industry executive, who served as CEO of jcpenney until late 2011. He succeeds Ron Johnson, who is stepping down and leaving the Company. Thomas Engibous, Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, said, "We are fortunate to have someone with Mike's proven experience and leadership abilities to take the reins at the Company at this important time. He is well-positioned to quickly analyze the situation jcpenney faces and take steps to improve the Company's performance." Mr. Ullman added, "While jcpenney has faced a difficult period, its legacy as a leader in American retailing is an asset that can be built upon and leveraged. To that end, my plan is to immediately engage with the Company's customers, team members, vendors and shareholders, to understand their needs, views and insights. With that knowledge, I will work with the leadership team and the Board to develop and clearly articulate a game plan to establish a foundation for future success." Mr. Engibous added, "On behalf of the Board of Directors, we would like to thank Ron Johnson for his contributions while at jcpenney and wish him the best in his future endeavors." About Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III Mike Ullman is a veteran retail industry executive with more than 25 years of experience who has served in leadership roles at several of the world's best-known retail companies. Prior to spending seven years leading jcpenney, as Chairman and CEO through November 2011 and Executive Chairman through January 2012, he served as Directeur General of the world's largest luxury group, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, in Paris; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DFS Group Limited, the world's leading travel retailer; and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of R.H. Macy &amp; Co., Inc. Mr. Ullman's prior retail experience also includes leading Wharf Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong and posts at Federated Department Stores earlier in his career. In addition, he previously served as a White House Fellow in the Reagan Administration, Vice President of Business Affairs at the University of Cincinnati, and as an International Account Manager for IBM Corporation. Mr. Ullman currently serves on the boards of directors of Starbucks CorporationSBUX¬†+0.55%¬†, Saks Incorporated¬†SKS¬†+1.38%¬†, and the COFRA Group headquartered in Zug, Switzerland, and as Deputy Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He is an advisor to the board of directors of the Retail Industry Leaders Association and is a past Chairman of the National Retail Federation. He is also Chairman of the Board of Mercy Ships International, a global medical and human services charity. He previously served as a director of Ralph Lauren Corporation; Taubman Centers, Inc.; LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; Federated Department Stores; and Segway, LLC.
Images_of_Money / FlickrOnce a year, millions of Americans attempt to beat the astronomical odds on the March Madness tournament in the pursuit of the perfect NCAA bracket.¬† But still, the highest scoring bracket on ESPN.com¬†has still gotten 18 games wrong.¬† The attempt at perfection, it turns out, is basically futile. Several people have calculated the odds of selecting the perfect bracket, and if you thought winning the Powerball was unlikely, you haven't seen anything yet.¬†¬† There are basically two ways to look at it.¬† To play fair, we'll assume the latter probability, as most people use some sort of ranking algorithm to determine their bracket.¬† Still, here are 9 events that are much more likely than getting a perfect bracket at 1 in 772 billion odds:
It's a good sign for America's shale boom ‚Äî¬†as GE said in its release, the pumps "represent a booming $13 billion patch of the oil and gas industry, fueled by shale and other unconventional sources of energy, and also by the need to make mature oil fields productive again." But it means a heck of a lot more to the residents of Lufkin, Texas, population 35,000, and the greater East Texas region.¬† Lufkin Industries began as Lufkin Foundry¬†and Machine Company¬†in 1902. It made railroad and sawmill equipment. Twenty-four years later, a man named W.C. Trout, who'd joined the company as a shareholder and company secretary, invented what is essentially the predecessor of the technology GE is acquiring, a counter-balanced pumping rig.¬† There are now at least two streets named after Trout and his descendants. Kurth Drive, one of the main drags in the city, is likewise named after Lufkin founder Joseph Hubert Kurth. We spoke with Lufkin, Texas Mayor Bob Brown about what the acquisition means for the community.¬† He said the company directly employs 1,100 people in the area. Undoubtedly, it indirectly supports hundreds more. "It is by far the bell cow in this county," he said. Brown said he had no reason to believe GE will move jobs, though he said some residents were already saying they were worried.¬† Some local business owners we contacted hadn't yet heard of the acquisition. Rhonda Oaks, a reporter at the Lufkin Daily News, told us the mood from those she'd spoken with ranged from concerned to cautiously optimistic. The region's ABC affiliate reports that¬†GE is saying no jobs will be lost and both employees and customers will benefit from the merger. "We have no layoffs in the future," GE oil and gas spokesman Sean Gannon said. "It's a growing sector and Lufkin Industries is good at what they do." Lufkin shares closed up 37.59 percent today.
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesAlcoa's first quarter financial results are out. Adjusted earnings were $0.11 per share, better than the $0.08 EPS expected by Wall Street analysts. Revenues, however, came in at $5.83 billion, slightly below the $5.88 billion expected. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Shares are flat in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the Alcoa release: NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Alcoa (AA) today reported net income of $149 million, or $0.13 per share, in first quarter 2013. Net income excluding special items was $121 million, or $0.11 per share. First quarter 2013 net income compares to $242 million, or $0.21 per share, in fourth quarter 2012 and $94 million, or $0.09 per share, in first quarter 2012. First quarter 2013 net income excluding special items compares to $64 million, or $0.06 per share, in fourth quarter 2012, and $105 million, or $0.10 per share, in first quarter 2012. Special items in first quarter 2013 included a net discrete income tax benefit, the positive impact of mark-to-market changes on certain energy contracts, and a net insurance recovery related to the March 2012 fire at our Massena, N.Y. location, all of which were slightly offset by the negative impact of restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA in first quarter 2013 grew to $690 million, an increase of $93 million over fourth quarter 2012 and an increase of $66 million over first quarter 2012. Alcoa‚Äôs improved net income excluding special items over fourth quarter 2012 was driven by continued productivity improvements across all businesses, better mix, and higher volumes in the downstream business. These results were partially offset by higher pension and planned maintenance cost. First quarter 2013 revenue was $5.8 billion, a decrease of 1 percent from fourth quarter 2012 due to fewer production days in the first quarter, and 3 percent lower than first quarter 2012, largely on lower London Metal Exchange (LME) aluminum prices and the impact of curtailments in Alcoa‚Äôs European primary metals production. ‚ÄúThis was a strong quarter led by record profitability in our downstream business, improved results in our midstream business, and remarkable upstream performance in the face of weak metal prices,‚Äù said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ‚ÄúOur mid and downstream businesses now account for 72 percent of our total after-tax operating income while our upstream business continues to move down the cost curve. We achieved these results by focusing on the things we can control and by pressing Alcoa‚Äôs innovation edge, scale, and strength in end markets.‚Äù Continued Growth Across End Markets Alcoa continues to project 7 percent global aluminum demand growth in 2013 and essentially balanced alumina and aluminum markets. However, the Company sees a slightly tighter market as supply contracts. The Company reduced its surplus projection for aluminum from 535,000 metric tons in the fourth quarter to 155,000 metric tons this quarter, driven by curtailments. Alcoa projects global growth this year across the aerospace (9-10 percent), automotive (1-4 percent), commercial transportation (2-7 percent), packaging (2-3 percent), building and construction (4-5 percent), and industrial gas turbine (3-5 percent) end markets. Strong Execution The Company continued to deliver excellent results in its midstream and downstream businesses. Global Rolled Products achieved $385 in adjusted EBITDA per metric ton, a 4 percent increase sequentially. Engineered Products and Solutions delivered record first quarter adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.9 percent, the third consecutive quarter a year-on-year record was established. The Company is successfully executing against its 2013 financial and operational targets. Alcoa achieved $247 million in year-over-year productivity gains, driven by process improvements and procurement savings across all businesses. Capital spending was $235 million in the quarter, compared to $398 million in fourth quarter 2012. Free cash flow for the quarter was negative $305 million, with cash used for operations of $70 million, driven by the normal build in working capital, semi-annual interest payments, and pension contributions. Expenditures on the Saudi Arabia joint venture project were on track at $67 million. Alcoa maintained its solid liquidity position, ending the quarter with cash on hand of $1.6 billion. The Company achieved a first quarter record low of 28 days working capital ‚Äì 4 days lower than the previous first quarter record set in 2012, and 15 days lower than the fourth quarter of 2008. This is the 14th¬†successive quarter the Company has demonstrated year-on-year improvement. Alcoa‚Äôs debt-to-capital ratio stood at 34.7 percent, 10 basis points lower than the sequential quarter, while net debt-to-capital stood at 30.5 percent. Solid Segment Performance Engineered Products and Solutions After-tax operating income (ATOI) in the first quarter was $173 million, up from $140 million (revised from $137 million*) in fourth quarter 2012, a 24 percent improvement, and up from $157 million (revised from $155 million*) in the first quarter of 2012. Sequentially, favorable productivity and higher volumes in the aerospace businesses drove the improvement. The Company continues to benefit from share gain increases in all markets led by innovation. This segment reported a record quarterly adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.9 percent, compared to 18.0 percent and 19.4 percent, respectively, for fourth quarter 2012 and same quarter last year. Global Rolled Products ATOI in the first quarter was $81 million, up from $77 million (revised from $69 million*) in fourth quarter 2012, a 5 percent improvement, but down from $102 million (revised from $96 million*) in first quarter 2012. Sequentially, favorable productivity and strong demand from the aerospace and automotive markets were mostly offset by weaker pricing and product mix as well as higher costs. The segment had a 4 percent increase in adjusted EBITDA per metric ton over fourth quarter 2012. Days working capital improved by 6.7 days compared with first quarter 2012. Alumina ATOI in the first quarter was $58 million, up from $41 million in fourth quarter 2012, a 41 percent improvement, and up from $35 million year-on-year, a 66 percent improvement. Sequentially, the increase was driven by positive alumina pricing along with continued productivity improvements, partially offset by lower production due to fewer days in the quarter, costs to relocate the Myara mine crusher in Australia, and increases in various input costs. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton reached $44, the highest since fourth quarter 2011 reflecting the impact of improving operations, cost focus, and Alumina Price Index-pricing. Days working capital improved by 8.8 days compared with first quarter 2012. Primary Metals ATOI in the first quarter was $39 million, down from $316 million in fourth quarter 2012, which included a $275 million gain on the Tapoco Hydroelectric Project asset sale, and up from $10 million in first quarter 2012. Third-party realized price in the first quarter was $2,398 per metric ton, up 3 percent sequentially, but down 1 percent year-on-year. Sequentially, results were driven by regional premium and value-added product mix improvements, continued productivity gains, and changes to our portfolio of operating plants, partially offset by planned power plant maintenance outages and other cost pressures. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton reached $205, $57 per metric ton higher than the average for 2012 despite lower LME prices. Alba Update Alcoa continues to actively negotiate with the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to reach a resolution of their investigations of the Alba matter; however, we have not reached any agreement with either agency. Given the uncertainty regarding whether a settlement can be reached and, if reached, on what terms, we are not able to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss with regard to any such settlement. If a settlement of the government investigations is reached, we believe that the settlement amount would be material to Alcoa‚Äôs results of operations for the relevant fiscal period. If a settlement cannot be reached, Alcoa will proceed to trial with the DOJ and the SEC and under those circumstances is unable to predict an outcome or to estimate its reasonably possible loss. There can be no assurance that the final outcome of the government‚Äôs investigations will not have a material adverse effect on Alcoa. Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on April 8, 2013 to present quarterly results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at¬†www.alcoa.com¬†under ‚ÄúInvest.‚Äù About Alcoa Alcoa is the world‚Äôs leading producer of primary and fabricated aluminum, as well as the world‚Äôs largest miner of bauxite and refiner of alumina. In addition to inventing the modern-day aluminum industry, Alcoa innovation has been behind major milestones in the aerospace, automotive, packaging, building and construction, commercial transportation, consumer electronics, and industrial markets over the past 125 years. Among the solutions Alcoa markets are flat-rolled products, hard alloy extrusions, and forgings, as well as Alcoa¬Æ wheels, fastening systems, precision and investment castings, and building systems in addition to its expertise in other light metals such as titanium and nickel-based super alloys. Sustainability is an integral part of Alcoa‚Äôs operating practices and the product design and engineering it provides to customers. Alcoa has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 11 consecutive years and approximately 75 percent of all of the aluminum ever produced since 1888 is still in active use today. Alcoa employs approximately 61,000 people in 30 countries across the world. For more information, visit¬†www.alcoa.com, follow @Alcoa on Twitter atwww.twitter.com/Alcoa¬†and follow Alcoa on Facebook at¬†www.facebook.com/Alcoa. Forward-Looking Statements This release contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as ‚Äúanticipates,‚Äù ‚Äúestimates,‚Äù ‚Äúexpects,‚Äù ‚Äúforecasts,‚Äù ‚Äúintends,‚Äù ‚Äúoutlook,‚Äù ‚Äúplans,‚Äù ‚Äúprojects,‚Äù ‚Äúshould,‚Äù ‚Äútargets,‚Äù ‚Äúwill,‚Äù or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Alcoa‚Äôs expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, forecasts concerning global demand growth for aluminum, end market conditions, supply/demand balances, and growth opportunities for aluminum in automotive, aerospace, and other applications, trend projections, targeted financial results or operating performance, and statements about Alcoa‚Äôs strategies, outlook, and business and financial prospects. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in aluminum industry conditions, including global supply and demand conditions and fluctuations in London Metal Exchange-based prices for primary aluminum, alumina, and other products, and fluctuations in indexed-based and spot prices for alumina; (b) deterioration in global economic and financial market conditions generally; (c) unfavorable changes in the markets served by Alcoa, including aerospace, automotive, commercial transportation, building and construction, distribution, packaging, defense, and industrial gas turbine; (d) the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on costs and results, particularly the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, euro, and Norwegian kroner; (e) increases in energy costs, including electricity, natural gas, and fuel oil, or the unavailability or interruption of energy supplies; (f) increases in the costs of other raw materials, including calcined petroleum coke, caustic soda, and liquid pitch; (g) Alcoa‚Äôs inability to achieve the level of revenue growth, cash generation, cost savings, improvement in profitability and margins, fiscal discipline, or strengthening of competitiveness and operations (including moving its alumina refining and aluminum smelting businesses down on the industry cost curves and increasing revenues in its Global Rolled Products and Engineered Products and Solutions segments) anticipated from its restructuring programs, productivity improvement, cash sustainability, and other initiatives; (h) Alcoa‚Äôs inability to realize expected benefits, in each case as planned and by targeted completion dates, from sales of non-core assets, or from newly constructed, expanded, or acquired facilities, such as the upstream operations in Brazil and investments in hydropower projects in Brazil, or from international joint ventures, including the joint venture in Saudi Arabia; (i) political, economic, and regulatory risks in the countries in which Alcoa operates or sells products, including unfavorable changes in laws and governmental policies, civil unrest, or other events beyond Alcoa‚Äôs control; (j) the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings, government investigations, and environmental remediation; (k) the business or financial condition of key customers, suppliers, and business partners; (l) adverse changes in tax rates or benefits; (m) adverse changes in discount rates or investment returns on pension assets; (n) the impact of cyber attacks and potential information technology or data security breaches; and (o) the other risk factors summarized in Alcoa‚Äôs Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alcoa disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Some of the information included in this release is derived from Alcoa‚Äôs consolidated financial information but is not presented in Alcoa‚Äôs financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered ‚Äúnon-GAAP financial measures‚Äù under SEC rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP measure. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and management‚Äôs rationale for the use of the non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the schedules to this release and on our website atwww.alcoa.com¬†under the ‚ÄúInvest‚Äù section. * On January 1, 2013, the Company revised the inventory-costing method used by certain locations within the Global Rolled Products and Engineered Products and Solutions segments in order to improve internal consistency and enhance industry comparability. This revision does not impact the consolidated results of Alcoa. Segment information for all prior periods presented was revised to reflect this change. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†First-quarter earnings season kicks off today after the closing bell with the release of global aluminum giant Alcoa's quarterly financial results. The company is considered a bellwether for the global economy, and given the timing of its earnings announcement as the unofficial beginning to earnings reporting, the release is closely watched by market participants. The consensus estimate among Wall Street analysts polled by Bloomberg is that Alcoa will report earnings of $0.08 per share, down 19.7 percent from last year. Sales for the quarter are expected to amount to $5.88 billion, 2 percent less than the company made in the first quarter of 2012. Investors have been mostly negative on Alcoa in recent months. Shares are down 9.5 percent since the company's last earnings announcement on January 8. "With base metal prices under pressure, investor focus will be on management‚Äôs actions (including possible meaningful reductions to cap-ex, asset sales, and or equity/preferred offering) to fend off a potential Moody‚Äôs downgrade," say¬†Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale credit strategists Ken Eigarten and Kevin McCarthy.¬†"Our analyst Jaimin Patel sees a very limited set of options for AA to avoid an eventual one-notch downgrade to Ba1." JPMorgan analyst Michael Gambardella was relatively optimistic on Alcoa before lowering his earnings estimate last week from $0.14 per share to $0.08, in line with the consensus estimate. Gambardella cites the same big issue that the SocGen strategists flag: low aluminum prices. "We are maintaining our estimates for the remainder of 2013 for now, but note that they are based on aluminum prices meaningfully higher than current levels," says Gambardella. "We note that aluminum prices currently sit at $0.84/lb, which are meaningfully below our metal strategist's price forecasts of $1.00/lb, $1.02/lb and $1.04/lb for 2Q13, 3Q13, and 4Q13, respectively. Our current 2Q13-4Q13E EPS estimates for AA assume these aluminum prices." Goldman Sachs is slightly more bearish on Alcoa earnings than the consensus. Goldman analysts expect the company to report earnings of $0.07 per share. "The main focus will be its free cash flow generation in the current depressed aluminum price environment. We estimate it will have negative free cash flow of more than $900mn this year," writes Goldman analyst Steve Song in a note to clients. "Based on our conversations with some investors, we believe that the market could be expecting some sort of equity dilution during the call; the most likely scenario in our view would be it paying $450 million of pension requirement with stocks, as it did in 2010 and 2011." We will have the full release LIVE after the closing bell at 4 PM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Flickr / MajicdoiphinStocks spent most of the day in the red. But they turned around mid-day and staged a nice rally. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,613, +48.2 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,560, +9.7 pts, +0.6 percentNASDAQ: 3,222, +18.3 pts, +0.5 percent And now the top stories:
Q1 earnings season unofficially kicks off after the closing bell when aluminum giant Alcoa releases its quarterly financial results. Some say that Alcoa sets the tone for earnings season. Factset's John Butters ran 10 years of numbers to see if this was indeed true. Here's what he found: Over the past ten years, Alcoa has reported earnings above the mean EPS estimate 50% of the time (20 out of 40 quarters). In the 20 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS above the mean EPS estimate, the average price change for the S&amp;P 500 from report date to report date (for Alcoa) is 4.4%. The price of the S&amp;P 500 increased in 16 of these 20 quarters (80%). In the 20 quarters that Alcoa reported actual EPS below the mean EPS estimate, the average price change from report date to report date is -0.9%. However, the price of the index decreased in only 11 of these 20 quarters (55%). During the other nine quarters, the price of the index increased over the next three months after Alcoa missed estimates. "Thus, recent history shows that when Alcoa has beat estimates, the price of the index has increased about 80% of the time over the next three months," writes Butters. "When Alcoa has missed estimates, the price of the index has actually increased nearly as often as it has decreased over the next three months." As a global supplier of aluminum, it is an economic bellwether.† So there is arguably merit to these findings. FactSet
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonHedge fund manager Bill Ackman's company is the single largest shareholder at JCPenney. He sits on the company's board, and he's the man who personally recruited CEO Ron Johnson from Apple. Up to this point, Ackman's reliably supported him.† But at a Reuters conference Friday, he went off script and offered harsh criticism of the way things are going at the company. He said there's been "too much change too quickly, without adequate testing," and that the company's execution "has been something very close to a disaster." Johnson has been treated roughly by the press and Wall Street for the company's poor performance ó†the stock price has dropped 27.6 percent in the first quarter ó†and Ackman said the "criticism is deserved." Ackman's support is absolutely critical for Johnson. Not only has he been his biggest cheerleader, the hedge fund's stake in the company is huge, nearly 18 percent of JC Penney's outstanding shares according to a recent filing. If this moves beyond criticism, and towards a reduction of † †the company's stake, it could be the end of the line for Johnson.† Up to the point, Ackman's company has lost as much as $500 million on paper on its investment in JC Penney.† Ackman's stalwart support has been one of the few consistent positives for Johnson, and these comments indicate that even he's fed up with the company's poor results. That could shorten the timetable Johnson has to turn things around. He can't afford for Ackman to lose faith.†
Ethan Wilkes / The Morning Side Post North and South Korea were separated at the end of World War II. They've walked quite different paths since then. Under successive pro-American governments, the South has become an economic powerhouse, one of the G-20 major economies. South Korean companies like Samsung, Hyundai, and LG are renowned around the world. The North, led by a family dynasty based on "Juche" philosophy of self-sufficiency, has turned into a bitterly poor and unpredictable nation. The Guardian's Data Blog has published some figures that show just how divergent the two nations are, economically and socially. Here are some of the crazier ones: So, judging by this it looks a lot like the South trumps the North. Except in one key area: Of course, data isn't everything ‚Äî one of the stranger factors in the North-South relationship is the surprising number of North Korean refugees who return to the North after living in the South for a while. However, the wildly divergent figures certainly show what 50 years of economic policy will do. It's also likely to be a big factor if reunification ever becomes politically possible. When Germany was reunified, East Germany's GDP per capita was 40% of that in the West. In North Korea, GDP per capita is barely 5% of that in the South. See more data. along with sources and dates, over at the Guardian's spreadsheet.
Time is running out for Ron Johnson to execute his turnaround plan at JCPenney.† As the company burns through available cash and resources, the industry is "taking bets" on when he'll get fired, reports Richard Collings at The Deal.† But it's not just Johnson people are talking about. The entire company's future is in jeopardy.† "They are also starting to wager on whether the venerable retailer won't join many of its peers in the final markdown of retail history," Collings writes.† Firms such as Apollo Global Management LLC and Leonard Green &amp; Partners LP†are considering a potential buyout of J.C. Penney, according to Collings. This would provide the funds the company needs for a turnaround.† Some insiders see a private equity firm bail-out as the only way JCPenney will survive, according to Collings.† Johnson, a veteran of Apple and Target, took the top spot at JCPenney just over a year ago. His main initiatives were doing away with the company's popular coupons and creating boutique-style "shop-in-shops" that showcased certain brands.† But the end of the coupons program drove away longtime shoppers, and so far JCPenney hasn't been able to bring in new ones. Sales plunged 32 percent last quarter from a year earlier.† The future of one of Johnson's major shop-in-shops is also in jeopardy. JCPenney's planned home line with Martha Stewart was a focal point of Johnson's strategy, but Macy's is suing to stop the line because of their contract with the home maven.† Even Johnson's biggest fans are beginning to turn against him.† Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager and investor who recruited Johnson, once defended him, saying he needed more time. But he recently backtracked and called Johnson's tenure a "disaster." † JCPenney's financial resources are dwindling, and the company isn't getting any better.† "Here we see a company that is being eaten alive by its turnaround story," Brian Sozzi,†chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors told us, adding that the company is hemorrhaging cash and can't continue on this path for much longer. Johnson might have to go before it's too late.†
Google FinanceAfter spending most of the day in the red, the U.S. stock markets are now positive. There aren't any obvious major headlines to to move markets. After the closing bell, aluminum giant Alcoa unofficially kicks off earnings season by announcing their first quarter financial results. Economists and market watchers will be listening for insight on business and consumer spending and investment activity.
Correlations in the capital markets often appear unstable and volatile. At times, different considerations are more salient than others, and this is reflected in the shifting correlations. At the same time, this instability impacts investment, as well as hedging, decisions. There are three changes in the correlation patterns we bring to your attention. The euro and sterling, the euro and the Australian dollar, and gold and the S&amp;P 500.¬†¬† As a quick methodological note, we are more interested in the correlations of returns than the correlation of two time series.¬† Therefore, we conduct the correlations on percentage change rather than level. Euro-Sterling:¬† The correlation between the euro and sterling has broken down.¬† On a 60-day and 90-day rolling basis, the correlation is the lowest since 2000 at 0.21 and 0.34 respectively.¬† Rarely has the 60-day correlation fallen below 0.40 since the advent of the euro and rarely has the 90-day correlation fallen below 0.50.¬† The 60-day correlation was fairly stable most of last year, even as the EMU debt crisis ebbed and flowed.¬† The breakdown began in January as sterling sold off while the euro did not peak until early Feb.¬† The correlation spent February and March mostly between 0.25-0.30 correlation, before slipping in early April as sterling was carving out a bottom, while new pressures weighed on the euro.¬† Initially the weaker correlation coincided with a jump in implied volatility.¬† The benchmark 3-month implied vol jumped from 5.3% in early January to 9.5% by late February.¬† It has been tending down March and early April to stand near 6.8% today, which represents nearly 2 1/2 month lows.¬†¬† Euro-Australian dollar: ¬†¬† The correlation between the euro and the Australian dollar has also broken down.¬† The 60- and 90-day correlations are near their lowest levels since late-2002/early-2003 at 0.19 and 0.26 respectively.¬† Rarely has the 60-day correlation fallen below 0.35 during the past decade, while the 90-day correlation has not been below 0.40 until now.¬† The Australian dollar rallied in March as the euro sold off.¬† Comments from the RBA and some what better than expected data saw the Aussie rally from near $1.01¬† in early March to $1.05 by the end of the month and retested in early April.¬†¬† For its part, the euro trended lower from early February's test on $1.37 to $1.2750 in late-March and again last week.¬†¬† The grab for yield that has greeted the BOJ's announcement and has fueled dramatic rallies in European bonds not gone unnoticed in Australia, where the 10-year yield is off 9 bp today and roughly 20 bp since the BOJ's decision last week.¬† However, the Aussie itself is slightly softer with three week lows set earlier today. The euro recovered against the Australian dollar, moving from near A$1.22 in the middle of last week to the A$1.2550 before the weekend and rested it today.¬† It is just shy of a retracement objective of the euro's slide that began near A$1.32 in early February, which comes in just below A$1.26.¬† If this area is successfully breached, the next retracement objectives are found near A$1.27 and A$1.2820.¬† The price action is not very inspiring, though we note the 5-day moving average is poised to cross above the 20-day for the first time since February 19. ¬† Support is seen near A$1.2400. Gold and the S&amp;P 500:¬† The unorthodox easing by the major central banks and the initial attempt to bail in insured depositors was widely thought to underpin the gold prices.¬† The price of gold is off about 9.5% this year in dollar terms.¬†¬†¬† Indeed, it has been trending lower since early October's test on $1800 an ounce. In contrast, the S&amp;P 500 has been trending higher since the last correction ended in mid-November.¬† It has moved within spitting distance of the October 07 record high of 1576.¬† Hence, the correlation between the two has broken down.¬† On a 60-day basis the correlation is slightly negative now, while the 90-day correlation is barely above zero.¬† When the correlation between gold and the S&amp;P 500 is the strongest, the more gold is trading like an asset.¬† When the correlation is inverse, gold is arguably acting like a safe haven.¬† Since the financial crisis began the 60- and 90-day correlations have mostly been positive, but nearly ever year there is a period of inverse correlations. Last year was an exception for the 90-day correlation, which never became inverse.¬† The longest inversion since the crisis began was from April through November 2008 when the 90-day correlation reached just beyond -0.5.¬† From late-1998 through 2003, the 90-day correlation was rarely positive. The weak correlation between gold and the S&amp;P 500 suggests that gold acting more like safe haven now than at time since last June.¬† The problem for gold bulls seems to be that the liquidity being provided by the major central banks, or anticipated, means that investors are being forced out of save havens.¬†        Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
WHOOSH. In just a matter of minutes, Bitcoin fell from the 190s to the 170s. Bitcoin has been basically a one-way bet permanently, but every once in awhile the roulette table turns the other way. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
Housing analyst Keith Jurow has been a regular contributor to Business Insider for almost three years. His¬†new real estate subscription service ‚Äì Capital Preservation Real Estate Report ‚Äì will launch in a few¬†weeks. At the end of March, it was announced that the 20-city Case-Shiller Index was up¬†8.1% year-over-year. Nearly all housing experts declared that this was further¬†confirmation that the housing recovery was firmly in place. A few weeks earlier, Zillow had released its latest survey of 118 economists,¬†strategists and other experts on the expected direction of home prices over the¬†next five years. Every one expected higher prices with the most pessimistic¬†prediction showing an average annual increase of 3%. Clearly, there is a very broad consensus that the housing market has bottomed.¬†In the article below, I review much of their analysis. For those of you who have never read any¬†article of mine, I have been consistently asserting that there is no¬†convincing data to support the view that housing markets have turned the corner. Because my view is so out-of-sync with the consensus, it is worth taking an in-depth look at what my latest research has uncovered. My conclusion is that the much-vaunted housing recovery is actually a mirage and that a new delinquency crisis is coming. Home Prices in the Northeast We‚Äôll get to the Case-Shiller Index shortly. Let me begin by showing you raw¬†sale price numbers from the largest family-owned brokerage firm in the northeast¬†‚Äì William Raveis &amp; Co. This table shows the average price-per-square-foot for¬†single-family homes in five northeast states. The figures are for the months¬†November 2012 through January 2013. Keith Jurow The figures show the average price-per-square foot (ppsf) for all single-family homes sold in these towns and cities. As far as I know, Raveis &amp; Co. is the only brokerage firm in the country which provides these statistics. Their website also provides median sale prices. I wiIl explain why I prefer the use of average price-per-square-foot. Here is why. A median price is simply the point at which half of the prices of homes sold are above it and half are below it. It is greatly influenced by the mix of homes sold. Sharp reductions in the sale of foreclosed properties will great affect the median price. I‚Äôve emphasized repeatedly in previous articles that the banks have severely curtailed the number of foreclosed properties (REOs) which they have put on the active MLS market. For example, in the spring of 2009, 2/3 of all homes sold in the Greater Phoenix area were foreclosed properties. In December 2012, a mere 10% of the homes sold were foreclosures. Since foreclosed properties are normally the lowest-priced homes on the market, the sharp reduction in sales of these inexpensive homes will almost always raise the median price of sold homes. Yet a higher median price does not necessarily indicate that homes prices would be rising without this market manipulation by banks. The average ppsf is not skewed by the plunge in foreclosed property sales nearly as much as the median sale price. But since foreclosed homes will normally have the lowest ppsf in any market, the average ppsf will also tend to be pushed up by the scarcity of foreclosures for sale. Thus it is all the more remarkable that prices in my home state of Connecticut showed double-digit declines in average ppsf for numerous towns. Now you may object to the use of average ppsf. I have found that the ppsf does not vary all that much throughout a given town for comparable homes and does not change much month-to-month. Three bedroom homes tend to command a slightly higher ppsf than four bedroom houses. Nonetheless, I believe that average ppsf is a far more reliable indicator of home prices in a town than the median sale price. Home prices in Connecticut have been much weaker than in the other four northeast states. Some of you will object that the figures from raveis.com show that prices are up in other New England cities and towns. Granted. But you can see that, with one glaring exception, year-over-year price increases in the towns I‚Äôve listed have been tepid at best.
People are buzzing about Bank of America's new commercial¬†that features an elderly couple traveling back in time via snapshots. We saw the commercial last night during Mad Men, which was perfect, since the commercial captures the nostalgia and timelessness that's such a big theme of the show. And in fact, the theme of one product lasting through generations is directly similar to Mad Men's Heinz pitch (from last season) where Heinz baked beans are served through generations. The commercial really draws the viewer in with its beautiful visuals. ¬†When you're watching it, you don't expect it to be a bank ad. ¬† It's really beautiful.¬†Check it out below:¬† 
REUTERS / Kim Hong-JiForeign currency dealers in Seoul, South Korea.The intensifying rhetoric originating out of North Korea has had the world's onlookers concerned that nuclear war could break out at any moment. While Korea's stock market has exhibited some volatility, the overall mood in the south is one of complacency. as Koreans have gotten used to 50 years of empty threats. Assuming nothing materializes and the threats turn out to be nothing more than talk, this could be something of a win for South Korea. Goldman Sachs' Jim O'Neill mentions it briefly in his latest Viewpoints: I highlighted Korea a few weeks ago when I detected a shift in the Chinese stance on the North, and in the past week or so, the country seems to be doing the most it can to rile everyone. While some aspects of their posturing are clearly a bit scary, I again find myself asking whether this time it is the beginning of the end of two separated Koreaís? In the meantime, some Korean exporters will be slightly relieved that the current weakness of the Korean Won gives them some respite against the relentless decline of the Japanese Yen. The Bank of Japan has embarked on extremely aggressive monetary policy, which has caused its yen to fall against most major currencies. This aggression by the North is effectively devaluing the won without any action by the Bank of Korea.
via Nicklaus.comWith the Masters happening this week, we're pretty sure some of the TVs on Wall Street will be changing channels to catch the prestigious golf tournament. Golf is one of the favorite hobbies of the Wall Street crowd. We recently did a ranking of golf handicaps from some of the biggest names on Wall Street. Now we have compiled a list of some of the courses where these heavy hitters have played.¬†
Dr. Ed's BlogI wasn‚Äôt disappointed by Friday‚Äôs employment report because I don‚Äôt pay all that much attention to the preliminary payroll estimate for the latest month, which was only 88,000 for March. Rather, I give much more weight to the regular revisions in the previous two months' payrolls, which were both increased by a total of 61,000 for January and February. Over the past three months through February, payrolls are up 211,700 on average, the best since the three months through March 2012. Over the past 12 months, revisions added 449,000 to the jobs tally, based on first-reported data. During economic expansions (recessions), revisions tended to be to the upside (downside).Previously, I‚Äôve noted that the monthly employment report has so much information that it can be confusing. Pundits tend to make it even more confusing since optimistic ones usually will find some numbers to support their view, while pessimists can do the same. So I was surprised to hear that the commentators assembled on CNBC Friday morning all seemed to conclude that it was an unambiguously bad report. I disagree. To cut through all the noise, I focus on just one number, which I calculate by multiplying aggregate hours of private industry workers by their wage rate, i.e., average hourly earnings. The resulting YRI Earned Income Proxy (YRI-EIP) is highly correlated with wages and salaries in private industries, which is included in the monthly personal income report. My proxy was boosted by the upward revisions in payrolls and now shows a solid gain of 2.8% over the past five months to a fresh record high. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Not so Bad. (1) Friday‚Äôs shocker wasn‚Äôt so shocking. (2) Revisions are more useful than first estimates. (3) Proxy for wages &amp; salaries at record high. (4) Mixed bag of employment indicators. (5) Bad weather vs. fiscal drag. (6) No rush to phase out QE after Friday‚Äôs numbers. (7) The puzzling weakness in the labor force. (8) The Baby Boomers are checking out. (9) Draghi is committed to the euro, but admits ECB has limits. (10) Draghi disses Dijsselbloem twice in one day! (More for subscribers.)
Margaret Thatcher was an incredibly polarizing figure, but everyone should be able to agree that she was absolutely spot on about why the Euro would be such a disaster. As Peter Oborne reported in the Telegraph In 2010, Thatcher's two autobiographies, "The Downing Street Years" (1993) and "The Path To Power" (1995) discussed the tactics she would use to argue against the EMU (Economic and Monetary Union), which she wanted no part of. Basically, she outlined the problems with the euro perfectly, that Germany would chafe at the inevitable need for greater inflation, and that the poorer countries would inevitably be uncompetitive and need bailouts that would not easily be forthcoming. This paragraph is from "The Path To Power," where she discusses conversations with John Major (her successor) about negotiating with the rest of Europe. She just totally nails the inflation and competitiveness angles. Margaret Thatcher, The Path To Power The following is from "Downing Street Years," and again concerns her discussions with John Major. She couldn't have spelled it out more clearly. The Downing Street Years It's one thing to be kind of generically anti-Euro, which a lot of people in England have been. It's another thing to absolutely nail why the euro would be such a disaster.
WikimediaUBS's Art Cashin points us to the latest "Historical Echoes" note from the New York Fed.† It has the fascinating story of the West's first-ever Central Banker who was sentenced to death for printing too much money. With the help of a passage from†Neil Irwin's new book, "The Alchemists," here's a summary of the story: In 1656, Sweden's King Karl X Gustav deputized a Latvian-born entrepreneur named Johan Palmstruch to found a bank to help modernize Sweden's finances. At the time, the country's principal currency was enormous copper plates, called dalers. Palmstruch began holding them at this new institution, called the Stockholms Banco, and providing customers receipts ó basically, proofs of credit. The system proved extremely popular, and a lot of dalers began piling up at the bank.  So naturally, Palmstruch began making loans. For six years, things went great, Irwin writes.† But then King Gustav died, and Sweden's ruling council decided to strike new copper plates that were worth less than the old ones. So naturally, Swedes immediately began lining up at the Banco to claim their old dalers, whose value had suddenly gone up. But Palmstruch had lent out too much.†So he thought of a quick solution: Start printing out even more paper that anyone could redeem at will.† And again, he was able to buy some time ó Irwin says the script proved quite popular in Europe.† But the amount of paper money floating in the market soon vastly outpaced the Banco's actual daler holdings. One day, a man showed up wanting to withdraw 10,000 dalers.  That wasn't going to happen. Word spread, and a bank run was ignited. The government panicked, ordering Palmstruch to start calling in loans. This actually backfired, Irwin says: Businesses that had become accustomed to operating using borrowed funds couldn't do so. Money, which had been all too readily available just two years earlier, became very hard to get, and a deep economic downturn followed. It was the first recession caused by a contraction of the money supply. For putting the kingdom through all this, Palmstruch was sentenced to death, though he was later pardoned.  But the Banco lived on to become the West's first Central Bank, now called the Riksbank. And†Palmstruch is now credited with having invented the West's first modern paper currency (the Chinese had been doing it for centuries). Cashin jokes that this event may mean Ben Bernanke "should see a lawyer." But remember, Palmstruch was only reacting to fiscal policy.  So for us, the episode shows that most of the time, Central Banks are just trying to do the best they can, in response to what non-bankers inflict on their country's economy.
WikiMedia CommonsThe late Margaret Thatcher is an extremely polarizing figure in the United Kingdom. One huge factor in this is the way the "Iron Lady" crushed the UK's trade unions during her reign. To many British people, especially those who worked in the U.K.'s heavy industry, this was obviously a devastating move. However, when you look back at 1970s United Kingdom, it's easy to see why many felt the unions were too powerful and that something had to change. For much of the 1970s the U.K. appeared to be in a battle between the government and the Unions. For example, during Conservative Edward Heath's government in the early 1970s the country was facing a high inflation problem. One government measure intended to fight this, was a cap on public-sector pay. This increased tensions with the U.K.'s miners' unions, who argued that wage rises were not keeping pace with price rises. The National Union of Mineworkers encouraged their workers to "work-to-rule" ‚Äî to do no more than the basic requirement of their jobs ‚Äî which in turn led to the U.K.'s fuel supplies dwindling. In response, the British government imposed a 3-day week for commercial users of electricity. From 1 January until 7 March these users were only allowed to use electricity for 3 consecutive days and could not work late on the days they had electricity. Heath called an early election that would be fought on the question: "Who governs Britain?" Heath's gamble failed, however ‚Äî the left-wing, union-backed Labour party won the election. APA man sleeping on the ground awakens in front of a mound of garbage that has accumulated during a strike by council employees in London‚Äôs Leicester Square in 1979. However, by the time the next general election rolled around in 1979, the Labour government had faced its own backlash from the unions. The winter of 1978-1979 became known as the "Winter of Discontent," with many of the country's unions striking over plans to limit pay rises due to inflation. The strikes had a dramatic effect in the U.K., with trash piling on street corners during one of the coldest winters in years. Things turned macabre in Liverpool, where even grave-diggers went on strike. Labour's own difficulty with U.K.'s unions led to an opportunity for the Conservative government and their new, virulently anti-union leader: Margaret Thatcher. One advertising campaign from the Conservatives in 1978 ‚Äî created by the young Saatchi and Saatchi brothers ‚Äî soon became iconic:  When the election was delayed from 1978 to 1979, the Saatchi brothers came up with another slogan: "Labour Still Isn't Working." Lord Thorneycroft, Conservative party treasurer during the election, claimed that the poster had "won the election for the Conservatives." Thatcher won the 1979 election, and the Conservatives would stay in power for the next 18 years. In that time, Thatcher's battle with the unions would continue, most notably during the 1984-1985 miners' strike. For Thatcher, it was clearly a moral fight, which she framed in light of the recent war with Argentina: "We had to fight the enemy without in the Falklands. We always have to be aware of the enemy within, which is much more difficult to fight and more dangerous to liberty." Looking back today, it's clear that British unions lost a huge amount of power during Thatcher's time in office. By beating the miners' strike in 1985, her government further demoralized millions of union members. Additionally, economic policies stripped unions of their major strength: numbers.¬† According to the BBC, Union membership fell from a peak of 12 million in the late '70s to almost half that by the late '80s. They've never recovered.
Fannie Mae's March national housing survey showed that 58 percent of those polled think the economy is on the wrong track. This was up 5 percentage points from the previous month. And 21 percent said they expect their personal finances to get worse in the next 12 months.¬† This is up from just 17 percent last month. Fannie Mae But, "consumer confidence in the housing recovery remains firm in the face of budget sequestration and other fiscal policy concerns," according to the press release.¬†"Although more Americans indicate greater pessimism regarding their personal finances and the economy, they continue to demonstrate optimism across key housing market measures." 48 percent continued to believe that home prices will increase over the next year. The 12-month home price change forecast however fell to 2.7 percent in March, from 2.9 percent the previous month.¬† ¬† Fannie Mae
The odds seem to be in favor of the controversial project. Today, Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson provides more evidence. The province of Alberta, where the pipeline would originate, has just proposed†a tax on carbon production that would cut greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 40 percent on each barrel of production, according to the Globe and Mail. Here's what Longson makes of it: While initial reactions interpreted the law as a headwind for investment, we are less skeptical. We view the move as a quid pro quo for a Keystone XL approval. Alberta is unlikely to penalize its growth engine unless the cost of non-compliance is less than the amount of relief received. If Keystone XL is built, long run [Canadian crude] diffs may improve by more than $10/bbl, exceeding the implied ~$6/bbl fine.† Transcanada is trading slightly lower this morning.
Government borrowing costs ñ as measured by 10-year sovereign bond yields ñ are hitting record lows across the euro zone "core" today. In France, 10-year yields have fallen to 1.75 percent. The Belgian 10-year is at 1.95 percent, the Dutch 10-year is at 1.62 percent, and the Austrian 10-year is at 1.49 percent. Matthew Boesler/Business Insider, data from Bloomberg European leaders will be quick to take the credit. Economic austerity for troubled economies in the euro area periphery in need of financial assistance is still the main agenda. The idea is that markets reward the countries willing to undertake painful austerity measures with lower borrowing costs. Linking austerity measures to lower borrowing costs, however, is a bit of a shaky exercise, as Pawel Morski points out. After all, the French economy is enduring a deepening recession, and the others are stumbling as well. A much simpler explanation for the steady march lower in euro zone bond yields is the introduction of monetary measures by the ECB last summer to pacify markets. And the driver cited by many analysts for this latest move lower in French, Belgian, Dutch, and Austrian borrowing costs in recent weeks, sending them to record lows, is renewed interest in those bonds from Japanese institutional investors, like life insurers. In Japan, new stimulus measures designed to weaken the yen are sending Japanese government bond yields lower, forcing Japanese institutions to go elsewhere for interest income. "If Japanese institutional [investors] are under pressure because of the collapse in yields at the long-end of the Japanese curve, we may begin to see a wave of unhedged global yield buying," says Citi analyst Steven Englander. According to Morgan Stanley analysts Elaine Lin and Maggie Chidothe, there are two big groups of Japanese investors driving the flows: life insurance companies and banks. In a note to clients, Lin and Chidothe write: Life insurance companies: Japanese lifers are heavily exposed to long-dated Japanese government bonds; their investment decisions will be affected the most by the Bank of Japanís action. They have cut their exposures to peripheral sovereigns (Italy and Spain) at the height of the sovereign crisis. Appetite for peripheral sovereigns is likely to be dependent on the sovereign crisis outlook. However, for large core countries (Germany and France), there is potential for marginal demand given lower Japanese government bond yields. In particular, this could benefit demand for [French] OATs, given the more attractive yields compared to Germany.† Banks: Japanese banks are the major investors in European government bonds†among the Japanese investor base. They have been increasing their exposure in European sovereigns since 2012, in particular via France, while maintaining a stable exposure to peripherals (Exhibit S3). This trend may continue given the outlook for a weaker yen. However, it is worth noting that Japanese banks are not heavily exposed to long-dated Japanese government bonds, so banks will be less affected by lower long-dated Japanese government bond yields and diversification needs may be less meaningful. The charts below show how European government bonds ñ especially French bonds ñ have benefitted from Japanese bank buying. BIS, Morgan Stanley Research "The likely increased demand for [French] OATs has already been priced into the market following the Bank of Japan meeting, with France significantly outperforming all other European government bonds since Thursday," say the Morgan Stanley analysts. "The initial move may have been exaggerated by the strong [French] OAT auction." If Japanese markets continue trending in the same directions they are now on the back of strong monetary stimulus from the Bank of Japan, this dynamic could continue to support euro zone bond markets. However, it will have nothing to do with successful implementation of austerity measures or growing economies in the euro zone's "core" countries.
gtwndr87 / FlickrCorporate America takes center stage as the biggest companies begin to release their Q1 financial results. We'll learn how consumers and businesses really held up amid all of the fiscal policy uncertainty out of Washington, economic uncertainty out of Europe, monetary policy uncertainty out of Japan, and nuclear uncertainty out of North Korea. The language that management employs during this earnings season threatens to derail the rally in stocks, which are currently near all-time highs. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update The U.S. stock market continues to be within points of their all-time highs.¬† But could this earnings season reverse the rally? "Our view is that a sharp market correction only happens if people fear a BIG decline in earnings, not a small one that they view makes future results more achievable," wrote Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker.¬† "We think April earnings and July guidance will continue to be muted, but we don‚Äôt think real fear about earnings will grow to the point we get a material stock market correction." Perhaps the bigger concern may be if the Fed signals that it'll pull the plug on easy money policy sooner than expected.¬† Business Insider asked NYSE floor trader Greg Keating what he expects from the Fed.¬† Watch what he said here:
YoutubeIt took long enough, but the S&amp;P 500 hit an all-time closing high last month. But that was then.† And according to S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall,†Q1 2013 S&amp;P 500 EPS growth is so far seen at just 0.6%, leading him to ask: are investors are lulling themselves into a false sense of security? His answer: it's very possible. From Stovall's latest note: History has shown that actual earnings frequently outpace expectations. Whatís more, analysts are optimistic about forward guidance, based on the expected improvement in the global economic growth trajectory.  However, an elevated negative-to-positive guidance ratio and a variety of headwinds could cause Q1 2013 results to replace Q2 2012 EPS as the trough quarter for this earnings cycle. As a result, the uncertainty over Q1 2013 EPS growth and forward guidance will probably allow for a seamless transition of tension from March Madness to April Anxiety.† Stocks are up slightly this morning.
Corporations have five basic uses for the cash that they bring in: 1) share buybacks; 2) dividends; 3) acquisitions; 4) research and development; and 5) capital expenditures, which includes both growth and maintenance. Goldman Sachs' David Kostin included this useful chart in a recent presentation to clients.¬† As you can see, companies have been increasingly returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.¬† Furthermore, buybacks generally represent a bigger source of cash distribution than dividends. Goldman Sachs
Just keeps going. Bitcoin $190. http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
Reuters/ Steve MarcusReports surfaced a couple weeks ago that billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, whose SAC Capital has come under scrutiny lately, secretly bought Picasso's "Le RÍve" from Steve Wynn for $155 million.† It was assumed that Cohen had just purchased the painting after settling a $616 million insider trading probe with the Securities and Exchange Commission. † That's not the case. Cohen's art dealer went on record to clarify the timing of the purchase in an interview with the New York Times last week. Even Cohen gave a ten word comment on the record in a rare interview.† The news was buried in an article about Cohen's ex-wife having her suit against him reinstated:† DealBook's Peter Lattman and Carol Vogel report:† Sandy Heller, Mr. Cohenís art adviser, said on Wednesday that the sale was completed in early November of last year, a few weeks before the insider trading cases against SAC Capital entered a more serious phase with the indictment of one of his former employees. The purchase price was $150 million, not $155 million, according to people with knowledge of the transaction. ìThe timing was bad,î said Mr. Heller, referring to last weekís reports about the Picasso purchase. ìWeíre correcting the chronology.î In an interview Wednesday, Mr. Cohen, a collector who also owns works by†Jasper Johns†and†Damien Hirst, said that he had coveted ìLe RÍveî for years. ìWhen you stand in front of it, youíre blown away,î Mr. Cohen said. Now that's settled.† (Hat Tip:†ShaneFerro)
The sad news today is that former UK PM Margaret Thatcher has died. She was incredibly influential among conservatives, and she was beloved for stuff like this. Watch as she slams an opposition labor politician, for, in her words, advocating policies that would prefer to make the poor poorer so long as it resulted in more equality, 
AP Margaret Thatcher has died, according to several different news outlets. She has been in poor health for awhile, and died of a stroke. The former UK Prime Minister -- who has been called Britain's "Iron Lady" -- was 87. Thatcher, who ruled the UK from 1979 to 1990, was massively influential, especially for conservative leaders all around the world. The FT's obit explains how she famously reformed the UK economy: The developed world's first woman prime minister transformed a sclerotic UK economy, all but neutered the trade unions and endeavoured ‚Äúto roll back the frontiers of the state‚Äù with a policy of offloading the great nationalised industries and selling council houses to their occupants. Abroad, she was the indomitable leader who won victory over Argentina in the Falklands war, who decided that Mikhail Gorbachev was a Soviet leader she could ‚Äúdo business with‚Äù and who inspired a respect for ‚ÄúThatcherism‚Äù as a political philosophy that was never quite matched on the domestic front. She and Ronald Reagan have been described as political soulmates. This video of her slamming socialism for wanting to make the poor even poorer, just for the sake of equality, is a great example of why people loved her. 
Getty Images/Spencer PlattDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the topics he's talking about with traders. They are: Futures are up 30bp, on highs of the session ‚Äì despite fresh turmoil in Europe. ¬†DAX is higher, and EU Bank are in the green despite Portugal‚Äôs courts rejecting some of the austerity measures. ¬†Portugal spreads are FLAT to bunds, highlighting the lack of concern and continued demand for yield in wake of the BOJ. ¬†China‚Äôs composite was off small after a 2 day holiday, but Japan‚Äôs Nikkei jumped 2.8% to a near five-year high. Despite the Portugal headlines, EU spreads are all tighter, with Italy and Spain in 5-7bp. ¬†The US 10YY is unchanged for the session, and bond bulls are excited yields have broken below 8M support on Friday. ¬†The Dollar is slightly weaker, a natural tailwind for commodities ‚Äì we have Copper and Oil jumping over 1%, while Oil is basically unchanged. ¬†The yen has slipped to a near four-year low, and the ‚ÄúCarry Trade‚Äù is breaking higher as A$ well bid on headlines indicating direct Yuan trade with China. ¬†Miners were well bid in Aussie. Earnings season officially kicks off today, with AA after the bell, JPM and WFC Friday. ¬†I read that Since 2000 Alcoa has had 53 earnings releases. ¬†Of those 53 earnings releases the S&amp;P 500 has moved the same direction as Alcoa‚Äôs stock price reaction 34 times or just under 65% of the time. ¬†The real significance comes when AA stock has a positive reaction to earnings - 75% of AA‚Äôs positive earnings reactions were followed by a higher move in the S&amp;P 500 over the next ten trading days.
Francois Durand/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
TechCrunch founder Mike Arrington has finally responded publicly to the "physical abuse" and "rape" claims made against him last week by a former girlfriend, Jenn Allen. Arrington's response is unequivocal: "All of the allegations are completely untrue." Arrington notes, correctly, that these allegations accuse him of serious crimes. He says he has retained a law firm to represent him in legal actions against the "offending parties"--presumably meaning those who, he suggests, have publicly slandered him.† Arrington also says he will provide a longer response and statement soon. Michael Arrington SEE ALSO: The Mike Arrington Rape Claim Has Hit The Mainstream Media
Fund manager John Hussman of the Hussman Funds sounds the alarm again in his most recent weekly note. Specifically, he suggests that the economy is much weaker than most people realize and may, in fact, be in a recession. And then he observes that corporate earnings, which have driven the stock market to a record high (without adjusting for inflation) are based on record-high profit margins that will almost certainly drop. First, here's Hussman on the economy: While there is no shortage of smug observers who believe that recession risk does not exist and never did, the fact is that the strongest leading indicators, as well as the most timely coincident data, have deteriorated and danced along the border between economic expansion and economic recession for more than two years. Meanwhile, repeated rounds of QE have produced little but short-lived bounces to defer a recession that historically would have followed such deterioration more quickly. The chart below offers a good picture of this process. John Hussman, Hussman Funds† Notice the successively lower levels, as each round of quantitative easing has smaller and smaller effects on real economic activity (speculative activity in the financial markets aside). The question at present is whether the recent bounce will prove to be temporary as well. This expectation is certainly consistent with the series of rapid-fire misses from the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index (particularly the new orders component), the national PMI reports for both manufacturing and services, and the unexpected weakness on both payroll and household employment surveys.† For my part, I continue to expect the U.S. economy to join a global recession that is already in progress in much of the developed world (assuming a U.S. recession has not already started, which we canít rule out, but would require knowledge of eventual data revisions to confirm). Suffice it to say that the realistic case for a sustained economic expansion here remains terribly thin.† And then there are corporate earnings. As we've noted frequently, they are based on record-high profit margins, and profit margins have a very strong tendency to suddenly and violently revert to means. Yes, corporate profits are benefitting from a major contribution from international profits, and this could end up muting the mean-reversion (by raising the "mean"). But U.S. corporations have been generating international profits for many decades, and this has not changed the profit-margin mean reversion that we see in Hussman's chart. Here's Hussman: On the earnings front, my concern continues to be that investors donít seem to recognize that profit margins are more than 70% above their historical norms, nor the extent to which this surplus is the direct result of a historic (and unsustainable) deficit in the sum of government and household savings (see Two Myths and A Legend for an analysis, including more than a half-century of data on this). As a result, investors seem oblivious to the likelihood of earnings disappointments not only in coming quarters, but in the next several years. We continue to expect this disappointment to amount to a contraction in earnings over the next 4 years at a rate of roughly 12% annually.† John Hussman, Hussman Funds "... A contraction in earnings over the next 4 years at a rate of roughly 12% annually." Imagine what will happen to stock prices if Hussman is even half right. SEE ALSO: Here's The Chart That Should Scare The Bejeezus Out Of Stock Investors
Just last night we marveled at Bitcoin passing $170. Now? $185. From Clarkmoody.com: bitcoin.clarkmoody.com
Check out this chart of the S&amp;P 500. Notice something about the past several days? stockcharts.com You might not, because it's a little hard to read, but we've now had 13 straight days of alternating red and white days, meaning 13 straight days of alternating positive and negative closes. And while Friday was a negative close, today is looking positive for US futures, so it could be 14. Last week, when the streak was at 11, that was already a record seen not since the early 80s. The back-and-forthness of the market represents what's going on in debate, too. The market is at all-time highs, and there's a feeling that the US is close to breaking out of its great malaise from the last few years. Yet some recent datapoints aren't cooperating, and the overseas news continues to get worse. The battle between the bulls and the bears is as intense as we've seen it in a long time.
Getty ImagesA big merger of two Greek banks has been called off due to lack of creditor support. From Ekathimerini: National Bank of Greece and Eurobank Ergasias will stage their recapitalization separately, Bank of Greece announced late on Sunday, thereby freezing their merger procedure. All signs point to the two banks continuing autonomously. The process and the timetable of the share capital increases of the two lenders as well as those of Alpha Bank and Piraeus will proceed as planned, BoG said. ... The creditors have been eager to avoid the creation of such big a group that would not be easy to find a strategic investor in the future. Major Greek bank stocks are plummeting. #Greece Piraeus -22.5%, Alpha Bank -20%, NBG and Eurobank -30%
In the latest ratcheting up of tensions from North Korea, leadership has called for the complete evacuation and suspension of activities at the Kaesong industrial zone, an industrial area on the border where South Koreans and North Koreans work. Already last week, North Korea was turning away workers from the South. Now all workers are being evacuated. This is an unprecedented step that doesn't fit in with past episodes of DPRK bluster. Yonhap: #DPRK asks everyone in Kaesong industrial complex to depart. KCNA: All workers requested to leave Kaesong industrial zone. KCNA: All operations being suspended at #Kaesong industrial zone. #DPRK
France is the poster child for sick Europe. Its economic stats are dismal. Its leaders are very unpopular. It makes law that gets mocked by the economist and Gerard Depardieu. It's all horrible. But one thing that's not bad is the cost of government borrowing. Yield in French 10 year Oats (bonds) is plummeting, down to 1.72%, virtually the sam level as the US borrows at. Here's a 6-month yield chart, via Bloomberg. You can see how fast and hard things have fallen. Bloomberg So why, if things are going so badly, are yields collapsing? Well remember, falling yields are the norm around the world when weakness sets in. It's only in peripheral Europe where we've been observing this strange phenomenon of surging yields during bad times, and that's because they're seen as weak credits that could theoretically run out of money. People don't see that in France, because it's assumed that the ECB would step in in a big way long before a true sovereign debt crisis erupted in France. So rather than worrying about France as a credit, people just see it as a big core bond market to rush to in a storm (and Europe is in a storm again). (Via @pegobry)
REUTERS / Brian SnyderFor years, Americans have complained about their jobs being moved overseas where manufacturing costs have been much lower. But with labor costs now rising overseas and energy costs falling in America, there is now excitement that an American manufacturing renaissance is at hand. Unfortunately, there is no good evidence to suggest this is happening.¬† In fact, some data suggest the opposite is happening. "Evidence for a structural renaissance is scant so far," writes Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. And even if we could bring manufacturing back, is that what we really want?¬† When manufacturing comes back, so does pollution.¬† Furthermore, the idea of reindustrialization represents the end of a mega-bullish secular trend for earnings. The idea of an American manufacturing renaissance is a nice one.¬† But the charts we looked at suggests its actually a combination of fiction and misfortune.
binder.donedat / FlickrThe week begins, and markets are generally higher. US futures are up modestly. In Europe, Italy is up 1%. Japan had a huge night, thanks to the ongoing collapse of the yen. USDJPY (The dollar vs. the yen) is hovering near 99. Just last week it was near 95. Japanese stocks ended up another 2.8%, as the stunning "Abenomics" rally continues. Other Asian markets were pretty quiet. Markets are quickly shrugging off Friday's big Non-Farm Payrolls miss.
