REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachChina's Dong Bin competes in the men's triple jump final during the London 2012 Olympic Games.The Shanghai Composite got a nice bounce on Friday, after falling 1.6% on Thursday. Spiking money market rates have weighed on Chinese stocks. But the seven-day repurchase rate cooled to 5.06%. Meanwhile, the Nikkei hit a six-year peak but then began to fall. We got some good news on the Japanese economy earlier this evening as consumer prices quickened at their fastest pace in five years.  Here's a quick round-up:
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA child looks at a luxury brand store window with a Santa Claus display at Ginza shopping district in Tokyo.Japan's war on deflation got a boost last month with a key inflation indicator rising at its fastest pace in 15 years, new data showed on Friday, as Tokyo battles to reverse years of falling prices. Stripping out volatile food and energy prices, which have largely driven recent increases, prices inched up 0.6 percent in November, the country's best result since August 1998. The broader consumer price index, which measures a basket of everyday goods but excludes the cost of fresh food, rose 1.2 percent last month from a year earlier, the fastest pace in five years. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government has put conquering deflation and stoking growth in the world's third-largest economy at the top of its agenda with a policy blitz dubbed "Abenomics". The upbeat headline for Friday's inflation data was tempered by the fact that prices were still largely driven up by higher fuel bills, not surging demand for everyday goods such as vacuum cleaners and clothes which power the economy as a whole. Electricity bills jumped a hefty 8.2 percent, the data showed, as Japan's energy costs soar in the wake of the 2011 Fukushima atomic disaster, which forced the shutdown of the nation's nuclear reactors. Since the accident, Japan has been importing fossil fuels to plug the energy gap, a pricey option that has become even more expensive as the yen sharply weakened in the wake of the Bank of Japan's unprecedented monetary easing drive. Friday's data showed prices moving towards the BoJ's ambitious two-percent inflation target -- to be reached in just two years. While deflation may sound like a good thing for shoppers, it can be bad for growth because falling prices encourage consumers to put off spending, knowing they will pay less for a product if they wait. That makes it difficult for companies to invest and discourages them from hiking wages, which, in turn, reduces consumer spending further. Despite Abe's much-lauded start since sweeping national elections a year ago, analysts have been warning that Tokyo's bold pro-growth programme -- a mix of big government spending and central bank monetary easing -- is not enough on its own without promised economic reforms. And getting Japan's notoriously thrifty households to spend more is a key part of Abe's drive, as are yet-to-be-seen widespread wage rises. That was in evidence Friday with separate data showing Japan's household spending inched up 0.2 percent in November, well below market expectations, as consumers get ready for a sales tax hike next year. Japan's factory output, meanwhile, expanded by a weaker-than-expected 0.1 percent in November, while the unemployment rate held steady at 4.0 percent. Last week, the BoJ held off fresh policy measures to stimulate growth,saying that the economy was "recovering moderately" while its efforts to stoke inflation were taking hold. But Japan's economic growth slowed markedly in the July-September quarter -- after leading G7 nations in the first half of the year -- as exports weakened and consumer spending slowed. Abe's big test will be key reforms, including loosening rigid labour laws and signing wide-ranging free trade deals, seen as crucial for a lasting turnaround. Legislators have passed a bill that paves the way for an opening up of the electricity sector and Abe is pushing through a bid to strip away protections for the agricultural sector, but it remains to be seen if deeper reforms are in the offing. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Britain will surpass France and Germany to become Europe's biggest economy by 2030, according to a study released on Thursday. British research group the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) predicts that Britain's output will outstrip France's by 2018 before displacing Germany by around 2030. But it will be overtaken by India and Brazil over the same time period, said the study. "Germany is forecast to lose its position as the largest Western European economy to the UK around 2030 because of the UK's faster population growth and lesser dependence on the other European economies," the report said. "If the euro were to break up, Germany's outlook would be much better," it added. "A Deutsche Mark-based Germany certainly would not be overtaken by the UK for many years if ever." The think tank's chief executive claimed that Britain's economy would grow even faster if it left the European Union. "My instinct is that in the short term, the impact of leaving the EU would undoubtedly be negative," Douglas McWilliams told the Daily Telegraph. "My suspicion is that over a 15-year period, it would probably be positive." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Facebook¬†(FB) has become a company with a market cap of $142 billion in just a decade or so, under the guidance of Mark Zuckerberg. That‚Äôs not bad for someone who is now only 29. But has Wall Street has gotten to enthused about FB stock. Perhaps so. Let‚Äôs face it, the history of tech is chock-full of implosions. For FB stock, the most applicable one is probably MySpace. Until 2008, MySpace was the clear leader in the social network space. It had a tremendous brand and a fast-growing user base. At the time, it seemed inconceivable that Facebook would ever have a chance. But MySpace made lots of blunders. The company was slow to open its platform and allow third-party development. And by being a part of¬†News Corp¬†(NWS), MySpace suffered from the weight of the bureaucracy. There was also not a big priority on technical talent. Zuckerberg, on the other hand, took another approach, which would be crucial for FB stock. He made Facebook into a platform, which allowed companies like¬†Zynga¬†(ZNGA) to become billion-dollar businesses. He worked tirelessly to find the best engineers ‚Äî even buying companies to get talent (known as acquihires). Oh, and it also helped that Zuck believed that making sure users were real, not fake, was important. It meant that they had more invested in their profiles. At the same time, this allowed Zuck to build a tremendous user database. It set the stage for the powerful Facebook ads system, which has helped FB stock. Despite all this, FB stock may still be in an ominous position. If anything, the reason may be that the company is under tremendous pressure to produce standout results every quarter. In other words, Zuck has become obsessed with monetization. While that has been a good thing for FB stock lately, it may be bad in the long-term. Just take a look at this: Facebook is the new Myspace¬†pic.twitter.com/UAonEgWvpo ‚Äî Davy Kestens (@davykestens)¬†December 19, 2013 Yes, things are looking like a mess ‚Äî that is, a MySpace mess. Interestingly enough, on the most recent earnings call, CFO David Ebersman noted that the company was reaching the limits on how many Facebook ads can placed! What‚Äôs more, he said that teens were getting bored with the service ‚Ä¶ which sent FB stock tumbling. Plus, there is a flood of social applications that are picking up Facebook users. Some include SnapChat, WhatsApp, Pinterest and Line. It even appears that Zuck attempted to shell out $3 billion for SnapChat but the deal was rebuffed. Kind of embarrassing, huh? But again, Wall Street does not seem too concerned, as seen with the strong momentum in FB stock. But if Facebook users start to get annoyed, it will certainly mute growth. Besides, it is also worrisome that Mark Zuckerberg can‚Äôt seem to create breakout apps. For the year so far, he haslaunched duds¬†like Poke, Graph Search and Home for Android. In light of this, is it any wonder that Facebook users are looking for something else? It was the same thing with MySpace, just a few years ago. And it‚Äôs a bad sign for folks betting on FB stock. Tom Taulli runs the InvestorPlace blog¬†IPO Playbook. He is also the author of¬†High-Profit IPO Strategies,¬†All About Commodities¬†and¬†All About Short Selling. Follow him on Twitter at¬†@ttaulli. As of this writing, he did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.
This is appropriate provided Ankaraís politicians, under the leadership of Prime Minister Erdogan, resolve the crisis before it seriously spills out onto the streets of Turkish cities. Mr. Erdogan has led a democratically-elected Islamist government that has governed effectively while acting as a bridge between west and east. During his three terms in office, Turkey has sidestepped economic and financial damage from the European crisis, markedly improved the living standards of millions of its citizens, and contained the political influence of its military. No wonder many characterized the country as a beacon for Middle Eastern countries that are going through particularly difficult transitions. Now, a lot of this is coming under pressure as Mr. Erdogan is challenged by religious and, to a lesser extent, secular movements. His government is embroiled in a growing corruption scandal that has already claimed the jobs of a few of his ministers. Some believe that even the Prime Minister may be at risk now that one of his close allies has called on him to resign. The confluence of domestic political instability and reliance on foreign capital has hit Turkish financial markets hard. Equities have sold off sharply, risk spreads on both sovereign and corporate bonds have widened, and the currency has weakened considerably ñ all consistent with expectations that the political crisis will harm economic growth, undermine foreign investment, encourage capital flight, discourage short-term inflows, and deplete international reserves. These market disruptions stand in stark contrast to the calm with which other markets have been looking at events in Turkey ñ a rational and appropriate response given expectations that Mr. Erdogan will be able to resolves things. In order to avoid a messy and far-from-certain political transition that would unsettle more than just the Turkish markets, Mr. Erdogan needs to quickly regain the domestic political narrative. He can do so by complaining less about external interference and a bias judicial, and by doing more to root out corruption. In the process, he would need to address accusations directed at him, and curb the outgrown sense of entitlement among some of his political allies. He would also need to embrace the independence of the central bank so that it can deal more effectively with the economic consequences of the crisis. Should Mr. Erdogan fail to do this effectively, Turkish contagion would likely be felt by a growing set of markets as investors start pricing in the following trio: the exposure of financial institutions to Turkey, the impact on global aggregate demand, and damage to the already-strained confidence in EM assets.
REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiA waiter carries plates of food for customers at the Britannia and Co. restaurant in Mumbai. The aroma of frying onions from the Britannia and Co. restaurant might not penetrate the office of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Raghuram Rajan a block away, but like the eatery's customers, he can't escape the soaring price of the pungent vegetable. GURGAON, India (Reuters) - Three months since journeying more than 700 milesfrom his village in central India to take a job in this bustling city near the capital, New Delhi, Charan is already looking forward to a 10 percent pay rise. He isn't an engineer or programmer. He hauls bricks and sand at a local construction site for less than $100 a month. India's biggest cities face a worsening shortage of migrant manual laborers like 26-year-old Charan, who goes by only one name. While India has long suffered from a dearth of workers with vocational skills like plumbers and electricians, efforts to alleviate poverty in poor, rural areas have helped stifle what was once a flood of cheap, unskilled labor from India's poorest states. Struggling to cope with soaring food prices, this dwindling supply of migrant workers are demanding - and increasingly getting - rapid increases in pay and benefits. "After paying for food we are left with almost nothing. We need a wage hike," said Charan, who sends a part of whatever he and his wife, who works at the same site, manage to save to their parents back home in Chhattisgarh state. If their employer refuses to give them an adequate raise, they are confident they'll find better-paying jobs at one of the hundreds of other sites dotted around Gurgaon. Such gains by migrants and the rural poor don't come without a cost to the rest of the country. More than pressuring corporate profits, these rapid blue-collar wage increases threaten efforts to quell inflation by India's new central bank chief, Raghuram Rajan, the former International Monetary Fund economist who took over as governor at the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in September. Rajan has made price stability a policy priority, calling it a prerequisite for reviving economic growth that has slipped to 5 percent a year, the lowest in a decade. Despite little evidence that interest rates can control food prices, Rajan has raised rates twice since taking over to prevent food-price inflation from spilling over into the wider economy. He has warned of another hike next month if prices don't cool significantly. "India has become a high-cost economy," said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings &amp; Research. "Persistently high inflation is a recipe for disaster." Take onions, which figure in almost every Indian meal. Prices for onions shot up 190 percent to $1.60 a kilogram in the past year, making them more expensive in India than in the United States, where incomes are roughly 35 times higher. That helped push vegetable prices up 95 percent in the past year and pushed India's headline inflation rate in November to 7.5 percent, a 14-month high. And while vegetable prices are expected to start easing next month following a bumper harvest, subsidized government purchases of grains and rising farming costs mean overall food inflation is not likely to slow down much. REUTERS/BabuA labourer unloads sacks of onions from a supply truck at a vegetable wholesale market in the southern Indian city of Chennai.RURAL PROGRAMMES Farming costs are also being driven higher by a government-run, rural employment guarantee program that uses public works projects to provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment each financial year to each rural household with adult members willing to work on irrigation, reforestation, soil conservation and road construction. Since its rollout in 2006, the program has helped boost livelihoods on poor Indian farms. In the largely rural state of Andhra Pradesh, according to one study, the program has enabled households to boost spending by a tenth, and raise spending on items other than food by almost a quarter. Rural wage increases have jumped, from 2.7 percent a year before the program to 9.7 percent after its passage. Since 2009, nominal agricultural wages have climbed by more than a fifth a year, with non-farm rural wages up almost 17 percent. Adding to wage inflation is a pickup in economic activity and job creation in laggard states of central and eastern India, which in the past used to be the main source of migrant labor. Improved law and order and greater focus on development have helped boost growth in poorer states such as northeastern Bihar, whose economy has been growing by roughly 11 percent a year since 2006. While that's not enough to reverse India's broader economic slowdown, migration of workers has dramatically slowed down. With jobs and wages rising so fast at home, big cities offer less of a lure to rural workers. Bihar estimates that immigration of unskilled workers last year dropped by two-fifths. That's shutting down an important source of workers for industries that have come to rely on them, particularly the construction sector that accounts for 8 percent of India's GDP. "Wages in states like Bihar are more or less comparable to those in Delhi," said Ram Kumar, a contractor who supplies workers to different construction projects around Gurgaon. "But the cost of living is much cheaper than Delhi. So there's not much to gain from coming to big cities." ADD-ON BENEFITS Wages for blue-collar workers, skilled and unskilled, are growing by an estimated 15 percent a year, according to government data, faster than the 6 percent average inflation rate, but barely above the 13 percent average annual increase in food prices. Construction workers have managed to do better, with wages rising at an average of 18 percent annually since 2009, according to data from India's Construction Industry Development Council, a joint government-private sector body. "Inflation is leading to the need to increase wages," said Kumar Gera, Chairman at Gera Developments, a real estate developer in western India. "When workers come and tell you they can't afford essential food items with what they are earning, you have to raise wages." To retain workers, some companies provide canteens with free food, clinics and even day-care and schools, in addition to on-site housing. At the residential site where Charan works, for example, Emaar MGF Land Ltd &lt;EMAAR.UL&gt; - a joint venture between Dubai's Emaar Properties PJSC &lt;EMAR.DU&gt; and MGF Development Ltd - IL&amp;FS Engineering and Construction Co Ltd &lt;ILFE.NS&gt; and Larsen &amp; Toubro Ltd &lt;LART.NS&gt; have all built military-style barracks for workers next to the construction sites. Weak demand has so far not allowed developers to pass rising labor costs on to buyers, but that appears certain to change. Rajan Kale, a tendering manager at port and road builder Man Infraconstruction Ltd. &lt;MANI.NS&gt;, said rising wages trimmed the company's net profit by about 2 percent last year, contributing to an overall 34 percent drop in profit. His company plans to start including annual wage increases of up to 15 percent into its project budgets, he said. That may not be enough for workers coping with India's rising grocery bills. Last week, Kumar, the labor contractor, pulled his 15 workers from one construction project after its developer refused their demand for a 10-15 percent pay increase. ¬†"Workers are ready to switch employers for a hike of as little as 10 rupees," Kumar said. Now his team is working for a different company at a different site - earning 20 percent more. (Writing by Rajesh Kumar Singh and Frank Jack Daniel; Editing by Wayne Arnold and Ian Geoghegan)
Wikimedia CommonsRichard Mansfield in his dual role as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jesse Livermore: Successful Investors Are Constantly Fighting Two Deep-Seated Human Instincts¬† (The Gartman Letter)  Legendary trader Jesse Livermore was sometimes guilty of not taking his own advice. But he was wary of excessive trading, and well aware of the two biggest challenges to trading: hope and fear. In today's Gartman Letter, Dennis Gartman quotes what he described as "one of the most important passages" from the new annotated Reminiscences of a Stock Operator.¬† "The speculator‚Äôs chief enemies are always boring from within. It is inseparable from human nature to hope and to fear. In speculation when the market goes against you you hope that every day will be the last day--- and you lose more than you should had you not listened to hope--- the same ally that is so potent a success-bringer to empire builders and pioneers, big and little. And when the markets goes your way you become fearful that the next day will take away your profit, and you get out‚Äîtoo soon. Fear keeps you from making as much money as you ought to. The successful trader has to fight these two deep-seated instincts. He has to reverse what you might call his natural impulses. Instead of hoping, he must fear; instead of fearing, he must hope. He must fear that his loss may develop into a much bigger loss and hope that his profits may become a big profit. It is absolutely wrong to gamble in stocks the way the average man does." Why Young Advisors Should Tap Young Professionals As Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Trent Porter, founder of Denver-based Priority Financial Planning writes that the young professionals group is underserved because most firms require clients to have at least $1 million in assets. But young professionals like doctors and lawyers are high-income earners nonetheless, though they might have student debt.¬† These professionals are, however, in need of overall financial planning and there are certain benefits to working with them. First, it's easier to train them to be good savers and clients, compared with older clients that have set money habits. Though this age group is hesitant to invest in the stock market. "Taking them on when they've been turned away by many other advisers just as they face some of the toughest financial decisions of their lives will make them enthusiastic and loyal clients," he writes in a WSJ column. Does It Still Make Sense To Invest In Farmland? (WealthManagement.com)  In the face of a tremendous stock market rally we've seen in 2013, many are losing interest in alternative and hard assets, writes Debbie Carlson of WealthManagement.com. Moreover, biofuels, which were the "primary growth engine for agriculture," are beginning to "stall out" and crop harvests have been good and all of this is making farmland price appreciation look "overripe."¬† "I think it‚Äôs a great asset class, one that provides a nice stable return over a long period of time, but it‚Äôs not going to give you a consistent 20% return... You want to recalibrate the returns to the 6% to 7% appreciation and income region, I think," Brent Gloy, director of the Center for Commercial Agriculture at Purdue told WealthMangement.com. Some still argue that it is great for diversification. Hedge Funds Beat Out By Stocks Again (Reuters)  The average hedge fund is up 8.2% so far this year, compared with an almost 21% rise in the MSCI World Index for stocks, according to Tommy Wilker at Reuters. Hedge funds have seen returns of 9.4% since 2011 and 39.6% since 2009, according to data from Hedge Fund Research. This compares with a fund tracking global stocks that made about 32% since 2011 and 75% since 2009. "If you look at the average hedge fund versus equity or directional markets, this year has been disastrous," Roberto Botero of Sciens Capital told Reuters. "In general you would expect hedge funds to underperform in an equity market rally. But the issue is they have been underperforming for the last five years, with very few exceptions." 4 Tips To Help Advisors Read Between The Lines When Dealing With Clients (Advisor Perspectives)  If advisors take everything their clients say at face value they can miss important insights. To avoid doing so San Richards has four suggestions to help advisors read between the lines. 1. "Practice active listening" by giving your clients 100% of your attention, asking for more information when something isn't clear, and even jotting notes. 2. "Ask questions that are easy to answer." Instead of asking if a client is happy with an advisor and his/her team, they can ask if there is any one thing they could to improve their experience. 3. "Look for hidden meaning," in what people say. Clients will often give advisors "soft letdowns" when faced with a request, and at such times advisors should always push for more information. 4. "Focus on what people don't say."
 Wikimedia CommonsDennis Gartman says the single best trade for 2014 will be one that worked big-time in 2013: shorting the Japanese yen. "Continuing to be short of yen against the English-speaking currenciesóselling yen against sterling, selling yen against the U.S., selling yen against the Canadian dollaróI think that's going to be the great trade" of 2014, Gartman said Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now." Shorting the yen against the U.S. dollar has been a hugely winning trade in 2013, as the dollar has risen a massive 21 percent against the yen this year as the Bank of Japan tries to spur inflation after a long, painful deflationary period. "The monetary authorities in Japan have made it abundantly clear they're going to expand the supply of reserves," Gartman said. "They have no choiceóit's begun to work for them; they're going to continue. So sell yen against the English-speaking currencies." The Bank of Japan's position, then, has made the trade a relatively easy one, in Gartman's view. "The BOJ has made it clear they would like to see a weaker yen," Gartman noted. "You may not want to take the side of a currency whose central bank says they'd like their currency to go higher, [but] always take the side of a central bank when they want their currency to go down." óBy CNBC's Alex Rosenberg. Follow him on Twitter: @C NBCAlex.
There's nothing going on today, so I'd like to quickly post something I've been meaning to post for well over a year but never had the moment. It's about when the economic crisis ended. The answer is Fall 2011. Here's proof. The stock market, when priced in gold, bottomed in October 2011. This chart is important. Stocks represent a bet on human ingenuity. Gold is a rock. When stocks started outperforming gold again, it represented a belief that the crisis was over. FRED Homebuilding stocks bottomed for the final time at the same time, and then proceeded to take off. Here's the XHB ETF. FRED Finally, searches for the term "ZeroHedge" the pre-eminent doom blog peaked in November 2011. Google Trends So now you know. October/November 2011 is when stocks turned around against gold, interest in doom peaked, and the homebuilders really began to take off. Let history show that that was the end. PS: There's one more interesting chart that corroborates this. Real hourly earnings †growth (as measured by year-over-year wage growth minus year-over-year change in the CPI) also bottomed in October 2011. FRED
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriNYSE traders illuminate their posts with some sweet Christmas lights.Stocks continue to hit new record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Last week, after Oracle announced it was buying a company called Responsys for $27.00 per share in cash, investors turned around and drove up the price of Responsys to $27.40. And the stock today is still trading today above $27 (at about $27.24). What's going on? Rumor has it that SAP, or some other tech firm, could swoop in and make a competing offer.¬† SAP was also bidding on the company before it chose Oracle, the Wall Street Journal's Shira Ovide reported. Some say that the deal, valued at about $1.5 billion is a relative bargain for Oracle. It means Responsys is selling at about eight-times revenue from the prior 12 months, Ovide reports, or 5.6-times its anticipated 2014 revenue, says Wall Street analyst Pat Walravens from JMP Securities, who closely follows Oracle and the enterprise software industry. That compares to the 11 times recurring revenue which Oracle paid for Eloqua, according to Goldman Sachs estimates. Walravens even went so far as to increase his target price for Responsys to $33, after the $27/share deal was announced. He wrote in a research note: We are raising our price target because we would not be surprised to see a competing bid from another vendor like SAP ... IBM or Microsoft. SAP, in particular, has apparently been in recent partnership discussions with Responsys, has previously paid higher multiples for other SaaS solutions (8.1x for SuccessFactors, 7.1x for Ariba and reportedly a similar multiple for privately held Hybris) and would have little to lose, in our view, by putting in a higher bid, thereby either forcing a competitor to pay more for an asset or acquiring a business that would be a very nice fit for its SaaS and retail businesses. Reponsys has a cloud service that helps companies with marketing campaigns like sending offers via email, Web ads or mobile ads. Oracle wants Responsys to help it do battle with its old frenemy, Salesforce.com. Salesforce.com founder, Marc Benioff, who studied at Oracle CEO Larry Ellison's knee, wants to dominate what looks to be the next big trend in enterprise IT. Companies spend nearly $4 trillion a year on technology, mostly through their IT departments. But Benioff believes that by 2017, the chief marketing officer will buy more tech than the chief information officer. So he's building out his marketing tech offerings to grab that business, something he calls "Marketing Cloud." Oracle wants the CMO's business, too, and, ideally, to prevent Salesforce.com from winning it. Responsys will be combined with another huge Oracle acquisition, Eloqua, for something that Oracle also calls "Marketing Cloud." That's not too subtle is it? SAP's interest in Responsys could indicate that SAP is getting ready to make this a three-way war for the Marketing Cloud. And that's why, days after the announced acquisition, Responsys investors are hopeful that they'll get more than $27 a share. We're not holding our breath that SAP or another player will really will swoop in and disrupt Oracle's deal. There are several other players in this market SAP could grab if it wanted to, like Marketo.
Wikimedia CommonsBoom!With the economy showing signs of life, some have begun to think more carefully about inflation, a force that has largely been dormant for years. Several folks have pointed to several signs that suggest inflation may be a big story in 2014. One of the most common arguments is that labor shortages, especially in manufacturing and construction, meaning wages will have to go up to fill job vacancies. However, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ethan Harris is not buying that argument at all. From his Dec. 19 note to clients: By some accounts, inflation is always just around the corner, even if the source of concern changes. ‚ÄúInflationistas‚Äù first pointed to Fed liquidity, then to global cost pressures, and then to a weakening dollar. The most recent concern is that wages are about to pick up. After all, the unemployment rate has fallen 3 pp from its 2009 peak and the inflation-neutral unemployment rate (or NAIRU) has risen due to structural shocks to the labor market. Indeed, there are already signs of labor cost pressure. Wage inflation is coming. The Fed is behind the curve. We disagree and argue that this is just the latest false alarm on inflation. Judging the amount of slack in the labor market requires looking at both the structural damage to the market and the amount of hidden unemployment. A reasonable weighing of the evidence suggests there is still anywhere from 1pp to 2.5pp of slack in the labor market. The pockets of wage pressure are just that: labor compensation is weak by almost any measure. Moreover, even if wages do inch higher, we are a long way from the normal 3 or 4% rate that could start to create serious pricing pressure. Harris offers a pretty broad and thorough dismantling of the wage growth argument by showing that there's actually a lot of slack in the labor market. We'll highlight just a few key points. We frequently read about the Beveridge curve, which reveals labor market efficiency by charting job openings versus the unemployment rate over time.¬† Currently, we are watching the unemployment rate fall, yet the number of job openings remain higher than they were during earlier periods when were at similar unemployment levels (see BAML's Chart 3 below). This is a sign of labor market inefficiency. Some believe this means supports the idea that there aren't enough skilled people to fill jobs. "The shift to the right in the curve is often seen as suggesting structural problems in the labor market‚Äî companies are having trouble matching workers to jobs," wrote Harris. "Indeed, the curve appears to have shifted to the right by about two percentage points." Bank of America Merrill Lynch So does this elevated level of job openings relative to unemployment mean inflation is coming employers are forced to pay more? Not necessarily. Harris says that this counterclockwise-like move in the curve is cyclical in that it is typical of past labor market cycles (see BAML's Chart 4 above). "This cyclical shift may occur because companies first post new positions and then actual hiring comes with a lag," he said. "It also has become increasingly easy to post jobs on the Internet even if a company is in no hurry to fill the job. More broadly, there is evidence that companies are simply not trying as hard to fill openings." Harris takes issue with the argument that certain industries, like manufacturing and construction, are experiencing worker shortages whereas other industries face oversupply. Looking at more micro data around job matching also suggests that most of the move is cyclical. These studies look for three kinds of potential job mismatch: based on industry, occupation and geography. For example, Lazear and Spletzer look at whether there is job mismatch across industries. If there was mismatch then there should be some industries with unusually high vacancies relative to unemployment compared to other industries. This would happen if some people are ‚Äútrapped‚Äù in the wrong industry or occupation. Their results show that mismatch was high during the recession, but has now fallen back to pre- recession levels. They find the same results across occupations, and other studies confirm there is no unusual mismatch across geographies. Digging deep into the underlying data, we find a very consistent pattern of spare capacity and low wage growth. The unemployment rate is higher than its 2000-07 average in all 15 industry groups and all nine occupational groups. In most groupings the excess unemployment rate is relatively close to the overall average. Even in the red-hot mining industry the unemployment rate is a few tenths higher than normal. The unemployment rate is also higher than normal in almost all of the nation, for all racial groups, for all major age groups, for both men and women, for all levels of educational attainment. So, there doesn't seem to be a lot of evidence that the construction and manufacturing industries are having a particularly difficult time filling jobs. Harris also notes that if certain industries were facing labor supply constraints in a way that would affect wages, then the employment cost data would reflect these differences. They don't. The same story applies for labor compensation. If there was a major misallocation of workers, we would expect wide differences in compensation growth. The Employment Cost Index (ECI) slices the data into 30 components based on occupation and industry. Of these groupings, 21 have compensation growth of 1.5 to 2.5% over the last year, with 8 lower and one higher. Despite the alleged skill shortage in manufacturing and construction, compensation growth is just 1.8 and 2.1%, respectively. That is virtually identical to the overall average of 1.9%. So, while some signs suggest labor shortages and dislocations, a closer look suggests that really isn't the case. We often read anecdotes about how employers are struggling to find skilled workers for job openings. Indeed, the Federal Reserve's Beige Books and various regional surveys reveal as much. However, Harris thinks that's just a lot of talk. Bank of America Merrill Lynch"The Fed‚Äôs Beige book has been highlighting skill shortages since 2010, even as it confirms no broad-based wage pressure," he said. Here's a table breaking down the related language. Basically, all of this talk from employers about labor shortages is just noise. Where have all of the construction workers gone? After all, just a few years ago we had an enormous housing bubble, which came with tons of construction workers. Harris thinks they're still out there. We are particularly skeptical about a broad-based skill shortage in construction. Housing starts have only recovered to half of their peak level. Both total construction employment and specialty trade contractors are still down about 25% from the 2006 peak. Where did all these skilled workers go? While some workers may have chosen early retirement and some immigrants have left, the unemployment rate is still almost 14% in the construction industry, compared to an historic norm of 8%. Construction skills do not require constant updating. These workers are also unlikely to have found better paying jobs elsewhere. If a skilled carpenter is forced to a take a job in the retail sector, surely he will be easy to entice back into construction. Again, all of this is just a sampling of Harris research note. But his bottom line is that there is definitely a lot of labor market slack in the economy. And he believes the Federal Reserve knows this and he believes this is why they'll continue to keep monetary policy easy. "This puts us in the same dovish camp as Janet Yellen," said Harris. Basically, the Fed will stay dovish until we really do have to worry about labor shortages, wage hikes, and inflation.
United AirlinesNo one likes big airlines.Some¬†companies just can‚Äôt make their customers happy, and many of the companies are the kind that customers find it hardest to escape. The latest survey results from the¬†American Consumer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), which looks at hundreds of big companies,¬†show that telecom companies, airlines, and social media sites are most likely to frustrate people. In defense of these industries, no one notices them when things go well, but people get outraged when they lose service or get stuck for hours at an airport. On the other hand, these industries often have customers locked down and don't have to worry about making them happy.
YouTube/Tesla MotorsTesla Motors is riding high right now. Its Model S sedan is among the safest cars on the road. Its Supercharger network is rapidly expanding across the country. In 2013, it was the most searched automaker on Google. At the helm is CEO Elon Musk, the South African-born self-made billionaire who is also the CEO of private space venture SpaceX, the chairman of sustainable energy company SolarCity, and the father of five young boys. Musk is an inspiration for the Tony Stark character as portrayed in the "Iron Man" movies. He knows how to have a good time when he's on top, and doesn't hold back when he's criticized. Elon Musk is America's most badass CEO, and these photos prove it.
Today is one of the biggest shopping days of the year in the U.K., with retailers offering blowout sales similar to those offered on Black Friday in the U.S.† The holiday is called "Boxing Day" and it's usually held on Dec. 26, the day after Christmas. The sales draw huge, chaotic crowds of bargain-hunters every year. Here's a photo of Oxford Street, one of Europe's busiest shopping streets, early Thursday: Getty At high-end department store Selfridges in London, shoppers began camping out as early as 11:30 p.m. Christmas Day, according to the Mirror. Getty As many as 3,500 customers were lined up outside the department store before the doors opened Thursday morning, a spokeswoman for Selfridges told the Mirror. Getty Analysts expect about $3.4 billion in sales on Boxing Day, including about $739 million in online sales, according to the Guardian.† By comparison, U.S. shoppers spent $9.7 billion on Black Friday, according to research firm ShopperTrak. Getty Shoppers who queued up outside Harrods were served hot chocolate, smoked salmon canapes, and blankets, courtesy of the retailer.† A string quartet also serenaded the shoppers as they waited.† Getty More than 118 million people are expected to visit stores in the U.K. on Boxing Day, according to the Mirror.† Getty
On Sunday, almost 1.3 million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits when the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program expires. Normally, jobless benefits last up to 26 weeks, but Congress passed the EUC program after the great recession to allow states to extend them for up to 73 weeks, although the exact length varied by state. Now that law is expiring. The long-term unemployed - those out of work for more than 26 weeks - have a particularly difficult time finding a job. Studies have shown that employers often do not even consider long-term unemployed applicants for a position. These benefits help keep the long-term unemployed out of poverty while they search for work. Republicans have shown little interest in extending the EUC program for an additional year, which would cost $25.1 billion, despite the fact that the recovery is still slow and there are still 4.1 million people who are long-term unemployed. Democrats are expected to push for an extension after New Years. From the Pew Charitable Trusts, here's how the expiration of the EUC program affects each state: Pew Charitable Trusts
ReutersChina celebrated the 120th birthday of Mao Zedong today. Many have drawn parallels between president Xi Jinping and Mao, especially now that Xi has taken to hardening Party indoctrination. Mao has become a powerful symbol for leftists in the Communist Party. "In venerating Mao, they sometimes seek to put pressure on the current leadership and its market-oriented policies while managing to avoid expressing open dissent," write Ben Blanchard and Benjamin Kang Lim at Reuters To mark his birth, Chinese leaders bowed three times in front of the statue of Mao and visited his mausoleum. And 37 years after his death, Mao's presence is still felt and seen all over China.
Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaIn recent weeks, most of the incoming economic data has been positive, and some economists estimate that U.S. GDP is currently running at a 4% growth rate. But as a country made up of 50 states, some regions are doing better than others. And according to the Philly Fed's updated new measure of state coincident indices, economic activity actually decreased in three states during the three months ending in November. Every month, the Philly Fed produces fantastic color-coded maps tracking economic activity across the country. Red shows economic contraction while blue or green show expansion. The maps start in 2005 when the economy was booming.
Investors who worried over this summer's protests in Turkey should be even more concerned about the country's current political infighting. It shows few signs of abating, and for now it is either side's to win. The lira hit a record low Thursday morning† after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced a cabinet reshuffle. It's the latest act in a political drama that's been playing out since last week, when dozens of high-level Erdogan supporters were arrested. They ranged from business moguls to the sons of high powered politicians. Wednesday, three of Erdogan's cabinet ministers resigned. One was so angry about being pressured to resign, he said in a statement that it was time for Erdogan to step down. In watching these events unfold, investors can't help but remember this summer when protestors packed Taksim square and sent the country's stock market on a downward spiral. Now, like the summer, unrest is taking Turkey down. As of Wednesday's close, Turkey's Borsa 100 fell 2.3% today. Turkey's MSCI ETF fared far worse, down almost 7% Thursday.†Turkish 10-year bond yield has reached 10%. "The political situation is at its most tense since the AKP took power in 2002," said Enis Taner, who is now macro editor at Risk Reversal†after spending years trading equity options at Goldman Sachs. Leaks in the Turkish press suggest allegations of corruption could reach as high as Erdogan's sons, and the police have yet to act on arrests mandated by the judiciary.† In other words, there's more to come. "All of this raises the possibility that the AKP calls new parliamentary elections in 2014, as opposed to the plan for 2015, given the crisis of confidence within the party and across the country," Taner continued. "In any case, I think Erdogan's long-term political ambitions have been totally squashed. The real question is whether he can continue as a politician in any capacity, or whether he will ultimately take the fall. Many in his party are looking to distance themselves from his damaged goods." So there are a lot of ways this could go. Erdogan could stand and fight (then win or lose), or he could take his ball and go home (quietly, or taking others down with him). Either way, it's no good for the AKP. The next litmus test for how well the party is keeping it together is this March, when Istanbul will elect a new mayor. Erdogan himself held the post from 1994 to 1998. Until then, it looks like this political uncertainty could punish the Turkish market and its investors with an ugly slog down.
Kevin Winter/GettyPeople thought Miley's craziness was pretty forgettable.WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî Ready to ring in the new year, Americans look ahead with optimism, according to a new AP-Times Square New Year's Eve poll. Their ratings of the year gone by? Less than glowing. On the whole, Americans rate their own experience in 2013 more positively than negatively, but when asked to assess the year for the United States or the world at large, things turn sour. ‚ÄîAll told, 32 percent say 2013 was a better year for them than 2012, while 20 percent say it was worse and 46 percent say the two years were really about the same. Young people were more apt to see improvement: 40 percent of people under age 30 called 2013 a better year than 2012, compared with 25 percent of people age 65 or older. ‚ÄîThe public splits evenly on how the year turned out for the country, 25 percent saying it was better than 2012, 25 percent saying it was worse. As with most questions about the state of affairs in the U.S. these days, there's a sharp partisan divide. Democrats are more apt to say the U.S. turned out better in 2013 than 2012 (37 percent) than are Republicans (17 percent). ‚ÄîThinking about the world at large, 30 percent say 2013 was worse than 2012, while just 20 percent say it was better. But the outlook for the new year is positive: 49 percent think their own fortunes will improve in 2014, 14 percent are anticipating the new year to be a downgrade from the old. Thirty-four percent say they don't expect much to change. Most Americans ‚Äî 54 percent ‚Äî say they'll be ringing in the new year at home, while 1 in 5 are heading to a friend's or family member's house. Only 8 percent say they'll go to a bar, restaurant or other organized event. ‚ÄîYounger Americans are least apt to spend the holiday at home: 39 percent of those under age 30 will celebrate at home, 33 percent at someone else's home, 13 percent at a bar or other venue. ‚ÄîRegardless of their own time zone, nearly 6 in 10 say they'll watch at least some of the celebration from New York City's Times Square. Wherever they're spending the holiday, most Americans prefer the company of family. Asked with whom they want to be when the clock strikes midnight, 83 percent name a family member. ‚ÄîOn a holiday often sealed with a kiss, nearly 4 in 10 say they most want to be next to their spouse, and 13 percent cite a significant other or romantic interest as a preferred companion. Parents like to be with their children, more than the children like to be with their parents. ‚ÄîLess conventional choices: 2 percent cite their pets, 3 percent God, Jesus or their religious congregation, and less than 1 percent said they wanted to ring it in with their co-workers. ‚ÄîOf course, some opt out altogether: 18 percent say they're not planning to celebrate on New Year's Eve, and 9 percent say there's no one with whom they'd like to party, preferring instead their pillow, TiVo or their own thoughts. The implementation of the health care law topped the list of the most important news stories of 2013, with 26 percent citing it. In an Associated Press survey of news directors and editors, 45 of 144 journalists surveyed called the health care rollout their top story. In the AP-Times Square poll, the death of Nelson Mandela occurred as the poll was underway. It rose quickly, with 8 percent naming it as the most important news of the year, matching the share citing the federal government's budget difficulties or shutdown. The budget fight, which led to a partial shutdown of the federal government in October, was rated extremely or very important by 60 percent of Americans, and prompted rare bipartisan agreement. About two-thirds in each major party, 65 percent of Republicans and 63 percent of Democrats, rated it highly important. A majority said the Boston Marathon bombings were extremely or very important, and 47 percent considered the national debate over gun laws that important. Miley Cyrus's MTV Video Music Awards performance. The launch of "Lean In." Apologies from Paula Deen and Lance Armstrong. Walter White's exit and the entrance of the Netflix series "House of Cards." What do they all have in common? More Americans say these pop culture moments were more forgettable than memorable. Just one pop culture moment was deemed more memorable than forgettable: The birth of Prince George to Britain's Prince William and his wife, Kate. ‚ÄîAmong men, 64 percent called the debate on work-life balance sparked by the book "Lean In" and other writings forgettable. About half of women agreed. ‚ÄîAbout 1 in 5 younger Americans said the launch of original programming through streaming services like Netflix or Hulu was a memorable moment, about doubling the share among those age 50 and up. ‚ÄîResidents of the West were more likely than others to consider memorable the San Francisco "Batkid" (31 percent) or the final season of the series "Breaking Bad" (19 percent). The AP-Times Square New Year's Eve Poll was conducted by GfK Public Affairs and Corporate Communications from Dec. 5-9 and involved online interviews with 1,367 adults. The survey has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points for all respondents. The poll is a cooperative effort between AP and the organizers of the Times Square New Year's Eve Celebration, the Times Square Alliance and Countdown Entertainment. The Alliance is a non-profit group that seeks to promote Times Square, and Countdown Entertainment represents the owners of One Times Square and the New Year's Eve Ball Drop. The survey was conducted using KnowledgePanel, a probability-based Internet panel designed to be representative of the U.S. population. Respondents to the survey were first selected randomly, using phone or mail survey methods, and were later interviewed online. People selected for KnowledgePanel who didn't otherwise have access to the Internet were provided with the ability to access the Internet at no cost to them. ___ Online: AP-GfK Poll: http://www.ap-gfkpoll.com Times Square NYC: http://www.timessquarenyc.org ___ Follow Jennifer Agiesta on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/JennAgiesta Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Dominic EbenbichlerPiece of cake.U.S. stocks are trading again after being closed for the Christmas holiday.¬† And they're trading higher. The Dow is up 100 points. The S&amp;P 500 is up 7 points. The Nasdaq is up 11 points. Earlier today, we learned that initial weekly jobless claims fell to 338,000 from 380,000 a week ago. This was lower than the 345,000 expected. "As has been the case in recent weeks, the Labor Department is reporting that difficulty in seasonally adjusting the data during the holiday season likely accounts for much of volatility in claims in November and December," noted Barclays' Michael Gapen. "We continue to focus on the four-week moving average as a means to smooth through this volatility. The four-week average is likely to tick higher next week as the 305k print on initial jobless claims for the week ending November 30 drops out of the window of observations." UPS, the package delivery company, said it was unable to process certain parcels scheduled for delivery in time for Christmas because the volume exceeded capacity. Regardless of what it means for the company, it may be a sign that the U.S. consumer is spending more aggresively than expected. The Dow and S&amp;P are currently on track to close at new all-time highs.
Feng Li / GettyAn 83-year-old Chinese man wears the Red Guard uniform for Chairman Mao's birthday. BEIJING†(Reuters) -†China†celebrated the 120th birthday of†Mao Zedong, the founder of modern†China, on Thursday, but with scaled-back festivities as President†Xi Jinping†embarks on broad economic reforms that have unsettled leftists. Mao has become a potent symbol for leftists within the ruling†Communist Party†who feel that three decades of market-based reform have gone too far, creating social inequalities like a yawning rich-poor gap and pervasive corruption. In venerating Mao, they sometimes seek to put pressure on the current leadership and its market-oriented policies while managing to avoid expressing open dissent. While all seven members of the party's elite inner core, the†Politburo Standing Committee, visited Mao's mausoleum on†Tiananmen Square, other activities nationwide were toned down. The†state-run Xinhua news agency†said that the leaders, including Xi, bowed three times in front of a statue of Mao and payed their respects to his embalmed body, "recalling Comrade†Mao Zedong's great achievements." Xi said Mao was a great person who stuck to his beliefs and won the love and respect of the people but who also made "serious mistakes" like the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, Xinhua reported. Still, Xi said Mao's errors should not negate his achievements, echoing previous comments Xi has made in seeking to assuage leftist concern about his agenda and beliefs. "Comrade†Mao Zedong's mistakes in his later years have their subjective factors ... but because of complicated social and historical reasons both at home and abroad they should be viewed and analyzed comprehensively (and) historically," Xi said. A source with ties to the leadership said that a high profile activity to mark the occasion was necessary even as the party moved to scale back the number of events. "The attendance of Standing Committee members is to placate leftists after reforms at the third plenum," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid repercussions for talking to a foreign reporter without permission. China†last month unwrapped its boldest set of economic and social reforms in nearly three decades, relaxing its one-child policy and further freeing up markets to put the world's second-largest economy on a more stable footing. Still, Xi and his team gave themselves until 2020 to achieve "decisive" results - a tacit acknowledgement of the difficulty of the task when the state-run sector championed during Mao's heyday remains strong and when many are unhappy with growing social problems brought by the party's economic reforms. "The celebrations have to be grand or people will not be happy," said another source, who has ties to the party's traditional leftists. Mao, who died in 1976, remains a divisive figure. His image adorns banknotes and his embalmed body attracts hundreds, if not thousands, of visitors a day toBeijing. While the party has acknowledged he made mistakes, there has yet to be an official accounting for the chaos of the Cultural Revolution or the millions of deaths from starvation during the 1958-61 Great Leap Forward. NO SIDE SATISFIED? Xi suffered personally during the Cultural Revolution when his father was jailed. Xi was sent to the countryside to live with peasants, like millions of other young urban Chinese. While visiting Hunan, the southern province where Mao was born, in early November, Xi said the celebrations for the anniversary should be "solemn, simple and pragmatic," according to state media. That did not stop Xi from lauding Maoism in several speeches this year, as he sought to appeal to leftists in the wake of a scandal involving Bo Xilai, a former contender for top leadership who pushed an egalitarian, quasi-Maoist agenda until he was felled and jailed for corruption. "In the end, probably no side will be very satisfied," Zhang Lifan, a†Beijing-based political commentator and historian said, referring to how†China†will mark the birthday. "The reformers don't think Mao should be commemorated, because he committed crimes, but his supporters think the commemorations aren't enough." Chinese newspapers have reported that several events originally planned for Thursday have been adjusted or changed completely, including a concert that was supposed to celebrate Mao but which has been relabeled a new year gala. "The authorities don't want the commemorations for Mao to be high-profile," influential tabloid†the Global Times, published by the party's official†People's Daily, quoted†Wang Zhanyang, director of the Political Science Department at the†Central Institute of Socialism, as saying. "Some regional conservative people and officials with vested interests want to restrain reform by falsely promoting some of Mao's most conservative thoughts, which is not what the party follows," Wang added. Still, the message appears not to have totally seeped through to Hunan, where many still venerate Mao as a demigod. The town of†Shaoshan, where Mao was born on December 26, 1893, has spent about 2 billion yuan ($329 million) on 12 projects for the anniversary celebration, the official Xiangtan Daily reported. (Additional reporting by†Adam†Rose and Huang Yan; Editing by Robert Birsel)
Media mogul Matt Drudge weighs in on the incredible rally for Twitter's stock. He's not a believer: TWEET STREET 2014: How does a company that has not made $1 profit now have stock value of $41 BILLION? The coming crash will be horrific... America's inability to be grounded and rational on value of things and stuff is on full display at TWTR (NYSE) In case you've missed it... Twitter is up 78% in December, 33% in the last week, and no one really knows why. Some theories:
GoogleGoogle Glass is still searching for a purpose (other than invasion of privacy).All in, 2013 was an embarrassment for the entire tech industry and the engine that powers it ‚Äî Silicon Valley.¬†Innovation was replaced by financial engineering, mergers and acquisitions, and evasion of regulations.¬†Not a single breakthrough product was unveiled‚Äîand for reasons outlined below, Google Glass doesn‚Äôt count.If it‚Äôs in the nature of progress to move in leaps, there are necessarily lulls in between.¬†Here are all the reasons 2013 was a great big dud for technology as a whole.  2013 was the year smartphones became commodities, just like the PCs they supplanted. Even at the high end, Apple and Samsung‚Äôs newest flagship phones weren‚Äôt big leaps ahead from previous versions. The most that Apple could think to do with the new, faster processor in the iPhone 5S was animate 3D effects that make¬†some users feel ill¬†and a fingerprint sensor that solved a problem that¬†wasn‚Äôt exactly pressing. Apple‚Äôs new iOS7 mobile operating system, which felt ‚Äúmore like a Microsoft release,‚Äù¬†crippled many older iPhones¬†and led to complaints of¬†planned obsolescence.  Samsung‚Äôs update to history‚Äôs best-selling Android phone, the Galaxy S series, delivered on the technical specifications but continued the line‚Äôs ‚Äúunpleasant, cheap design.‚Äù Packed with new features like touch-free gesture control, the phone also has an ‚Äúeasy mode‚Äù in recognition that many will want to switch them off, and suffers from an interface that stutters at odd moments despite its powerful electronics. Meanwhile,¬†Google‚Äôs¬†mysterious superphone¬†turned out to be the Moto X, which is a nice Android phone but¬†hardly revolutionary.  The tone-deaf design of Google‚Äôs Glass headset‚Äîwhich to anyone but its user is a head-mounted video camera without the tiny light that all other video cameras have to tell you you‚Äôre being filmed‚Äîmade the device¬†such anathema¬†that one pundit wondered whether he should be¬†ashamed to wear it in public. Sergey Brin‚Äôspersonal campaign¬†to make wearing Glass look normal couldn‚Äôt hide the fact that Glass is a¬†technology in search of an application‚Äîunless that application is¬†invasions of privacy. Smart watches were easily the biggest letdown of the year. Despite the fact that nearly every big electronics manufacturer¬†is working on one, the¬†battery and display constraints¬†have stumped designers. Again and again, reviewers have declared existing models¬†unfit for widespread adoption, with¬†both Sony¬†and Samsung unveiling devices that¬†failed to make a compelling case¬†for themselves. Microsoft lost nearly a billion dollars¬†on the Surface RT¬†tablet, which was to be the device that pole-vaulted the company over Apple‚Äôs iPad and the¬†dying PC industry.¬†Insiders revealed¬†Microsoft‚Äôs ruinous internal culture, fostered under a leader who probably never should have been CEO, leading those same insiders to conclude that the only solution is a¬†breakup of the company. The outlook¬†wasn‚Äôt much better for Intel, not because the company hasn‚Äôt¬†continued to innovate, but because¬†people don‚Äôt need as many¬†of its microprocessors, and the ones they do need are¬†less profitable than ever. BlackBerry, which investors once thought might be broken into¬†smaller businesses with some latent value, proved to be a¬†near-total loss. And while Hewlett-Packard has put the disastrous acquisitions and rapid-fire leadership changes of recent years behind it, the best that can be said so far is that it‚Äôs¬†gracefully managing its own decline. Microsoft bought Nokia‚Äòs devices business, which would have been an astonishing turn of events a few years ago, but now felt like a¬†lurch into an unsure future¬†in which Microsoft remains an also-ran in mobile devices. Most big news about Apple was about the company‚Äôs¬†tax-avoidance techniques¬†and general¬†failure to deliver¬†any new products of note. (It still isn‚Äôt¬†making phablets, though they‚Äôve been hugely successful for other manufacturers.) Google¬†killed its much-vaunted 20% time‚Äîthe policy of allowing engineers to spend a portion of their working time on their own projects‚Äîwhile¬†insisting it hadn‚Äôt, leading to a furious (and public) debate among its employees about whether or not the company is still friendly to bottom-up innovation. Even as one entrepreneur declared that Silicon Valley should be¬†a separate US state, economists made the case that much of what the internet has accomplished in the past 20 years is the impoverishment of¬†the majority of Americans. While there isn‚Äôt much¬†manufacturing left in rich countries to automate, it appears that¬†robot baristas¬†could threaten jobs in the service sector as well. Some in Silicon Valley even¬†made explicit¬†their goal of eliminating workers and their labor protections. And Uber‚Äôs CEO¬†alienated customers¬†by insisting that exorbitant ‚Äúsurge pricing‚Äù was nothing more than a way to ensure supply at busy times. Meanwhile, American tech firms flocked to Ireland¬†in order to avoid regulation, while companies like Uber and AirBnB made it apparent that their business model is dependent on¬†avoiding regulations in the states. We became¬†more tired of social media¬†than¬†ever. Twitter¬†filled up with machines. Facebook‚Äôs response‚Äîto mess with the algorithm that determines what‚Äôs in your feed, called Edgerank‚Äîmade the site¬†less appealing to many. Facebook did crack the code on how to¬†increase its revenue¬†and boost its share price back to the levels of its 2012 IPO. Unfortunately, those methods included¬†obnoxious video ads. Twitter‚Äôs IPO, meanwhile, suggested that the company will have to follow in Facebook‚Äôs wake‚Äîmore, and more intrusive, advertising‚Äîin order to¬†justify its share price. The value of bitcoin increased¬†at least 10-fold in 2013, thanks to heavy investment‚Äîby the media, which helped talk it up. Managing ‚Äúbig data‚Äù became the growth plan of companies¬†like IBM, despite the fact that most companies¬†aren‚Äôt handling data that‚Äôs anywhere close to ‚Äúbig.‚Äù Amazon scored a huge PR coup when its ‚Äúsurprise‚Äù announcement of¬†a new drone program¬†gave the company a boost in visibility¬†worth millions, just ahead of thebiggest online shopping day of the year. Amazon competitor FedEx and just about everyone else who knows something about drones¬†maligned the plans as a publicity stunt. As¬†more and more revelations¬†emerged from the documents Edward Snowden lifted from the US National Security Agency, observers seemed numbed by¬†the sheer scope and audacity¬†of the agency‚Äôs domestic and foreign internet surveillance. The fallout for the tech industry has just begun:¬†US companies must now prove, especially to foreign customers, that the move to cloud-based services, which necessitates sending all their data through¬†the very same communication nodes¬†to which the NSA has access, won‚Äôt put all of their secrets in the hands of US spymasters by default. The effects are already being felt. Cisco blamed a poor quarter on deals in Russia and Brazil¬†soured by fears about the NSA. Cisco also¬†warned that this will affect¬†many other US firms, and that it threatens¬†the future of the internet of things‚Äîfitting, since¬†the implications of a world in which every gadget is a potential mole¬†sure are scary. 
Earlier in the fall there seemed to be a little bubble forming in the financial press about the need to label the stock market, or any market for risk assets a ìbubbleî. † Back in early November I†opined in this space: While many readers know that I am tad skeptical as to the reasons why equities are trading where they are, I canít tell you that living and trading through the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s, or as an active participant in the real estate bubble of the mid 2000s that what we are seeing now by any means resembles the sort of all out reckless speculation of those bubbles past, we merely have pockets of over exuberance among a few sectors (or even a few dozen stocks) that appear to be attracting a disproportionate amount of headlines. Not a ton has changed in equities since I wrote that on November 4th, aside from TWTRís widely successful IPO, now up 170% from its offering price, sporting an almost $40 billion market cap, or put another way, about 70x next years expected sales! †TWTR should not be a massive warning sign for those bubble watchers though, as there is a certain ìscarcityî value being placed on the property, as high quality social media companies appear to be few and far between. Which brings us to the activity in the IPO market, Per†CNN.com: While it was the biggest year since the technology bubble burst, the IPO market (222 deals) is still a far cry from 2000, when more than 400 companies went public. This yearís IPO class raised more than $54 billion, compared with nearly $100 billion for the new stocks in 2000. Still, the IPO market has come a long way since the dark days of 2008, when only 31 companies went public in deals that raised a mere $24.5 billion. So not exactly bubblicious yet, but maybe just maybe the highly anticipated $200 billion valuation of Alibaba expected to IPO in 2014 could mark a near term top in new issuance? So what would the last straw really be??? Most likely silly M&amp;A. †Back in January 2000, when sentiment could not have been better towards the prospects of any company transacting on the world wide web, Time Warner, a bellwether in traditional media made a†$160 billion merger agreement with America Online†(AOL). †For the kids out there, Google America Online, it was an internet service provider that also had a really cool thing called a web portal and an instant message service that was ìyet to be monetizedî. †Make no mistake about it, that was the top at least from a sentiment standpoint, despite tech stocks having one last widow-maker rally before topping out in mid March, but that was the day most market historians will point to as the day the tech bubble was pricked. And then there was†MSFTís failed bid for YHOO in early 2008 (about $45 billion), which would have marked the second largest internet deal since AOL/TWX, coming just months before the financial world as we know about was about to come to an end. †There is a certain sense of irony that YHOO shares now have a market cap of more than $40 billion for the first time in more than 7 years, largely based on a $1 billion investment YHOO founder and then CEO Jerry Yang made in Alibaba, which is now worth most of YHOOís current market cap. †The same Jerry Yang that turned down the MSFT bid! SO I guess the moral of the story, itís not sky high public market valuations of high-flying tech stocks that mark a bubble, or the valuations, or quantities of unprofitable hot tech IPOs that come to market. †It is usually some combination of such activity over a period of time that defies logic, but then topped off with the mother of all ridiculous M&amp;A activity! †This could be coming to a theater near you in 2014. † Your guesses are as good as mine, will it be MSFT for YHOO so that Marisa Mayer can be the new MSFT CEO? Or will AAPL make a knock out bid for TWTR or a group of smaller private social media/messaging companies like SnapChat and WhatsApp? †Will AMZN buy Netflix or Pandora and abandon their build vs buy history? †If any of these ìpie in the sky guessesî were to happen, what sort of unintended consequences would it have for the likes of GOOG and FB. †Again who knows, but my sense would be that any sort of M&amp;A frenzy by the group listed above would most certainly mark the beginning of the end of this leg of the equity bull market, just a matter of when, not if!
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1.One of the troubling trends that has characterized the U.S. economy over the past two years has been the steady decline in inflation rates, a phenomenon known as "disinflation." Chart 1 shows the year-on-year percentage change in the consumer price index (CPI), as well as the year-on-year percentage change in "core" consumer prices, a measurement that strips out food and energy items. What should be immediately apparent is that headline disinflation has been driven largely by falling food and energy prices, as the core reading has fallen less precipitously than the headline reading. Yet the core inflation rate has been persistently dragged lower over the past two years as well, prompting a lot of concern about this disinflation trend in the United States. Why is the core reading following a similar pattern as the headline reading? It must necessarily be indicative of falling prices in other CPI components that are not food and energy. Research from the Cleveland Fed and related data measurements tracked on a monthly basis by the Atlanta Fed can help answer this question. In a 2010 paper, Cleveland Fed economists Michael F. Bryan and Brent Meyer break the consumer price index down into two series. Cleveland FedTable 1. The first series is called "flexible" CPI, comprised of goods that can change prices rapidly; and the second is "sticky" CPI, made up of goods that cannot change prices as often (the Atlanta Fed updates these two series†each month). Table 1 shows the composition of each basket. Naturally, the flexible CPI series is much more volatile, as goods producers can adjust these prices much more frequently. And it shows some of the big contributors to disinflation in core consumer prices: vehicles, apparel, and travel lodging are all components of flexible CPI that are also included in core CPI, as they are not food and energy items. Chart 2 shows the flexible CPI series, as well as a "core" version of the flexible CPI that strips out food and energy components ó leaving behind basically only the vehicles, apparel, and travel lodging items mentioned above. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Atlanta Fed)Chart 2. When compared to sticky CPI, it should be plain that food and energy ó and to a lesser extent, these other components of flexible CPI like†vehicles, apparel, and travel lodging ó are the primary drivers of the current disinflation trend observed in the United States. Sticky CPI, on the other hand, has based in the second half of 2013, and may be poised to turn up, as Chart 3 illustrates. Sticky CPI, according to the Cleveland Fed's Bryan and Meyer, is a better predictor of future inflation trends because of the naturally embedded inflation expectations reflected in the series ó if producers of these goods and services cannot change prices as frequently, they will set prices with an eye toward where they believe inflation will be in the future. Look at where sticky CPI has based: at 1.9%, just a tenth of a percentage point away from the Federal Reserve's 2.0% target. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Atlanta Fed)Chart 3. Is disinflation something the Fed should still be worried about? We're not so sure. And if inflationary pressures continue to build in 2014, which seems plausible, the central bank may find itself with less of an excuse to continue pumping the economy with extraordinary monetary stimulus for much longer.
REUTERSHedge fund bigwig Carl Icahn (left) and comedy legend Mel Brooks, who would surely play Icahn in the filmMartin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" is giving moviegoers around the world a stylized glimpse into the corruption and opulence that can plague the finance world. Its loads of sex, drugs, and money have critics wondering if Wolf's attempt at a morality tale is just one loud cheer for gonzo greed. It isn't the first time audiences have had this debate either. From "Trading Places" to "American Psycho," Hollywood loves examining what goes on behind the scenes on Wall Street. But there are some "based-on-a-true-story" tales that have yet to become blockbusters. So here are the 10 true Wall Street sagas¬†‚Äî and the corresponding must-cast actors¬†‚Äî that should be movies.
Mary Cybulski/Paramount PicturesMartin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" was released in theaters Wednesday. The 180-minute drug- and sex-fueled romp based on the life of Jordan Belfort, founder of brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont, who pumped and dumped his way to millions is entertaining, but a bit flawed. In case you hadn't had enough of the movie, and wanted to know what it was like to play the debaucherous stock peddler, here are 11 glorious minutes of behind-the-scenes action. This includes scenes at the Stratton Oakmont office, Belfort's party, his wedding, and loads of great shots of Scorsese laughing. 
Smugglers from China's¬†Guangdong province and Hong Kong have been getting inventive recently. Just this week a nearly-complete tunnel was discovered that began in a parking lot in Shenzhen,¬†Guangdong and stretched for almost 130 feet under a river to Hong Kong. Reuters/Stringer The BBC reports that the tunnel was discovered after residents complained of drilling noises that they assumed were part of a renovation project. When authorities investigated, however, they discovered a smuggling tunnel complete with walls and lighting. Reuters/Stringer Authorities estimate that the tunnel cost $500,000 to build. That's a huge figure, but the smugglers apparently believed they could get a good return on investment by smuggling goods under the Hong Kong border and avoiding tariffs and taxes. Unfortunately for them, their plan never saw the light of day: The tunnel was still 65 feet shy of its believed destination when it was discovered. Police have reportedly taken one person into custody. Reuters/Stringer Amazingly, this isn't an isolated incident. "This year we found that smugglers really like to use underground passages and sky ropes to smuggle such goods,"¬†Mo Shu, inspection head of the sixth branch of the Frontier Defense Corps of Guangdong province, told China Daily.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA shopper browses for goods at Aeon, Japan's second largest retailer.As discussed earlier (see post), Japan continues to struggle in its endeavor†to generate demand-driven inflation. To a large extent price increases have been the result of costlier imports due to weaker yen, particularly items related to food and energy. Outside of those sectors, prices remain soft. The danger of Japan's current policy (Abenomics) is that the outcome could turn out to be the exact opposite of what was originally intended. With wages stagnant, these import-driven price increases are hitting the Japanese consumer quite hard. As a result, spending on domestically produced goods and services could end up falling, constraining domestic prices instead of increasing them. Scotiabank: - Key here is that the Japanese CPI inflation figures continue to showcase evidence of a relative price shock driven by imported food and energy price spikes significantly related to yen depreciation. Most CPI components not related to food and energy either continue to fall or remain soft as shown in the accompanying chart. The big gainers are prices for fresh food, utilities due to soaring electricity prices in the wake of the Tohoku disaster coupled with rising imported energy costs, and the energy impact on rising transportation prices. CPI ex-food-and-energy remains largely flat. We maintain the year-long view that Abenomics would impose a relative price shock that would force wage- and credit-constrained consumers to spend more upon what they have to (food and energy) by restraining spending elsewhere in the economy in disinflationary fashion on the second- and third-round effects. Thatís a very different inflation dynamic than would be the effects of a generalized increase in economy-wide prices in that it counsels future effects that will be bearish for the outlook for Japanese consumers. At the same time, the other main supposed benefit of Abenomics is an improvement in the trade account by stimulating export growth through yen depreciation, yet this is only evident via a price effect as export volumes remain weak [see post]. Sober Look, Scotiabank One sad consequence of†Abenomics is the impact on Japan's elderly, whose ranks are†swelling rapidly (see post). Isolation combined with rising prices on food and electricity makes survival for many older Japanese citizens a struggle. According to the National Police Agency survey, shoplifting incidents accounted for close to 10 percent of all crimes. And the number of shoplifting offenses is only growing among people 65 and older - with 68 percent of those cases representing food items. The latest 18.6 trillion yen stimulus package from the government is supposed to (among other things) provide additional help for the elderly, but it remains unclear how sustainable such efforts will ultimately be.
Flickr/nicolethewholiganResearchers at the University of California, San Diego, are developing an algorithm that aims to identify whether you‚Äôre a hipster, a goth or a punk, just from the cut of your social media jib. The team has been analysing pictures of groups of people in an attempt to place them within one of eight sub-cultures according to their appearance. These included hipsters, goths, surfers and bikers. By looking out for trendy haircuts, telltale tattoos and jewellery, the algorithm is being trained to make assumptions about you based for example on your social media pictures. Websites can then offer you a more tailored experience. A surfer might be given recommendations about holidays and a punk updated on gigs for their favourite band. And what better way for a hipster to make sure they stay ahead of the curve than to be updated on the very latest in organic, fairtrade coffee products, as and when they come on the market? The researchers are using what is known as a multi-label classification algorithm. These are widely used in vision analysis to draw conclusions from clues that are found in images. It takes a set of photos, each with their own label, such as ‚Äúcat‚Äù, ‚Äúcar‚Äù, ‚Äúemo‚Äù, and then finds the features in the photos that best predict the label of a new photo. The algorithm leverages the assumption that pictures with a similar set of feature values are likely to have similar labels. So if it looks at a picture, sees a pair of horn-rimmed glasses, a waxed moustache and a lumberjack shirt, and is told that it is looking at a hipster, it can move on to a new photo and identify a quinoa lover just from their look. The researchers say the algorithm is 48% accurate on average, while chance would get answers right only 9% of the time. If you were to guess the content of a picture (without seeing it), then you will guess the correct answer once every 11 times on average. This machine can do better than that but not as well as a human using the full power of their street savvy. The algorithm uses a ‚Äúparts and attributes‚Äù approach, by breaking down each picture into a set of feature values. In this case, features such as the head, neck, torso and arms of each subject were scanned for attributes such as tattoos, colours, haircuts and jewellery. Jacobs School of Engineering What's your tribe? The algorithm then uses the labelled pictures to learn a classifier. This type of learning problem would be perfectly suited to the machinery of Google, in that it might be possible to find the features indicative of particular social groups without needing to manually state the types of features such as face, head, top of the head (where a hat would be), neck, torso and arms. The idea is that if an algorithm can identify the kind of person you are from how you look, sites can offer you a more personally tailored experience. There are some problems to this approach though. For a start, a 48% accuracy means that a Facebooking goth would be fairly likely to get ads for fixed-wheel bike repairs cropping up in their feed by mistake were the technology be deployed in its current state. While 48% is better than chance, the researchers want their algorithm to perform as well as a human would and plan to keep working to improve its accuracy. But then comes the deeper question of whether you can really make assumptions about what a person is interested in based on how they look. Just because a goth likes to dress in black doesn‚Äôt necessarily mean their taste in hobbies isn‚Äôt more closely aligned to those of a surfer. We have to ask ourselves if we want our internet experience to be tailored in this way. Ads and search results that have been tailored according to our gender can already be irritating. Often is seems that Facebook thinks that just because a user is a woman, she will automatically be interested in news about celebrity diets. While it may be useful to identify a user‚Äôs tribe to understand them better, how that information is used depends on certain assumptions about what that tribe likes. As any hipster will tell you, that can change in an instant. Matthew Higgs is affiliated with University College London.  This article was originally published at The Conversation. Read the original article.
These are your unoriginal regurgitated New Yearís resolutions. And they are getting pretty tiresome, especially considering the vast majority of you never fulfill them, choosing instead to wallow in the banality of your own existence, and roll them over again next year. "Hey fat ass, I already know what your New Year's resolution is." So stop telling yourself that you are going to take the stairs, cut back on the $6 Starbucks lattes, or park as far away from the Whole Foods entrance as you can, and just follow my adviceÖ 1. Take a vow of silence. Join CrossFit. Do P90X. Detox in January. Become a vegan. Sell your TV. †Train for a marathon. Start the Paleo diet. Go for any or all of these, but please shut the f--k up about it. ìNo one would run a marathon if they had to sign a confidentiality agreement first." 2. Read more. Yes, thatís a permanent boring fixture on most peopleís lists, but this year, be more specific and realistic. Make a list of 10 books to read, a healthy mix of fiction and non-fiction. Throw in a couple of classics that youíre embarrassed you never read in college. Purchase the hardcover copies, and keep them as a small trophy of your accomplishment. The Economist puts together a great ìBooks of the Yearî list, but Iíll get you started with ìThe Private Life of Chairman Mao.î ìReading allows you to borrow someone elseís brain, and will†make you more interesting at a dinner party.î 3. Befriend a World War II veteran. Spend time with him. Talk to him. Because there arenít too many of them left. I certainly regret not helping the red-coated Chelsea Pensioners with their Tescoís bags down the Kingís Road. 4. Wash your hands more frequently. An actual study has shown that the average New Yorker indirectly touches 24 penises per day, and twice as many if they work at 1585 Broadway. 5. Take an online course. Why continue talking hollowly about self-improvement when leading colleges and graduate schools, including Duke, Wharton, and MIT, are investing significant resources into free education. Ironically, statistics have shown that it tends to be the better-educated and wealthier who take advantage of this. †But, who among us couldnít benefit from knowing more about accounting, marketing, child psychology, or real estate and contract law? 6. Watch "The Sopranos" from start to finish. Even if youíve already seen it. 7. Freshen up the starting lineup in your wardrobe. Go get 2 new suits, 10 dress shirts, 2 pairs of jeans, 2 pairs of shoes, and 50 pairs of socks. Maybe this guide will help. Why? For the same reason that Michael Jordan wore a brand-new pair of shoes every single game. 8. Avoid extreme and unrealistic health pledges. Eat right, exercise sensibly, and drink mostly in moderation; itís not rocket science. ìA guy came up to me at the gym and asked me what event I was training so hard for. Life, motherf--ker.î 9. Drink more green tea. Add manuka honey and some fresh ginger. 10. Skip the dramatic savings scheme.†Donít go crazy with unrealistic goals about how much youíre going to save this year. Keep it simple; spend less than you make, and save up for the big-ticket items until you can afford them. Thereís no need for an extreme savings plan, so be sensibleÖ but donít forget to enjoy your expendable income. ìThereís no point in a $50 million funeral or a $25 million divorce.î 11. Read my guide on ìHow To Be A Man.î†Over two million people already have. Ladies, let me know what you thinkÖ 12. Write down your goals.†Most people never fulfill their resolutions, but the people who write them down have a proven higher success rate. Take it a step further and make a list of what you want to accomplish each day, week, and month. Just write them down and check them off the old-fashioned way. And tell Mr. Thereís-an-App-for-that to go f--k himself. "I'm gonna open a gym that turns into a bar after January.î 13. Go get a comprehensive health exam. Make your partner get one too. 14. Put your phone away at dinner. † "Checking your phone after someone else pulls out†their phone is the yawn of our generation.î 15. Laugh more. That means: socialize more often, drink more, have long lazy brunches, throw parties, host drunken game nights. Be spontaneousÖ Upgrade your friends if necessary. ìMost people wouldn't even be the main character†in a movie about their own lives.î 16. Donít just rely on the gym. Remember that feeling of playing a competitive sport as a kid, when youíre on the field, and not thinking about anything else. Most of us have forgotten what that feels like. So join a team or find someone to play tennis with. 17. Drink more. Iím not contradicting myself from earlierÖ If youíre healthy, eating well, and exercising, then your body can handle a few more drinks every now and then. There is nothing wrong with the occasional black out, and youíre just going to lie to your doctor anyway. ìAt most, maybe 15 to 17 units per week, doc.î ìThe 1st bottle is for health, the 2nd for love, and the 3rd for sleep.î ñ Eubulus, 350 BC 18. Help a pet get adopted, if for no other reason than to prove that you can. Iíll get it started with Spirit and Peony currently residing at the North Shore Animal League shelter in Port Washington, New York. (Tweet me; Iíll pay for the adoption fees.) ìWASPs kiss their wives on the forehead and their dogs on the mouth.î 19. Get a regular foot massage. A dark room. No TV. No loud voices. Itís the most peaceful and productive 75 minutes I have every week. I go on Saturdays with the Weekend FT and The Economist. 20. Stay in on New Year's Eve. Itís amateur night and it rarely lives up to your expectations anyhow. Get dressed up, strap on the Patek, go out for some Per Se gnocchi and get drunk on Krug? That sounds like my Tuesdays. This year, stay inÖ And then start January 1st early and productively.
REUTERS/Claro Cortes IVImagine if this guy were the CEO of the Goldman Sachs of China.China's banking system is not without its problems. The largest state-owned banks are known to favor state-owned enterprises when lending money. Meanwhile, households earn very low interest on their deposits.† Now, Yao Jingyuan, a former chief economist for China's National Bureau of Statistics is out lampooning the nation's banking system.† He said most bankers had become "freeloaders" profiting off the difference between interest rates on deposits and loans, according to South China Morning Post. He also pretty much said that a dog could run the nation's banking system. From SCMP: "Banking in China has become like a highway toll system. Banks charge every time money goes through them. "With this kind of operational model, banks will continue making money even if all the bank presidents go home to sleep and you replaced them by putting a small dog in their seats." China has been talking about pushing through a deposit insurance scheme which is considered crucial to opening up the financial sector.† It has yet to lift the ceiling on deposit rates which is considered crucial to interest rate liberalization. Read the entire piece at South China Morning Post ª
Paramount PicturesI saw "The Wolf Of Wall Street" yesterday.†I don't know how to write a proper movie review, so I'll just say a few quick things. The first is that it was an incredibly entertaining Martin Scorsese classic. The story is funny, dirty (tons of sex and drugs), and the directing is top notch (it's Scorsese so the soundtrack is great throughout). It's just really enjoyable. It was three hours long and I never got bored. There's been some whines about how the film glorified Jordan Belfort (who made a fortune starting his own boiler room, pump-and-dump brokerage) and didn't focus on any of the victims. And there's truth to that. But that doesn't mean it was an amoral movie. In fact it had a pretty fascinating message, which was: The American Dream isn't about becoming middle class and having your kids go to college, it's about becoming ridiculously rich. But the institutions that allow people to become ridiculously rich (Wall Street banks, etc.) aren't open to people with the wrong background and without the correct connections and breeding. So in light of that contradiction, the only way for normals to achieve the American dream is to find something that's in a grey area of the law. Thus the story depicts how Jordan Belfort took a group of losers from Long Island and turned them into sales geniuses that could sell stocks like crazy (many of them penny stocks or scammy IPOs or other schemes).† The movie features several scenes where Belfort delivers powerful, motivational speeches to the brokers at Stratton Oakmont (his brokerage) and to some they may recall the famous speech of Gordon Gekko in "Wall Street." But they're actually more similar to Tom Cruise's character in "Magnolia," who gives workshops to losers purporting to teach them how to be as successful as he is with women (even though they all lack his charisma and good looks). It makes for an inherently interesting theme of how people who lack resources (connections, education, social graces, good looks etc.) can achieve wild success.

US: The broad characteristics of the investment climate are unlikely to change very much in the first part of next year.† The largest policy change is the† beginning of the long awaited slowing of the Federal Reserveís long-term asset purchases.† The process will likely be gradual and may take the better part of 2014 to come to a complete stop.† The drag from fiscal policy will likely lessen.† The roughly 1.7% annual growth in employment since 2009 is set to continue and underpin a continued expansion of the worldís largest economy.† EUROZONE: The ordo-liberalism as articulated by Germany, embodied in treaty agreements, and enshrined by the European Central Bank condemns the euro area, and by implication, many of the countries that move in its orbit, to a protracted period of slow growth and low inflation.† ††The institutional evolution in Europe continues and the pieces of an imperfect banking union are being established.†† The ECB is likely to respond to the adverse monetary developments, but unless the perceived threat of deflation increases, it is likely to refrain from extreme measures, such as a negative deposit rate or outright purchase of bonds.† CHINA: The Chinese economy may slow modestly in the coming quarters, though officials will likely respond to evidence that growth is falling below 7.0%. The focus has shifted toward the implementation of reforms announced by the Third Plenum.†† These entail financial and governing reforms.† The special economic zone in Shanghai will be viewed as a test case of the ability of the reformers to implement their program over the obstacles posed by inertia, corruption, and outright opposition. JAPAN: The first year of Abenomics has seen growth strengthen, deflation pressures ease, the yen weaken and Japanese equities advance smartly.† The early turbulence of Japanese government bonds has eased and nominal yields remain low (real rates negative).† The second year is bound to be more challenging, as the economy has lost momentum in the second half of 2013.† There may be some increased consumption ahead of the April 1 hike in the retail sales tax from 5% to 8%, but this is likely to be borrowed from subsequent quarters.† This may not occur until closer to the middle of the year, when the Bank of Japan decides to provide more financial support for the expansion in addition to extra insurance around its 2% inflation goal (excluding fresh food and the retail sales tax).† FOCUS ON THE FED AND US GOVERNMENT Investors have come around to the Federal Reserveís admonishments that tapering is not tightening.† Unlike in Operation Twist, under which the Fed sold short-term Treasury securities and bought long-term, the current guidance is that the Fed does not want to see short-term rates rise.† †It is more willing to accept curve steepening. The Fedís structure is characterized by a strong core of 7 governors and 12 regional presidents, whose majority is diluted by a rotating voting system that empowers only five to vote on the FOMC decisions.† Under-appreciated by many participants, the Board of Governors is likely to change significantly.† This is not just a function of Bernanke stepping down.† There are already two vacancies on the Board of Governors.† In addition, there may be another two or three governors that step down, suggesting that 4-5 people may be new next year (assuming Governor Powell is reappointed for another term).†† The $10 billion of tapering, divided equally between Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, announced December 18, speaks to the Federal Reserveís gradualism.†† The forward guidance suggests a rate hike is highly unlikely in 2014.† Although the probable expiration of emergency jobless benefits at the start of the year will likely push the unemployment rate down through a further reduction in the participation rate, the Federal Reserve has signaled that the unemployment rate is likely to fall below the 6.5% threshold it has identified.† We had expected the tapering move and greater forward guidance to be delivered by the new Federal Reserve chair.† We had argued that the Fedís forward guidance would be more credible if the chairman that will implement it, issued it.† Due in part to our concern that after an inventory-fueled 3.6% SAAR Q3 GDP, the US economy is going to slow back to what now seems to be its growth trend of around 2.25%-2.50%.† In addition, we are concerned about downside risks to the core PCE deflator in the coming months.† Finally, with Republicans seeking more spending cuts in exchange for lifting the debt ceiling, which President Obama refuses to negotiate, another fiscal impasse cannot be ruled out. The November 2014 congressional elections may produce substantial changes to the composition of the legislative branch.† The entire lower chamber, the House of Representatives and one third of the upper chamber (Senate) face voters.† There is a very low support rating for both parties, but the power of incumbency in the US political system should not be under-estimated.† There may be important signals from the primary contests.† The partial closure of the Federal government highlighted the internecine struggle for the reins of the Republican Party, largely between the northern and southern wings (identify more with the Tea Party movement).† Although the business community is mostly supporting the north, the passions, energy and populist appeal may favor the southern wing.† Its anti-Washington rhetoric has found a responsive chord.†† The primaries will test whether the southern wing can wrest control of the entire party by beating some key northern Republicans.† Such a victor though may prove to be pyrrhic, in the general election and, arguably more importantly, in the 2016 presidential contest.† Indeed, with the November election, the 2016 presidential campaign begins and President Obama becomes increasingly a lame duck, with diminishing influence.† EURO ZONE: †SUCCESS WILL PROVE CHALLENGING After being hobbled by existential doubts over the sustainability of monetary union, credit degradation, financial fragmentation, the euro area is now challenged by its successes.† The return of the funds borrowed under the long-term repo agreement has been the principle drain of the excess liquidity that kept EONIA (key index of overnight rates) nearer the zero deposit rate than the repo rate (which is at 25 bp, following the ECBís surprise November rate cut).† At the same time, the only path of adjustment for the uncompetitive periphery members is internal devaluation, which means a relative decline in domestic prices has produced a disinflationary environment on the general level.† This coupled with the compression of domestic demand, has improved external accounts, while the infamous Target2 imbalances decline.† † Yet,†core countries, especially Germany, have refused to offset the austerity in the periphery with sufficiently strong enough stimulus.† This has served to protect the German external surplus, while creating low inflationary conditions.†† On top of the growing EMU current account surplus, foreign investors have returned to Europe.† Several large institutional investors and wealthy individuals have been acquiring property and other distressed assets in Europe.† †A few hedge funds made the news with moves into Greece.† Through early December, the Athens Stock Exchange was up 30%, the most in the region.† Greek banks and corporate bonds were among the most distressed assets and, arguably, offered the best returns in turn-around situation.††† Many global investors were under-weight on European stocks and bonds, and then in mid-2013 the surveys suggested that an economic recovery was at hand, causing many investors to move back in.† Spanish and Italian stocks and bonds seemed to have been favored.† †US money market funds increased their exposures to European paper.†† European banks continue to de-leverage and sell non-core assets, often in other countries.†† With a banking union gradually being built, some investors will look more favorably toward European bank shares.† Before the ECB assumes regulatory authority over the systemically important European banks, it will review the quality of the assets, ensure the proper uniformed classifications are employed, and stress test the banks.††† While not ideal due to reliance on national resources, a resolution mechanism has been agreed upon.† The crisis and the policy reaction in Europe have weakened the political center.† Rather than the cuts in social programs and high unemployment fueling a move to the left, it is the populism on the right that has emerged in Europe.† This is not simply a phenomenon in countries in the periphery, like Greece; rather it is evident in the stronger countries, like Austria and Finland.† It is perhaps most evident in France, where recent polls put (Marine) Le Penís National Front at the top.††† This disenchantment will likely be felt in the EU Parliamentary elections and local elections in May 2014.† National political elites may feel besieged.† While the crisis forged a tighter union, despite expectations in some quarters of the dissolution of EMU, the recovery may see rearguard action, to recapture some of the sovereignty surrendered.†† In addition to these forces, when considering the outlook for the euro-dollar exchange rate, the two-year interest rate differential continues to provide useful insight.† Investors now accept that reducing the amount of long-term assets purchased by the Fed and a rate hike are two completely separate events, which allows the U.S. 2-year yield to remain anchored.† At the same time, the prospects of more liquidity provisions by the ECB, slow growth and low inflation points to a low 2-year German yield.† The US 2-year yield peaked in early September, ahead of when many, though not us, had expected the Fed to taper, at almost 55 bp.†† By late November, it had fallen to almost 25 bp.†† Given the risk of a Fed rate hike by late 2015, such a yield on the two-year note seems too low.† As yields return toward fair value (37-50 bp), the dollarís descent may slow.†† However, a significant rally may require even higher yields.† German 2-year yields fell to 5bp in early November amid speculation that the ECB could adopt a negative deposit rate. As an aside, the lower yields German has enjoyed as a result of the crisis, has saved the German government more money than it has actually paid to aid peripheral countries.† In any event, the yields rose sharply, back up above the 100 day average (~17 bp) and near 25 bp in early December was closer to the yearís high (~38 bp).† As yields return to fair value, the euroís appreciation will likely be corrected.† CONTINUING CHANGES IN JAPAN While the euro-dollar exchange rate seems particularly sensitive to the movement of short-term rates, the dollar-yen rate often seems more sensitive to long-term interest rate developments.†† The prospects of Fed tapering have seen long-term US interest rates move back toward the upper end of the 2013 range.† However, as the whiff of disinflation remains, and Q3 growth of 3.6% is a one-quarter wonder (inflated by inventories that will be worked off at the cost of future output), we expect the rise in US 10-year yields to be contained.† Japanese bond yields, on the other hand, may rise in 2014, but not because the BOJ stops its buying program.† Rather the low rates of return will push institutional investors, including the Government Pension Investment Fund, into equities.† New government-sponsored investment schemes are designed to encourage equity investment, though given the risk-averse nature of Japanese households, relatively high dividend stocks will likely be preferred.† In a deflationary environment, low nominal Japanese Government Bond (JGB) yields still translated to positive real rates, and sometimes, relatively high ones at that.† However, with the rise in inflation, real yields have turned negative.† This may further squeeze households out of fixed income. At the same time, the disinflation in North America and Europe has seen real interest rates there rise and Japanese foreign bond purchases may continue to attract Japanese investors into 2014.††† Japanese households are not only being squeezed by the negative real return on their savings, but also by the reluctance of businesses to share their strong profits growth with their employees in the form of higher wages.† On top of that, retail sales tax will further erode the purchasing power of Japanese households.†  Although officials generally expect the JPY5.5bln supplemental budget (to be financed by higher tax revenues generated by the economic recovery and using previously allocated but unspent funds) to offset the economic impact of the sales tax increase.† We are less sanguine and expect the erosion of household finances will erode support for the Abe government and prompt additional fiscal support, as well as re-energize the debate of the second leg of the retail sales tax hike (from 8% to 10% in 2015).† Whereas many observers had expected the yen to trend lower throughout 2013, we had anticipated a broad trading range to begin shortly after the much anticipated quantitative easing by the new BOJ Governor Kuroda began.††† We now see pressure from interest rates and capital flows to help fuel another leg down for the yen, against the dollar and euro.††† It may meet increasing resistance from officials at the multilateral meetings in the first part of 2014, where critics see unfair advantage stemming from a policy aimed at currency devaluation.† Indeed, the drive to double the money base within two years has achieved where overt (and apparently covert) intervention failed.†† We see scope for around a 5-7% depreciation of the yen as the dollar moves into a new trading range against it, while the dollar stays range-bound against the euro.† Later in the year, we expect the dollar-yen pair to find a new trading range as the dollar trends higher against the euro.† HIGH INCOME COUNTRIES ROUND UP To round out this overview, letís turn our attention away from the US, Japan and euro area and look at a few other high income countries.† UNITED KINDGOM: The strength of the UK economy was a pleasant surprise in 2013 and the momentum looks to carry over into 2014.†† Although price pressures are stubborn, barring a significant data surprise, we do not expect the BOE to hike rates in the New Year, though we see some risk that rates will be hiked before the next general election in May 2015.††† After the May EU parliament and local elections, Scotlandís referendum (Sept 18) will move more into the spotlight. †While there may be some apprehension beforehand, lasting market impact may be minimal.† AUSTRALIA: We are not convinced that the Reserve Bank of Australiaís monetary policy cycle is complete.† Barring a dramatic decline in the Australian dollar, we think that late Q1 or early Q2 may offer a window of opportunity for the RBA to move.† Poor economic data, including easier price pressures, and/or an appreciation of the Australian dollar, would raise our confidence of another rate cut.† CANADA: Canadian monetary policy is more likely to be on hold through 2014 and the Canadian economy is likely to under-perform the US.† We look for further depreciation of the Canadian dollar.†† Our forecast anticipates the US dollar to move toward CAD1.10 by mid-year.† SWEDEN:† In the face of disappointing economic activity and the risks of deflation, the Riksbank cut the repo rate to 75 bp and implied scope for another 25 bp rate cut in the first half of 2014.† †Household debt levels remain a concern to officials, but interest rate policy is not the most efficient way to address it.† Look for macro-prudential efforts to be stepped up in the coming months.† Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
It's the day after Christmas, and many markets around the globe (especially in Europe and parts of Asia) are closed. While North American markets are open for trading, volume is light, as many market participants are on vacation. Naturally, things aren't moving much ‚Äî except for gold, which is getting a nice bounce today. Right now, it's trading around $1214 an ounce, up 0.9%. The charts below show moves in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the dollar-yen exchange rate, and the euro-dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 5-year U.S. Treasury futures, and WTI crude oil futures. Thinkorswim
Jin Lee/BloombergCEO John Chen has a plan.BlackBerry practically nailed its own coffin shut earlier this year when it announced it was working toward a sale. Then something drastic happened last month:¬†CEO Thorsten Heins was out the door¬†and the sale was suddenly off of the table. BlackBerry‚Äôs incumbent CEO John Chen started to issue letters saying that thecompany¬†is ‚Äúvery much alive‚Äù and that he sees a bright future ahead for the firm. It hasn‚Äôt been rare for BlackBerry to speak positively about the future, only to perform negatively, so what‚Äôs going on here? For one, BlackBerry still has a lot of work to do. It‚Äôs in the middle of a restructuring in which the company is letting a large chunk of its workforce go. That‚Äôs going to take some time; the company is still sinking and reported a¬†massive $4.4 billion loss¬†during the third quarter of this year. During its earnings call, however, we received a glimpse of BlackBerry‚Äôs new focus under the tutelage of Chen, and it just might work. First, BlackBerry revealed that it sold 4.3 million¬†BlackBerry¬†devices¬†during the fiscal third quarter of 2014. Of those, 3.2 million of its units sold ran BlackBerry 7,¬†not¬†its newer BlackBerry 10 operating system. So what does that tell us? That BlackBerry needs to cut its ties to its more expensive BlackBerry 10 products and move forward with low-cost products developed for¬†emerging markets¬†‚Äî where BlackBerry 7 is doing better (though arguably not necessarily¬†well¬†against its Android rivals). Chen told us that‚Äôs what BlackBerry intends to do. He revealed a product¬†codenamed Jakarta during the most recent earnings call, in addition to a new manufacturing partnership with Foxconn. Jakarta will hit emerging markets and will launch as an entry-level¬†BlackBerry¬†10¬†device, which should prove a worthy upgrade from¬†BlackBerry¬†7devices. We don‚Äôt know much else about Jakarta yet, but BlackBerry needs to keep it super entry-level, enough so that it can replace the¬†BlackBerry¬†7¬†devices¬†without hitting BlackBerry‚Äôs bottom line too hard. As Chen suggested, and we hope he follows through, the company¬†should¬†keep its focus on entry-level phones for the time being, and move completely away from the high-end market where its Z10, Q10 and Z30 devices have so obviously failed. Even still, there are reports that BlackBerry has cancelled two lower-end¬†smartphones¬†instead favoring the high-end, but we hope BlackBerry doesn‚Äôt try that path again so soon. At the same time, BlackBerry will continue to put its focus on software and services. Chen is pushing the company‚Äôs latest iteration of BlackBerry Enterprise¬†Server¬†(BES) as the best option around, particularly for IT firms that need support for a variety of operating systems for bring-your-own-device (BYOD) efforts. Meanwhile, the company will try to continue to fight in the messaging market, with advancements for iOS and Android clients expected to hit BBM next year. Cost cutting¬†will also be key to its survival. We‚Äôll likely see workforce reductions continue in 2014, particularly if efforts to create high-end¬†smartphones¬†are indeed stifled. BlackBerry World next year will be telling: if the company keeps its focus on software, services, and developing markets, we may just see it start to pull itself out of the red. As for new devices to compete with flagships from Apple, Samsung, HTC, LG and others? We hope BlackBerry doesn‚Äôt attempt that route too soon, at least not until the company rebuilds its foundation.
REUTERS/China DailyA half-naked participant wears a gas mask as he takes part in the second "Guangzhu (naked) Run" on a winter morning at the Olympic Forest Park in Beijing, February 24, 2013. Over the past decade China saw rapid economic expansion. But its growth model and controversial politics have not come without their fair share of problems. Rising property prices, rising food prices, restrictions on investment, an emphasis on speed over safety, and lax environmental standards have led to some truly unique and sometimes crazy situations in China. Rich people build mountain villas on top of apartment buildings, local governments incentivize burials at sea, and people are pour their money into everything from walnuts to cockroach farms. We identified 35 strange things that have happened in China.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithThe latest weekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims fell to 338,000 in the week ended December 21 from an upward-revised 380,000 in the previous week, below estimates for a smaller drop to 345,000. Continuing claims unexpectedly rose to 2.923 million in the week ended December 14 from 2.877 million the week before. Take these numbers with a grain of salt, as the BLS is still having issues with seasonal adjustments due to the unusually late Thanksgiving holiday this year. Click here for the full release ¬ª
The Turkish lira hit a fresh record low on Thursday following a cabinet reshuffle by Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan amid a huge graft scandal. The lira fell to 2.1035 against the dollar on Thursday, after starting the day at 2.0914. On Wednesday three top ministers whose sons have been caught up in police anti-corruption raids announced their resignations, with one calling on Erdogan to also step down in the first such challenge to the prime minister from within his own ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP). In response to the escalating crisis, Erdogan announced a long-expected cabinet reshuffle and named 10 new ministers -- almost half of the cabinet. The renewed political crisis ended a brief reprieve for the lira. It had strengthened to 2.0650 following an announcement by the central bank on Tuesday that it would ramp up its support for the unit by selling at least $6 billion in foreign currency by the end of January. The lira has also been under heavy pressure this year in expectation of the US Federal Reserve's decision to reduce its stimulus measures. As a leading emerging economy, Turkey has been one of the main beneficiaries of the Fed's stimulus as US investors sought higher returns abroad. The Istanbul stock market also dropped by 1.8 percent to 64,904 points on Thursday. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Some stock market pundits are highly critical of companies that repeatedly emphasize "adjusted" (also known as non-GAAP or pro forma) earnings over GAAP earnings. GAAP is short for generally accepted accounting principles. GAAP accounting standards offer uniformity in how companies report their financial performance. However, income statements reported based on GAAP don't always reflect the ongoing performance of a companies underlying operations. For example, a company may write-down an asset or restructure its organization. These actions usually come with large one-time costs that distort company profits.† As such, a company will also provide an "adjusted" earnings number that excludes these nonrecurring items. "We believe that the best EPS measure for valuation purposes sits somewhere between pro forma and GAAP EPS, where in between varies by company, industry and sector," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in December 12 note to clients. "Although pro forma EPS can overstate true EPS, GAAP EPS can understate true EPS." Bianco discusses how these discrepancies fluctuate with economic cycles: S&amp;P 500 GAAP EPS has both a cyclical and secular tendency to understate EPS appropriate for valuation. During recessions GAAP EPS can collapse owing to large asset write-downs, which crushes reported EPS relative to continuing EPS. A similar distortion can occur when a company incurs large restructuring or litigation costs. Thus, most equity analysts reverse such charges from their pro forma EPS metrics as maintained in their models and posted to the major data services to prevent distortions in the underlying operating profit trend and to help better forecast future EPS. Regarding write-downs, he points out that there is a downward bias to earnings due to GAAP accounting standards: However, just because a cost is infrequent does not mean it is non-recurring. Thus, it is often argued by some strategists and many quants that GAAP EPS for the overall S&amp;P 500 over a full economic cycle will represent EPS appropriate for valuation purposes. We would agree if it werenít for that about half of the difference between GAAP and pro forma EPS measures over full economic cycles is from asset write-downs. Write-downs reflect a directional bias in GAAP accounting. Because assets are carried at the lesser of cost or value, write-downs occur whenever bad investments are made but write-ups never occur when good investments are made. This distortion has been magnified by large goodwill impairments in recent recessions. Goodwill created in an acquisition must be periodically tested for impairment. Sharp market downturns usually bring goodwill impairments. Until 1996 most large acquisitions were accounted for under the pooling method which produced no goodwill. Regarding restructuring costs, Bianco argues that anyone penalizing a company for taking these costs should also consider any longer term incremental benefits. ...it is worth keeping in mind that restructuring charges tend to produce future savings, so it is important to be consistent in treating them as costs or investments when modeling future earnings growth that includes restructuring savings. If a long-term earnings growth forecast does not include savings from restructurings then exclude such costs. To reiterate, Bianco recognizes that adjusted earnings tend to overstate earnings. But he also believes GAAP earnings tend to understate earnings. Here's a look at GAAP versus adjusted earnings since 1977. Deutsche Bank
Some stock market pundits are highly critical of companies that repeatedly emphasize "adjusted" (also known as non-GAAP or pro forma) earnings over GAAP earnings. GAAP is short for generally accepted accounting principles. GAAP accounting standards offer uniformity in how companies report their financial performance. However, income statements reported based on GAAP don't always reflect the ongoing performance of a companies underlying operations. For example, a company may write-down an asset or restructure its organization. These actions usually come with large one-time costs that distort company profits.† As such, a company will also provide an "adjusted" earnings number that excludes these nonrecurring items. "We believe that the best EPS measure for valuation purposes sits somewhere between pro forma and GAAP EPS, where in between varies by company, industry and sector," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in December 12 note to clients. "Although pro forma EPS can overstate true EPS, GAAP EPS can understate true EPS." Bianco discusses how these discrepancies fluctuate with economic cycles: S&amp;P 500 GAAP EPS has both a cyclical and secular tendency to understate EPS appropriate for valuation. During recessions GAAP EPS can collapse owing to large asset write-downs, which crushes reported EPS relative to continuing EPS. A similar distortion can occur when a company incurs large restructuring or litigation costs. Thus, most equity analysts reverse such charges from their pro forma EPS metrics as maintained in their models and posted to the major data services to prevent distortions in the underlying operating profit trend and to help better forecast future EPS. Regarding write-downs, he points out that there is a downward bias to earnings due to GAAP accounting standards: However, just because a cost is infrequent does not mean it is non-recurring. Thus, it is often argued by some strategists and many quants that GAAP EPS for the overall S&amp;P 500 over a full economic cycle will represent EPS appropriate for valuation purposes. We would agree if it werenít for that about half of the difference between GAAP and pro forma EPS measures over full economic cycles is from asset write-downs. Write-downs reflect a directional bias in GAAP accounting. Because assets are carried at the lesser of cost or value, write-downs occur whenever bad investments are made but write-ups never occur when good investments are made. This distortion has been magnified by large goodwill impairments in recent recessions. Goodwill created in an acquisition must be periodically tested for impairment. Sharp market downturns usually bring goodwill impairments. Until 1996 most large acquisitions were accounted for under the pooling method which produced no goodwill. Regarding restructuring costs, Bianco argues that anyone penalizing a company for taking these costs should also consider any longer term incremental benefits. ...it is worth keeping in mind that restructuring charges tend to produce future savings, so it is important to be consistent in treating them as costs or investments when modeling future earnings growth that includes restructuring savings. If a long-term earnings growth forecast does not include savings from restructurings then exclude such costs. To reiterate, Bianco recognizes that adjusted earnings tend to overstate earnings. But he also believes GAAP earnings tend to understate earnings. Here's a look at GAAP versus adjusted earnings since 1977. Deutsche Bank
The Bureau of Labor Statistics is out with a new report today showing how employment will change in different industries. Not surprisingly, health care and social assistance sector will see the largest increase in employment adding five million jobs between 2012 and 2022. The construction industry will see an equally substantial rise, growing at a rate of 2.6% annually. On the other side, employment in the agricultural sector is expected to shrink by nearly three percent a year during that time frame. The federal government will shrink substantially as well. Check out the entire chart: Bureau of Labor Statistics
Wells Fargo Securities Heightened volatility in China's short-term interest rates has some people worried that the world's second largest economy is doomed for a credit crisis. For a discussion on this, check out our Q&amp;A with Patrick Chovanec. Generally speaking, economists think that China's financial risks are contained, yet they also warn it's something to keep an eye on. Here's Wells Fargo Securities' quick summary of all the debt in China: Does China have a debt problem? The answer would appear to be ‚Äúno‚Äù when analyzing the Chinese household and central government (i.e., Beijing) sectors where the debt-to-GDP ratios at present are only 30 percent and 15 percent, respectively. Comparable ratios in the United States are 80 percent and 70 percent, respectively. However, the debt-to-GDP ratio of the Chinese business sector is 140 percent, whereas its American counterpart stands at 80 percent. Although there are few visible signs of financial stress in the Chinese business sector at present, further increases in leverage could eventually spell trouble. Stay tuned. "Our caution regarding the Chinese debt situation would become more elevated in the future if we see rapid credit growth in conjunction with slow economic growth," wrote Wells Fargo's Jay Bryson. However, economists like Societe Generale's Wei Yao worry that this may have already happened. When considering the chart above, keep in mind that China's economy is growing around twice as fast as the U.S.'s.
Spencer Platt / GettyHoward Schultz gets up at 4:30 a.m.It's no coincidence that so many successful people get up early. The early bird schedule is good for responding to people and events around the world, getting a head start on people in your own time zone, and also finding time for exercise and family.¬†What's more,¬†research shows¬†that early risers tend to be happier¬†and more proactive. While a late schedule may make sense for some occupations, most people should take notes from the executives and other successful people on this list.
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriBallerinas from the New York City Ballet's production of "The Nutcracker" pose for photos on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Christmas Eve in New York, December 24, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
U.S. stock market futures have been trading for a little over an hour, and they're pointing higher. Dow futures are up 46 points. S&amp;P futures are up 3 points. Nasdaq futures are up 7 points. On Tuesday, the Dow and S&amp;P closed at record highs, which suggest we're setting up for another set of records today. Markets are closed in Europe for Boxing Day. Japan's Nikkei closed at a 6-year high earlier today.¬† Meanwhile, China's Shanghai Composite fell. Here's a look at S&amp;P futures. FinViz
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoMizuho Financial Group President Yasuhiro Sato reacts as he attends a news conference at the Bank of Japan headquarters in Tokyo December 26, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) -†Mizuho Financial Group†&lt;8411.T&gt; chairman†Takashi Tsukamoto†will quit in March to take responsibility for a scandal over loans to organized crime, and the bank will restructure its board to improve governance, it said on Thursday. Japan's banking regulator issued a second business-improvement order to the country's second-largest lender on Thursday due to its inaction and false reporting over loans it has extended to organized crime members. "We need to sweep away our silo mentality and change our corporate culture," Mizuho President Yasuhiro Sato told a news conference. The bank said Sato will give up his pay for 12 months starting from last month, up from six months initially announced in October. Asked whether he also intended to step down, Sato said: "It is my responsibility to build a corporate governance system that is held in high regard in global financial markets." Mizuho said it will introduce board committees made up of outside directors, and will also pick an outsider to chair its board. It will propose these changes to shareholders when they meet in June, it said. The†Financial Services Agency†ordered Mizuho earlier in the day to suspend some lending business with consumer credit companies from January 20 to February 19. It admonished the bank for management and organizational failures that led to the problems. The regulators conducted a rare second round of investigations at Mizuho after the bank acknowledged giving the authorities false information on how it handled the loan problem. The FSA issued a business improvement order to Mizuho in late September for failing to take action for two years after learning that some of its loans had been made to "anti-social forces", a euphemism for organized crime. The 230 small transactions totaling about $2 million, mostly made up of car loans, were made by Mizuho consumer-finance affiliate†Orient†Corp &lt;8585.T&gt; and were among bulk loans the bank later bought from†Orient. (Additional reporting by Noriyuki Hirata; Editing by Shinichi Saoshiro and Hugh Lawson)
ConvergEx Group chief market strategist Nick Colas believes the rise in sales of pickup trucks in the U.S. is one of the most important charts of the year. "Demand for these vehicles is as pure a measure of actual (rather than reported) small business confidence as you are likely to find," says Colas. "We‚Äôre not back to the 2007 highs in terms of demand, but this small slice of the automotive market shows that the U.S. economy is solidly on the mend." The charts below show what Colas is talking about. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler
AmazonWinter is always a good time to stay in and catch up on a little finance reading. In case you missed them, we've compiled a list of 22 classic works that every Wall Streeter should read. These are the books that show up time and again in lists of books recommended by the pros themselves. Topics covered include everything from the fundamentals of investing to the stories behind some of the Street's most speculative episodes in history.
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA couple kisses in front of a stock quotation board displaying Japan's Nikkei average outside a brokerage in Tokyo December 25, 2013. Japan's Nikkei share average hit a six-year closing high on Wednesday, supported by optimism over the global economy and hopes for fresh buying by Japanese retail investors due to upcoming tax changes.Japan's Nikkei rallied 1.0% to 16,174, a six-year high. China's Shanghai Composite, however, tumbled 1.6% to 2,073 as investors continue to be nervous about potential credit market problems. European markets are closed for Boxing Day. U.S. markets will be open today. Futures will begin trading at 6:00 a.m. ET. Later today, we'll get the latest weekly tally of U.S. initial jobless claims. Economists estimate claims fell to 347,000 from 379,000 a week ago. "Initial jobless claims likely fell back after two weeks of elevated readings," said Citi's D'Antonio. "But the four-week moving average continued to rise. The number of beneficiaries probably remained high given the surge in first filings of late."
REUTERS/Umit BektasTurkey's newly appointed Interior Minister Efkan Ala (3rd L) listens to prime minister Tayyip Erdogan as he is flanked by top prime ministry officials during a news conference in Ankara, December 25, 2013. ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey's opposition accused scandal-hit Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday of trying to rule via a secretive "deep state", after a cabinet reshuffle that would tighten controls on police already beleaguered by government-ordered purges. Among 10 new loyalist ministers Erdogan named late on Wednesday was Efkan Ala, a former governor of the restive Diyarbakir province who will wield the powerful Interior portfolio and oversee Turkish domestic security. Ala replaces Muammer Guler, one of three cabinet members who resigned after their sons were detained in a graft probe that erupted on December 17. Guler, who like Erdogan had called the case baseless and a plot, sacked or reassigned dozens of police officers involved including the chief of the force in Istanbul. "He (Erdogan) is trying to put together a cabinet that will not show any opposition to him. In this context, Efkan Ala has a key role," Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the head of the biggest opposition party CHP, said in remarks carried by Turkish media. "Erdogan has a deep state, (his) AK Party has a deep state and Efkan Ala is one of the elements of that deep state," added Kilicdaroglu, using a term that for Turks denotes a shadowy power structure unhindered by democratic checks and balances. During his three terms in office, the Islamist-rooted Erdogan has transformed Turkey, cutting back its once-dominant secularist military and overseeing rapid economic expansion. He weathered unprecedented anti-government protests that swept major cities in mid-2013. But the corruption scandal has drawn an EU call for the independence of Turkey's judiciary to be safeguarded and has rattled stocks and the lira, with the currency falling to a historical low of 2.1025 against the dollar on Monday. RIVALRY The affair is a potent and personal one for Erdogan. It lays bare his rivalry with Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based Turkish cleric whose Hizmet (Service) movement claims at least a million faithful including senior police officers and judges. Another of the three cabinet members who quit on Wednesday over their sons' detention, Environment Minister Erdogan Bayraktar, broke ranks by urging the premier to follow suit. The Turkish leader, in power for 11 years and facing local elections in March and a national ballot in 2015, was unmoved. Vowing no tolerance for corruption, he said on Wednesday graft investigation was tainted by foreign interests. Unlike anyone else in the 20-member cabinet, Ala is not a member of parliament and thus does not answer directly to a constituency. In his previous post as undersecretary of the prime ministry, political sources told Reuters, he urged a crackdown on demonstrators who flooded the streets over the summer in protest at what they see as Erdogan's authoritarianism. "Who would you trust other than your undersecretary, with whom you have been working closely for years?" said one government source, who characterized the new ministers as "surprise" picks conveying Erdogan's desire for fresh faces. (Additional reporting by Humeyra Pamuk and Orhan Coskun; Writing by Dan Williams; Editing by Andrew Roche)
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA man talks on his iPhone in Beijing.SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's economic growth is likely to come in at 7.6 percent this year, according to a cabinet report cited by the official Xinhua news agency, just above the government's target of 7.5 percent and slightly below last year's 7.7 percent. Xu Shaoshi, head of China's top economic planning body, told lawmakers in a briefing on the report uncertainties remain in the global economic recovery, and the international market has failed to produce strong demand, Xinhua said late on Wednesday. Domestically, higher labor and environmental costs for enterprises pose challenges, he added. "We cannot deny a downward pressure on economic growth," Xinhua quoted Xu as saying. Xu is head of the National Development and Reform Commission. The forecast is in line with analysts' predictions of around 7.6-7.7 percent in 2013, but still puts China's growth near the weakest pace since the Asian 1997-98 financial crisis. Stability rather than fast growth remains the watchword as President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang seek to push through sweeping plans to restructure China's economy so it is driven by consumption and services rather than exports and investment. Economic data for November showed sustained momentum from a mid-year pick-up into the final quarter, indicating the economy was on track to reach this year's official growth target. Sources at top government think tanks told Reuters this week that for 2014, China will likely use the same 7.5 percent growth target it set for this year. The cabinet report also said that China will further enhance interest-rate flexibility and coordination on using various policies, including for fiscal, monetary, industrial, land use and environmental ones, Xinhua said. The government will carefully deal with the issue of local government debt while ensuring reasonable needs for liquidity, the report said. Official figures for fourth-quarter and 2013 gross domestic product will be announced next month. (Reporting by Kazunori Takada; Editing by Paul Tait and Richard Borsuk)
REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (C) is led by a Shinto priest as he visits Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo, December 26, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited a shrine on Thursday that is seen by critics as a symbol of Tokyo's wartime aggression, infuriating China and South Korea and prompting a message of concern from the United States about deteriorating ties between the North Asian neighbors. China and South Korea have repeatedly expressed anger in the past over Japanese politicians' visits to Yasukuni Shrine, where Japanese leaders convicted as war criminals by an Allied tribunal after World War Two are honored along with those who died in battle. The two countries have been especially touchy about visits to the shrine by serving Japanese prime ministers, and Abe is the first leader in office to pay homage at Yasukuni in the past seven years. Business ties between China and Japan, the world's second- and third-largest economies, have improved after a downturn sparked by a flare-up last year in a row over tiny East China Sea islands controlled by Japan but also claimed by China. But worries are growing that an unintended incident between Japanese and Chinese aircraft and ships playing cat-and-mouse near the disputed isles could escalate into a military clash. Abe, a conservative who took office for a second term exactly one year ago, said he did not intend to hurt feelings in neighboring nations. "There is criticism based on the misconception that this is an act to worship war criminals, but I visited Yasukuni Shrine to report to the souls of the war dead on the progress made this year and to convey my resolve that people never again suffer the horrors of war," he told reporters after the visit. Television carried live video of his motorcade making its way to the shrine, built in 1896 by Emperor Meiji to enshrine war dead. Yasukuni played a key role in the wartime state Shinto religion which mobilized the population to fight in the name of a divine emperor. Abe, dressed in a morning suit and a silver tie, bowed at the shrine before following a Shinto priest into an inner sanctum. Stressing that it was natural for a nation's leader to pay his respects to those who died for their country, Abe said: "I have no intention to hurt the feelings of the Chinese or Korean people." Abe also said he shared the view of past Japanese leaders who had paid their respects at the shrine that ties with China and South Korea were important and that to make them firm was in Japan's national interests - and said that he would like to explain that if given the opportunity. REUTERS/Toru HanaiJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (C) bows beside a Shinto priest as he visits Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo December 26, 2013.A "BRAZEN" ACT Tokyo's relations with Beijing and Seoul are already strained by territorial rows and disputes stemming from Japan's wartime occupation of large parts of China and its 1910-1945 colonization of the Korean peninsula. For many in China and South Korea, Yasukuni remains a symbol of Japan's military atrocities. Among those honored there are 14 World War Two leaders convicted by the Allied tribunal as "Class A" war criminals, including then prime minister Hideki Tojo. A museum in the shrine's grounds depicts the Pacific war as one Japan was forced to fight in self-defense and has been criticized for ignoring the atrocities Imperial Japanese troops committed in Asia. China's foreign ministry swiftly called the visit a "brazen" act. "The Chinese government expresses strong indignation at the Japanese leader's trampling on the feelings of the people of China and the other war victim nations and the open challenge to historical justice...and expresses strong protest and serious condemnation to Japan," it said. A commentary in state-run news agency Xinhua added: "Choosing a sensitive time to visit a highly controversial and notorious place, Abe knows perfectly what he is doing and the consequences. Instead of a pledge against war, as Abe has claimed, the visit is a calculated provocation to stoke further tension." China later summoned Japan's ambassador to Beijing to lodge "strong opposition" to the visit, Xinhua said. South Korea termed the visit a deplorable and anachronistic act that damaged ties between the two countries and summoned a top Japanese diplomat in Seoul to protest. "We cannot withhold regret and anger over the visit," said Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism Yoo Jin-ryong. Washington - which has welcomed Abe's more proactive defense policies but been unhappy at his historical revisionism - also expressed disappointment. "Japan's leadership has taken an action that will exacerbate tensions with Japan's neighbors," a U.S. Embassy statement in Tokyo said. "The United States hopes that both Japan and its neighbors will find constructive ways to deal with sensitive issues from the past, to improve their relations, and to promote cooperation in advancing our shared goals of regional peace and stability." The head of Abe's coalition partner, the Buddhist-backed New Komeito - who had urged the premier not to make the pilgrimage - called the visit regrettable in light of the problems it as likely to cause with Japan's neighbors. IMPACT OF VISIT UNKNOWN Japanese exports to China have recovered after a sharp drop following scattered protests in China in 2012. That was sparked by Japan buying disputed East China Sea isles that are claimed by both countries to fend off a bid by the then-governor of Tokyo, a nationalist, to purchase them. It was unclear whether Abe's Yasukuni visit, the first by a serving premier since 2006, would dampen business ties again. "We don't know how much impact the visit might have. I hope this will not develop into a huge problem." Kyodo news agency quoted a Japanese car company executive as saying. Former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's annual visits to Yasukuni during his 2001-2006 tenure were a major factor in the chill in ties between Japan and its Asian neighbors. Abe, who succeeded Koizumi in 2006, stayed away from Yasukuni during that term and repaired frayed ties with China with a summit. But he later said he regretted not visiting Yasukuni as premier. Paying respects at the shrine is part of Abe's conservative agenda to restore Japan's pride in its past and recast its wartime history with a less apologetic tone. He also wants to ease the restraints of Japan's post-World War Two pacifist constitution on the military. Some political experts said Abe had probably calculated that his relatively high voter ratings, based largely on hopes for plans to revive the economy, could withstand any criticism over his Yasukuni pilgrimage, which would also shore up support in his conservative base. He may also have felt that with ties with Beijing and Seoul in a deep freeze, a visit would hardly make things worse. "He probably thinks that it's OK, that's he's relatively popular and it's a matter of conviction," said Koichi Nakano, a professor at Sophia University in Tokyo. "But everyone knew with Koizumi ... he wasn't a revisionist nationalist. But with Abe, that is precisely the question some people were asking. Now we know the answer." (Additional reporting by Mari Saito and Kiyoshi Takenaka in Tokyo and Ben Blanchard and Sui-lee Wee in Beijing; Editing by Shinichi Saoshiro and Raju Gopalakrishnan)
