REUTERS/China DailyA worker operates a machine to cut a pipeline at a factory in Qingdao, Shandong province November 29, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - Growth in China's factories slowed slightly in December as export orders and output weakened, official data showed on Wednesday, adding to views that while the world's second-largest economy remains resilient, it lost some steam in late 2013. The official Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), published by the National Bureau of Statistics, dipped to 51.0 in December. Economists polled by Reuters had expected the PMI to ease to 51.2 from November's 51.4. The 50-point mark separates an expansion in activity from a contraction. Many economists have said China's economy was likely to show weaker momentum in the final three months of 2013 after a rebound between July and September, due to slowing credit growth and a fall-off in restocking demand. "Both domestic and overseas demand was weaker than expected. Domestically, tight liquidity is weighing on factory output and orders," said Li Heng, an economist at Minsheng Securities in Beijing. "The economy is under some under downward pressures but the slowdown remains modest. We still need to observe on the trend next year. We think Q4 GDP growth should be 7.7 pct and the same for Q1 2014," he said, adding that he saw economic growth for 2014 at around 7.5 percent. The government has said industrial output may have grown 9.8 percent in 2013, and economic growth could come in at 7.6 percent, just above the official target of 7.5 percent and slightly below the 7.7 percent pace in 2012. Sources at top government think tanks told Reuters this week that the government would likely set a 7.5 percent growth target for this year. The PMI survey showed new export orders contracted in December for the first time since July, with the sub-index at 49.8 from November's 50.6, pointing to weakness in overseas demand. Manufacturing employment contracted further in December, with the sub-index falling to 48.7 from November's 49.6. "The decline in the December PMI points to some slowdown in economic growth, said Zhang Liqun, an economist at the Development Research Centre, which helps compile the PMI. "Industrial output growth is likely to slow in the future and export growth could also ease, showing the economy still faces some downward pressure," he said. The official PMI broadly mirrors a preliminary PMI survey released in mid-December by HSBC and Markit Economics, which showed factory sector activity grew at the slowest pace in three months due to subdued output. The final HSBC/Markit PMI is due on Thursday, at 9:45 am 0145 GMT). It is more weighted towards smaller and private companies than the official one, which contains more large and state-owned firms. (China economics team; Editing by John Mair)
Robertus Pudyanto/Getty Images) FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Raymond James Thinks Investors Should Stick With These 12 Resolutions In 2014 If They Want To Meet Their Financial Goals (FA MAg)  Raymond James is out with 12 financial resolutions for 2014. 1. Update your balance sheets, asses your goals and see what adjustments you need to make to meet them. 2. "Review your budget and spending habits." 3. Make sure you have¬† titled your estates properly. 4. Make sure you have updated your beneficiaries. 5. Make sure you have "easily accessible cash reserves for six months." 6. Make sure your asset allocation is in keeping with your financial goals and that you are comfortable with your risk exposure. 7. Evaluate how secure your sources of retirement income are. 8. Make sure your social security returns are correct. 9. "Review the tax efficiency of your charitable giving." 10. Make sure your retirement plan is on track and if it isn't assess the changes you need to make. 11. Make adjustments to your portfolio if needed. 12. Make an appointment with your advisor to review your portfolio.  Scott Moore's Fund Invests Like Buffett (Bloomberg News) Warren Buffett famously said, "put all of your eggs in one basket and then watch that basket." Bloomberg News' Lewis Braham thinks Scott Moore, founder of Nuance Investments follows this principle quite closely. "It is a classic value strategy similar to Warren Buffett‚Äôs except we don‚Äôt hold companies forever like him," Braham told Bloomberg. "We're trying to identify businesses that are No 1 or No. 2 in market share in their industries. We do a thorough analysis to see if they have a sustainable competitive advantage. " "We try to buy them when there‚Äôs a transitory problem causing their earnings power to be depressed below normal levels. We calculate what the stock should be worth when earnings recover to normalized levels and what the worst case scenario could be. If the potential reward far exceeds the downside risk, we buy." The Upcoming Earnings Season Will Be Interesting (Business Insider)  For Q4 2013, 94 companies have issued negative earnings guidance, though the amount by which the companies have lowered expectations has been below average, according to FactSet's John Butters. Meanwhile 13 companies issued positive EPS guidance. "The market has reacted negatively in aggregate to the negative EPS announcements issued by S&amp;P 500 corporations during the fourth quarter," he wrote. "For the 94 companies that have issued negative EPS guidance for Q4 2013 to date, the average price change (2 days before the guidance was issued through 2 days after the guidance was issued) was -1.5%. This percentage is nearly double the average of -0.8% recorded over the past five years." Interestingly however the market also reacted negative to positive EPS announcements issued by S&amp;P500 companies in Q4. "Of the 13 companies that have issued positive EPS guidance for Q4 2013, the average price change (2 days before the guidance was issued through 2 days after the guidance was issued) was -0.1%. This percentage is well below the average over the past five years of +3.0%. In fact, this marks the first time since Q4 2008 (-0.2%) that the average price change for companies issuing positive guidance has been negative." Barry Ritholtz's Official 2014 Market Predictions Are Out, And They're Brilliant (The Big Picture) Barry Ritholtz put out his 2014 predictions. Here's a breakdown for the U.S. Essentially that's just Ritholtz saying it's a fools game to predict what will happen in the near term.
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri Yup. Called it.2013 wasn't a good year. It was an incredible year. Entering its fifth year of the bull market, the S&amp;P 500 actually gained steam and surged 30%, booking its best year since 1997. No one saw this coming. The most bullish strategist at the beginning of the year expected the S&amp;P 500 to top out at 1,615 this year, a level the market cleared in May. But this conservative forecasting was understandable as we entered the year with a "fiscal cliff," continued with the threat of massive federal budget cuts, and entered Q4 with a government shutdown. Raymond James' Jeff Saut has a nice summary of all of the worries plaguing the markets in the recent past: Speaking to the news backdrop, consider this. For the past two years the markets have been confronted with numerous issues. The debt downgrade, the fiscal cliff, the sequester, the government shutdown, Dodd-Frank, rumors China would implode, the call that interest rates would skyrocket, Europe‚Äôs debt crisis, a potential U.S. debt default, Fukushima, the Arab Spring, Iran, North Korea, Iran, Egypt, Syria, etc., yet the equity markets traded higher... Citi's Tobias Levkovich took a similar tone in a note to clients on Friday: Who would have ‚Äúthunk‚Äù it? A market soaring 28% was not in almost anyone‚Äôs calculation back in late December 2012 since the probabilities of such a gain were extremely low given S&amp;P 500 history. Imagining a bipartisan budget agreement in Washington without rancorous rhetoric similarly was not on any pundit‚Äôs prediction list, especially after a nasty government shutdown. And, yet, the Murray/Ryan bill was just worked out. Moreover, despite the botched roll out of the Affordable Care Act/Obamacare program, the economy seems to be gathering some steam even in the face of health care uncertainty. In this context, it has been a year of surprises... This year's rally amid all of this worrying reminded us of¬†Warren Buffett's 2008 op-ed for the New York Times, which was published during the darkest days of the financial crisis. Here's an excerpt that rings true today. A little history here: During the Depression, the Dow hit its low, 41, on July 8, 1932. Economic conditions, though, kept deteriorating until Franklin D. Roosevelt took office in March 1933. By that time, the market had already advanced 30 percent. Or think back to the early days of World War II, when things were going badly for the United States in Europe and the Pacific. The market hit bottom in April 1942, well before Allied fortunes turned. Again, in the early 1980s, the time to buy stocks was when inflation raged and the economy was in the tank. In short, bad news is an investor‚Äôs best friend. It lets you buy a slice of America‚Äôs future at a marked-down price. Over the long term, the stock market news will be good. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497. We're not trying to suggest that Warren Buffett could've or would've predicted any particular year would see such huge returns in any given year.* But the lesson is that there will always be reasons to be worried. Yet the markets manage to bounce back because the people driving the economy aren't going to just drop out and let the world come to an end. "A simple rule dictates my buying: Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful," said Buffett. People who have followed that rule really have something to celebrate these days. *From the NY Times op-ed: "Let me be clear on one point: I can‚Äôt predict the short-term movements of the stock market. I haven‚Äôt the faintest idea as to whether stocks will be higher or lower a month ‚Äî or a year ‚Äî from now."
Business Insider/Alyson ShontellStanford University's SAE fraternityRushing fraternities is a nightmare. One survivor of the rush process at a chapter of the deadliest frat in the U.S., according to Bloomberg News, compared his experience to that of a spy getting tortured for information. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, one of the country's oldest and most prestigious frats, has accounted for "nine deaths related to drinking, drugs and hazing since 2006, more than any other Greek organization," according to a new investigation by Bloomberg's John Hechinger and David Glovin. If the fraternity's name rings an alarming bell, it's because SAE hazing rituals were the focus of the Rolling Stone piece that caused such an uproar last year. Bloomberg spoke to former pledges who rushed SAE at Salisbury University in Maryland, in 2012, a particularly bad year, who reported the frat to school officials. The ensuing investigation, concluded in November 2012, shut down the chapter and banned them from campus until 2014, after which SAE will return with a year-long probationary period. Sigma Alpha Epsilon is older than the Civil War. Founded in 1856, the frat boasts a number of famous alumni, particularly in finance, including former billionaire T. Boone Pickens, and former President William McKinley. William Faulkner was also a member. But SAE pledges at Salisbury in 2012 had to survive gruesome rituals in order to join the frat's prestigious pipeline to finance and power. So what does it take to enter one of the oldest annals of power in the Greek system? The mental fortitude of a spy being tortured for top-secret information. Pledges were starved and secluded in a basement for hours, forced to drink after being confined for so long, forced to dress like women, paddled, and repeatedly verbally abused with homophobic slurs during the pledge process, according to former pledges and university documents reviewed by Bloomberg. "It honestly reminded me of Guantanamo Bay," said Justin Stuart, who was 19 years old when he rushed SAE in 2012. Stuart reported everything to the university after partaking in SAE's pledge process. Perhaps the most disturbing incident his class of pledges went through was when they were locked in a dark basement, with all windows covered by blankets, and continually blasted with clips of Rammstein's "Du Hast," a pounding metal song, for roughly eight or nine hours. Fraternity brothers abused the pledges in different ways over the course of the evening: At 9 p.m., brothers ran down the stairs to the basement and told pledges to put their backs against the wall, with their heads down, Stuart said. The older members screamed insults, according to Stuart. "You're a worthless piece of ****." "I'll make you suck a ****." "You're a good-for-nothing [homophobic slur]," Stuart quoted members saying in a written account that he said he also gave university officials. Fraternity members shattered liquor bottles against the wall, Stuart told campus police, according to a police report. Members ripped shirts off pledges and told them they couldn't eat, including a student on medication who required food at regular intervals, Stuart told police. At one point, an upperclassman spat in the face of a pledge named Ryan Afifi, Stuart and Kellner said. Another incident involved the pledges dressing like women, in dresses and high heels, while upperclassmen took turns hitting their butts with a wooden paddle. On a different night they were locked in the basement without food or water for hours again. But this time, when they emerged pledges were taken immediately to a party and forced to drink different kinds of hard alcohol. Despite the two-year suspension and one-year probationary period, the Salisbury chapter was never punished by its national body. "We're still recognized by our national office as having a chapter in good standing," Dwight Marshall, Salisbury SAE chapter's volunteer alumni adviser, told Bloomberg.
The final tallies are in, and at this point, the winners and losers of 2013 probably won't surprise you. The Nikkei 225 and the S&amp;P 500 stock indices top the list of best-performing major asset classes of 2013, while gold and U.S. Treasuries are the worst among the losers. The dollar-yen exchange rate and the Euro Stoxx 50 index both had a spectacular year as well, while West Texas Intermediate crude oil, the euro, and the British pound sterling all eked out gains against the dollar, and emerging-market assets (proxied by MSCI's EM stock index, JPMorgan's Emerging Market Bond Index, and the Shanghai Composite) all ended the year lower than where they started. The chart below compares returns: Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)
REUTERS/Bogdan CristelA disastrous year for the bears.Wow. What a year. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsContestants compete in the swimsuit segment of the Miss Venezuela 2012 pageant in Caracas.U.S. stocks have had an incredible year, with the S&amp;P 500 surging a whopping 29%, something not seen since 1997.¬† But that's nothing compared with the year stocks have had in Venezuela. Thanks in part to¬†annual inflation of 56%, stocks climbed 480% in the socialist-run nation.  In November, President Nicholas Maduro called business owners in Venezuela "barbaric capitalist parasites" and accused them of price gouging. The business owners say failed socialist policies and restricted access to foreign reserves have made the Bolivar worthless. Dollars now sell for 64 Venezuelan bolivars on the black market. For what that's worth, it's been great for stocks. Here's the year-to-date chart of the Caracas Stock Exchange Stock Market Index via Bloomberg:¬†
GlenCooper/flickrFortune's Dan Primack reports Fortress Investment Group is launching a Bitcoin fund. Back in October, Fortress CIO Michael Novogratz alluded to his firm's growing interest in the cryptocurrency, saying,¬†‚ÄúPut a little money in Bitcoin...Come back in a few years and it‚Äôs going to be worth a lot.‚Äù It now seems Fortress is putting its $58 billion assets-under-management where its mouth is.¬†¬† From Primack: "... The Fortress effort will be something like an unlisted currency ETF (similar to [SecondMarket's] Bitcoin Investment Trust), with Fortress also perhaps raising a separate vehicle to back Bitcoin-related startups. And there likely is some relationship to a new Bitcoin-related fund raised by Pantera Capital, a San Francisco-based hedge fund whose clients are known to include several Fortress executives." The aforementioned SecondMarket was the first major firm to launch a major Bitcoin investment fund (we're not counting the Winklevoss' Bitcoin ETF, which does not yet officially exist). A few weeks ago, SecondMarket founder and CEO Barry Silbert predicted 2014 would be "the year of Wall Street and Bitcoin." It seems to be shaking out that way. Click here to read Primack's full story at Fortune ¬ª
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA model poses with Olympus Corp's mirrorless OM-D E-M1 digital camera during its unveiling in Tokyo September 10, 2013. TOKYO (Reuters) - Panasonic Corp and¬†Japan's other mid-tier camera makers have a battle on their hands to win over a¬†smartphone¬†"selfie" generation to mirrorless cameras that held such promise when they were launched around five years ago. Panasonic, like peers¬†Fujifilm¬†Holdings and¬†Olympus¬†Corp, has been losing money on its cameras since¬†mobile phones¬†that take high-quality photos ate into the compact camera business. This year, compact camera sales are likely to fall more than 40 percent to fewer than 59 million, according to industry researcher IDC. Meanwhile, sales of mirrorless cameras - seen as a promising format between low-end compacts and high-end single-lens reflex (SLR) cameras - are sputtering as buyers put connectivity above picture quality. A 40 percent drop in Panasonic's overall camera sales in April-September left the imaging division vulnerable as the company's mid-term plan to March 2016 demands unprofitable businesses turn themselves around or face the axe. "If you look mid-to-long term,¬†digital camera¬†makers are slipping and the market is becoming an oligopoly," said Credit Suisse imaging analyst¬†Yu Yoshida. Panasonic held 3.1 percent of the camera market in July-September, down from 3.8 percent a year earlier, according to IDC.¬†Canon¬†Inc,¬†Nikon¬†Corp and¬†Sony¬†Corp controlled over 60 percent between them. "Only those who have a strong brand and are competitive on price will last - and only¬†Canon,¬†Nikon¬†and¬†Sony¬†fulfil that criteria," added Yoshida. Canon¬†and¬†Nikon¬†dominate the SLR camera market, while¬†Sony¬†could survive any shakeout thanks to its strength in making sensors for a number of camera manufacturers as well as collaboration with its¬†smartphone¬†division. ReutersSPUTTERING MIRRORLESS Panasonic,¬†Fujifilm¬†and¬†Olympus¬†are trying to fend off the¬†smartphone¬†threat by cutting compacts, targeting niche markets such as deep-sea diving, and launching the higher-margin mirrorless models. The mirrorless format promised mid-tier makers an area of growth as the dominance of¬†Canon¬†and¬†Nikon¬†all but shut them out of SLRs, where¬†Sony¬†is a distant third. Neither Panasonic nor¬†Fujifilm¬†makes SLRs, and¬†Olympusstopped developing them this year. Mirrorless cameras such as Panasonic's Lumix GM eliminate the internal mirrors that optical viewfinders depend on, so users compose images via electronic viewfinders or liquid crystal displays. This allows the camera to be smaller than an SLR, while offering better quality than compacts or¬†smartphones¬†due to larger sensors and interchangeable lenses. "SLRs are heavy and noisy, whereas mirrorless are small and quiet. While some people say SLRs still have better image quality, mirrorless (cameras) have improved to the point where they're equivalent, if not superior," said Hiroshi Tanaka, director of¬†Fujifilm's optical division. Critics grumble that LCD screens can never compete with the clarity of an optical viewfinder, and that picture-taking speeds are too slow for fast-action subjects such as sports. Nevertheless, the mirrorless format has been a hit in¬†Japan¬†since Panasonic launched the first domestically produced model in 2008, the G1. They made up 36 percent of¬†Japan's interchangeable lens camera shipments in January-October, according to researcher CIPA. But the format is yet to catch on in the¬†United States¬†and¬†Europe, where shipments made up just 10.5 percent and 11.2 percent of all interchangeable camera shipments, respectively, and where consumers tend to equate image quality with size and heft. Sales, which globally are less than a quarter of those of SLRs, fell by a fifth in the three weeks to December 14 in the¬†United States, which included the busy 'Black Friday' shopping week, while SLR sales rose 1 percent, according to NPD, another industry researcher. "I would focus on the detachable lens market proper, excluding mirrorless, and focus on connectivity," said Ben Arnold, director of imaging analysis at NPD. "How do you bridge that gap between high photo-capture quality and high-quality camera devices and the cloud where every amateur photographer's images live?" SMARTPHONE¬†COMPROMISE Panasonic,¬†Olympus¬†and¬†Fujifilm¬†do not yet have a definitive answer. Consumers don't want to connect cameras to phones, analysts say; they want a single interface that can instantly upload photographs to social networking sites such as Facebook Inc and¬†Twitter Inc. Sony's compromise is its two QX lenses released this quarter. These come with their own sensors and processors, and clip onto¬†smartphones¬†through which the user operates them wirelessly. They are pocket-sized and produce photographs of a quality rivaling that of a compact camera. "There was a lot of internal disagreement over the product. It's the kind of product you either love or hate," saidShigeki Ishizuka, president of¬†Sony's¬†digital imaging¬†business. But¬†Sony¬†appears to have connected with consumers as demand soon outstripped production. Some are even using the lenses in a way¬†Sony¬†didn't intend: placed at a distance while they press the shutter on their¬†smartphoneto take self-portraits, or selfies. "We had no idea how much the QX would sell initially when we put it out. We didn't set any targets," said Ishizuka. It is little surprise¬†Sony¬†was the camera maker to break the mould as it is the only one to also have a profitablesmartphone¬†division. "There are so many consumers that were hungry for¬†Sony¬†to do this," said¬†Chris Chute, IDC's¬†digital imagingresearch director. "They've (waited for¬†Sony) to come out with something really innovative, almost like the Walkman (portable music player)." (Editing by Christopher Cushing and Edmund Klamann)
Mark Lennihan / APChina announced a string of reforms after its third plenum in November. This was followed soon after by the Central Economic Work Conference (CEWC) in December, an annual meeting that lays out the agenda for the next year. †Yale professor and former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, Stephen Roach, thinks that there is a disconnect between the long-term "strategic" focus of the Plenum, which is aimed at rebalancing China's economy. And the "tactical focus" of the CEWC which emphasizes stable growth. While rebalancing the economy and slowing growth should be expected, that the CEWC† "failed to consider Chinaís growth slowdown in this strategic context, placing considerable weight instead on the macro-stabilization imperatives of 'proactive fiscal and prudent monetary policies,'" writes Roach in a new Project Syndicate column. He describes these efforts as "kitchen-sink" policies, a mishmash that makes the agenda of policymakers unclear. "In fact, only two of the six major economic tasks identified by the Work Conference fit neatly with the Third Plenumís strategic agenda. The call for enhanced social security is consistent with the Third Plenumís proposal to allocate 30% of state-owned enterprisesí profits to fund safety-net programs such as pensions and health care. Likewise, the emphasis on marketsí ìdecisive roleî in upgrading Chinaís industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the Third Plenumís goal of achieving a market-based shift to a consumer society. "What emerges from all of this is yet another example of the timeworn ìkitchen sinkî approach to Chinese economic policymaking ñ countless proposals, initiatives, and goals that are loosely connected at best, and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies. A new approach is needed, and it will require three key changes to Chinaís economic-policy framework." There seems to be a huge disconnect between what policymakers are saying and doing. Read the entire piece at Project Syndicate ª
Flickr / mezoneIt's the last day of the year, which means it's also the last day of Q4. And that means earnings season is around the corner. Some analysts have noted that earnings expectations have been particularly negative this time around. "For Q4 2013, 94 companies have issued negative EPS guidance while 13 companies have issued positive EPS guidance," said FactSet's John Butters in a research note today. "If 94 is the final number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for the quarter, it will mark the highest number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance since FactSet began tracking guidance data in 2006... If 13 is the final number of companies issuing positive EPS guidance, it will tie the mark for the lowest number of companies issuing positive EPS guidance for a quarter since FactSet began tracking guidance data in 2006." Butters offers an additional layer of information to consider. "Although the number of companies that have issued negative EPS guidance is high, the amount by which these have companies have lowered expectations has been below average," he wrote. "For the 107 companies in the S&amp;P 500 that have issued EPS guidance for the third quarter, the EPS guidance has been 5.7% below the mean estimate on average. This percentage decline is smaller than the trailing 5-year average of -11.1% and trailing 5-year median of -7.8% for the index. If -5.7% is the final surprise percentage for the quarter, it will mark the lowest surprise percentage since Q2 2012 (-0.4%)." But as all of this has happened, the S&amp;P 500 has managed to climb to new highs. So, does any of this matter? Butters took a look at the specific stocks reporting the negative guidance. "The market has reacted negatively in aggregate to the negative EPS announcements issued by S&amp;P 500 corporations during the fourth quarter," he wrote. "For the 94 companies that have issued negative EPS guidance for Q4 2013 to date, the average price change (2 days before the guidance was issued through 2 days after the guidance was issued) was -1.5%. This percentage is nearly double the average of -0.8% recorded over the past five years." So, investors and traders are actually punishing these specific stocks for disppointing news. And it gets worse. It appears that good news isn't good either. Rather, investors are actually selling good news: The market has also reacted negatively in aggregate to the positive EPS preannouncements issued by S&amp;P 500 corporations during the fourth quarter. Of the 13 companies that have issued positive EPS guidance for Q4 2013, the average price change (2 days before the guidance was issued through 2 days after the guidance was issued) was -0.1%. This percentage is well below the average over the past five years of +3.0%. In fact, this marks the first time since Q4 2008 (-0.2%) that the average price change for companies issuing positive guidance has been negative. However, only five of the 13 companies that have issued positive EPS guidance recorded a decrease in price. One company accounts for most of the average decline for the group: Red Hat. On September 24, the company stated that it would report EPS between $0.34 and $0.35 for the fourth quarter, compared to the mean estimate of $0.34. The price of the stock decreased more than 12% (to $46.62 from $53.22) during the two days before the guidance was issued through two days after the guidance was issued. Yes, Red Hat accounted for a large portion of the negative measure. Still, it is nevertheless a cause for pause for anyone with diversified portfolios with stocks ready to blow up. It's hard to judge what any of this really means because it ultimately represents the difference between analysts' estimates and managements' estimates, which is effectively the difference between errors. But the fact that stocks are already selling on any company-specific news should make for an interesting upcoming earnings season. FactSet
WealthTrack, NBRBizRptJoe LaVorgna (L) and David Rosenberg (R)The 20+ year bull market in bonds came with tumbling interest rates. And for years, economists, strategists, and various pundits incorrectly predicted that interest rates had "nowhere to go but up." But rates began to rally in May, which was when Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke hinted that the Fed could soon begin to taper its large-scale asset purchase program (LSAP). Also known as quantitative easing, the LSAP consisted of the monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage securities. Tapering is considered the first step on the long path of unwinding the Fed's ultra-easy monetary policy, a process that would mean higher, more normal interest rates. Earlier this month, Business Insider asked Wall Street's top experts for what they considered to be the most important chart of the year. Deutsche Bank's Joseph LaVorgna and Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg each sent us long-term charts of the 10-year Treasury Note yield, which turned up sharply this year. "Proves two things: (i) that the secular bull market in bonds has ended and (ii) the Fed may be able to influence yields out the curve, but can't totally control them," said Rosenberg. "Rates have only one way to go: higher," declared LaVorgna. So, will 2014 confirm that rates indeed had nowhere to go but up? Business Insider, Gluskin Sheff Business Insider, Deutsche Bank
TradingPitHistory.comIf you've ever wondered what all those crazy hand signals that get thrown around trading floors mean, TradingPitHistory.com can help, a bit.¬† They've posted great images on how to count in the language we're gonna call "Pit." "Numerical hand signals are generally constant throughout all trading floors but slight variations are made with figures greater than 99," writes Trading Pit History's Ryan Carlson. "Price is displayed away from the body and the quantity is displayed close to the face. Generally price is displayed before quantity ("price on quantity") to buy and it's the opposite to sell ("quantity at price")." It's a relatively sophisticated. What follows are signals for the numbers 1 through 10 ‚Äî in reverse order ‚Äî using the signals employed on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) floor. We've put the titles in all-caps to help you visualize the shouting that ostensibly "augments" the signals.
"The Wolf Of Wall Street" Is "The Wolf of Wall Street" what Wall Street is really like? Former trader Raj Mahal offers his review of the movie ó and some real-life stories about just how wild it was. I think "The Wolf of Wall Street" is Martin Scorsese's best movie since "GoodFellas" ó though I'm probably a little biased. I worked as a trader on trading floors since the mid 90s, was a managing director at the age of 28, and often the ringleader of having fun on the trading floor so I have seen a lot of things. I would organize stuff on the trading floor like Chicken McNugget contests and if a guy could eat every item in the vending machine. It was fun and unfortunately will never happen again on Wall Street. The first scene of the movie involves a midget-tossing contest in the middle of Jordan's Belfort's firm, with Leonardo DiCaprio, who plays Belfort, doing†cocaine off a hooker's behind, followed by an ad for Belfort's firm, Stratton Oakmont. Talk about getting straight to the point. Now the question I know that everyone wants to know ó is this what Wall Street is really like? Well, yes and no. I can definitely say there was never midget tossing. We tossed small interns instead. (Kidding.) In all seriousness, I have had breakfast with a guy where there was dwarf tossing at his bachelor party. Before you rush to judgement ó who really is the victim here? The dwarf was paid like a giant. I was at a Wall Street party for St. Patrick's day once, where dwarfs were hired to dress up as leprechauns. I remember i was sitting in a crowded room and someone rubbing my shoulders. I thought it was a female friend of mine that I knew liked me. I remember looking across the room and seeing her so I looked behind me and didn't see anyone. I looked to my left ó nobody. I looked to my right ó the same. I looked down and I noticed this female dwarf rubbing my shoulders and her telling me, "I have this fetish for tall guys (I am 6'5")." I was a little freaked out but I thought one of my friends put her up to it.† (Read more:†An interview with the real 'Wolf of Wall Street') About an hour later, I wanted to go downstairs for a smoke so I went into the bedroom with all the coats. They were all on a bed. From under the coats jumps out the same dwarf who is now naked and she says, "I have been waiting for you." Now, I was the head of trading and rarely got flustered. I said, "Wait for me. I will be right back." Then I went straight home. Belfort starts off as a straight-laced kid ó sort of like me. His first boss, Mark Hanna (played brilliantly by Matthew McConaughey), gives him the advice that the only way to do this job is with coke and hookers. Hanna says this over lunch as he's knocking back his third martini. He also gives this sage advice which is sure make the 99 percent cringe: "Money is a drug that makes you a better person." (Read more:†The top 10 ways sharks and bankers are alike) The movie portrays this as an everyday occurrence. I am not saying coke and hookers don't exist on Wall Street but it's only on really special occasions. Like Tuesdays. And Wednesdays. And Thursdays. But never on Sundays. You see Wall Streeters are like God. On the seventh day, we rest. In all seriousness, I had a friend who was a legend in the business. Let's call him, "John." I was a 24-year-old kid and I had never seen cocaine. John had a counter in his kitchen about 50-feet long. I saw him put a whole eight ball of coke down that stretched across the whole island ó and do it without coming up for air. It was quite a feat. John was at least 20 years older than me and his "girlfriend" at the time was a beautiful 21-year old who went to Harvard ó or so she said. I told her that I went to Penn and she said, "What's that?" (Harvard and Penn are both Ivy League schools.) I remember one time I was over there and she said, "Do you want to see the diamond earrings John bought me?" I said, "Yes." She was so coked up that she came out naked and was pointing at her ears. I told her she had no earrings on. She was completely oblivious to the fact she was naked but she freaked out about the earrings and started throwing things so I left. Some of the other characters in this movie are very accurate. Jonah Hill's character, Donnie Azoff, is an amazing caricature of a Wall Street guy that all Wall Street guys know and that 100 percent of America loathes. He is fat, crude and disgusting. He is the guy who was a loser, befriends the right guy and becomes rich. When he becomes rich, it changes him into a terrible human being. He takes his penis out in the middle of a party when he sees a beautiful woman. He bullies a gay butler. He treats people like they are worthless slime. He berates a junior broker in front of everyone and eats his goldfish.† (Read more:†Want a job on Wall Street? 'Let me sleep with your girlfriend') The shady Swiss banker in the movie who helps them launder money (Jean Dujardin) is simply amazing. He reminds me of a guy I used to work with at a French bank. Every time he gets upset, his English turns into French. He is spot on as all the negatives stereotype of French guys on Wall Street. Shady, untrustworthy, hates Americans. This guy used to sleep on the trading desk at lunch because he would be up all night with his stripper girlfriend he moved to New York from Tokyo. The first time we hung out was at a party at his beautiful Central Park penthouse. The second time, we went to the club where his girlfriend worked. He kept paying her to give me lap dances which was awkward for me. He kept saying, "She looks a lot different on my couch, huh?" Then she kept trying to get me to go in the back room with her. I didn't really know how to feel about that. All in all, I really enjoyed the movie. It was a little over the top but if it wasn't, it wouldn't be as entertaining. All the Wall Street people I know enjoyed it ó especially since that kind of stuff won't ever happen again. The fun has been taken out of the industry and there really is no personal touch anymore. All communication is done by IM, text and email. It is nostalgic for a lot of us. All in all, a must see for the 1 percent, everyone who hates the 1 percent and everyone that wants to be in the 1 percent.
Birinyi Associates If you're worried that we're in another tech bubble ó and there is some evidence we are ó then this chart might scare the pants off you. (It's from Biriny Associates via Mashable.) Those blue bars, indicating the total value of tech IPOs, seem to show an identical pattern happening today as happened 12 years ago. A massive peak, in 1999/2012, followed by a sharp decline in 2000/2013. If you were born prior to 1980, then the first tech bubble ó the so-called dot-com boom ó is viscerally seared into your inner lizard brain: it was a terrifying period in which the economy collapsed seemingly overnight, all because Silicon Valley entrepreneurs peddled companies with no revenue (but lots of users!) into the IPO markets. The period was rounded out by the fall of the World Trade Center towers in a terrorist attack. No one wants to go back there. And, if you look closely at the chart, it appears we are not actually headed back there. That's because the blue bars are not as important on this chart as the green arrows are. The blue bars measure dollar volume. The green arrows measure total count of IPOs. In 2000, 200 tech companies went public. In 2013, only 1/10th of that number have staged an IPO. That does not look like a tech bubble.
Getty Images Entertainment/ Rob KimJordan Belfort attends "The Wolf of Wall Street" screening.Paramount's "The Wolf of Wall Street" opened in theaters on Christmas Day last week, giving moviegoers a glimpse into the affluent, drug-addled lifestyle of Jordan Belfort, who pilfered hundreds of millions of dollars from his clients through his fraudulent brokerage firm Stratton Oakmont. After his conviction in 2003, Jordan Belfort was ordered to pay back $110 million to his victims in restitution payments, $11.6 million of which he has already paid. Jordan Belfort, who also has a cameo appearance at the end of the movie, released a statement through his Facebook page where he revealed that all of the profits he receives through his book and movie deals are going back to his victims. "As you can imagine, I am very busy right now, but I owe this post to all my loyal friends and fans who have supported me since the beginning: For the record, I am not turning over 50% of the profits of the books and the movie, which was what the government had wanted me to do. Instead, I insisted on turning over 100% of the profits of both books and the movie, which is to say, I am not making a single dime on any of this. This should amount to countless millions of dollars and hopefully be more than enough to pay back anyone who is still out there. I thought this was already public information, as I have already said it publicly numerous times, but apparently there is so much NOISE right now that it has gotten lost in the shuffle. So, again, for the record: I am not making any royalties off the film or the books, and I am totally content with that. My income comes from [my] new life, which is far better than my old one. (Although I will admit the Quaaludes were kind of fun, at least in the beginning. Thankfully, they're illegal! and impossible to find!)" Leonardo DiCaprio portrayed Jordan Belfort in the film, which was directed by Martin Scorsese and took in $18.5 million during its opening weekend. It isn't known how much Jordan Belfort made off his book and movie deals, but it seems he still has a long way to go before all of his victims are paid back. In related news, Jordan Belfort might have an additional revenue stream to help with those restitution payments, with the author currently pitching a new reality TV series from Electus. Although the show is still in the early stages of development, it will follow the 51-year-old Jordan Belfort as he steps in to help others who have hit rock-bottom, guiding them on a path to redemption using his unique set of business skills. Electus CEO Chris Grant tracked down Jordan Belfort after he served his 28-month prison term, to develop the pitch. Here's what Chris Grant had to say about the project in a brief statement. "I knew without even seeing a picture of him that he could be a talent<U+2028> both behind and in front of the camera." There is already a high level of interest in the project at several networks, with some executives describing Jordan Belfort, who is now a successful motivational speaker based out of Manhattan Beach, Calif., as "TV gold." "The Wolf of Wall Street" was released Dec. 25, 2013 and stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Matthew McConaughey, Margot Robbie, Jonah Hill, Cristin Milioti,Jon Bernthal, Ethan Suplee, Jon Favreau. The film is directed by Martin Scorsese.
If I asked you to name the biggest online shopping day of the year, what would you guess? Black Friday? Cyber Monday? Free Shipping Day in mid-December? Guess again. Even though Cyber Monday sales were spectacular this year, as online sales surged 20 percent and beat Black Friday receipts, the day didnít top November 11, Singlesí Day in China. Singlesí Day is a day of celebration for people who are single and has become popular among the young in China. China saw so many online purchases on this day that sales exceeded Black Friday and Cyber Monday online purchases in the U.S. In fact, sales on Singlesí Day were nearly double that on Black Friday and Cyber Monday. According to BCA Research, transactions processed through Alibaba totaled $5.75 billion on 11/11. Online sales on Black Friday and Cyber Monday together were only about $3 billion. Online transactions have grown so quickly in China over the past few years, the country may have surpassed the U.S. in becoming the largest e-commerce market in the world. The spectacular growth also ìdefies the widely held consensus of Chinaís perceived ëweakí consumption,î says BCA. The Asian country has become one of the best consumption stories out there, and looking over the next few years, local technology companies are almost certain to benefit. So while many U.S. investors are getting excited about the growing number of initial public offerings in the tech sector, they would be remiss if they didnít look beyond Silicon Valley. After all, the world has drastically changed since the last tech boom. Back then, Chinaís share of world GDP growth was in the single digits; now its share is close to 20 percent. Former state-run economies, such as China and Russia, are embracing an entrepreneurial spirit and markets are continuing to open up. Weíre especially excited about the opportunities that will likely develop from Chinaís removal of the hukou system that determines residency status and urbanization trends. In addition, as China changes its one-child policy, Internet companies may likely see an even larger increase of users in the years ahead. Do They ìGoogleî in China? Americans may ìGoogleî for directions, recipes or stock prices, post to Twitter, and shop online at Amazon or eBay, but outside the U.S., different tech leaders are finding lucrative and innovative ways to shape online experiences, grow revenue, and gain market share. Baidu, for example, is the search engine leader in China with an 81 percent market share, significantly overshadowing Google, which has only a 12 percent revenue share, according to CLSA. The research firm anticipates Baidu will ìsustain 35-40 percent revenue growth,î due to its monetization in search advertising, mobile games and mobile videos. Competition is heating up though. When U.S. Global analyst Xian Liang visited his family in Shanghai this year, he noticed the Internet search page automatically populated to Qihoo (pronounced ìchee-hooî). Qihoo, which has only about 15 to 20 percent traffic share in China right now, bundles its own search engine along with its Internet security software. After installing the anti-virus software, the search engine becomes the default. The company is using this strategy to gain market share against heavy competitors such as Baidu and Google. When purchasing goods online, most residents of China head to Alibaba, which processes about 80 percent of Chinaís total online retail businesses. It has a unique model with Amazon- and eBay-like features and hosts sites for small businesses. Its volume of sales is so massive, Alibaba may overtake Wal-Mart as the worldís largest retail network by 2016, according to CNBC. As an ìundisputed market leader,î Alibaba enjoys revenues that are growing 60 to 70 percent year-over-year, says CLSA. Yahoo! has benefited from its 24 percent stake in Alibaba, and next year, investors could get in on the action if the company goes public. Michael Ding, portfolio manager of the China Region Fund (USCOX), likes Tencent Holdings, whose subsidiaries provide mass media, Internet and phone services, social media and online advertising. According to CLSA, Tencent is ìbest positioned for mobile,î due to its app called WeChat. Users of Tencentís phone applications may not be all too familiar with an app called SnapChat, but they are feverishly downloading a new app called WeChat. WeChat is a mobile social networking application that allows real time multi-party voice messaging and location sharing, boasting 236 million monthly active users. Tech in Asia reported that Tencent is now set to open a WeChat office in the Philippines, saying that WeChat ìbecame the most downloaded free appî in the country since June. Exploring Russia 2.0 Another area of the emerging world benefiting from the growing wealth of the consumer is Russia. In our recent webcast, Tim Steinle, portfolio manager of the Emerging Europe Fund, talked about investing in ìRussia 2.0î companies. Whereas familiar Russian companies, such as Gazprom and Lukoil, tend to be large and state-owned, we prefer dynamic, independent, shareholder-driven companies. For example, Mail.Ru is an Internet company focused on social networks and gaming. †Yandex is the dominant Internet portal in Russia in direct competition with Google.ru, the Russian operation of Google. Both companies have been outstanding performers compared to overall Russian stocks in 2013. To learn more about why we find Russia 2.0 exciting, you can listen to the on-demand webcast here. Curious to learn more about global markets? On the Frank Talk blog, Frank Holmes often shares his insights on emerging markets, resources and gold. Share your email address with us and weíll send you a note the next time he †posts to his blog. You can also keep informed by following U.S. Global Investors on Twitter or Facebook. Please consider carefully a fundís investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. By investing in a specific geographic region, a regional fundís returns and share price may be more volatile than those of a less concentrated portfolio. The Emerging Europe Fund invests more than 25% of its investments in companies principally engaged in the oil &amp; gas or banking industries. †The risk of concentrating investments in this group of industries will make the fund more susceptible to risk in these industries than funds which do not concentrate their investments in an industry and may make the fundís performance more volatile. Holdings in the funds mentioned as a percentage of net assets as of 9/30/13: Amazon 0.0%, Baidu 0.0%, eBay 0.0%, Google 0.0%, Gazprom (Emerging Europe Fund 4.05%), Lukoil (Emerging Europe Fund 4.75%), Mail.Ru (Emerging Europe Fund 2.89%), Qihoo (China Region Fund 3.01%), Tencent (China Region Fund 3.51%), Twitter 0.0%, Wal-Mart 0.0%, Yandex (Emerging Europe Fund 1.95%), Yahoo! 0.0%.
The chart to the right shows the current account balance as a percentage of each nation's GDP. And one nation clearly stands out - Germany. According to Merrill Lynch the massive German current account surplus will manifest itself in two major ways: 1. It is bound to generate friction within the Eurozone, particularly as German assets appreciate, while the periphery is experiencing deflationary pressures. Merrill: - Germanyís surplus holds a deeper meaning for financial markets in 2014. First, it signifies the difficulty faced by ECB monetary policy. It should not be easy to achieve a balance between Germany with its growing current account surplus and where real-estate prices have started turning up [see Twitter chart†from the ECB], and the periphery countries that are facing disinflation despite having somewhat reduced their current account deficits as a tradeoff for low growth. Whether it happens in 2014 or not, eurozone fiscal policy discussions will be necessary at some point, though politically difficult. Eurozone financial issues could still destabilize global financial markets at some point in the future. 2. This imbalance is likely to have an impact on the currency markets, especially with respect to the yen. Merrill: - The second implication is for the exchange rate issue with Japan. While Germanyís current account surplus has expanded, it is Japanís current account that has deteriorated sharply. Comparing Japanís balance of trade in 2010 and 2013 (Jan- Nov for both years), reveals that it has fallen by •16.1tn (3.2% of GDP). Around half (•7.5tn) of this is in non-energy trade. Of that •7.5tn, more than •2tn is due to trade with the EU, and the rest is versus Asia. Japan is expected to post a •11-12tn (1.2- 1.4% of GDP) trade deficit for 2013. Although its income balance will keep the current account positive, the surplus will likely be less than 1% of GDP. ...the change in current account imbalances seems consistent with our FX strategy teamís projection that the leeway for a rebound in the JPY is relatively limited versus the EUR, and the JPY should continue to weaken versus USD in 2014. 2014 should see an increased focus on this topic, as Germany's current account surplus continues to stand out.
TD Securities, CoreLogic, S&P/Case-ShillerHomes in negative equity plummeted in 2013.Today's release of S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index data revealed that the rate of home price appreciation accelerated even faster than expected in October, climbing to 13.61% year over year. The rise in home prices in 2013 ‚Äî following the bursting of the housing bubble during the financial crisis ‚Äî had an important effect on American households, as it rescued many borrowers who were underwater on their homes. "The rapid pace of home price appreciation has continued to help a considerable number of homeowners escape negative equity during 2013," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "The latest CoreLogic data (through Q3) suggest that 4.1 million homeowners have escaped negative equity thus far in 2013 ‚Äî with 6.4 million remaining in negative equity, compared with 10.5 million at the end of 2012. With home prices continuing to increase at a rapid pace in late-2013, we expect Q4 data to show even more homeowners escaping the negative equity trap, helping to place housing markets on a more balanced footing ahead of 2014." Conor Sen, a portfolio manager at New River Investments, calls the repair in household balance sheets the most important chart of the year. "The reason the past few years hasn't felt like much of a recovery to the average American is that instead of employment and capex growth we're been repairing the hole in household balance sheets, particularly home equity," says Sen. "The percentage of equity that households had in their homes fell by two-fifths, from 60% to 36%, between 2006 and the beginning of 2009. But over the past two years that has recovered swiftly, rising from 44.3% to 50.8% over the past year alone. There's still a little more work to be done, but with household debt levels finally increasing in Q3 of 2013, we can finally look ahead to a real recovery for workers and the economy in 2014." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler
Ever since President Nixon broke the US dollar's last link to gold, the world has been set adrift on a sea of fiat currencies that have been increasingly debased, serving the interests of governments and financial elites. For the last five years, central banks have imposed near-zero rates of interest that have helped push up stock, bond, and real estate prices, but have made it nearly impossible for savers to receive meaningful returns on bank deposits. To make matters worse, the apparatus of national security has turned financial transactions into a massive exercise in government surveillance. Under the camouflage of 'protective' measures, such as the USA PATRIOT Act, governments have invaded the privacy of citizens and compromised banking secrecy in an unprecedented and often unconstitutional manner. Despite huge potential transaction-cost reductions achievable through advances in digital technology, banks continue to charge exorbitant transaction fees while maintaining transfer delays that reflect a pre-digital age. In addition, bank regulators, led by the IMF, have shown a willingness, in the case of Cyprus, to make depositors liable for poor banking decisions. Many private citizens may naturally see the status quo as a deliberate policy to crush middle-class savers and pave the way for centralized socialism. Some have sought a way out. Gold 2.0? Traditionally, investors have turned to precious metals such as gold to help protect and privately transfer their wealth. However, ever-increasing regulation, monitoring, and physical searches have eroded some of the key protections afforded by gold. Gold's weakness over the past 24 months has also spooked many former adherents. In such an environment, many have seen the recent arrival of digital crypto-currencies as the means to restore the monetary independence that has been co-opted by big governments. Currencies like the now-famous Bitcoin offer the potential for a store of value, low transaction costs, free movement, and anonymity. It's no wonder that Bitcoin has taken the world by storm. But all that glitters is not gold. Wikipedia defines a crypto-currency as, "a peer-to-peer, decentralized, digital currency [or medium of exchange] whose implementation relies on the principles of cryptology to validate the transaction and the generation of the currency itself." In short, it is a virtual currency traded by private, unregulated internet exchanges. Despite the recent fame of Bitcoin, there are actually a number of other crypto-currencies that have been created in recent years. Names include Litecoin, Peercoin, Namecoin, and Primecoin. Bitcoin, established in 2009, is undoubtedly the most successful, and it became a breakout news story in 2013. Bitcoin Pros &amp; Cons Bitcoin offers a few distinct advantages over conventional currencies: it allows almost instantaneous peer-to-peer transactions that completely avoid the expensive and cumbersome bank-run electronic payment systems, and it allows for fast international movement of funds outside foreign exchange controls. Many investors are also betting that Bitcoin will offer a better store of value over time than serially printed fiat currencies. That's because the Bitcoin protocol automatically, and apparently irrevocably, limits the number of bitcoins that will be created to 21 million. In this sense, they are immeasurably more honest than US dollars. However, unlike US dollars, pounds sterling, or euros, bitcoins do not carry legal tender status, but rather rely on the network of merchants and individuals to continue to accept them as payment for goods and services. Finally, by utilizing anonymous wallets, some users may think that crypto-currencies like Bitcoin offer increased financial privacy. I believe that this is largely an illusion. Governments have shown a great ability to crack any code no matter how well planned (just look at the British government's success against the Germans in the Second World War). I have full faith that the US Federal government can, over time, develop techniques to map all cyber transactions. A Volatile Elephant in the Room But it is Bitcoin's volatility that will likely be its immediate undoing. In recent months, as more speculators have moved into the market, prices have been unstable to say the least. On November 29th, Bitcoin reached $1,242 in Tokyo just as gold dipped to $1,240 an ounce. When those two values crossed, many began to speculate that Bitcoin had replaced gold as the premier alternative to fiat money. With relatively high transaction costs and delivery delays, precious metals are expensive to store and transport. In contrast, Bitcoin transactions are fast, cheap, and transnational. But little, if any, store of value is offered. That reality has been demonstrated in recent weeks as Bitcoin has dropped by some 50 percent in market value. While crypto-currencies remain insulated from central bank manipulation, governments have thus far been tolerant, perhaps because their capability to track transactions is more advanced than Bitcoin believers admit. Nevertheless, the advent of crypto-currencies represents the increasing popular demand for a currency insulated from political debasement and bank profiteering. Crypto-currencies represent a legitimate attempt by private citizens to reassert their sovereignty over such government actions. I appreciate the effort, and I believe it holds much promise. But for now, I will stay with the traditional store of value, gold. John Browne is a Senior Economic Consultant to Euro Pacific Capital. Opinions expressed are those of the writer, and may or may not reflect those held by Euro Pacific Capital, or its CEO, Peter Schiff. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
Welcome to our new Payments Insights newsletter, a morning email with the top news and analysis on the digital payments industry, produced by¬†BI Intelligence. Sign up to receive it in your inbox every morning.¬† Click here to sign up for Payment Insights today! AMERICAN BANKER'S TOP 10 IN FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY: American Banker ranks the top 100 most influential companies in fintech (complete ranking here), and this link will take you to a slideshow where you can view more information about the top 10. Among them is "FIS, a company with $5.7 billion in revenue and more than 37,000 employees, [that] has seen 'tremendous growth' in its mobile device capabilities across the board." Also in the top 10 are Fiserv, Tata Consultancy Services, NCR, Diebold, Nomura Research Institute, and Cognizant. There were a few clear themes in the top 10 list. Most executives made clear that their companies' futures depended on mobile, cloud, and software-based products. (American Banker) In other news ... KREBS TURNS FOUR: Brian Krebs, a former reporter at The Washington Post, is celebrating his fourth birthday at his security blog, Krebs On Security, which now attracts between 10,000 t0 15,000 visitors daily. Here's part of what Krebs wrote to mark the occasion: "If there was an important data breach in 2013, chances are that news of it first broke on this blog. Among KrebsOnSecurity‚Äôs biggest scoops this year were stories about breaches at¬†Adobe,¬†Bit9,¬†Experian,¬†LexisNexis,¬†Target¬†and¬†The Washington Post." Krebs says he's still looking into the hows and whos of the Experian and Target breaches. (KrebsOnSecurity) BIIKPMG'S SURVEY OF US COMMUNITY BANKS: Among the highlights of the 2013 survey ‚Äî 30% of community bankers believe new market entrants, like PayPal and Walmart, which offer credit products, are a threat to their business model. Also 40% said they considered mobile banking to be the most important IT investment for 2014 in terms of encouraging consumer growth. (KPMG - PDF) Why Direct Debit Is A Dinosaur:¬†A payments expert argues that in a modern payments system, there's no need for payments that are debited automatically from consumer accounts for bill paying, and that instead consumers should be easily able to approve payments that need to be made. The philosophy should be "push," not "pull." (American Banker) An Opportunity To Serve Very Small Business In 2014 - Rene Reinsberg, CEO of local business marketing platform Locu, believes that over the next year very small businesses, those with five or fewer employees, will become the focus for companies pushing a new wave of mobile-first merchant tools. (Street Fight) Brazilian Mobile Payments Company Targets Low-Income Consumers: "PagPop, a Brazilian mobile card reader vendor, has announced it will join the Business Call to Action initiative, or BCtA, with plans to reach 300,000 new Brazilian credit card users in the next two years."¬†The BCtA is a part of worldwide project aimed at backing new, creative businesses that are both economically viable and achieve positive developmental goals. ¬†(Mobile Payments Today)
CorcoranBillionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, whose S.A.C. Capital has come under scrutiny lately, is having a hard time unloading some expensive art and real estate. He failed to sell some high-priced art at a November auction after his firm swallowed a record $1.2 billion fine. And he recently knocked the price on his¬†gorgeous Upper East Side duplex penthouse from $115 million to $98 million, according to The New York Daily News. He bought the place for $24 million back in 2005, and hired late architect¬†Charles Gwathmey to transform the space. It really is breathtaking. If you're wondering, the odd sculpture in the corner is a depiction of Pablo Picasso by Maurizio Cattelan. Corcoran has the details of the¬†9,000 square foot, 6 bedroom, 6.5 bathroom apartment at One Beacon Court.¬†Anyway, let's take a tour of Cohen's apartment.¬†
REUTERS/Hannibal HanschkeA woman stands in front of a illuminated picture of a mathematical Quasi-Crystal on display in the fortress in the eastern German city of Dresden December 14, 2006.In today's data-driven economy, those with excellent math skills don't have to look far to find high-paying, high-growth jobs open for the taking. To find out which jobs offer the best opportunities for people who love math, we analyzed CareerCast's list of the top 200 occupations¬†in 2013 and pulled out those jobs that require analytical math skills. CareerCast, a job search site, measured the stress, physical demands, and both the current and future employment outlook of the 200 occupations. The overall score for each job¬†takes into account¬†the pay; hiring outlook; stress; emotional factors, including the level of competitiveness and degree of public contact; and physical demands, such as stamina required and work conditions, that normally come with the job. Once the categories are combined, a lower overall score signals that the job is more desirable to employees. Much of the data used to evaluate the jobs comes from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, other government agencies, trade associations, and private survey firms.
The S&amp;P Case-Shiller 20-city home price index climbed 13.6% year-over-year in October.¬† This is the highest level of growth since February 2006. Both the 10-city and 20-city composite indices have been up for seventeen straight months. "Monthly numbers show we are living on borrowed time and the boom is fading,"¬†David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release. Economists expect the pace of home price growth to slow going forward. They are also worried about the impact that the Fed's decision to taper its asset purchase program could have on mortgage rates. Here's a look at the trajectory of home price growth during the initial housing boom, the subsequent bust, and the current recovery. Case-Shiller/Business Insider
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images This post originally appeared on†Details.com. It's funny how two benign words can become utterly terrible when they're paired up. Take cherry and Coke, neon and underwear, or take hydrocodone and alcoholójust not together. Worst of all, take casual and Friday, a deadly combination that spawned an entire wardrobe of oxymorons and faux pas: dressy polos, pleated khakis, dad jeans, and Greg Norman (Just Google him). Actors and musicians have been lucky enough to dodge the Casual Friday bullet (they usually adopt a perma-casual style of over washed T-shirts and jeans), but man, do they get tripped up by the red carpet. It is then that they fall victim to "creative black tie." Did you feel an involuntary shudder when reading those words? Good ó that's the right reaction. GettyThis is bad. Do not dress this way.As archival footage clearly indicates, you should be afraid. Just picture Johnny Depp trying to look ten years younger (but looking ten years older) in a clownish zoot suit. Think of Jamie Foxx sporting a tacky black button-down under what could masquerade as an asphalt-gray prom rental. How about Robert Downey, Jr., still rocking old '80s style in a matchy-matchy all-black, tie-shirt-jacket ensemble, which (at least what you could even make out) just looked cheap.†Then there's the eternal maverick Sean Penn, who famously leaves his collar spread open like some kind of low-level drug lord to prove just how much he doesn't want that Golden Globe award. (Nobody's fooled.) For Ricky Gervais (in a claret-colored tux) or Jeremy Irons (in a knee-length frock coat), going creative on the red carpet is just begging for Joan Rivers to run you down like a dog in the street. And hey, Quentin Tarantino, you're one of the best directors of your generation. Your creativity is not in question. Isn't that enough? Think about it, guys. "Creative black tie" is a contradiction in terms. "Black tie" is, by definition, non creative. That's the idea, that's the goal, that's the dream. A man looks fantastic in a perfectly tailored classic black tuxedo, whether the jacket is single- or double-breasted, has a satin shawl collar or peak lapels, whether the shirt has a pique bib or pleated front, and a black satin bow-tie that you tied yourself.†No one ever said that getting into the monkey suit was fun, but hey, it's a lot better than it used to be. Those shirt studs are a major hassle; if there's not one missing when you're getting dressed, there will be when you're taking it off. So forget them: get a shirt with buttons hidden behind a placket. Nix the cummerbund, which looks bullfighter-good for 20 minutes until it starts to crumple and mess up the shirt. As for the odd vest, which has emerged as a major vehicle for red-carpet creativity: really? Unless you're going to do some drinking, gambling and hoe-doggin' at a Wild West saloon theme party, just leave it on the hanger and we'll pretend the subject never came up. We know you want to play with your toys. Just not now. Look at it this way: one good tuxedo can last a man twenty years. (You don't want to outgrow the style faster than you outgrow the pants.) If you really have to get creative, just do it with a little class. There are options that won't make you look like a crasher. First and foremost, the simple black velvet jacket has become such an established look for stylish festivity that it's worth making a point to buy one, and it's the perfect CBT solution. It goes with satin-stripe tux pants as well as other dressy black trousers, and it might well come in handy more often than a tux jacket will. If black isn't your thing, there are some amazing tuxedos out there in midnight blue and espresso brown. (The ones from†Tom Ford†are fantastic.) There are also plenty of subtly stylish bow ties that are a patch on the classic black satin, from soignÈ black grosgrain ones you should tie yourself to spiffy velvet numbers that you shouldn't. (Don't get hung up on masculinity here, guys.) If you want to do CBT a bit more discreetly,†2(X)ist†has a special line of satin-stripe-sided underwear called "Tux." But then again, if you really want to get creative, maybe just put your craziest Spider-man underwear on first and then a classic tux on over it. That way, your creativity can be what it ought to be: your little secret. More from Details:
ChinaFotoPress/Getty ImagesThe¬†results of the Conference Board's December consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index surged to 78.1 from November's upward-revised 72.0 reading. Economists predicted a smaller advance to 76.0. Below is the full text of the release: 31 Dec. 2013 The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had decreased in November, rebounded in December. The Index now stands at 78.1 (1985=100), up from 72.0 in November. The Present Situation Index increased to 76.2 from 73.5. The Expectations Index increased to 79.4 from 71.1 last month. ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was December 17. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer confidence rebounded in December and is now close to pre-government shutdown levels (September 2013, 80.2). Sentiment regarding current conditions increased to a 5 ¬Ω year high (April 2008, 81.9), with consumers attributing the improvement to more favorable economic and labor market conditions. Looking ahead, consumers expressed a greater degree of confidence in future economic and job prospects, but were moderately more pessimistic about their earning prospects. Despite the many challenges throughout 2013, consumers are in better spirits today than when the year began.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô appraisal of overall current conditions improved. Those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù edged down to 19.6 percent from 20.4 percent, however, those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 22.6 percent from 24.6 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the job market was also more upbeat. Those saying jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù ticked up to 12.2 percent from 12.0 percent, while those saying jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù decreased to 32.5 percent from 34.1 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations, which had decreased in November, improved in December. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 17.2 percent from 16.7 percent, and those expecting business conditions to worsen decreased to 14.0 percent from 16.1 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was considerably more optimistic. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead increased sharply to 17.1 percent from 13.1 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs decreased to 19.0 percent from 21.4 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase declined to 13.9 percent from 15.3 percent, while those expecting a decrease in their incomes declined to 14.0 percent from 15.5 percent.
William Thomas Cain/Getty ImagesBernie Kerik, a former New York City Police Commisioner who was sentenced to four years in prison in February 2010.Bernie Kerik, Jack Abramoff and Dennis Kozlowskióthree of the most high-profile men to be on the insideósmash the perception that prison life is anything like "Club Fed." If there were ever a person who might be able to clue you in on what life in a white-collaróor minimum-security or ìcountry clubîóprison was actually like, it was this guy. You know this guy. How many former New York City police commissioners, former overseers of Rikers Island, former consultants for U.S. security in Iraq or former almost-heads of the Department of Homeland Security are there in the world who ended up in the slammer? I thought so too. I wanted to find out what life was like for Bernard ìBernieî Kerikówhat he ate, where he slept, who came to visit. But when I finally got to his prison in August of 2010, seven months into his sentence, I thought I was in the wrong place. After a convoluted five-hour journey that required trains and automobiles and the kindness of his pal John Piccianoóa cop who worked as Bernieís chief of staff both at Rikers and when he was police commissioner and remained so devoted that he had visited him in prison more than 60 times alreadyówe pulled up to a building in western Maryland that looked like my high school. There wasnít a single guard out front. No one searched us. There wasnít even a metal detector. Iíd been to prisons before, almost all of them maximum-security and wretched; certainly none that looked like this. The Federal Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Maryland, has both medium- and minimum-security prisoners. Its visiting room is spotless and sprawling, with sparkling windows and walls that are decorated with quilts handmade by inmates. Grant Cornett/DuJourBernie Kerik lost more than 80 pounds during his stay in prison.Enter Bernie Kerik, in moss-green khakis, matching long-sleeved button-down shirt and work boots, the outfit he would wear most every day for three years and 11 days. Kerik was the guy who previously ran one of the worst jails on earth (trust me, there are no quilts on the walls at Rikers) and the guy who was chosen by George W. Bush to be the head of the Department of Homeland Security, until it all hit the fan. First there was the illegal-immigrant-nanny brouhaha. Then the real dominoes fell. By November 2007, the former top cop was facing a 16-count indictment for, among other things, lying to the IRS and to the White House. He was also accused of accepting renovations to his home from contractors who wanted to work in New York. He ended up pleading guilty to eight charges, including tax fraud, in a plea bargain and was sentenced to four years. The last time I had seen Bernie, we shared an excellent Barolo and a couple of steaks at a fine joint in Midtown Manhattan. Like many journalists, I came to know him as the kind of dude who was forever entertaining, always plugged-in and seemingly invincible. Now he was in prison. I visited him not even halfway through his incarceration. Already, he looked like a different man, and not in a bad way. He was working out like a maniac, jumping rope, running and walking four miles a day and doing anywhere from 600 to 1,200 push-ups. Bernie Kerik looked like a bull and was 50 pounds leaner. (By the time he was released in May at the age of 57, he was down 80 pounds from his pre-prison weight of 260.) ìSo which quilt did you make?î I asked. He gave me the look I deserved for that question. And then he laughed. I knew his spirit had not been crushed when I gingerly brought up the quilt topic again later and he lasered me with his green eyes (that just happened to match his prison outfit) and growled: ìEnough with the fucking quilts.î OK, so he was still Bernie. And this was still prison. But what I really wanted to knowówhat was life actually like on the inside? Every time another big one goes awayóBernie Kerik or Bernie Madoff or Dennis Kozlowski (the Tyco guy with the $6,000 shower curtain) or Martha Stewart or Mickey Sherman (the once hotshot defense lawyer) or any of the Wall Street types who got busted in the recessionóthe inevitable questions arise: Did they go to Club Fed? To what the public perceives as ìcountry clubî prisons? While there used to be a time when you could, in fact, find tennis courts at prison (specifically, the infamous now-closed Federal Prison Camp Eglin, which inspired the name Club Fed), ìthose stories were always exaggerated,î as CNBCís John Carney wrote in a story on prison treatment. Plus, sentencing guidelines for ìwhite-collar crimesî have only gotten worse for offenders, the result, as Carney noted, ìof politics and public outrage largely tied to stock-market losses.î *** As Kerik explains itóand I had to keep reminding myself that he was once a prominent authority figure in the systemóîthere are four or five classifications for the BOP [Bureau of Prisons]. You have super-maximum security, if thereís a terrorist or a super-violent criminal. You have maximum security, which is the next level down. After max, you have medium.î Thatís where Bernie Madoff is, by the way. ìThen you have low. Then you have minimum.î To be eligible for a minimum security ìcamp,î your sentence has to be less than 10 years (or has gotten to under 10 years) and you need to be considered ìnonviolent.î In other words, if youíre going to prison, this is where you want to go. When details of these camps trickle out, they rarely seem terrifying. Mickey Sherman, who spent part of 2011 in the Otisville, New York, camp for tax evasion, said last year that the most dramatic part of prison took place when inmates watched†American Idol†and argued over who got kicked off. Sometimes the accommodations can seem downright quaint. Take the five months Martha Stewart served in the Alderson, West Virginia, womenís prison, where she taught a yoga class and created an entire nativity scene out of ceramics. Her minimum-security prisonócomplete with ìcottagesî and tree-lined gatesówasnít nicknamed ìCamp Cupcakeî for nothing. Grant Cornett/DuJourAfter former hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years (which was the longest sentence ever imposed for insider trading), one prison insider told the†New York Post†he was ìreigning like a king,î with a ìpersonal manservantî who doted upon him with the hopes of becoming his driver after theyíre released. People eat these stories up. But the truth is slightly more complicated: Because of his type 2 diabetes, Rajaratnam is staying at a federally run medical facility and in need of a kidney transplant. No picnic there. But if fellow inmates wanted to treat him favorably, who would stop them? Not all former CEOs have it the same. Thereís the case of Kozlowski, the disgraced head of Tyco who received a sentence of eight and one third to 25 years for multiple crimes, including the illegal receipt of $81 million in bonuses. Heís something of an authority on the differences between prisons, having seen the inside of two very different institutions. During his stay at the maximum-security Downstate Correctional Facility, north of New York City, Kozlowski didnít go outside for eight and a half months, according to the forthcoming book†Taking Down the Lion, which covers his rise and fall. In 2006, he moved to Mid-State, a medium-security prison (where he was housed in the same unit as the rapper Ja Rule), and passed the years ìdoing laundry, reading hundreds of books, tutoring other inmates,î even teaching himself to paint. While incarcerated, he wrote to the bookís author, Catherine S. Neal, that he most looked forward to ìdoing what free people do. Close a bathroom door, go to the store, drive a car, open a door, call on a telephone, touch a computer.î He closed his letter by saying, ìSimple pleasures and the freedom to enjoy them are more precious than you can imagine.î Thatís why no matter what the public perception is, itís not a good idea to call this a cakewalk to people on the inside. ìThat whole Club Fed mentality, that shit that they portray in the press, is complete nonsense,î Kerik says. Kerik, who got out in May but was still wearing an ankle-bracelet during his home detention when I spoke to him again by phone recently, did his time at Cumberland, one of 81 minimum- and/or medium-security prisons in the U.S. He was, by all accounts, including those of prison officials I spoke with, a model prisoner. (If he hadnít been, he wouldnít have gotten 11 months shaved off his time.) His law-enforcement background and his very conservative political views have always been a large part of who he isóeven after he was sent to prison for breaking the law. *** But a larger-than-life persona is, apparently, a tricky thing in the Big House. And being famous and a former cop is a double whammy. ìTill Bernie got there, I was the celebrity of the prison,î says one of Bernieís best prison buddies, Jack Abramoff, the well-known Washington lobbyist who was infamously sent away on corruption charges in 2006 and whose time in the slammer overlapped with Kerikís by about six weeks, which was long enough for them to bond. Kevin Spacey played Abramoff in the movie†Casino Jack†and even came to Cumberland to do some research. ìYou donít want to be the celebrity of the prison, by the way,î says Abramoff. Another lesson he shares: ìItís never good to draw attention to yourself in a prison. Nothing good is gonna result from that.î He remembers his fellow inmates gathering around the television to view the Bill Moyers special about his life. ìIt seemed like the entire prison took time to watch, and those are the kinds of things you donít want.î Perhaps itís not unusual for guys with similar backgrounds to team up with one another. It was Abramoff who showed Kerik the ropes, introduced him around. ìHe had a disadvantage coming in, given his occupational background,î Abramoff recalls with some understatement. ìThe guys who I mainly hung out with, you know, the white-collar-slash-whatever folks, they thought he was great. I mean, he was interesting, intellectual, urbane, funny. And the other guys, I think, were just still kind of figuring out, ëWhat is he all about? What are we looking at here?í Subsequently, they all determined he was a good guy.î But there was a learning curve. I asked him if everyone knew who Kerik was when he got there. ìThey know everything!î Abramoff replies. ìThey either know or they find out. Plus, they have an e-mail system now. There arenít too many secrets in a prison.î Grant Cornett/DuJourHowever, there are, I have come to find out, plenty of myths. The first is that white-collar prisons are filled with, well, white-collar prisoners. At Cumberland, the majority of inmates were drug dealers whose sentences were less than 10 years. ìAt least while I was there,î says Abramoff, ìabout 90 percent of the drug dealers were inner-city drug dealers, and some of them were violent folks.î Those who were true ìwhite-collarî criminals were few and far between. The second great myth is that the famous guys get better treatment. In fact, the more ìhigh profileî you areóunlike in the non-prison worldóthe fewer perks you may receive. No one wants to be accused of favoritism. This encompasses all sorts of things, from which facility youíre sent toóthough there were several minimum-security prisons within a hourís drive of Kerikís home in New Jersey, he was shipped to western Maryland, where his wife and kids had to travel 10 hours round-trip to see himóto what happens when a loved one dies. Abramoffís mother passed away while he was incarcerated ìand almost everything I asked for the answer was no. Youíre supposed to get a deathbed visit, and I asked for that and the answer was no. Then I wasnít allowed to go to her funeral.î Abramoff says he understood why. ìThey feared that if I went outóand correctly, by the wayóthe media would have descended on wherever I was, and then they would have to be answering the question, ëWhy did you guys let him out of prison?í And they didnít want to deal with that. So the price was to basically say, ëSorry, Charlie.í<U+2009>î He does add with some bitterness: ìI didnít see anybody else denied the chance to go to his parentís funeral. And I was there long enough that I saw a lot of people go to funerals. Including a lot of pretty vicious guys.î One of the most interesting characteristics about a prison with minimum security is how minimum the security really is. At Cumberland, the doors are locked only at night. As Kerik explains it, youíre basically on an ìhonor system.î You could pretty much leave at any time, but if you do, youíre looking at another seven years tacked on to your sentence. In other words, says Bernie, ìtheyíre doing easy time now, and the light is at the end of the tunnel. So it doesnít make sense [to run away].î During my visit with Bernie, we settle around a table with mauve plastic chairs. This is kind of nice, I say. ìCompared to what?î says Bernie. Itís early evening, and dinner has already been served to the inmates, but Bernie doesnít eat any because it is turkey pot pie. (ìAllegedly,î he jokes.) It turns out that a little garden patch I saw on our drive in is a source for some of Bernieís more edible meals. The inmates who are in charge of the ìfarmî often bring him corn, squash, zucchini and tomatoes, which he mixes with rice that he cooks in the microwaves in the laundry room and visiting room. Besides working out, there are other ways to pass the time, and to hear Kerik tell it, these activities are essential. ìThereís no golf course or tennis courts. There may be basketball, baseball and a workout area. But you have got to give these guys something to do. If theyíre locked up 24 hours a day, without their families, without any contact with outside society, you canít expect them to do nothing but rot.î Cumberland actually appears spartan compared with other prisons. ìSome of them have weight-lifting equipment, athletic equipment, movies, big video libraries, and Cumberland didnít really have any of that,î says Abramoff. ìBut the important thingsósafety, cleanliness, basic needsówere met. I mean, it is prison.î *** When Kerik first got here, he was hoping to get Jack Abramoffís old job in the prison chaplainís office. Abramoff had what he calls ìthe best job there,î working in the nondenominational chapel, handing out prayer books, setting up the room for services and so on. He even brushed up on his piano skills. He had to earn the job by doing dishes in the kitchen for six months, ìwhich was really quite horrible.î And he wanted to give his cushy job to his friend when he left, but the BOP put the kibosh on that. So Kerik mopped floors, which he preferred to dishwashing. Plus, this came with an additional perk: access to the kitchen and to his favored breakfast of three or four eggs, eaten raw. After that, Kerik moved into a job in the library. He also wrote up a storm. There was a blog and a Facebook account (which he since shut down), showing photos of his shocking weight loss. And a Twitter account, of course. Beyond all of that, he wrote 1,940 pages of his next book, a continuation of his autobiography that starts exactly where his first book ended: September 14, 2001, when President Bush came to Ground Zero with his bullhorn. Grant Cornett/DuJourIf he chooses to write about his prison time, there will be a couple of notable cameos. Heís been visited a few times by Geraldo Rivera, who arrived by private helicopter. And by New York congressman Peter King, who made the six-hour drive to check in with Kerik about how he was doing and for some light discussion about politics. But what I really want to know about, beyond the food and the bonding and the living in a cramped cubicle where he barely had enough room to get dressed without bumping into someone else, is what surprised him, the man who knew jails better than anyone, about prison time. What was the most shocking thing about being on the other side of the bars? ìThe punishment should be the deprivation of freedom and liberty,î he says. ìBut once you arrive at prisonóI was shocked by the psychological punishment.î This is unexpected. ìYou are constantly berated, degraded, demoralized,î he says. ìYouíre herded like cattle.î The isolation from family also takes its toll. ìYou canít show your child love and support and guidance in absentia. You damn sure canít do it in a two-hour visit in a visiting room. You canít discipline your child while youíre in the system, because the last thing you need is for that last conversation you have with your child to be a negative one,î he says. ìYou cannot fathom the pain, the heartache, that the system causes parents and their kids. Nobody gets it. Nobody understands it.î Kerik may be out now, but that doesnít mean the prison system has left his thoughts. In fact, he has more ideas than ever about reform, specifically changing the policies about giving prisoners ìgood-time incentivesî and the use of solitary confinement. According to Kerik, a prisoner can get solitary for smoking cigarettes. ìI know how the system is supposed to work, and I know what the system is supposed to accomplish,î he says. ìI know it can work the way itís supposed to work. But it doesnít.î Kerik also points to some of the systemís punishments as too severe. ìTo stand in a room and talk to a guy that had a first-time offense, one kilo of cocaine, no violence, and then was given 27 years? Are you kidding? I didnít know that kind of stuff happened. Like, how could that be?î But there was another revelation, one thatís going to stick around longer than memories of vegetable-patch dinners, longer than his prison friendships, probably even longer than his weight loss. ìIíve come to realize being sentenced in the U.S. criminal justice system, for anything, is a life sentence,î he says. ìItís not about the time they give you. You receive a punishment of imprisonment and then a lifelong sentence of collateral punishment.î None of which sounds like an offering at Club Fed.† Related: The Secret Lives of Plastic Surgeonsí WivesAustere, Ascetic Retreats: The New Luxury?Going to Rehab, Hamptons-Style
Rob Grabowski-USA TODAY SportsThe purchasing manager's index for the Institute of Supply Management's Chicago division came in at 59.1, a bit lower than expectations. The employment component fell to its lowest level since April. The survey measures manufacturing activity in the Midwest. Consensus was for a decline to 60.8 from 63.0 prior. Full release ¬ª The December Chicago Business Barometer softened to 59.1 from 63.0 in November, the second consecutive monthly decline following October‚Äôs surge to 65.9, the highest since March 2011. The moderation in December was led by a second month of slippage in New Orders and declines in four of the five components that comprise the Barometer. In spite of December‚Äôs slowdown, the Barometer continued to point to reasonably¬†firm growth and the three month average rose to the highest since May 2011. Chicago area purchasers continued to report an expansion in business activity, albeit at a slower rate in New Orders, Production and Order Backlogs. Employment fell significantly to just above 50 in December. Supplier Deliveries, the only component of the Barometer to expand at a faster rate, rose to the highest since June 2011. An ongoing lengthening in Supplier Deliveries was a concern among purchasers in December as it was viewed as a possible harbinger to continued growth. Commenting on the MNI Chicago Report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist at MNI Indicators said, ‚ÄúThe Chicago Business Barometer finally turned a corner in 2013 having been in decline for the previous two years and ended the year with fourth quarter growth at the highest for more than two years.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhile activity dipped a little in December, businesses continued to report firm growth in Production and New Orders,‚Äù he added. Click here for updates ¬ª
It's the final day of the year, and gold is getting slammed. The metal is trading at $1187 an ounce, down 1.4% from yesterday's closing price. Monday was a tough session too ‚Äî gold fell 1.4% on that day as well. The gold price has fallen 29.1% in the year to date ‚Äî the biggest yearly drop since 1981 ‚Äî making it among the worst performing of major asset classes in 2013. Now, it's hovering just above the low of $1179.40 struck at the culmination of a major crash in June. Earlier this morning, it fell as low as $1181.40. "Certainly it would not be a surprise to see further selling pressure today as tax-loss selling persists," says Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners. "For a more trade-able low to occur, we would likely need to see some sort of false-breakdown, followed by an upside confirmation day. That 'could' occur today, if we break 1180 and then were to close positive on the day. That scenario, however, is not likely in our view." Thinkorswim`
Brett Bolkowy via www.flickr.com creative commonsThe S&amp;P Case-Shiller 20-city home price index climbed 1.05% month-over-month in October. On a year-over-year basis, home prices were up 13.61%. On a non seasonally adjusted basis however home prices were up 0.2% on the month. This beat expectations for a 0.95% MoM rise and a 13.45% YoY rise. This was the biggest gain since February 2006. Meanwhile, September home prices were modestly revised down to show a 0.98% MoM rise, and a 13.25% YoY rise. This compares with an initial reading of a 1.03% MoM rise, and a 13.29% YoY rise. "Home prices increased again in October," David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices said in a press release. "Both Composites‚Äô annual returns have been in double-digit territory since March 2013 and increasing; now up 13.6% in the year ending in October. However, monthly numbers show we are living on borrowed time and the boom is fading." Blitzer pointed out that the key question to housing now is how the Fed's decision to taper its monthly asset purchase program will impact mortgage rates.  Home prices have been up for 20 straight months, according to CoreLogic, and economists warn that the pace of home price growth will cool going forward. Here's a look at the trajectory of home prices since 1998: S&P Case-Shiller
Barry Ritholtz, the brains behind the Big Picture blog, is out with his 2014 global market and economic forecasts, and they are brilliant. From his U.S. forecasts: Okay, so what the heck is this about. Well, it's obviously a joke. However, the message is loud and clear: it's foolish to try to predict what'll happen in the near-term.† More often than not, it's just a mentally-frustrating and money-losing exercise. Sure, it's probably a good idea to make short-term, tactical adjustments to your portfolios if valuations scream opportunity. But, this should always be done in the context of your long-term, strategic investment plan. So as you revisit your investments, keep Ritholtz's forecasts in mind.
AFPChen Guangbiao jumps in Beijing on October 12, 2012 on the roofs of cars he bought as presents to owners of Japanese cars damaged in anti-Japan protestsBEIJING (Reuters) - An eccentric Chinese recycling magnate said on Tuesday he was preparing to open negotiations to buy¬†the New York Times¬†Co.. Chen Guangbiao, a well-known philanthropist, is something of a celebrity in¬†China. During a particularly murky bout of pollution in January, the ebullient and tireless self-promoter handed out free cans of "fresh air". But Chen says he is perfectly serious in his bid to buy¬†the Times, which he said he had been contemplating for more than two years. He said he expected to discuss the matter on January 5, when he is due to meet a "leading shareholder" in New York. "There's nothing that can't be bought for the right price," Chen told Reuters. It is unlikely that¬†the Times, which has long been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family, would sell to Chen. A spokeswoman for¬†the New York Times, contacted after initial Chinese media reports about Chen's offer, said the company did not comment on rumors. The company's chairman, Arthur Sulzberger, Jr., said recently that¬†the Times¬†was not for sale. Chen believes¬†the Times¬†is worth $1 billion, but said he would be willing to negotiate. He said that because his funds were limited, he had persuaded a Hong Kong tycoon to put in $600 million while he would pay the rest. He said the tycoon was not ready to reveal his identity. "If we act in sincerity and good faith, I believe¬†the Times¬†chairman will change his way of thinking," he said. Chen said if he was unable to buy¬†the New York Times, he would settle for becoming a controlling stakeholder, and failing that, would simply buy a stake. Hurun's Rich List of¬†China's super-wealthy put the magnate's wealth at about $740 million in 2012. Chen said he would not hesitate to sell off most of his assets if it enabled him to buy¬†the Times. Chen said his aim was not to push any political agenda, but rather his personal ideals of "peace on earth, protecting the environment and philanthropy". He attracted attention in August 2012 when he bought a half-page advertisement in¬†the New York Times¬†stating that an island chain at the centre of a dispute with¬†Japan¬†had belonged to¬†China¬†since antiquity. "After that, I realized that¬†the Times' influence all over the world is incredibly vast," he said. "Every government and embassy, all around the world, pays attention to¬†the New York Times." The Times¬†earned the ire of the¬†Chinese government¬†in 2012 with a report about the wealth of former PremierWen Jiabao.¬†The Times¬†website has been blocked since then. Chen said it was natural for the government to block the site because the report on Wen "contained biased and negative things that were not verified". "If I acquire¬†the Times, the paper will only report the truth and must verify all information," he said, adding that he would like every Chinese household to subscribe to the paper. If his offer failed, Chen said he would extend offers to CNN,¬†the Washington Post¬†or¬†the Wall Street Journal. "As long as they have some influence, I'm still willing to consider buying lesser media outlets," he said. (Editing by Robert Birsel)
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
bfishadow via FlickrA gang of thieves targeted cash machines belonging to an unnamed European bank by uploading malicious software that would spit out banknotes on command Criminals targeted a string of cash machines by cutting holes in the fascia to reach a USB port and upload malicious code that would spit out banknotes on command. Speakers at the Chaos Computing Congress in Hamburg described the attacks, which affected an unnamed European bank that noticed several cash machines had been entirely emptied without the safe at the rear being damaged. The bank increased security after the first attacks and were able to spot the gang drilling holes in the front of the machines, briefly inserting a USB flash drive and then patching up the damage afterwards to cover their tracks. They were then able to return at a later date and instruct the compromised machine to dispense a specific amount of cash. To gain access they had to enter a 12-digit code, followed by a second code ‚Äì this is believed to have been a failsafe to prevent individual members of the group from stealing money on their own. The second code constantly changed and the correct response could only be discovered by phoning another gang member. Researchers found that the software then showed how many of each denomination banknote were in the machine, and asked how much of each it should dispense. The BBC reports that the researchers, who asked to remain anonymous, said the gang must have had a ‚Äúprofound knowledge‚Äù of the workings of the cash machines in order to develop and successfully install the software.
These are your unoriginal regurgitated New Yearís resolutions. And they are getting pretty tiresome, especially considering the vast majority of you never fulfill them, choosing instead to wallow in the banality of your own existence, and roll them over again next year. "Hey fat ass, I already know what your New Year's resolution is." So stop telling yourself that you are going to take the stairs, cut back on the $6 Starbucks lattes, or park as far away from the Whole Foods entrance as you can, and just follow my adviceÖ 1. Take a vow of silence. Join CrossFit. Do P90X. Detox in January. Become a vegan. Sell your TV. †Train for a marathon. Start the Paleo diet. Go for any or all of these, but please shut the f--k up about it. ìNo one would run a marathon if they had to sign a confidentiality agreement first." 2. Read more. Yes, thatís a permanent boring fixture on most peopleís lists, but this year, be more specific and realistic. Make a list of 10 books to read, a healthy mix of fiction and non-fiction. Throw in a couple of classics that youíre embarrassed you never read in college. Purchase the hardcover copies, and keep them as a small trophy of your accomplishment. The Economist puts together a great ìBooks of the Yearî list, but Iíll get you started with ìThe Private Life of Chairman Mao.î ìReading allows you to borrow someone elseís brain, and will†make you more interesting at a dinner party.î 3. Befriend a World War II veteran. Spend time with him. Talk to him. Because there arenít too many of them left. I certainly regret not helping the red-coated Chelsea Pensioners with their Tescoís bags down the Kingís Road. 4. Wash your hands more frequently. An actual study has shown that the average New Yorker indirectly touches 24 penises per day, and twice as many if they work at 1585 Broadway. 5. Take an online course. Why continue talking hollowly about self-improvement when leading colleges and graduate schools, including Duke, Wharton, and MIT, are investing significant resources into free education. Ironically, statistics have shown that it tends to be the better-educated and wealthier who take advantage of this. †But, who among us couldnít benefit from knowing more about accounting, marketing, child psychology, or real estate and contract law? 6. Watch "The Sopranos" from start to finish. Even if youíve already seen it. 7. Freshen up the starting lineup in your wardrobe. Go get 2 new suits, 10 dress shirts, 2 pairs of jeans, 2 pairs of shoes, and 50 pairs of socks. Maybe this guide will help. Why? For the same reason that Michael Jordan wore a brand-new pair of shoes every single game. 8. Avoid extreme and unrealistic health pledges. Eat right, exercise sensibly, and drink mostly in moderation; itís not rocket science. ìA guy came up to me at the gym and asked me what event I was training so hard for. Life, motherf--ker.î 9. Drink more green tea. Add manuka honey and some fresh ginger. 10. Skip the dramatic savings scheme.†Donít go crazy with unrealistic goals about how much youíre going to save this year. Keep it simple; spend less than you make, and save up for the big-ticket items until you can afford them. Thereís no need for an extreme savings plan, so be sensibleÖ but donít forget to enjoy your expendable income. ìThereís no point in a $50 million funeral or a $25 million divorce.î 11. Read my guide on ìHow To Be A Man.î†Over two million people already have. Ladies, let me know what you thinkÖ 12. Write down your goals.†Most people never fulfill their resolutions, but the people who write them down have a proven higher success rate. Take it a step further and make a list of what you want to accomplish each day, week, and month. Just write them down and check them off the old-fashioned way. And tell Mr. Thereís-an-App-for-that to go f--k himself. "I'm gonna open a gym that turns into a bar after January.î 13. Go get a comprehensive health exam. Make your partner get one too. 14. Put your phone away at dinner. † "Checking your phone after someone else pulls out†their phone is the yawn of our generation.î 15. Laugh more. That means: socialize more often, drink more, have long lazy brunches, throw parties, host drunken game nights. Be spontaneousÖ Upgrade your friends if necessary. ìMost people wouldn't even be the main character†in a movie about their own lives.î 16. Donít just rely on the gym. Remember that feeling of playing a competitive sport as a kid, when youíre on the field, and not thinking about anything else. Most of us have forgotten what that feels like. So join a team or find someone to play tennis with. 17. Drink more. Iím not contradicting myself from earlierÖ If youíre healthy, eating well, and exercising, then your body can handle a few more drinks every now and then. There is nothing wrong with the occasional black out, and youíre just going to lie to your doctor anyway. ìAt most, maybe 15 to 17 units per week, doc.î ìThe 1st bottle is for health, the 2nd for love, and the 3rd for sleep.î ñ Eubulus, 350 BC 18. Help a pet get adopted, if for no other reason than to prove that you can. Iíll get it started with Spirit and Peony currently residing at the North Shore Animal League shelter in Port Washington, New York. (Tweet me; Iíll pay for the adoption fees.) ìWASPs kiss their wives on the forehead and their dogs on the mouth.î 19. Get a regular foot massage. A dark room. No TV. No loud voices. Itís the most peaceful and productive 75 minutes I have every week. I go on Saturdays with the Weekend FT and The Economist. 20. Stay in on New Year's Eve. Itís amateur night and it rarely lives up to your expectations anyhow. Get dressed up, strap on the Patek, go out for some Per Se gnocchi and get drunk on Krug? That sounds like my Tuesdays. This year, stay inÖ And then start January 1st early and productively.
BEIJING (Reuters) -†China's quest to solve its $3 trillion-and-growing public debt problem by starting a domestic municipal bond market hinges on the one thing its officials are most afraid of: transparency. As markets absorb the results of†China's latest audit of its state finances, Beijing's long-standing vow to develop a municipal bond market to curtail rapid growth in other types of hidden public debt will take center stage once more. By letting local governments sell bonds for cash,†China†wants to rely on nimble markets rather than inflexible regulations to keep spendthrift units in check. The stakes are high. A bond market is the centerpiece in†China's blueprint to mop up fiscal troubles and keep its economy growing at an even pace, giving it needed room to start other bold financial reforms. But analysts say†China's dreams of a municipal bond market are so far just that, as building one has been impeded by a lack of disclosure from local governments on how much money and assets they have, and how much they owe. "If you want to lend to a specific government, you need to have a clue as to what the financial conditions are like," said†Tan Kim Eng, a senior director of sovereign ratings at Standard &amp; Poor's in†Singapore. "There's still a lot of work to be done on the fiscal transparency front." In the meantime, some investors are increasingly alarmed by the speed at which local governments are piling on debt to pay for public works. China's state auditor said in its report on Monday that local governments had total outstanding debt of 17.9 trillion yuan ($2.96 trillion), including contingent liabilities and debt guarantees, at the end of June. Although the debt load shows†China's government†to be far less indebted than fiscally-troubled†Japan†and Greece, it raised eyebrows among analysts for its 67 percent jump since the last state audit was published in 2011. The auditor did not say which provinces have the heaviest burdens or face the biggest risks, except to note "certain" dangers in some unnamed regions. "Any improvement to fiscal transparency will be limited unless the central government regularly publishes similar audit reports," Standard &amp; Poor's said separately in a note on Tuesday. "It's also unclear whether†China†will disclose the debts of individual local and regional governments." Investors have long viewed†China's mountain of local government debt as one of the biggest threats to its economy. Market fears that†China's banking system will be compromised if a portion of the government debt is not repaid were amplified by a dearth of information in the past year. Amid growing public skepticism about†China's fiscal health, Beijing in August ordered a comprehensive review of all government balance sheets. A delay in its release - publication had been expected by October - fed speculation the debt-total could top $4 trillion. In†China's defense, the audit is a massive task. The audit office said it deployed nearly 55,000 workers, who examined nearly 2.5 million loans and reviewed the books of 62,215 governments and organizations. The need for transparency is not lost on Beijing. In a plan published in November about†China's most ambitious road map for financial reforms in 30 years, Beijing said it would create a "standardized and transparent budget system" for local governments and the funding of public works. This was on top of frequent government pledges to "cast sunlight" on debt. To be sure,†China†is mulling other options for cleaning up its debt mess, including allowing private investors to pay for public works, and letting the central government absorb more spending responsibilities. But no plan resonates better with reform-minded officials than that for a municipal bond market, partly because it fits perfectly with†China's goal of reducing central planning to let financial markets work their magic. Underscoring the importance placed on restructuring the economy, state news agency†Xinhua†said President†Xi Jinping†will head a group that will lead reforms which include relaxing state control over the yuan. &lt;CNY/&gt; Under†China's laws, local governments are not allowed to borrow from banks even though they are responsible for as much as 80 percent of all public spending, but take only around half of fiscal income. To get funds, local governments set up firms that borrow for them. When Beijing clamped down on this in 2011, governments changed tack and turned to shadow banks. Monday's audit showed shadow banks accounted for at least 13 percent of all local government borrowings. Facing savvy local officials quick to change financing strategies to evade rules, Chinese experts have championed creation of a municipal bond market. Such vehicles, they say, will decide which governments deserve funding, and spendthrift ones will be punished with higher borrowing costs. Beijing appears to like the idea, and is testing the ground for such a bond market in six prosperous cities including Shanghai†and Guangdong. But short of full disclosure of just how much governments take in and borrow, analysts doubt†China's experiments with its local bond market will go far. "Banks and rating agencies do not have easy access to local governments' overall fiscal position, which includes not only budgeted revenue and expenditure but also extra-budgetary revenue and expenditure," the†International Monetary Fund†said in October. "This lack of transparency prevents banks and rating agencies from pricing credit risk properly and prevents local governments from managing related risks prudently," it said. (Editing by Richard Borsuk)
An increase would go against the spirit of November's breakthrough agreement relaxing some of the stringent measures slapped on Iran two years ago over its nuclear program. The November deal between¬†Tehran¬†and the group known as P5+1 -- made up of the¬†United States¬†and five other global powers -- paused efforts to reduce Iran's crude sales but required buyers to hold to "current average amounts" of Iranian oil imports. That agreement was seen as a reward for a softer diplomatic tone from¬†Tehran¬†that was forced, some U.S. officials and lawmakers say, by U.S. and EU sanctions that slashed Iran's oil exports by more than half to about 1 million barrels per day (bpd) and cost it as much as $80 billion in lost revenue. But industry sources say Chinese state-trader¬†Zhuhai Zhenrong Corp, which was sanctioned by Washington in early 2012 for supplying gasoline to Iran, is in talks with the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) for a new contract for condensate. However, it was not clear how much of the light crude would be imported through any new term deal.¬†Zhenrong¬†or others could also continue buying condensate through spot deals. "If they do step up imports from Iran, they are risking more sanctions from the U.S.," said a trader with a Western trading house that sells to¬†China. "The¬†Chinese government¬†may make some noises if overall imports from Iran rise too much, but not if there is a slight increase." Zhenrong, an affiliate of¬†China's defense authorities in the 1990s, acts largely as an import agent for¬†China Petroleum and Chemical Corp, or Sinopec, whose refineries process Iranian crude. Zhenrong¬†also buys a small amount for a¬†PetroChina-controlled refinery. The new condensate contract would be through a subsidiary,¬†Tianjin Zhenrong International Energy Corp, for delivery to independent petrochemical¬†plant Dragon Aromatics¬†in¬†southeast China's¬†Fujian¬†province, the sources said. Dragon Aromatics since around August has been buying from¬†Zhenrong¬†on a spot basis about 66,000 bpd of condensate produced from Iran's giant¬†South Pars¬†gas project. A¬†Zhenrong¬†spokesperson declined to comment on any negotiations and whether they ran the risk of putting the company under pressure from Washington. "More pressure? Do you think they really care?" said a former¬†Zhenrong¬†trader.¬†Zhenrong, with no investments in the¬†United States¬†that could be targeted, has long thought it could be folded into a larger state company as a crude oil desk and probably has few concerns about any future sanctions, he said. Besides the new deal, Iran's largest trade partner and oil customer¬†China¬†is set to roll over its existing import volumes of about 505,000 bpd. Actual imports from Iran in the first 11 months of this year have been lower at 421,520 bpd, down 0.6 percent on year, according to Chinese customs figures, due to pressure from the Western sanctions.¬†China's total imports from Iran averaged about 530,500 bpd in the year prior to the sanctions. Of the total for next year, Zhuhai¬†Zhenrong¬†is set to renew its annual supply deal at around 240,000 bpd, not including any new deal for condensate. "It's almost done, and the volume will be the same," said a trading official with direct knowledge of the supply talks. Senior¬†Zhenrong¬†officials may visit¬†Tehran¬†in the coming weeks to put final touches on the 2014 agreement, the official said. Zhenrong¬†was set up around 1995 to take oil from¬†Tehran¬†in payment for arms¬†Beijing¬†supplied during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq¬†war. It has been a commercial state-run enterprise since 1998. The balance of¬†China's contract volumes from Iran would be going to Sinopec, through its trading vehicle Unipec. Unipec agreed with NIOC early last year to an 8-year oil contract to end-2019 to lift around 265,000 bpd, about a quarter of which is condensate, according to a second trading official. Under U.S. and European sanctions, Sinopec has been lifting below those contractual volumes to win waivers to the U.S. measures every six months, with one official estimating the cut at 11-13 percent. Sinopec has filled the gap mainly with Iraqi and Russian supplies. Waivers for¬†China,¬†India¬†and¬†South Korea¬†were extended in November. China's waiver, together with November's diplomatic breakthrough, may have taken some pressure off the U.S.-listed Sinopec, the world's single largest Iranian¬†oil processor, to make further cuts. "It's at Sinopec's discretion to decide whether to perform the contractual volume," said a second trading official. "But the contract is there, signed through end of 2019." A Sinopec spokesperson said he was not aware of the contract and was unable to comment. Since November, Sinopec has loaded slightly above contractual rates following a meeting the previous month between Iran's deputy oil minister¬†Ali Mojedi¬†and a Sinopec executive in charge of trading, said the second official. But Sinopec may not risk raising imports significantly higher before more progress is made on easing sanctions on Iran. "There are still potential risks without signs of sanctions being lifted in a meaningful way," said a procurement official with a Sinopec refinery. (Reporting by Chen Aizhu; Editing by Manash Goswami and Tom Hogue)
LONDON (Reuters) - World stocks were ending 2013 close to six-year peaks on Tuesday and benchmark bond yields were poised for their first annual rise since 2009 as investors celebrated a pick-up in global growth with expectations of more to come. Thanks to ultra-easy monetary policies and an improving economic outlook, equities have enjoyed a vintage year in 2013. Wall Street was on track for its best year since 1997 with a 29 percent gain, while†Japan's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; ended up 56.7 percent and European shares &lt;.FTEU3&gt; gained 16 percent. MSCI's all-country world equity index &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; was flat at 407.42 points on Tuesday, having hit its highest since late 2007 at 407.65 on Monday. The FTSEurofirst 300 &lt;.FTEU3&gt; index of top European shares was up 0.13 percent at 1,313.52 points, on course for its best year since 2009. Assets favored by investors in economic downturns took a beating in 2013, with top-rated U.S. and German bond yields trading near the highest in around two years and gold limping towards its worst annual performance in three decades. With bets that the economic recovery will continue even as†the U.S. central bank†steadily trims its bond-buying stimulus and that the euro zone will take more steps towards overcoming its debt crisis, investors look for more of the same in 2014. "There is almost a complacency about next year and how well it could go," said†Hans Peterson, head of asset allocation at SEB investment management. "There is still abundant liquidity even if the Fed started to taper and I think that is still the main theme ... Everything looks nice and easy right now." Reuters polls show European stocks are expected to hit new highs in 2014, while Chinese, U.S. and other major stock markets are also seen posting solid gains. Gold is expected to remain depressed, while benchmark bond yields are seen rising only slightly, despite investors' preference for riskier assets, the polls show. Analysts do not foresee a sharp bond sell-off because inflation in major economies is expected to remain stubbornly low, while the†European Central Bank†and the Federal Reserve have pledged to keep interest rates low for a prolonged period. While staying overweight in equities,†Didier Duret, chief investment officer at ABN AMRO private banking, said 2014 "will be a good opportunity to ... buy some good quality bonds as yields pick up above 3 percent in the U.S. and above 2 percent in†Germany." The yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury note, which sets the standard for global borrowing costs, has risen to almost 3 percent from 1.75 percent at the start of the year, but it is seen rising to only 3.35 percent in 2014. Emerging markets have been a noted exception to the rally in equities. MSCI's EM Index &lt;.MSCIEF&gt; fell 5 percent in 2013 on worries that cuts in global monetary stimulus could expose economic imbalances and as funds return to the rich world. The euro is set to end 2013 close to its highest level in two years against the dollar, but a Reuters poll shows it is expected to reverse its upward trend next year as the continued soft stance of the ECB contrasts with the Fed's. On Tuesday, the single currency was steady at $1.3790 to be up more than 4 percent for the year. The easing of the euro zone crisis and signs of a pick-up in economic activity even in the bloc's weakest members have offered strong support to the euro and brought Italian and Spanish debt yields to just over half their crisis peaks. In recent days, a rise in money market rates due to thin year-end liquidity has given the single currency extra impetus, but there are some expectations the ECB may react with new long-term liquidity injections into the banking system if that continues in 2014. "Diminishing euro zone market liquidity, a steeper yield curve and a stronger euro will do little to resolve the ECB's deflationary credit crunch dilemma," said†Lena Komileva, managing director at G+ Economics, in a note. "It would be too soon to expect that the ECB will respond with renewed liquidity easing at its January 2014 meeting, but it is clear that conditions warrant close monitoring and readiness for swift action." The euro was quoted at 144.71 yen, down 0.3 percent from late U.S. trade, after having set a five-year high of 145.67 yen last Friday. The dollar was a tad lower at 105.10 yen, but remained on track for its biggest annual gain in 34 years, with the Japanese currency having been bowled over by the†Bank of Japan's money-printing. In the oil market, Brent crude was a tad higher at $111.24 a barrel on Tuesday. U.S. oil futures were down 14 cents at $99.15. &lt;O/R&gt; Hopes for global growth meant copper traded around four-month highs, while aluminum dipped after climbing to two-month highs last session. (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt)

Margin CallAlthough today should be very quiet, it's actually a little bit stacked in terms of economic data. Via Calculated Risk, here are the big 3 events. Each is pretty high up there in terms of things you want to pay attention to: ï At 9:00 AM ET, the†S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for October. Although this is the October report, it is really a 3 month average of August, September and October. The consensus is for a 13.7% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for October.ï At 9:45 AM, the†Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for December. The consensus is for a decrease to 61.3, down from 63.0 in November.ï At 10:00 AM, the†Conference Board's consumer confidence index for December. The consensus is for the index to increase to 76.8 from 70.4.
Share¬†¬†Share¬†Tweet The debate about profit margins has been raging for years now. ¬†Big bears argue that margins have to mean revert. ¬†The bulls argue that margins either aren‚Äôt all that high or needn‚Äôt necessarily mean revert. ¬† But an interesting note from Deutsche Bank argues that some portion of the higher margins is indeed structural. ¬†Their arguments makes a good deal of sense (via¬†Deutsche Bank): I still think profit margins will necessarily contract when the next big profit recession occurs, but that‚Äôs kind of an obvious macro ‚Äúinsight‚Äù‚Ä¶.
blue2likeyou/FlickrIt's the final day of the year and markets aren't doing anything. At all. US futures are up a little bit.† Europe is down a little bit. And that's it. It's really quiet, and probably will be all day as everyone books their big gains for the year and shuffles out early.
