JonesTradingIn his latest nightly note, Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading comments on this seemingly gravity-defying, can't lose market. The End of the Free Lunch Trade?†††† Early on in most Wall Street careers budding financiers are taught there is no free lunch on Wall Street.† That stems from the belief that you cannot get something for nothing.† For the past 18 months, and more specifically the past 6 months, the market has acted as if there is a Free Lunch - Central Bank policies of promising perpetually low rates, asset purchases and support for whatever ails or does not ail the economy.† Despite middling but expansionary economic data and unimpressive earnings growth, equity prices have bounded higher.† Low rates have fueled corporate debt refinancing and buyback programs.† The low rate environment has made fixed income products so expensive that everything else looked relatively inexpensive.† Today, the S&amp;P 500 opened up over 1%, which was on top of a 55 basis point pre-holiday mark-up into Fridayís close.† The Dow Industrials' streak of avoiding three consecutive negative closes in 2013 remained intact.† It turns out the Free Lunch is an "All You Can Eat Buffet."† O'Rourke goes on to warn about higher rates as the possible death knell of this Free Lunch Trade. Bigger picture though is that the airwaves are being consumed with talk like this: Bubble! The Taper! Too far to fast! And so on. Amazingly, before the market has even fallen, the wall of worry is being rebuilt before our eyes.
Japan continues to be kind of sickly looking. Today the Nikkei opened up over 1%, but the rally is fading hard, and has all but disappeared. Remember, the market crashed 7% on Thursday and then another 3% on Monday. The juice, for now, is gone. Nikkei.com
The Aussie dollar is fading tonight, and really it's been getting smoked since the beginning of April. FinViz It's getting slammed by 3 different but related trends. The first is the China slowdown, which obviously hurts Aussie exports. The second is the weakness in commodities, which is partly, but not totally related to the China slowdown. And then finally, everything's underperforming against the US Dollar, which is in beast mode. Meanwhile, as Reuters noted last week, shorting the Aussie is a popular hedge fund play, so the sharks smell blood.
If you think your rent is high, consider summer rentals in the Hamptons. Brokers say there are now at least a half dozen homes and estates in the Hamptons that are renting for around $1 million‚Äîjust for the summer. That works out to $9,803 per day, or $408 an hour. And the $1 million lease doesn't include utility bills or other charges, which can run in the tens of thousands. Brokers say the number of million-dollar rentals marks a new record. "It's unprecedented," said H. Dolly Lenz, a Manhattan broker who also works with buyers and renters in the Hamptons. "The demand is not just strong, it's unbelievable." Most of the million-dollar rentals are unofficial listings, which means they don't show up on the Internet or on broker databases. Brokers generally offer the properties only by word-of-mouth to super-rich prospects. Yet realtors say at least two properties have already rented for at or close to $1 million for the summer and several others are in active discussions. Lenz and others say the surge in Hamptons rentals is being driven by hedge funders, the stock market and the super-rich from Russia, Germany, Italy and other countries. (Read More:¬†Wealthy Give Tax Coffers a Big Boost) Pat Petrillo of¬†Sotheby's¬†International Realty in Southampton said the people who rent their homes for $1 million or more are generally "very wealthy themselves," but plan on spending part of the summer in Europe or elsewhere. "They say, 'Look if someone will pay $1 million for the summer, we'll consider it,'" she said. "They'd be crazy not to." And who are the renters? No one will name names. But brokers said the renter of one million-dollar rental in Southampton is a wealthy Russian who has rented in the Hamptons before. Another renter in talks for another million-dollar rental is "in finance," according to one broker. What do you get for your $1 million summer? Try a property in Water Mill that's renting for around a million for the summer that includes a 14,000-square-foot main house, with eight bedrooms, 10 baths and a home theater. It also has a tennis court, pool and a large guest house. (Read More:¬†The Booming Business of Shipping Yachts) An estate in Southampton that recently rented for close to $1 million has an 18,000-square-foot house with 12 bedrooms and 12 baths along with a sprawling guest house and pool house. A¬†tennis court and heated pool are on the¬†10-acre property. For those who like to do their swimming indoors, the estate has a massive indoor swimming pool with waterfalls and a water slide. Of course, some million-dollar rentals will never find actual renters. Harald Grant of Sotheby's International Southampton said that "there are really only a few properties that can command that price and the rest are just hoping." He added that while the Hamptons rental market was on fire in the early spring, it's since cooled a bit after prospective renters decided to buy instead. "There are a surprising number of properties still available," he said. "Even some oceanfront properties are still available. For a price of course."
Robert Spencer/Getty ImagesThe Harvard Crimson has released the results of the class of 2013's survey of where the seniors are heading after graduation.¬† According to the student newspaper, 61% of the graduating class already has a job secured. ¬†More graduates will be heading to Wall Street this year than they did last year, but it's still nothing compared to 2007.¬† From The Harvard Crimson:¬† Another 15 percent will be working in finance, nearly doubling the 9 percent who entered the sector last year but still paling in comparison to 2007, when before the financial crisis, 47 percent of graduating seniors went into finance. What's more is 21% of seniors going into the financial services industry said they will make more than $110,000 their first year on the job, the report said.¬† Harvard's commencement will take place on May 30th. ¬† [h/t @KevinRoose]
Flickr via D. Sharon PruittFor the most part, generations in America have followed a similar storyline: kids grow up to earn more and become more financially secure than their parents and grandparents before them.¬† But that story ended with those born between the mid-60s and early 80s, known as¬†Generation X.¬† In just about every regard, Gen X has fallen behind financially. Even before the recession, they were earning less and saving less for retirement than previous generations did at their age while taking on unprecedented debt. They were hit hardest by the recession, losing half of their wealth from 2007 to 2010. Where do they go from here?¬† Assuming the U.S. isn't on track for another recession anytime soon, as long as Gen X finds a way to crack down on spending, get ahold of their debt and find ways to further their careers, they can bounce back. At the very least, Gen X has one thing on their side that older generations would kill for ‚Äì‚Äì time. Using charts from recent studies on generational wealth gaps by the Pew Research Center and the Urban Institute, we've put together a clearer picture of what's gone wrong for Gen X.
We recently came across a tumblr called Maps on the Web. It's pretty much exactly what it sounds like. Lots of maps. And it's mesmerizing. Not only are maps fun to look at, they also explain the world. Here are 13 of our favorites from more recent postings: jstl/reddit/MOTW MOTW¬† MOTW SkewTlogP/reddit/MOTW MOTW MOTW MOTW MOTW MOTW ChicagoMag via MOTW MOTW MOTW ¬† Check out all of the maps here ---&gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Six Reasons Advisors Charge Less Than They Should (Advisor Perspectives) Advisors are not charging as much as they should according to Bob Veres of Inside Information. He says there are six signs that advisors are charging less than they should. 1. "There is no visible relationship between advisory fees charged and the amount or quality of work that a client receives for them." 2. There is no consensus on whether planning fees should be separated from asset management fees. 3. "There is no professional consensus on what the asset management service is worth.' 4. While advisors are said to charge 1% of clients AUM there is little consistency in the industry. 5. "The upfront fees are inconsistent." 6. There is no consensus on a "retainer fee structure." This Stock Market's Ultimate Upside Potential Could Be Legendary (Investment News) Eugene E. Peroni Jr. of Advisors Asset Management says, "the 2002 market bottom packed powerful technical credentials that I believe could make the market's ultimate upside potential in this cycle legendary."¬† Peroni writes that this is because of four key reasons. 1. There has been "self-policing of price and sentiment excesses." 2. "Broad and diverse sector leadership has prevailed in this cycle." 3. The Fed's communication policy has meant that markets will get notice about an increase in rates. 4. "There remains a distinct disconnect between a rising stock market since March 2009 and the public's cautious view of growth stocks."  There Are Just 5 Things You Need To Know About Investing (The Motley Fool) The are just five things you need to know about investing, according to Morgan Housel at The Motley Fool. 1. "Compound interest is what will make you rich. And it takes time." 2. "The single largest variable that affects returns is valuations -- and you have no idea what they'll do." 3. "Simple is usually better than smart." 4. "The odds of the stock market experiencing high volatility are 100%." 5. "The industry is dominated by cranks, charlatans, and salesman." The European Stock Market Is Not Europe (Morgan Stanley) Just like a large portion of the S&amp;P 500 revenue is derived from outside the U.S. economy, a large portion of European companies' revenue is also derived from outside developed Europe. Morgan Stanley A 7-Point Response To Buffett Haters (The Reformed Broker) Over the weekend Cullen Roche wrote a seven-point takedown of Warren Buffett. Josh Brown, an "unabashed fan" of Buffett offered up a defense to Roche's criticisms. Here's an excerpt of what went down.¬† 1. Roche argued that Buffett was critical of hedge funds but spent the first 10 years of his career running one. Brown argued that Buffett eventually found a "better vehicle to align his interests with those of his shareholders and the types of long-term investments he wanted to make. ‚Ä¶Why is learning and evolving one's business a negative?" 2. Roche criticized Buffett for telling the world that fixed income is dangerous while holding billion dollar positions in bonds. Brown wrote, "When you run insurance businesses, energy utilities and over fifty private companies with ongoing expense and cash flow obligations, using fixed income to meet the periodic costs involved isn't an option - it is a requirement."
ReutersThere's an excellent new paper on "The 1%" by†Facundo Alvaredo, Anthony Atkinson, Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez out today on NBER.† The paper is about what policies and trends have allowed the 1% to swell into such a powerful bloc. The paper is already the source of a number of great charts, but there's three in particular that really hammer home why there is such an obsession among the rich for lower taxes.† You're talking about a group that willingly spends millions every couple of years to try to get a preferred individual in a position of power to change taxes.† For starters here's a look at the top tax rates in the U.K., France, the U.S. and Germany.† The dark lines ñ an upside-down U-shape †ó represent the U.S. and U.K. top rates. Notice how they started low early in the 20th century, rose upward to over 90% of income, then crashed back down.† The white lines ó France and Germany ó started out low, rose significantly, then remained relatively flat. It's shaped like an upside-down capital L. (G) NBER NBER † NBER  So, what can we see? † There's an inverse relationship between the top tax rate in an industrialized nation and the share of income held by the 1%.† When you see the very wealthy lobbying to cut taxes, understand that there's an ulterior motive. They're remembering the fifties, when they controlled the lowest percent of the income share and paid the highest taxes.†
Today, the Department of Justice arrested the founders of Liberty Reserve, a digital currency service, and charged them with money laundering.¬† Created in 2006, Liberty Reserve was both a virtual currency ‚Äî its denomination was called "LR's" ‚Äî and an allegedly illict wire transfer service. According to DOJ's complaint, the scope of Liberty Reserve's operations was almost exclusively limited to criminal activity. But as the FT's Stephen Foley Tweeted, the text of DOJ's complaint is a cruise missile across the bow of Bitcoin users: Anyone valuing Bitcoin for its potential use as a black market currency needs to read DoJ suit v Liberty Reserve #theywillshutbitcoindown Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman said: ‚ÄúAs charged, Liberty Reserve operated, on an enormous scale, a digital currency system designed to provide cyber and other criminals with a way to launder their profits without leaving a trace. The company‚Äôs very purpose was to launder its users‚Äô criminal proceeds through the U.S. and global financial system. Secret Service Special Agent-in-Charge Steven G. Hughes said: ‚ÄúThese arrests are an example of the Secret Service‚Äôs commitment to investigate and apprehend criminals engaged in the misuse of virtual currencies to conduct global monetary fraud. Cyber criminals should be reminded today that they are unable to hide behind the anonymity of the Internet to avoid regulated financial systems. Until just a few months ago, Bitcoin was known as much for its facilitating¬†illicit activity¬†as its mathematical and philosophical underpinnings. Bitcoin exchanges offer the same kind of anonymity and trace-less transactions as Liberty Reserve, and its users praise it for its ability to circumvent regulated financial systems. We already know the CFTC is interested in Bitcoin. If the government now has the above-mentioned types of "virtues" in its crosshairs, Bitcoin users should be pretty concerned.
Tesla crossed the $100 mark for the first time earlier today and closed up nearly 13.6% at $110.30. Tesla's had a good run recently beating Q1 earnings and getting the highest score by Consumer Reports. It also recently announced a stock offering and new leasing deal. Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas also called it America's fourth automaker and raised his price target to $103. Some continue to see this as a short squeeze. Here's a look at its year-to-date performance: Google Finance
Flickr / librarymanThe Dow was up by as much as 214 points this morning.† While it shed most of those gains, the stock market nevertheless closed in the black today, breaking a three-day losing streak. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,409, +106.2 pts, +0.6%S&amp;P 500: 1,660, +10.4 pts, +0.6%NASDAQ: 3,488, +29.7 pts, +0.8% And now the top stories:
YouTubePIMCO's Bill GrossFollowing this morning's consumer confidence release, the yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries rose to its highest levels in a year as investors sold out of government bonds. Goldman strategists think this time the sell-off in bonds is "for real," and rates should continue heading higher from here. This afternoon, bonds have extended their earlier losses, and the 10-year Treasury is now yielding 2.15%. Closed-end bond funds traded on exchanges are taking a big hit today. Perhaps the most notable is PIMCO's Dynamic Income fund, which is down 4.3%. However, bond funds across the spectrum of PIMCO offerings are under fire. PIMCO's High Income Fund is down 7.0%, the¬†PIMCO Corporate &amp; Income Opportunity Fund is trading 4.9% lower, and the PIMCO Income Strategy Fund is off 2.4%. In a recent tweet, PIMCO fund manager Bill Gross said, "The secular 30-yr bull market in bonds likely ended 4/29/2013. PIMCO can help you navigate a likely lower return 2 - 3% future."
REUTERS/Mohammed SalamBurj Khalifa, DubaiIn China, construction on Sky City, which is expected to be the world's tallest building, will begin in June. It is expected to rise to 838 meters. Barclays' Skyscraper Index suggests that construction booms, especially those highlighted by record-breaking skyscrapers, coincide with the beginning of economic† downturns. The index even suggests that the rate of increase in height could also reflect the extent of that economic crisis.† Drawing on Barclays' Skyscraper Index, we pulled 11 skyscrapers whose constructions coincided with the financial crises of their times.
northlandingfp.comRob is a founding and co-Managing Partner of NorthLanding Financial Partners, LLC. When H. Robert Bradley and his partners founded NorthLanding Financial Partners, an independent registered investment advisory firm in Rochester, N.Y., they chose the name of the firm very carefully. The last thing they wanted to do was to call their firm a ìwealth manager.î ìI consider myself an anti-wealth manager,î he says. ìWealth management is the exact opposite of where you want to start. The concept of wealth management starts by focusing about what a client†has,†instead†of where they are going. Frankly, I think itís a bogus term invented by Wall Street brokerage firms who arenít willing to hold themselves out as genuine financial planners.î Bradley, together with three partners, all Certified Financial Planners, started NorthLanding earlier this year to provide their clients with a planning process that identifies the human issues that go beyond simple portfolio management. They focus on planning for first generation affluent people that work in Rochesterís many tech-focused businesses. ìWe serve savers and business people who earned and created their money themselves,î he says. ìStewarding and protecting it is often more critical for them than someone who comes from multi-generational wealth.î Bradley and two of his partners are veterans of another firm that they felt lost its way. When the cityís most famous business, Eastman Kodak, fell apart and eventually declared bankruptcy in early 2012, many employees were laid off and others left. This brought a lot of business to local financial advisors: Many workers now faced important life questions, such as rolling over retirement accounts, and deciding whether to retire or look for a new job. ìWhen a firm grows too fast, they can get sloppy with everything from who they hire, the types of processes they use and most importantly, having a culture of ëclient careí,î Bradley says. ìNobody was really interested in giving individual clients a fully formed planning process because when Kodak went down, client retirement assets were just flowing out of there in a panic.î The partners vow to not let this happen in with their firm, which they opt to keep small to preserve a culture of patience and care for the client. Their commitment to objectivity and providing complete planning services informed NorthLandingís compensation structure. They disagree with financial planners who believe that the only way to give truly disinterested advice is to work strictly under a fee-for-advice model. Their reason: Charging clients†only†either a percentage of assets under management or receiving commissions for selling financial products leads the advisor to push one business model on clients that have varying needs. To ensure that the firm gives objective advice and full planning services, it remains open to selling products from several sources. Not only do they offer financial advice and planning by the hour, they can also be compensated with a percentage of a clientís assets. They have an institutional relationship with Fidelity, but they can also access any broker-dealer product available as independent broker-dealer reps. This flexibility, they say, helps NorthLanding find the right products for their clients. In some cases, they even contact other advisors and investment managers that could help the customer in ways that they cannot. ìWe are a hybrid by intention,î he says. ìIf you canít do everything for your client, you canít say that you are truly objective.î Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at†@adviceiq.††AdviceIQ delivers quality personal finance articles by both financial advisors and AdviceIQ editors. It ranks advisors in your area by specialty. For instance, the rankings this week measure the number of clients whose income is between $250,000 and $500,000 with that advisor. AdviceIQ also vets ranked advisors so only those with pristine regulatory histories can participate. AdviceIQ was launched Jan. 9, 2012, by veteran Wall Street executives, editors and technologists. Right now, investors may see many advisor rankings, although in some areas only a few are ranked. Check back often as thousands of advisors are undergoing AdviceIQ screening. New advisors appear in rankings daily.
Wikimedia CommonsThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn.¬†Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]> What are 13 of the most common words that keep companies from realizing their full performance potential? (Hint: They are 13 words that are very difficult to argue with.) Those words are: ‚ÄúHey, our goal is simply to put the best person in the job.‚Äù Can‚Äôt argue with that, can you? Who can be against putting the best person in the job?? Except‚Ä¶‚Ä¶ Research has shown that the best performing teams are diverse teams. The power of diverse perspectives is such that diverse teams outperform non-diverse teams‚Ä¶.and they outperform even more capable teams. But humans are human. When left to our own devices, many of us prefer to spend time with like-minded individuals. I‚Äôll admit it: I often do. Frankly, it‚Äôs just easier. And it‚Äôs also easier for me to picture how somebody who looks like me and sounds like me will get the job done; this is particularly true if it‚Äôs a difficult job or a stretch assignment, because I can imagine how I would do it. So let‚Äôs take this to its logical conclusion....with a basketball example. In any random group of UNC basketball players from the past it could well be that Phil Ford, Jimmy Black, Raymond Felton, Ty Lawson and Kendall Marshall would be the best players. But would they be a national championship team? No way. And that‚Äôs because they're all point guards. While arguably possessing the most valuable skill set on a team, they will almost certainly be beaten by teams that have more diverse player skills. When I have built business teams in the past, I've tried to round out the group by including a visionary, a doer, a skeptic, a client advocate and an ‚Äúhistorian‚Äù as part of the team, to name a few. And I have also worked to include diverse backgrounds, whether acquired (time spent abroad, time spent at competitors) or innate (gender, ethnicity). If we can change our mindset from ‚ÄúHey, our goal is simply to put the best person in the job‚Äù to ‚ÄúHey, our goal is simply to put the best team in place,‚Äù we will have accomplished a great deal on improving company performance. And we will have accomplished a great deal on increasing opportunity and diversity.
You've just gotten that promotion and now you're in charge of a small team. Congratulations! And welcome to middle management. All the hard work and the knowledge you've developed about everything your firm does these past few years has been noticed. But, now you have a small team of people under you. You're responsible for them. Don't take this task lightly. How does one get into middle management? You have to master the many aspects of your initial job. This could be anywhere from building models to painting decks to auditing the many line items of a company. Whatever it is you do, you have to be a rock star, you will probably have "seen it all", and most importantly, your current bosses trust in your abilities and allow you to work (more or less) independently. Once all of those ducks are in a row, you'll be granted more responsibility, in particular, the responsibility for the work of people under you. You'll be given, as I like to call them, minions. How you view your responsibility towards your new minions, and how you proceed with having them do your bidding (see why I call them minions?), can be the difference between being a good manager or a crappy one. We all have stories of crappy managers, but there's a paucity of discussion on what makes a good one. Hopefully those of you about to enter into your first real management position will get some benefit from what I've learned over the years. 1. Don't try to do all the work yourself. You're a rock star, and your minions, in comparison, will all be bumbling idiots who will turn in substandard work that, at best, represents "one step forward, two steps back". Resist the urge to crank it out on your own. I recognize that this is one of the hardest things for new managers to do, especially early on. Letting your minions do the work, reviewing it, finding the myriad screw ups, then attempting to train away incompetency only to find yourself up all night scrubbing the report/model/deck/whatever anyways, is substantially less efficient then cranking it out on your own. You have to resist, you have to do it the hard way, because that's the point of being a manager. You're responsible for getting your minions up to speed and able to work independently at your level. Don't worry, there are ways to make this process easier. 2. Know what tasks your minions are familiar with and what they can do relatively well. Sure, they're minions, who are more liability than asset, but they're not completely useless (probably). They all have their own talents and it's up to you to figure out what they bring to the table. Some may be more adept with Excel or PowerPoint, while others moreso with accounting and analysis. Whatever tasks are important to your particular industry/company, see if one of your minions has any talent for it. Once you've figured out who can do what, lean on their strengths when assigning tasks. This will reduce the amount of work you have to do on the back end, and it will build confidence in your minions. 3. Foster teamwork among your minions. Initially, you lean on the strengths of your minions, but this can't continue indefinitely. You don't want to be the manager of a team of one-trick ponies. Eventually, your minions will have to master everything - not just the particular talents they arrived with - for you to be considered a successful manager. Luckily, they can do some of this work for you if you can effectively develop a sense of teamwork among them; whereby they'll teach each other what they know. There are many ways to accomplish this, for example, take your minions out for drinks after a successfully completed project, then ditch them early on with an extra pitcher or two. One thing you don't want to see is your minions, all day every day, glued to their computer screens and never interacting. 4. Know which minions are killing it, and which ones are struggling. This will come as no surprise, but as time goes on, you'll find that some of your minions are straight crushing it, while others are struggling and bumbling along. While you probably have the power to recommend someone for termination, avoid this like the plague. If you have to fire someone because they can't hack it, you will be the one who has failed. You were the one entrusted by your superiors to get these minions ready and able to crank out high quality work. Find a way to get the stragglers up to speed. One approach here is to attach your weakest minions to a minion who is crushing it and exceeding expectations. You're effectively making your best minions, mini-managers, and they'll benefit from the additional responsibility just like the strugglers benefit from their expertise. One big caveat: if a minion is struggling because they no longer want the job, if the position isn't what they thought it would be and they want to do something else, help them move on. You do not, under any circumstances, want them to stay. Call your friends at other firms, write them recommendation letters, do whatever it takes to get them somewhere they'll be successful.
Google FinanceStocks started the day with a big rally in the wake of three better-than-expected economic reports. At one point, the Dow was up by as much as 214 points. However, that rally is losing steam.. Earlier today, we learned that U.S. home prices jumped 10.9% year-over-year in March, beating expectations.¬† This was the fastest pace of price gains since April 2006. This was followed by the May Richmond Fed survey that climbed to -2 from -6 in April.¬† Economists were looking for a reading of -4. The big catalyst this morning is probably the consumer confidence report, which surged to 76.2 from 68.1 in April.¬† This too was much better than the 71.2 expected by economists. Should the markets stay positive at the close, they would be breaking a three-day losing streak
Citi's proprietary Panic/Euphoria model has a remarkable track record for predicting the direction of the stock market based on a variety of market sentiment measures. When investor sentiment is euphoric, expected returns are low. And when investors are panicking, expected returns are high. In his latest note to clients, Citi's Tobias Levkovich warns that sentiment is once again approaching euphoria. "The Panic/Euphoria model was signaling last summer that there was a 96% chance of impressive gains by mid-2013 but it is now showing a meaningful spike towards the euphoria level which does not augur nearly as well for investors," wrote Levkovich. That's not the only thing that's making Levkovich cautious these days. "Moreover, lower intra-stock correlation also implies a more upbeat investment community focused on stock selection and less concerned about macro dynamics, thereby adding to the risk profile as economic, political or geopolitical events are no longer being considered by fund managers by virtue of their actions," he wrote. Complacency and euphoria are the types of things that will exacerbate market volatility should a sell-off come. Here's Levkovich's chart of the Panic/Euphoria model: Citi Research
This morning, Consumer Confidence numbers smashed expectations rising to a five year high. But a quarter of a second before the number was out and euphoria set in, there was some shady trading going on in the SPDR S&amp;P Sector ETF (SPY), the e-Mini (electronically traded futures), and in hundreds of stocks, according to Nanex, a market research firm. From Nanex: On May 28, 2013, about 1/4 second before the expected release of the Consumer Confidence number, trading exploded in SPY, the eM ini and hundreds of other stocks. Even more interesting, activity exploded just 1 millisecond earlier in the futures (traded in Chicago) than stocks (traded in NYC). The speed of light separates information between Chicago and NYC by at least 4 or 5 milliseconds. Which means this was more likely the result of a timed trading in both futures and stocks, rather than a arbitrage reaction between the two. We found no other instances of early trading in the 11 previous monthly releases of the same Consumer Confidence data, Nanex ultimately concluded that this was most likely a case of "banging the beehive" rather than someone having inside information, but that's really no reason to feel relieved. "Banging the Beehive" is a term that traders use to describe what happens when a high frequency trader sends out a barrage of orders before right before a key event (like a report). This impacts price, and forces those who've already put their orders out to put out new orders to adjust. All of this creates volatility, which high frequency traders love. The problem is that other traders don't love it. In fact, there's been so much "banging the beehive" before the weekly Natural Gas Storage Report that traders have been exiting the trade entirely. Check out the chart of all this activity below, from Nanex: Nanex
Motor AuthorityTesla presentation slide from June, 2012 outlining 'Gen 3' platform variantsTalk of an affordable electric car from Tesla dates back¬†all the way to 2009, and we have no doubt the company‚Äôs CEO, Elon Musk, had envisaged launching such a model when he co-founded Tesla back in 2003. Now, with its¬†federal loan out of the way¬†and production of its award-winning Model S slowing ramping up, Tesla‚Äôs future model range is back in the spotlight. We already know that Tesla‚Äôs next model will be the Model X, a crossover based on the platform underpinning the Model S. The last we heard, the Model X will¬†arrive in late 2014. Beyond this, we should see¬†another sedan and crossover launched, this time based on a third-generation platform, currently referred to as Tesla‚Äôs ‚ÄòGen 3‚Äô platform. These two additions will be considerably cheaper than the Model S and Model X, and have been described by Elon Musk as needing to be both compelling and affordable. Speaking with¬†Bloomberg¬†recently, Musk said he‚Äôs neither going to leave Tesla¬†[NSDQ:TSLA]¬†nor¬†see the company acquired¬†until he can deliver cars with those attributes. ¬†¬† ‚ÄúWhat the world really needs is a great, affordable electric car,‚Äù Musk explained. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not going to let anything go, no matter what people offer, until I complete that mission.‚Äù Speaking specifically about the Gen 3-based sedan, Musk said it would be priced below $40,000 and arrive on the market within the next three to four years. He also said it would have a driving range of about 200 miles on a single charge. The Gen 3-based sedan has previously been reported to be similar in size to a BMW 3-Series and both lighter and cheaper to produce than the current Model S. Following the launch of the sedan, a crossover will then be added and once both of these are on sale Tesla will finally offer a¬†successor to its original Roadster.
Reuters/Richard CarsonFormer Enron CEO Jeff Skilling (R) was convicted for conspiracy and securities fraudMany white collar crimes aren't committed by hardened criminals. It's often normally moral people under financial strain, those under severe pressure from their bosses or shareholders, or people who get away with something minor then try to to test their limits.† So what exactly leads otherwise normal and hardworking people to cross the line?†That's the subject of a paper by Dr. Muel Kaptein of the Rotterdam School Of Management.† We've collected some of the key insights and cognitive biases as a guide of what to look out for in a workplace.† Thanks to Dr. Kaptein for letting us feature his work.†

Reuters/Andrew KellyIf a gaffe, in the famous formulation of journalist Michael Kinsley, can be best described as when someone accidentally admits the truth, then hedge fund star Paul Tudor Jones made a doozy of one at an off-the-record chat hosted by the University of Virginia last month. "You will never see as many great women investors or traders as men," Jones, the founder of the multi-billion dollar Tudor Investment Fund, told the audience. Why? It's the children, damnit. "As soon as that baby's lips touched that girl's bosom, forget it. Every single investment idea, every desire to understand what's going to make this go up or go down is going to be overwhelmed." The Washington Post obtained a recording and posted it online last week. Never mind multi-tasking. We're talking the power of Oxytocin here. Ladies, a full complement of nannies and supportive husbands won't help, not when your hormones are taking charge. Jones quickly attempted to take his words back, claiming he was only referring to "global macro traders," those traders who seek to profit from world-wide economic trends in world financial markets, where "life events, such as birth, divorce, death of a loved one and other emotional highs and lows are obstacles to success." Ah, work-life balance. Gaffe explained. We can move on now. Not so fast. Jones' slip points out the truth of what is going on: men don't trust women to get this investing thing right. Things have not been going well for the ladies on Wall Street since the Great Recession ‚Äì not, mind you, that the going was so good before. Disproportionately impacted by the downsizing of the financial services industry, their numbers in the business have been dropping. One day it's Zoe Cruz being held responsible for losses at Morgan Stanley, the next it is Ina Drew taking the hit for JPMorgan Chase's so-called "London Whale" trading scandal. It's become popular among those who would like to see women's status on Wall Street improved, after the 2008 financial crash, to claim that hormones cause women to enjoy a calm and risk-averse nature and that if they worked on Wall Street in greater numbers, we'd all be in better financial shape. Think about it. Who was brought in to take charge after the falsehood of the Iceland economic miracle? Women. Who tried to bring attention to Wall Street's increasingly risky practices? Brooksley Born, who warned frantically and repeatedly about the dangers of derivatives, only to be shouted down by the men in the rooms of power. There is a pseudo-scientific streak among lazy thinkers who believe that women just can't help it- their hormones leave them unsuited for the halls of power, be they in Washington or Wall Street. As legal historian Christine Sgarlata Chung observes, "Wall Street's prevailing narrative assumes that women lack the skills and characteristics necessary to navigate on Wall Street" and treats them as either "hapless victims" or "incompetent shrews." Under this reasoning, women's lack of investing or leadership prowess comes down to a lack of testosterone. Testosterone, of course, is supposed to be the hormone of the alpha male, of leadership and strength and risk-taking. Cheerleaders for women's empowerment even claim this same testosterone is the problem. Yet even this is simplistic. When John Coates at the University of Cambridge claims he began investigating the impact of testosterone on investing because he didn't meet any women who fell for the dot.com bubble, we nod in agreement. Perhaps testosterone made Coates so impulsive about his theory he forgot to do a basic LexisNexis search ‚Äì and, as a result, neglected to discover Morgan Stanley's Mary Meeker, who acquired the moniker "Queen of the Net" for her role in pumping up the turn-of-the-century Internet economy. In fact, let's look at the assertion that women are more likely to avoid unreasonable risk than men. Are women more cautious? University of Massachusetts Boston economics professor Julie Nelson recently put two-dozen such studies supposedly proving that point through the statistical wringer. Her conclusion? The difference between men and women when it came to risk were minuscule. Researchers were simply finding the results they wanted to find. So what about that finding by Wall Street consulting firm Rothstein Kass, which showed that, since 2009, female-owned hedge funds posted better results than those helmed by men? That doesn't mean women are better investors than men. It could mean ‚Ä¶ why it could mean anything. Maybe it's the estrogen or the lack of testosterone. Or maybe women need to be better at investing than their male peers to even get the funding to open their doors before they place their first hedged trade. It might even be a perverse benefit of sexism: as Rothstein Kass director Meredith Jones pointed out, women-owned hedge funds have less in the way of funds than those run by men. That can cut into their profits ‚Äì but it also allows them a flexibility in investing that larger firms lack. The truth is a stereotype is a stereotype, and there is next to no evidence that hormones help women invest any more than they hinder it. All in all, Jones' gaffe reminds us that thoughts about sex and stocks have a long lineage on Wall Street ‚Äì and they're not meant to be helpful to women. So instead of relying on half-baked theories on sex and the stock market to promote women's progress perhaps we'd do better to go back to a more simple ideal: fairness. Testosterone and estrogen not required. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
BloombergBrian BelskiMany of Wall Street's top stock market strategists have been scrambling to crank up their forecasts after the S&amp;P 500 blew past their targets. But BMO Capital's Brian Belski isn't budging. He's sticking to his year-end target of 1,575, which he published in December. (He actually mentioned that target as early as September 2012.) "Over the past 12 months, we have gone from defending our bullish stance with price targets at one point well above both market levels and consensus expectations to reconciling near-term caution," he wrote in a new note to clients. Indeed, when the S&amp;P started the year at 1,426, Belski looked optimistic.† With the S&amp;P at 1,665 today, he's now looking a bit bearish. "[W]e are becoming increasingly alarmed that very little analysis, process, and common sense are being utilized by many investors at current levels," he wrote in a new note to clients. "From our perspective, the main reason for this abandonment is the thirst for performance and the instant gratification of portfolio gains ñ particularly considering the degree of fund manager underperformance over the past several years," he added. "After all, stronger periods of bull markets often feed on optimism and ìthe trendî is rarely not your friend. Consequently, fundamentals have a knack of taking the back seat when the pendulum swings from doubt to complacency, which clearly appears to be the case in the current environment." Belski included this chart to show how this current bull market stands out in the history books. BMO Capital † The low volatility of this rally has Belski increasingly concerned that a sell-off, should it come, could be a violent one (emphasis added): Therein lies the biggest issue, in our view ñ we believe many investors are forgetting about the potential pain and downside risk associated with stock prices disconnecting from fundamentals. Keep in mind, the market rarely moves in a linear direction for long periods of time. In fact, sharp linear moves in one direction are typically met with even sharper linear moves in the opposite direction (once an inflection point is triggered). Our fear is that fundamentals will not catch up fast enough to support current prices and ultimately trigger a downside inflection point (letís hope we are wrong). To that end, this week we attempt to answer and provide context for some of the more common questions/rebuttals we are receiving from clients with regard to our market targets and sector opinions. Time will tell if he was right to be cautious.
APFormer U.S. Congressman Anthony Weiner has already cut the deficit in the Democratic primary race for New York City Mayor in more than half, according to a new Marist College poll released Tuesday. The poll finds that Weiner trails†City Council Speaker Christine Quinn by 5 percentage points. Quinn gets 24 percent of the vote among Democratic primary voters, compared with 19 percent who say they will back Weiner. That is a 6-point swing in the past month for Weiner, after a mid-April Marist poll taken amid rumors of his candidacy found him trailing, 26-15. The poll contains both good and bad news for Weiner. First, the good: And the bad news:
Now that former Congressman Anthony Weiner is running for Mayor of NYC, the race has the star power it needed to get interesting. Part of that is because every New Yorker knows Weiner, and what a lot of other candidates in the race lack is name-recognition. That means it's time to turn up the dials and get out there in a big way, especially for the race's only truly viable Republican candidate, Joe Lhota. Lhota is the former head of the MTA and is known for having lead the city through Hurricane Sandy. He also spent a brief time at Goldman Sachs and worked in the Giuliani administration. Lhota's first campaign ad came out today, and it touts his humble, New York City roots. His father was a cop, he was the first person in his family to go to college, and he still lives in Brooklyn (a big plus for all those people that want to see an outer borough candidate). Check out the video below: 
Gold appears to be the big winner this morning. Bonds are getting smashed following a big upside surprise to consumer confidence earlier. Despite that, though, the stock market has mostly sold off since the release as well. Gold, on the other hand, rose from a low of $1372.10 an ounce to as much as $1401 before backing off to current levels around $1392.60, now up 0.4% on the day. Other commodities are finally catching a bid as well ‚Äì especially metals. Silver is now flat at $22.50 after trading down to $22.11. Platinum is up 1.1%, and palladium is 3.1% higher today. Meanwhile, WTI crude oil is up 1.5%. Agricultural commodities are mixed. The chart below shows the move in gold this morning. FINVIZ.comClick to enlarge
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderWilliamsburg, Brooklyn, is experiencing a foodie revolution. The hipster neighborhood has recently seen an influx of fantastic restaurants that serve everything from fresh farm-to-table ingredients to hand-made Japanese udon noodles. We polled our editors and reporters as well as foodies who live and eat in Williamsburg to find the best restaurants in Brooklyn's hottest neighborhood. From classic steak houses like Peter Luger to hot new barbecue joints like Fette Sau, here are the 20 best restaurants in Williamsburg.
In the U.S., we hear quite frequently that the S&amp;P 500 and the U.S. economy are not the same thing.¬† This largely has to do with the fact that American companies conduct around half of their business outside of the U.S. A very similar argument can be made about Europe.¬† Indeed, while the developed parts of Europe struggle to pull out of recession, those parts only account for 46.4% of European company revenues. This is crucial to know when considering investing in Europe. Here's a chart of geographic revenue breakdown from Morgan Stanley's Krupa Patel: Morgan Stanley Indeed, much of the current mix is due to both growth abroad and contraction at home.¬† Here's a chart that illustrates this evolution. Morgan Stanley
Women's fashion magazine†Marie Claire has a Q&amp;A with JPMorgan's new CFO Marianne Lake by†Dealbreaker's executive editor Bess Levin in the June issue. † In the "Wall Street's Woman On Top" piece, Lake gives advice for young women starting their careers.† One new thing we learned is†that Lake, 42, is a single mother of a†one-and-a-half year-old baby boy. † She tells Levin how she manages the intense demands of her job:† "So far, so good. I rely on a small circle of friends and my great nanny. †In the mornings, I try to spend anywhere from 15 to 60 minutes with my son. Failing that, I try for 30 to 60 minutes together at the end of the day. I try to make that work, but if I can't I just move on. You can't beat yourself up about it. I never worried about raising a kid on my own. I'm 42, not 20 with my eyes closed. The circumstances aren't traditional, but I didn't hesitate to do it." † Lake, who was named CFO of JPMorgan last fall succeeding Doug Braunstein, looks so chic for the piece, too. Check it out: †† Julia La Roche for Business Insider
ZillowThe story of the Madoff's fall from grace continues ó this time, you can buy a huge piece of it, says the NYT. Bernie Madoff's brother, Peter, was the compliance officer at the family investment firm and last year pleaded guilty to accusations that he falsified documents and lied to regulators for years in order to continue his brother's infamous Ponzi scheme. Now his assets must be liquidated along with Bernie's. This 7,992 sq ft Long Island mansion boasts five bedrooms, a tennis court, pool (with two bedroom pool house) and carefully planted gardens. U.S. Marshall's took over the house back in January. What's more, you can buy just about everything in this house. According to the NYT, the books, knick-knacks etc. all over the house were given the full U.S. Marshall treatment and all have white price tags attached. Shawn Elliott of Shawn Elliot Luxury Homes and Estates has the listing. †
Eton is one of the oldest and most prestigious schools in the world. Started in 1440, it has educated everybody from current Prime Minister David Cameron to Princes William and Harry.† It's also spectacularly difficult to get into. Reddit user ViktorBir posted the examination for the King's Scholarship to the Linguistics subreddit. There are two main ways into Eton after a test and conditional acceptance at age 11, via the significantly harder King's Scholarship exam, and the Common Entrance. There are only 70 King's Scholars at a time out of around 1300 total, 14 in each year, all of whom live together, get their own study/bedroom, and reduced fees.† One of the questions is a fascinating and difficult linguistics problem, asking test takers to figure out the grammar and syntax of a totally invented language, then compose creative and complex sentences on their own. It's similar to tests given to those in the army who want to become signals interceptors, and at the International Linguistics Olympiad.† Here's the question. On its own, it's pretty solvable. But keep in mind: Eton College And now, here's what Reddit commentators came up for the answers, and what we figured out based on how they outlined the structure of the language:† (A) i) Writer = Waldan ii) The = Had iii) Offices = Bawaltin iv) And = Sa (B) i) You are = Razo ii) He is = Raza iii) They are = Razan iv) You will write = Fawalo v) He was = Raza gan vi) They were working = Makan gan (C)† i) Pe balattin pe London maku =† I work in schools in London ii) Pe had bawalom lata fa = He will teach in the library iii) Walo gan sa kawan gan = You wrote and they ate iv) Had bakawtin pe banar razan gan = The restaurants/eateries were in a stadium (D) Can have any number of answers, the more creative the better, despite the limited vocabulary. Take a shot in the comments.†

America's shale boom is sending shockwaves through OPEC as the organization heads for its annual meeting Friday, The Wall Street Journal reports this morning. The main concern is that a global supply glut will weigh down prices, which would be a big problem for petrostate budgets. From the WSJ: While Saudi Arabia can tolerate lower prices, "there will be some members, like Venezuela, Iran who will struggle at $90," said Amrita Sen, chief oil analyst at London-based Energy Aspects Ltd. The front month Brent contract for July settled at $102.62 a barrel Monday. Venezuela's oil minister said on Monday that he would push for a cut in OPEC production if oil falls below $100 a barrel. We've previously shown how falling prices is a concern in the following graph of break-even oil prices for those countries' budgets. Pacifica Partners
REUTERS/Oswaldo RivasAs a wise investor puts it: "Many turtles hatch. Few make it to the sea."Everyone knows that starting companies ó and investing in startups ó is a risky way to earn a living. But few people appreciate just how risky it is. Thanks to a recent tweet from Paul Graham, the founder of "startup school" Y Combinator, we now have a better idea. Graham says that 37 of the 511 companies that have gone through the Y Combinator program over the past 5 years have either sold for, or are now worth, more than $40 million. Most entrepreneurs would probably view creating a company worth more than $40 million as a success (unless the company raised more capital than that). And, on its face, the "37 companies" number seems relatively impressive. In fact, however, the number tells a scary and depressing story. This number suggests that a startling 93% of the companies that get accepted by Y Combinator eventually fail. (Not all companies that sell for less than $40 million are "failures," obviously. Assuming a company hasn't raised much capital, a sale between $5 million and $40 million could be considered a success. But a high percentage of Y Combinator companies likely end up being worth zero. And for companies that are hand-picked by very smart investors, the 93%-below-$40 million rate is still surprisingly low).† A company accepted by Y Combinator, therefore, has less than a 1-in-10 chance of being a big success. More alarmingly, the companies accepted by Y Combinator are only a tiny fraction of the companies that apply. Some have estimated that Y Combinator's acceptance rate is 3-5%. If we use the 5% rate, we can estimate that Y Combinator has received about 10,000 applications for the ~500 companies it has chosen over the years. Assuming Y Combinator has even a modest ability to pick winners, therefore, the odds that a company applying to Y Combinator will be a success are significantly lower than the odds of success of the companies accepted into the program. If only 37 of the companies that have applied to Y Combinator over the years have succeeded, this is a staggeringly low 0.4% success rate. Put differently, only one in every 200 companies that applies to Y Combinator will succeed. The reality is that Y Combinator probably misses a few winners, so the actual odds are probably slightly higher. But in case any entrepreneur or angel investor is deluding themselves into thinking that startups are an easy way to cash in, they might want to think again. UPDATE: Paul Graham points out that it takes time for a company's value to grow, so including Y Combinator graduates from this year and last year is unfair. If we use, say, 300 companies instead of 511, the odds of success improve slightly. 37 success stories out of 300 graduates produces "success" odds of just better than 1 in 10.
Bike share finally opened for business in New York City on Monday, and members had taken more than 6,000 trips before the end of the afternoon. Long-awaited and oft-delayed, Citi Bike has been mostly well-received so far, despite an early problem delivering key fobs to annual members on time. 6,000 bikes are available for short-term rental at 330 stations in Manhattan below 59th Street and parts of Brooklyn. This week, Citi Bike is available only to members with year-long subscriptions. It opens to members with day- and week-long passes Sunday. In a short review, Felix Salmon had a positive reaction, while noting that the bikes are hard to maneuver and have poor brakes: "So far, at least, CitiBiking is just as convenient as I'd hoped: there are stations everywhere, and they all seem to have both bikes and empty parking slots." Jake Dobkin at Gothamist gave Citi Bike a positive review as well, concluding that "despite my little gripes above, I would heartily recommend joining this program to all my friends and acquaintances. It's going to be† a life-changer." The New York Times surveyed riders, finding mostly good reactions, while noting continued opposition. The program has come under fire from New York residents who regret the loss of parking spaces and potential reduced property values (at a community meeting, someone compared to Bloomberg administration to the Taliban). In Brooklyn's Clinton Hill neighborhood, cartoonist Alex Gruss protested the corporate sponsorship of the program by placing a bike-like wooden sculpture at the rack outside his home, Gothamist reported. According to Citi Bike, the 6,000 trips on day one averaged about 20 minutes long, the time length the program is meant to encourage. Together, members covered nearly 14,000 miles. One bike has already been stolen. Citi Bike even landed on the cover of this week's New Yorker. Artist Marcellus Hall told the magazine, "Iím not one of those hard-core bike freaks; itís just a good way for me to get around in the city.î The New Yorker
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTesla is up over 6% today rising to as high as $104 per share at one point. The stock is up 204% year-to-date. Some have argued that this drive up in prices is unwarranted. Goldman Sachs' Patrick Archambault has a neutral rating on Tesla with a price target of $61. Archambault recently visited Tesla's manufacturing plant in Fremont, California. Here are the key takeaways from the report: In recent weeks, Tesla has rallied on the back of an earnings beat, a secondary offering, a Consumer Reports review of 99/100. But some argue that this is just a short squeeze, and there are many long-term questions about gross margins, credit sales, and warranty accruals that need to be addressed.¬†
10-year U.S. Treasury yields have risen to their highest level of the year this morning following a big upside surprise from the consumer confidence release. Right now, they are trading around 2.10%, but moments ago, they hit a high of 2.11%. Brean Capital Head of Rates Russ Certo says yields above 2.10-2.11% lead traders into a "technical vacuum area" to almost 2.25% on the chart. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The chart below shows how 10-year Treasury futures ran into some big selling this morning and are getting slammed following the consumer confidence release at 10 AM. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge Right now, 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.6%. 30-year Treasury futures are down 1.2%. Last week, Goldman strategists declared the latest sell-off in bonds "for real" this time. This morning, at least, it seems like the bond sell-off is on.
Business InsiderOn Saturday, I biked in the Xtreme Biker's Association's 14th annual "Xtreme Bike to the Shore" ‚Äî a 78-mile charity ride from Philadelphia to Avalon, New Jersey. The Memorial Day weekend Saturday ride is popular among the financial services crowd, too. I met a bunch of cyclists from private equity firms, hedge funds, and investment banking. ¬†There were a couple who could probably give Dan Loeb and Bill Ackman a run for their money on their bikes.¬† I've never been on a road bike in my life. I can't even remember the last time I was on a bike before this ride. ¬† But the ride was for a great cause: It helped¬†raise funds for Cristo Rey Philadelphia High School, a brand new, independent, Catholic college prep school for students of all faiths who¬†cannot otherwise afford a private education. I've included highlights from my trip in the slides that follow, as well as some tips. ¬†
Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesThe Dallas Fed's latest survey on regional manufacturing conditions is out. The headline index rose to -10.6 from last month's -15.6 reading, missing expectations for a rise to -10.0. Below is the full text from the release: Texas factory activity increased sharply in May, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The¬†production¬†index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, rose from¬†-0.5¬†to 11.2, indicating a notable pickup in output. Stronger manufacturing activity was reflected in other survey measures as well. The¬†new orders¬†index rebounded to 6.2 after falling to¬†-4.9¬†in April. Similarly, the¬†shipments¬†index bounced back to 3.1 after dipping to¬†-0.4.¬†The¬†capacity utilization¬†index came in at 6.4, up from 2.7 last month. Perceptions of broader business conditions continued to worsen in May. The¬†general business activity¬†index remained negative but moved up five points to¬†-10.5. The¬†company outlook¬†index declined from¬†-2.2¬†to¬†-6.8,¬†reaching its lowest level since July 2010. Labor market indicators reflected weaker labor demand. The¬†employment¬†index fell to¬†-6.3¬†in May, registering its first negative reading this year and reaching its lowest level since November 2009. Eight percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 15 percent reporting layoffs. The¬†hours worked¬†index came in at¬†-2.3,¬†suggesting the workweek shrunk further. Price movements were mixed in May; input prices and wages rose while selling prices declined. The¬†raw materials price¬†index was 6.4, above the April reading but still below the levels seen over the last eight months. The¬†wages and benefits¬†index edged down to 14, although the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. The¬†finished goods price¬†index pushed further negative to¬†-8.3,¬†its lowest reading since July 2010. Looking ahead, 30 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 19 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions were mixed. The index of future¬†general business activity¬†remained negative but moved up from¬†-6.7¬†to¬†-2.6.¬†The index of future¬†company outlook¬†was positive although it edged down to 5.3. Indexes for future manufacturing activity remained in strong positive territory. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected May 14‚Äì22, and 93 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been¬†seasonally adjusted¬†as necessary. Next release:¬†June 24, 2013 Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr/GuideGunnar - Arctic NorwayToday, investors are increasingly diversifying their portfolios by investing in foreign markets, and American businesses are finding opportunities overseas.  The fastest growth is taking place in emerging markets, but you need to be cautious to make sure that you don‚Äôt run afoul of their regulations or get fleeced. Foreign investment could greatly help both American companies and foreign stakeholders. For example, a U.S. business might see an opportunity to provide needed infrastructure or job training in a place such as India. The company could profit while locals benefit from the business activity. You as an investor could buy shares or debt of this company to personally profit from the foreign business activity. There are several important things to consider before investing¬†abroad. Here are the most important items to understand: Know the rules.¬†Not every market is the same and it is important to fully understand the host country‚Äôs rules and regulations that apply to foreign investors. Some countries are friendlier to outside investment than others, and it is important to fully understand the legal and regulatory aspects of the market. You can get this information from the websites of foreign governments or by calling their U.S. consulate. For example, China vigorously controls its currency and doesn‚Äôt make it easy for foreigners to invest directly in Chinese-listed stocks or bet on the currency. Except for pre-selected institutional investors, the only way to¬†invest in the renminbi, the currency of mainland China, and get direct exposure to China, is through ‚Äúdim sum bonds.‚Äù These are denominated in renminbi but issued in semi-autonomous Hong Kong, where regulations are less strict. For strict countries like China, you might be better off buying stocks of U.S. companies with large operations there.¬†Yum Brands¬†(YUM) owns familiar American fast-food chains such as Kentucky Fried Chicken. But a huge chunk of its business is in China. Therefore, buying Yum Brands shares is a good way to make a long bet on Chinese consumers and still benefit from the disclosure and listing regulations that apply to American stocks. Understand the risk and be prepared to lose.¬†Risk analysis is vital for any investor or enterprise looking to establish operations abroad. Get to know the country and carefully decide whether the potential returns justify the risk. Investing in developing countries with weak democratic and legal infrastructure is difficult for foreign investors who are used to strong established judicial institutions. It‚Äôs inadvisable and sometimes illegal to invest in countries ruled by dictators. Some countries regularly see coups, civil wars and confiscation of foreigners‚Äô property. Even seemingly stable countries like Greece have serious upheavals and investors suffer, as we recently saw. Nevertheless, some find such markets desirable because they scare off your competitors and investors can demand lucrative returns. Always be prepared to lose some or all of your investment and also have backup plans before going into places like Zimbabwe or Myanmar. It isn‚Äôt worth risking your entire personal nest egg on an adventure in an exotic market, so be very careful and keep your assets diversified if you go this route. Know the currency.¬†Some foreign markets require you to use the local currency. Smaller countries‚Äô currencies might be pegged to reserve currencies like the dollar and euro, and others fluctuate dramatically. If you own bonds, stocks or property priced in a different currency, the value of those assets in dollars might rise or fall considerably. For example, say you bought a Japanese government bond yielding 1% interest when the yen was worth about 85 to the dollar and held it to maturity when the yen weakened to 100 to the dollar. The 1% interest doesn‚Äôt come close to covering your dollar-denominated loss. Understand the country‚Äôs infrastructure and workforce.¬†Whether you do business in a foreign nation or merely buy stocks in its companies, your investment means nothing if your host country does not have the resources to fully develop, ship and sell products. Even if your investment is in currency or bonds, the productivity and resources of a country‚Äôs workforce can be different from the markets and industries you are more familiar with. For instance, an investment a matchstick company driven by inexpensive labor in Africa is useless if the local market has no access to sulfur or the workers have no training or expertise on how to develop sulfur tips for matchsticks. Find a trustworthy ally.¬†Leave your ego at the door. If you were not born there or didn‚Äôt spend a lot of time in a foreign country, you can still miss nuanced cultural or political aspects of its market even after extensive research. If you expand a business, it helps to form a partnership with business owners and other investors in the country. Make sure that the partner is trustworthy, with extensive experience in dealing with that particular market. If you are just an investor who wants to capitalize on lucrative opportunities abroad, consult your financial advisor for more expert knowledge of the international investment landscape. As long as you are careful, you can benefit greatly from foreign investment. Follow AdviceIQ on Twitter at¬†@adviceiq¬†¬†Kimberly J. Howard, CFP, CRPC, ADPA is a Certified Financial Planner and the owner of KJH Financial Services, a Fee-Only practice located in Needham, Mass. (781-413-4879). Please visit us atwww.kjhfinancialservices.com¬†or email Kim at¬†kim@kjhfinancialservices.com.

REUTERS/Eric ThayerEverything's going great! First of all the stock market. After wobbling last week, the Dow is surging another 190 points today. HUGE. Second, consumers are really happy. The latest Consumer Conference Board consumer confidence index just destroyed expectations. And it's not just that consumer number, all kinds of US numbers are beating lately. Richmond Fed manufacturing beat this morning. Case-Shiller home prices beat this morning. And last week we had beats on jobless claims, durable goods, and other numbers. Yes there's the whole risk of the Fed "taper" out there, but it's hard to be negative unless you're just one of those folks who gets knee-jerk negative when other things are good. For more on today's big Consumer Confidence beat, see here &gt;
Justin Ivory on TwitterUPDATE: The results from the Conference Board's May consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index rose to 76.2 from last month's upward-revised 69.0 reading. Economists predicted a smaller rise to 71.2. Below is the full text from the release. --------------------------------------- 28 May, 2013 NEW YORK, May 28, 2013‚Ä¶The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had improved in April, increased again in May. The Index now stands at 76.2 (1985=100), up from 69.0 in April. The Present Situation Index increased to 66.7 from 61.0. The Expectations Index improved to 82.4 from 74.3 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was May 15. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence posted another gain this month and is now at a five-year high (Feb. 2008, Index 76.4). Consumers‚Äô assessment of current business and labor-market conditions was more positive and they were considerably more upbeat about future economic and job prospects. Back-to-back monthly gains suggest that consumer confidence is on the mend and may be regaining the traction it lost due to the fiscal cliff, payroll-tax hike, and sequester.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô appraisal of present-day conditions improved in May. Those saying business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù increased to 18.8 percent from 17.5 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 26.0 percent from 27.6 percent. Consumers‚Äô assessment of the labor market was also more positive. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù increased to 10.8 percent from 9.7 percent, while those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù edged down to 36.1 percent from 36.9 percent. Consumers were considerably more optimistic about the short-term outlook. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 19.2 percent from 17.2 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen decreased to 12.1 percent from 14.8 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was also more upbeat. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead improved to 16.8 percent from 14.3 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs decreased to 19.7 percent from 21.8 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase dipped slightly to 16.6 percent from 16.8 percent, while those expecting a decrease edged down to 15.3 percent from 15.9 percent.¬† Source:May 2013¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬ÆThe Conference Board
My friend and blogger colleague Cullen Roche at Pragmatic Capital posted a 7-point takedown of the deification of Berkshire Hathaway. It is a tongue-in-cheek post ostensibly teaching the reader "7 Easy Steps to Invest like Warren Buffett" while it sardonically¬†catalogs the most well-known contradictions between Warren's business style and his public statements. As an unabashed fan of the Oracle and a firm believer that he is indeed "the Mozart of Investing", I've offered up a point-by-point defense. Cullen's one of the sharpest knives in the draw, so it was not without trepidation that I embarked on this task. You'll find my refutations below for each of his (italicized) statements, wish me luck: *** 1) ¬†Talk all sorts of smack about hedge funds but first spend¬†the initial 10 years of your career running a hedge fund¬†that charges 25% performance fees on top of 6% gains. Buffett eventually found that there was a better vehicle to align his interests with his those of his shareholders and the types of long-term investments he wanted to make. And so he abandoned the hedge fund structure and spent the next few decades urging others to do the same. Why is learning and evolving one's business a negative? I spent my first ten professional years as a commission-based stockbroker charging 2.5% for buy and sell orders. And then when I realized how counterproductive a structure that was for my clients, I dashed my Series 7's head against the rocks and left it to drown in the river. Warren wised up, too. This is not a negative, it is a positive.¬† 2) ¬†Amass enough capital (by charging massive fees) to buy multiple entire companies. ¬†Do it in a distressed debt/activist strategy, but later on spin it off as ‚Äúvalue investing‚Äù. In Warren's youth, he was precocious and could even be vindictive, as he was in the case of the Berkshire acquisition. But are we to hold this against him four decades later? Is there any famous investor who can honestly say he is proud of every single moment of his career? Did not Mark Twain tell us that "a clear conscience is the sure sign of a bad memory"? If you're going to make an omelet, you've got to crack a couple of eggs. Buffett had certainly cracked his share. 3) ¬†Use your insurance arm (from the company you bought in a distressed debt play) as a massive cash flow machine in which¬†you‚Äôre essentially a leveraged¬†covered call option writing operation. Buffett has told us that his preferred holding period for an investment is "forever." Well, good luck finding a source of investment funds that aligns with this timeframe outside of the eternal cash flows of an insurance operation. And lo, doth my eyes deceive me or is that David Eimhorn's Greenlight Capital also in the reinsurance business, through a Cayman Islands holding company no less!¬†And hark! Is that Third Point's Dan Loeb, also setting up a half-billion dollar reinsurance operation as well? They're all doing it because it's a good idea - given their investing style - to insulate their portfolios from the effects of un-sticky investor capital in times of turbulence. 4) ¬†Tell the world that they should¬†just buy index funds¬†and then spend most of your time building a portfolio around individual equities. Buffett (and Munger) have been explicitly clear on the index fund versus active management debate. They are dyed-in-the-wool believers that hard work and homework and good old fashioned common sense can combine to produce successful equity portfolios that beat The Street. Their own record proves that this can be done consistently over long stretches. But they've also made it clear that they don't believe a majority of investors have what it takes and so they, rightly, recommend that people who are ill-equipped simply keep their risks spread out and their transaction costs and taxes low. How could this not be the sanest possible advice they could give to the masses hanging on their every word? What should they tell the average investor - to speculate? 5) ¬†Tell the world that¬†fixed income is dangerous¬†while¬†maintaining billion dollar positions¬†in bonds. When you run insurance businesses, energy utilities and over fifty private companies with ongoing expense and cash flow obligations, using fixed income to meet the periodic costs involved isn't an option - it is a requirement. 6) ¬†Constantly refer to¬†derivatives as ‚Äútime bombs‚Äù¬†while¬†maintaining billion dollar derivative positions. Buffett's derivative activities are tied to the reinsurance work he does and are largely a bet on future, long-term prosperity. He is taking the other side of the trade, in most cases, against those who would make the catastrophe bet. These long-term bets on the world's future have been additive to returns and are not of the reckless variety of the time bomb contracts written by AIG and Wall Street last decade - bets which were unpayable by the underwriters as we eventually found out. 7) ¬†Obtain a red phone to the US Treasury department so you can¬†help them arrange a rescue plan that starts by rescuing your operation¬†when it looks like the economy is collapsing. The most powerful man in the financial markets and one of the world's wealthiest is always going to be listened to by the pols. This is the way of thew world. J Pierpont Morgan, when he occupied a similar position of influence one hundred years ago, was actually picking presidents and deciding elections over cigars on Madison Avenue. So if anything, Buffett's role, comparably speaking, is a benign and helpful one in times of distress.¬†Don't hate the player, hate the game. *** Thanks again to my friend Cullen for laying out this list, the exercise was a fun one to be sure. What do you guys think?
The May results of the Richmond Fed Manufacturing survey are out. The headline number improved to -2 from -6 in April. Economists were looking for a reading of -4. This comes as other manufacturing surveys signals a stall in May. Here's a tally from UBS's Sam Coffin: UBS Here's what those numbers would look like on the ISM's scale.¬† A reading below 50 signals contraction: UBS
In general, the housing market is recovering at a nice clip. According to the latest Case-Shiller report, house prices in March had the biggest year-over-year gain since April, 2006. But not all cities joined in the fun. New York City was one of just two cities where there was actually a decline. The other was Minneapolis. You can't read too much into one-month blips, but the weakness in New York is consistent. As you can see on the one-year change chart, the gain of 2.6% makes it the worst-performing big city of the entire list. Ongoing weakness when it comes to Wall Street bonuses is surely a major factor. Case-Shiller
We just got the Case-Shiller report showing house prices through March. The annualized gain of over 10% was the hottest reading since April 2006. Not only are home prices increasing, the recovery is accelerating. Case-Shiller
ZillowIn my previous post on housing I posit that the money we spend on housing may be thought of as fulfilling a combination of functions ‚Äì namely necessity, consumption, and investment.¬† To do the investment part right, we should try to separate in a clear-headed way which function we‚Äôre spending money on.¬† Housing as an investment has many advantages, but it's also not slam dunk.¬† I review here some of the biggest risks of investing in your house. Risks 1. Negative Cash Flow ‚Äì Residential real estate generally is a negative cash-flow investment.¬† Unlike stocks or bonds, for example, which typically generate cash for their owners, real estate always costs money to own.¬† There are taxes of course, but also frequently utilities, complicated electrical and mechanical systems to repair, housing association fees, and lawns to cut. In addition, if you borrow money to own real estate, the loan often constitutes your largest source of negative cash flow.¬† If you are like most people, negative cash flow under many scenarios can turn the whole investment into a nightmare. 2. Illiquidity ‚Äì Real estate notoriously sells slowly and expensively.¬† Residential real estate cannot be transferred from one owner to another without thousands of dollars in transaction costs, and fees that constitute a meaningful percentage of value.[1] The non-uniform nature of residential real estate also contributes to illiquidity.¬† An exchange-traded stock or a bond shares uniform characteristics with millions or billions of dollars in value of identical securities, allowing for easy transactions and uniform pricing.¬† Every housing unit, by contrast, differs in price from every other unit.¬† Physical wear and tear of course alters from unit to unit.¬† Unlike a stock or bond, once a house is ‚Äòborn‚Äô it begins to diverge in price even from its identical twin house. Even identical floor-plan apartments can vary in price, due to differences in view, angle of light, height, or expected noise from the street.¬† All of this variation leads to price uncertainty, partly justifying the high transaction costs for real estate brokers. 3. Degradation ‚Äì While stocks and bond may fluctuate in value, the brutal elements of the physical world do not fray financial securities like it does real estate.¬† We don‚Äôt care if the paper certificate is ripped or dog-chewed or hole-punched, as the value of a stock or bond is electronic, notional, and immune to inclement weather.¬† Broken windows, chipped paint, and flooded basements, however, don‚Äôt fix themselves.¬† You can‚Äôt ever just let an improved property sit for 30 years the way you can with a stock or bond. 4. Leverage ‚Äì Or: What goes up, can come down.¬† Conventional mortgages allow you to put down 20% of purchase value on a house, and obtain four times that amount in debt ‚Äì something unavailable to small-time investors in any other investing situation.¬† With ordinary price appreciation or real estate inflation over time, the financial return on your down payment jumps dramatically.¬† When real estate declines in value, however, you end up losing your down payment just as quickly.¬† Borrowing money, by itself, doesn‚Äôt make you money.¬† Borrowing money to make an investment just exaggerates the rate of return on your investment in whatever direction the asset moves, for better or worse.¬† This is why big-time real estate developers periodically lose extraordinary fortunes in economic downturns ‚Äì it‚Äôs all about the leverage.¬† It‚Äôs also why declining real estate value in a city ‚Äì like Detroit since the 1980s ‚Äì eviscerates any home-owning middle class.¬† It‚Äôs all about the leverage. Before you buy your shelter rather than rent it, I recommend digging into each of these risks as they apply to your own situation¬† If you decide, upon a review of the risks, that renting makes more sense, that‚Äôs ok.¬† I am certain that in the past decade we had too many buyers of their shelter, rather than renters.¬† Undoing the damage of too many buyers of shelter is painful and destructive for individual households and the economy. Of course I don‚Äôt recommend renting forever.¬† In the next post I review some of the great personal finance opportunities only available through home ownership. ¬† See previous post On Housing, Part I ‚Äì What we do when we invest in a house And subsequent post On Housing, Part III ‚Äì The Opportunities [1] Real Estate broker fees on residential real estate still start at 6%, while additional transaction fees push costs up from there.¬† Frequently to the 8% of sale value range and above. Post read (147) times. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to sign-up for my newsletter so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on Facebook and Twitter to keep the conversation going.
twitter.com/@nypostNEW YORK (Reuters) - American actress¬†Amanda Bynes¬†appeared in court on Friday and denied charges of possessing marijuana and tossing a bong out of the window of her 36th-floor Manhattan apartment. The former Nickelodeon child star, who appeared in court dressed in gray sweatpants, a long-sleeved black shirt and a disheveled platinum blonde wig, was released on her own recognizance after spending a night in jail after her arrest on Thursday. She was charged with unlawful possession of marijuana, reckless endangerment and attempted tampering with physical evidence, according to court documents. All the alleged offenses are classified as misdemeanors rather than felonies. Her attorney at the hearing denied the charges and accused police of entering the actress' apartment illegally. "Clearly a search was made for the bong and nothing was recovered," attorney¬†Andrew Friedman¬†told the court. "My client completely denies ever having thrown anything out the window. She was followed illegally into her apartment for no reason." The actress, 27, who has had several brushes with the law in the past year and is on probation for driving on a suspended license in¬†California, was ordered to return to court on July 9. Bynes said, "Thank you, sir," to the judge before leaving court and entering a taxi cab, flanked by paparazzi. New York police¬†were called to Bynes' 47th Street midtown high-rise building after an employee there reported that someone was smoking marijuana in the building's lobby. Police said they were then directed to Bynes' apartment, where the actress invited them in. Officers said they detected a strong smell of marijuana in the apartment and observed the bong - a tube-shaped water pipe commonly used for smoking marijuana - in the apartment. Bynes then grabbed the bong and threw it out the window and the actress was taken into custody, police said. Bynes, who had her own TV comedy sketch show on Nickelodeon at the age of 13, has gained a strong Internet following for her recent bizarre behavior and statements on her¬†Twitter¬†social media account. The actress has not appeared in a film since 2010's "Easy A" and has appeared in court over a slew of driving violations in the past year, including drunk driving, and hit and run. (Additional reporting by Eric Kelsey in Los Angeles; Editing by David Brunnstrom)
Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesThe 20-city S&amp;P Case-Shiller house price index for March climbed 10.87% on the year. This beat expectations for a 10.2% rise. This is also the fastest pace of increase since April 2006. February's number was revised up modestly to show a 9.35% rise. On the month home prices were up 1.12%, above expectations for a 1% rise. February's number was also revised up on a monthly basis to show a 1.32% rise. Q1 home prices were up 10.17% on the year, beating expectations for a 9.6% rise. Q4's number was revised down modestly to show a 7.25% rise. Both the 10 and 20-city home price indices are about 28 - 29% off their June/July 2006 peaks. "Phoenix again had the largest annual increase at 22.5% followed by San Francisco with 22.2% and Las Vegas with 20.6%. Miami and Tampa, the eastern end of the Sunbelt, were softer with annual gains of 10.7% and 11.8%. The weakest annual price gains were seen in New York (+2.6%), Cleveland (+4.8%) and Boston (+6.7%); even these numbers are quite substantial." Here is a look at the 10 and 20-city home price index since 1988: S&P Case Shiller ¬†
UniversalLOS ANGELES (Reuters) - The action-packed sixth installment of the "Fast &amp; Furious" film franchise claimed victory at the North American box office for the three-day U.S. Memorial Day weekend on Monday, and became the biggest opening film in Universal Pictures' history. "Fast &amp; Furious 6," starring†Vin Diesel†and†Dwayne Johnson, grossed an estimated $120 million from Friday till Monday, making it the second-biggest film opening of the year behind Disney's "Iron Man 3's" $175.3 million earlier this month. The film also rang up an estimated $300 million at the global box office. Universal Pictures said "Fast &amp; Furious 6" bested its predecessor in the series, "Fast Five," which previously held the title of best opening for the studio with $83.6 million at domestic theaters. "Fast &amp; Furious 6" also raced ahead of raunchy comedy "The Hangover Part III," the third and final installment of the comedy about four men trying to piece together the events of a wild night. "Hangover," starring†Bradley Cooper,†Zach Galifianakis†and†Ed Helms†as friends unwittingly drawn back to†Las Vegas, made an estimated $51.2 million at the U.S. and†Canada†box office over the long weekend, keeping in line with studio projections. The film also opened in its first three international markets over the weekend -†United Kingdom,†Australia†and†New Zealand†- grossing $19 million, bringing the total in the markets where it is showing to an estimated $70.2 million. "Some might argue that we should have stopped at one, but we loved doing these movies and the audience has been there" for them,†Todd Philips, the director of the "Hangover" franchise, told Reuters ahead of the film's release. "The word 'hangover' ... is something that people share around the world. There are some comedies that are uniquely American, but hangovers exist for the world," he added. Sci-fi action adventure sequel "Star Trek Into Darkness," playing in 3D and Imax theaters, came in at No. 3 at the domestic box office with $47 million from Friday to Monday, bringing its cumulative total to $155.8 million since opening on May 17. Animated family film "Epic," about a secret world in which nature's inhabitants come together to fight evil forces, opened on Friday and has grossed an estimated $42.6 million domestically over the Memorial Day weekend. Universal Pictures, a unit of†Comcast†Corp, released "Fast &amp; Furious 6,"†Time Warner†Inc's Warner Bros Studios distributed "The Hangover Part III," and "Star Trek Into Darkness" was released by†Paramount Pictures, a unit of Viacom Inc. "Epic" was released by 20th Century Fox, a unit of News Corp. (Editing by Philip Barbara)
Zilberman Sands Photography / FlickrDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus reveals the topics that he's talking about this morning. Mostly it's pretty quiet, but the story is the restabilization in markets, and the rally across the world. Good Morning ‚Äì US Futures playing catch-up from the Monday holiday ‚Äì with the SPX adding 70bp early. ¬†Today, the DJIA is going for 20 straight positive Tuesdays. ¬†Euro markets are stong, with the DAX adding over 1%, EU Fins jumping 2.5% as Italian and Spanish yields drop as Der Spiegel highlights the German about-face on Austerity. ¬† The Nikkei rebounded 1.2% from a weak AM session as An auction of 20-year JGBs found a lukewarm reception ahead of Kuroda‚Äôs speech tonight and a BOJ meeting with market participants tomorrow (focusing on Bond Market Volatility?) . ¬†Shanghai added 1.2% as New home sales in Shanghai rebounded and average prices fell last week, and the Aussie markets added small, but the Miners are lagging in the global rally. The US 10YY is nearing a fresh 1Y high this AM, with yields nearing 2.05%. ¬†Japan‚Äôs 10YY have resumed their climb, closing above 90bp for the first time in over a year. ¬†The Yen initially was much weaker this AM, but has recovered some, and the DXY has failed upside 84 a few times in the overnight, and is nearing unchanged on the session. ¬†That said, we have a bid under industrial commodities, with Copper the best performing metal, and the Crude Complex jumping. ¬†Important to note Brent is 1% better than WTI right now, as headlines persist on Syria‚Äôs use of Chemical Weapons (McCain visited rebels this weekend) ‚Äì and Iran moving long-range missile launchers in place ahead of their elections next month. ¬† Attention also shifts to the possibility of OPEC cutting production quota at their meeting this Friday as US Shale is negatively impacting most African Grades..
Seattle.govAmazon's proposed HQSEATTLE/SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - While much of corporate America is retrenching on the real estate front, the four most influential technology companies in America are each planning headquarters that could win a Pritzker Architecture Prize for hubris. Amazon.com this week revealed plans for three verdant bubbles in downtown Seattle, joining Apple's circular "spaceship," Facebook's Frank Gehry-designed open-office complex and a new Googleplex on the list of planned trophy offices. "It signals a desire, a statement, to say that we're special, we're different. We have changed the world and we are going to continue to change it," said Margaret O'Mara, associate professor of history at the University of Washington, who has written about the building of Silicon Valley. "It's also a reflection of robust bank accounts. They have a lot of cash." Historically, however, when a company becomes preoccupied with the grandeur of its premises, it often signals a high point in its fortunes. These fantastical buildings may end up as little more than costly monuments to vanity and a loss of focus on the core business that made for success in the first place. "I've been thinking the Apple spaceship is going to get nicknamed the 'Death Star' because the project is so big and the timing is so bad," said hedge fund manager Jeff Matthews of Ram Partners. The building is coming to fruition just as Apple's product cycles may be maturing, he explained. "It is such a classic contrary indicator that you just get the shakes." He no longer holds Apple stock. AppleApple's planned campus in Silicon Valley Walter Price, who runs technology investment funds at RCM Capital Management LLC, shares the outlook: "When companies build big headquarters it's usually when they're doing really well and have strong outlooks, and that often coincides with a peak in their stock." Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook are battling to recruit tech talent, and attractive campuses help with that, he added, but Apple's plan has not gone down well with investors. RCM's tech funds no longer hold shares. PROJECT RUNAWAY Amazon's design, presented to Seattle city planners this week, includes three steel and glass spheres almost 100 feet high, which will serve as the centerpiece for three new skyscrapers that will house a rapidly growing workforce in downtown Seattle. The plans call for "a series of intersecting spheres with ample space for a wide range of planting material, as well as individuals working alone or in groups." Amazon declined further comment. Google Inc, the world's largest Internet search company, has outgrown its original headquarters in Silicon Valley's Mountain View and is planning to build a 1.1 million square foot Googleplex nearby. Called Bay View, it will have nine rectangular buildings, horizontally bent, with living roofs surrounded by courtyards and connected by bridges. No employee will be more than a two-and-a-half-minute walk away from any colleague, a design aimed at encouraging collaboration. A Google spokeswoman declined further comment. Facebook Inc is taking the collaborative idea a step further, with plans for Facebook West, an addition to its main campus in Menlo Park, California, that will be the size of seven-and-a-half football fields. FacebookFacebook's proposed expansionFacebook hired Gehry to bring his trademark style of unexpected angles and understated drama to what is essentially one enormous open-plan office, where a worker can wander from one end to the other without ever going through a door. The rooftop serves as a park. An earlier version of the building plan featured flares on the ends of the structure like butterfly wings, but Facebook decided not to go ahead with them, said Rachel Grossman, associate planner for the city of Menlo Park. Facebook spokesman Tucker Bounds said the expansion will be "extremely cost-effective" and is needed to help the company develop new products for its users. He declined to comment further. Apple has the most ambitious idea, a 2.8 million square foot glass ring on 176 acres. It would be in part a monument to former Chief Executive Steve Jobs, who described it as like a spaceship and was closely involved in the plans before he died in 2011. The project, which could cost up to $5 billion according to reports, would house about 12,000 Apple employees. An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment. TEMPTING FATE The technology sector has amassed large cash piles in recent years, leaving many companies over-capitalized, said Bill Smead, head of Smead Capital Management, which oversees $465 million in assets and does not own shares of Apple, Amazon, Facebook or Google. "Over-capitalized companies often don't perform well, and leaders of over-capitalized companies sometimes squander the money," he said. Apple, Amazon and Facebook are not getting tax breaks or other similar financial incentives for their plans, according to local officials. It is not clear if Google is receiving any incentives. While these plans radiate optimism, they risk bringing down a curse that has befallen big companies just as they construct pyramid-scale palaces. AOL-Time Warner started building the Time Warner Center, a 2.8 million square foot structure on the edge of New York's Central Park featuring two towering glass skyscrapers, right as the tech stock bubble popped in 2000, destroying more than three-quarters of the Internet and media company's value. The New York Times Co, Wall Street bank Bear Stearns and chemical company Union Carbide also built ambitious headquarters just before their businesses hit tough times. The "campus curse" has claimed several tech victims as well. In the early 1990s, Borland Software - once the second-largest independent software company - spent more than $100 million on offices just south of Silicon Valley that featured ponds, tennis courts and a swimming pool. By 2008 the company had been hammered in the market by Microsoft and was worth less than the cost of the complex. Since then, Yahoo Inc, MySpace, Inktomi, Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics have either hatched plans for or moved into swaggering headquarters, only to hit the skids. Google moved into Silicon Graphics' campus and Facebook took over Sun's headquarters. Salesforce.com Inc got the shakes in time. In late 2011 the stock had fallen from a July high, and analysts were criticizing the company for excessive spending on sales and marketing. Earlier approved plans to build a $2 billion high-tech campus in San Francisco were canceled by the following February. PRODUCTIVITY PREMIUM? Despite these cautionary tales, some say the new breed of tech companies are smart to construct their own buildings, which match the collaborative way they work and can yield long-term productivity and energy-efficiency benefits. "As they see energy prices going up they recognize that these buildings have to last longer, and they need to be more in control of the operation costs of these buildings. A property developer does not focus on such long-term things," said John Barton, director of the architectural design program at Stanford University. "Employees are more productive in the right kinds of environments. That may be more expensive, but if it pays back in a 5 percent productivity increase, that may be really smart," he added. O'Mara at University of Washington suggests the new tech giants are emulating the workplace innovations of the famous Bell Labs, the historic research arm of AT&amp;T that gave birth to the transistor, the laser and technology behind mobile phones over many decades. Bell's legendary facility, designed by modernist architect Eero Saarinen in the late 1950s, might not be the right role monument. Now owned by global telecom giant Alcatel Lucent, the quarter-mile-long mirrored box lies empty, and is likely to end up being turned into a medical center - or razed. (Additional reporting by Poornima Gupta. Editing by Jonathan Weber, Mary Milliken and Prudence Crowther) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Electric car company Tesla is surging again pre-market. And it's broken $100 for the first time. As you can see in the table, via Yahoo Finance, the stock has almost quadrupled in the year, from a low around $27/share. Yahoo Finance
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThe "bulbous" cash piles held by Apple and other large tech companies makes them a poor investment, Bill Smead, CEO and chief investment officer of Smead Capital Management, told CNBC on Tuesday. Smead said his firm had conducted significant research into the tech sector over the last six months and reached "the conclusion that tech is where cash goes to die." Academic studies had found that massively over-capitalized companies performed as badly as those that are undercapitalized, Smead said. "I think it's because there's not enough tension ‚Äì you don't make very good decisions what to do with cash when you've got way too much of it ‚Äì unless you're Warren Buffet," he added. (Read More: Wealth Managers Court Silicon Valley's Newest Millionaires) Apple had $145 billion of cash and investments on its balance sheet according to its second quarter results in April. Hedge fund manager David Einhorn launch a public battle against the company earlier this year in an attempt to persuade it to unlock some of its cash pile. Fellow tech giants Microsoft and Google are also sitting on substantial cash positions. Microsoft has $74.5 billion in cash, while Google's hoard is $50.1 billion. But Smead warned: "Most of these companies don't come into life being great investors or great capital allocators." He said he used to own Microsoft shares because the tech company fit six of the eight criteria his company judged it on "to a tea." But he added that it fell down on shareholder friendliness, and had failed to make the most of online opportunities.¬† "They've probably lost more money in the last 13 years in the online business than any single corporation has lost in a 13-year stretch in history. They lose money on each dollar of sales and they've been trying to make it up on volume," he said. Large-Cap Rally¬† Smead's Value Fund, which invests in large-cap stocks has risen 29 percent between March 2012 and 2013 and Smead said he was confident the rally in large-cap stocks will continue. According to him, the U.S. is still in the early stages of a five-year economic recovery, driven by improvements in housing and autos. He said large-caps were a good place to be because two of the largest money groups - the so-called echo-boomers (children of the baby boomers) and large institutions ‚Äì are coming from incredibly low ownership of large-cap stocks. (Read More: US Gas Boom Is a Threat: Sabic CEO) "So the psychology, a year ago, was that you knew ‚Äì if you're a (large cap) equity fund like us - that the wind was going to be at your back," he said. "To us, this reminds us a lot of 1983, when the market had gone up in 1982 and 1983 off the bottom about 60 percent. And you got a fluffy excitement period." Sectors to avoid, according to Smead, included energy, basic materials, heavy industrials, telecoms and utilities because these capital-intensive companies are the highest valued and would be hardest hit by a rise in interest rates. He added that many of these sectors are closely linked to Chinese economic growth, and that anything related to China ‚Äì which he said is heading for a deep recession ‚Äì should be avoided at all costs.¬† "We are playing what goes on inside the borders of the U.S. as much as we can and staying away from what goes on outside the U.S. as much as we can." It is at this relatively early point in the economic recovery, when confidence is growing, that consumers start spending on non-essentials, according to Smead. (Read More: European Equities Have 20% Upside: Strategist) "We used to call it "pent-up demand" in the early- to mid- eighties, coming off a deep recession," he said. "We want to be overweight in what we call 'addicted customer-base consumer discretionary'." Among Smead's top picks are shares of Disney, Cabela's and Comcast.¬† Smead added that big lenders would also benefit from the U.S. economic recovery. "We also own the large banks. We think that large banks are a fantastic play on the recovery in housing. Because they own a lot of foreclosed homes, and their balance sheets get marked up because of it." - By CNBC's Katrina Bishop, follow her on Twitter @KatrinaBishop
REUTERS/Siphiwe SibekoMembers of the mining community march during a strike at Lonmin's Marikana platinum mine in Rustenburg, 100 km (62 miles) northwest of Johannesburg, May 15, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Quick heads up: With just under 3 hours until the opening bell, markets continue to soar. Dow futures are up triple digits. And check out Italy, up 1.7%. Borsa Italiana
AP ImagesTAIPEI¬†(Reuters) -¬†Taiwan's¬†Hon Hai Precision¬†Industry Co Ltd will team up with¬†Mozilla¬†and launch a¬†mobile device¬†that runs on the U.S. company's¬†Firefox operating system, a¬†Mozilla¬†spokeswoman said, as Hon Hai looks to diversify its client base away from Apple. The¬†Taipei-based¬†Mozilla¬†spokeswoman declined to provide details on the device that the companies plan to unveil on June 3, but Focus¬†Taiwan, citing an "industry insider", reported that it would likely be a tablet. Hon Hai and¬†Mozilla¬†declined to comment on the report. Hon Hai, a contract electronics maker that draws an estimated 60 percent of its revenue from assembling gadgets and other work for Apple Inc, saw its net profit ease last quarter as sales of iPhones and¬†iPads¬†slowed. Most of the¬†mobile devices¬†that Hon Hai manufactures run on Apple's iOS and Google's¬†Android¬†systems. Hon Hai said it would add Firefox to its product line for clients. Mozilla, the non-profit organization that evolved from Netscape, said at¬†Barcelona's Mobile¬†World Congress¬†in February that it was working with manufacturers¬†Alcatel¬†(TCL Communication Technology), LG Electronics and¬†ZTE¬†Corp to build the first¬†Firefox OS¬†devices, with Huawei Technologies to follow later in the year, all powered by the¬†Qualcomm Snapdragon mobile processors. (Reporting by Clare Jim; Editing by Chris Gallagher)
You should know what a Rorschach Test is. It's one of those ink blot images where you're asked to describe what you see, and supposedly your answer tells you something about your brain. For example do you see two women here, or do you a frog? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rorschach_test Here's another Rorschach Test, although this one pertains to Japanese economy. It's not an ink blot, but a chart of Japanese 10-year bond yields, which have been spiking since early April? SocGen What do you see? Do you see a chart that says people are freaking out about Japanese debt, and a surge in interest rates that will undermine the entire point of The BOJ's monetary easing and Abenomics? Or do you see evidence that at long last, markets are predicting some inflation, which is then being reflected in the market, which is what Abenomics aims to pursue? This has become one of the biggest economic debates in the world, and the two answers couldn't be more opposite, as one sees this as the ultimate vindication of Abenomics, and the other sees Japan's demise? Not sure where you stand? Here's Lars Christensen arguing that the rise in bond yields is a great sign &gt; Here's David Beckworth arguing the same &gt; And in this article, Richard Koo argues that this could mean a tremendous loss of faith &gt;
Hoo boy. It's hard to recall the last time we came across a chart as abjectly ugly as this chart of French Consumer Confidence. It was put together by Vincent Flasseur of Reuters Datastream, and it shows Consumer Confidence vs. GDP. Confidence is at an all-time low. Reuters There's a widespread sense that the French economy is deteriorating and becoming more peripheral-like. The new President Francois Hollande is wildly unpopular, which is not surprising at all when you look at a chart like this.
The European financial crisis has calmed down quite a bit. And now the hope is that perhaps the economy is about to turn the corner as well. But the long-term ramifications of the downturn may prove to be incredibly corrosive to European politics, and long-term economic health. In comments today, Bank of France chief Christian Noyer says that youth unemployment is a fundamental threat to the European Project. This is intuitive. A huge generation of unemployed youth will create volatile politics, the potential for social unrest, and blight of lost skills and time that could harm Europe for years. Meanwhile, the EU has released a memo on tackling the youth employment crisis (via Peter Spiegel). It urges the establishment of national Youth Guarantee programs, which ensure job offers and vocational training to those under 25. What is the EU doing to tackle youth unemployment? The July 2012 country-specific recommendations sought to ensure that youth employment remains high on the policy agenda of all Member States where youth unemployment rates are particularly dramatic. The European Commission proposed in December 2012 a Youth Employment Package to help Member States specifically tackle youth unemployment and social exclusion by giving young people offers of jobs, education and training (see IP/12/1311 and MEMO/12/938,). This package includes: A proposal for a Council Recommendation to introduce a Youth Guarantee A Quality Framework for Traineeships A European Alliance for Apprenticeships The Youth Guarantee Recommendation was adopted by the EU's Council of Ministers on 22 April 2013 (see MEMO/13/152). The European Commission urges Member States to now put in place the structures to make the Youth Guarantee a reality as soon as possible. The Commission will soon present further initiatives to support Member States in their efforts to put in place their youth guarantee scheme.  What is the Youth Guarantee? The Youth Guarantee, based on experience in Austria and Finland, seeks to ensure that all young people up to age 25 receive a quality offer of a job, continued education, an apprenticeship or a traineeship within four months of leaving formal education or becoming unemployed. The Youth Guarantee is one of the most crucial and urgent reforms required to address youth unemployment and to improve school work transitions. This chart in the report shows the extent of the crisis across the EU. Europa.eu
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderMarkets are in the green, as the economic data calendar begins to gather steam. 4 noteworthy pieces of economic data are coming out in the US today. Via Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ At 9:00 AM ET, S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for March. Although this is the March report, it is really a 3 month average of January, February and March. The consensus is for a 10.2% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for December. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 9.8% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 0.9% month-to-month seasonally adjusted.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, the Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for May. The consensus is for a a reading of minus 3 for this survey, up from minus 6 in April (Below zero is contraction).¬† ‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for May. The consensus is for the index to increase to 71.5 from 68.1.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 10:30 AM, the Dallas Fed Manufacturing Survey for May. This is the last of regional surveys for May. The consensus is a reading of minus 8, up from minus 15 in April (below zero is contraction). All will be interesting to watch. The Case-Shiller data is of course of the cream-of-the-crop of housing data, and confirming that the housing recovery is intact is a big part of the bullish story. Meanwhile, consumer confidence has been kicking up lately, so the 10 AM number from the Conference Board should be intriguing.
Another interesting divergence here via Societe Generale research. ¬†Like the commodity trend, we‚Äôre seeing a big divergence in US inflation expectations and the S&amp;P 500. ¬†If deflation is truly a big risk then there‚Äôs an awful lot of faith being placed in the Fed‚Äôs hands at present through QE. ¬†Me, I‚Äôm more in the low inflation camp as opposed to the deflation camp, but it‚Äôs hard to ignore these divergences‚Ä¶. Here‚Äôs more via SG: Chart via Orcam Investment Research: PragCap
REUTERS/Brent SmithIt's green everywhere this morning. Japan has broken its losing streak, gaining 1.2% in choppy trading. US futures are up nicely. Europe is on a tear. Italy in particular has been looking extremely impressive, as it's up a whopping 1.7% today. Spain is up 1.2%. Germany is up 0.9% Suddenly, hope seems to be springing in Europe that the economic side of the recovery could be in the offing, something that would be massively welcome. In the US, it's going to be a busy week for housing data, and that starts today at 9 AM with the release of Case-Shiller.
Wikimedia CommonsSAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ‚Äî The founder of the Liberty Reserve digital currency business has been arrested in Spain on money-laundering charges, Costa Rican authorities said. Officials in the Central American nation said in a statement that Arthur Budovsky was detained as part of an investigation that also involved U.S. authorities. Police raided three homes and five businesses linked to the Costa Rica-based Liberty Reserve and seized papers and digital documents that will be turned over to U.S. authorities, the statement said. A Russian citizen was also arrested in the case in Costa Rica on Friday and will be extradited to the U.S., it said. Budovsky, a naturalized Costa Rican citizen, was detained Friday. He had renounced his U.S. citizenship and become a resident and citizen of Costa Rica, Costa Rican authorities said. Liberty Reserve is a company that allows users to apply for an account through the Internet by simply supplying a valid email address. Once a person signs up for an account, Liberty Reserve gives them a user name and an account number and they can start transferring money around the world, Costa Rican officials said. They said the company shut its offices in Costa Rica in 2011. The website, however, had continued to operate, although it was offline Monday. According to Costa Rica police, Budovsky was sentenced in 2007 to five years' probation after pleading guilty in a New York court to charges he operated an illegal financial services business similar to Liberty Reserve. U.S. authorities didn't return phone messages from The Associated Press seeking comment Monday, which was the Memorial Day holiday in the United States. Liberty Reserve's origins are obscure, but it had grown into one of the criminal underworld's best known electronic currency systems, used by hackers the world over to discreetly move large sums of money across borders, experts say. Liberty Reserve, which conducted its transactions in dollars, euros and rubles, operates as an anonymous, no-questions-asked alternative to the global banking system, said Aditya Sood, a computer science doctoral candidate at Michigan State University who has studied the electronic currency. "You don't need to provide your full details, or personal information, or things like that," he said in a telephone interview. "There's no way to trace an account. That's the beauty of the system." Offshore currency centers, generally set up in places beyond the reach of U.S. or European law enforcement, can serve as middlemen between criminals and the mainstream financial world, brokering transactions that turn illegally obtained money into seemingly legitimate cash. Sood said that despite prominent disclaimers warning against money laundering, the currency centers typically have little in the way of serious oversight. "They don't care," he said. "They have no idea where the money is coming from or where the money is going. That's how they designed the model." Liberty Reserve appears to have played an important role in laundering the proceeds from the recent theft of some $45 million from two Middle Eastern banks, according to legal documents made public by U.S. authorities earlier this month. The complaint against one of the Dominican Republic gang members allegedly involved in the theft states that thousands of dollars' worth of stolen cash was deposited into two Liberty Reserve accounts via currency centers based in Siberia and Singapore. The loss of Liberty Reserve has the potential to cause a "major upheaval" in the cybercrime economy, said investigative journalist-turned-security researcher Brian Krebbs, who added in a blog post that hackers writing in underground forums were already buzzing with concern over frozen funds. ___ Associated Press writer Javier Cordoba reported this story in San Jose, Costa Rica, and Raphael Satter reported from London.
