 REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoEarlier this year we saw Brazilians take to the streets to protest poor public services and rising costs. The erosion of income by higher inflation is certainly a deep rooted issue in Brazil. Then there's the weakness in the Brazilian real, down 20% against the greenback. The real is now one of the worst performing major emerging market currencies. Consumer prices in Brazil slowed to 6.27% in July, led by a marked cooling in the price of food and transportation. While the overall level is still high, it is within the upper end of the central bank's range. Though July's headline number suggests inflation is now trending down, the central bank will have to factor in weakness in the Brazilian real which will only add to inflation concerns.† With that in mind, Brazil's central bank monetary policy committee (Copom) is expected to raise its benchmark Selic lending rate by 50 basis points to 9%. "Even the BCBís conservative passthrough coefficient of 0.5 (for 10% depreciation of the currency) implies at least one full percentage point support to IPCA inflation," writes Dev Ashish of Societe Generale. "With our less conservative estimate of this coefficient between 0.8 and 1.2, we believe that inflation will actually be 2% points higher due solely to exchange rate depreciation." Brazil already unveiled a $60 billion cash-and-insurance program to bolster the real. Concerns about 1. The Fed tapering its asset purchase program. 2. Brazil's economic growth 3. The current account deficit are expected to continue to "exert inflationary pressures" through the first half of 2014.
Fung Global InstituteGreat stuff here from Richard Koo of Nomura, who weighs in on the recent selling in emerging market currencies (and equities and debt). His take: This is the price emerging markets are paying for not being more vigilant about hot money rushing into their economies after the Fed announced QE after the U.S. crisis. The emerging market, he argues, could have prevented the big rush of foreign cash through prudent measures, but that they opted not to take any pain, and now they're paying the price for going the easy route. He concludes that we're now in for a "tumultuous new era" for emerging markets as QE gets unwound. ... the recent announcements would not have been necessary if these countries had taken advantage of these measures to restrict capital inflows from the US. They did not do so probably because restricting capital inflows is extremely unpopular. In nations attracting foreign capital, asset prices rise, people feel richer, companies are able to obtain low-cost funding, and inflation tends to be low with a stronger currency. Essentially everyone is happy but exporters, which suffer from a stronger currency. It takes a courageous policymaker to spoil that pleasant environment with capital controls, even if it is necessary for stable, longer-term economic growth. Therefore, the authorities typically preserve the status quo, in which ìeveryone is happy.î †Recent turmoil in emerging economies marks opening of tumultuous new era Taiwanís central bank has traditionally been quick to check on and if necessary restrict capital inflows, making its governor, Perng Fai-nan, an unpopular figure at certain foreign financial institutions. But it was only because the authorities kept such inflows in check that the Taiwanese economy escaped from the 1997 Asian currency crisis largely unscathed. The lesson for emerging economies today is that in a world in which the industrialized economies are free to engage in quantitative easing at will, local authorities need to have the courage to restrict capital inflows or stop them altogether. It should also be remembered that the recent rise in US interest rates occurred simply because Mr. Bernanke said the Fed was considering scaling back its bond purchases. If the Fed were to actually discontinue its purchases under QE3 or sell the bonds in its portfolio, the resulting increase in rates would likely be much larger. In that sense, both the US and the emerging economies that will be affected as quantitative easing is wound down need to prepare themselves for a tumultuous era.
The selloff continues. After the U.S. market got slapped around, Japan is picking up the baton and falling as well. The Nikkei is off 2.3%. Nikkei.com The big themes in the world: The return of fear: tapering fear, Syria fear, and emerging market fear. It's resulting in weak equities, crumbling emerging market currencies, higher oil, and higher gold.
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) ‚Äî The state Employment Development Department plans to begin cutting staff to address declining funding from the federal unemployment insurance program, state officials told employees. A memo sent to employees said the department expects a $150 million shortfall through June 15, The Sacramento Bee reported Tuesday (http://bit.ly/14ZP31j ). Ongoing underfunding in the federal unemployment insurance program and congressional budget cuts were listed as the main reasons for the move. "We strongly encourage staff to explore other employment opportunities within EDD that don't rely on (unemployment insurance) funding," or in other state agencies, Chief Deputy Director Sharon Hilliard said in the memo. The department cannot maintain staffing and services to keep up with demand, spokeswoman Patti Roberts said. It already has reduced telephone service hours, moved staff to other programs and restricted overtime. Federal funding also has fallen as California's unemployment rate, now at 8.7 percent, has steadily declined for the past two years after hovering in double digits for most of the recession. The state also owes the federal government billions of dollars that it borrowed to continue paying the unemployed when California's own unemployment insurance fund ran out of money. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Lessons In Investing From Keynes (25iq) In a new post, Tren Griffin of 25iq, points out 12 things he's learned about investing from John Maynard Keynes. Keynes, he points out, invested for King's College in 1924 because of his knowledge of macroeconomics. He made bets drawing on this knowledge and failed. "It was only when he was delivered a large dose of reality/humility as an investor that Keynes set himself on a course which focused on the microeconomics of individual companies." Here are two lessons he learned. First, "One‚Äôs knowledge and experience are definitely limited and there are seldom more than two or three enterprises at any given time in which I personally feel myself entitled to put full confidence.‚Äù Keynes is talking about what Warren Buffett calls an investor‚Äôs ‚Äúcircle of competence. Investing is hard work and there are only so many hours in the day to follow companies in a meaningful way." Second, "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do sir?‚Äù¬† Charlie¬† Munger said once that if he does not succeed in changing his view on something significant during a year, he considers that to be a failure. Keynes seemed to agree." Morgan Stanley Poaches Big Advisor Teams (Reuters)  Morgan Stanley Wealth Management has hired advisor teams from JP Morgan Chase, UBS, and HSBC. Morgan Stanley hired Scott Siegel, Mehmet Kirdar and Michael O'Hara from JP Morgan Chase, for its New York office. It also hired Joseph Carmody from UBS. Together, SKOC as they are known, managed $1.5 billion in client assets. Morgan Stanley also hired¬† Al Maulini and Joseph Torano from HSBC. The duo managed $121 million in client assets.  RIA-RIA Transactions Continue To Dominate Deal Activity In 2013 (Pershing Advisor Solutions)  The 2013 mid-year survey by Pershing Advisor Solutions shows that a larger section of deal activity involves registered investment advisor (RIA)-RIA deals. "The competitive advantages of RIAs acquiring or merging with other RIAs hold true and are reflected in the major deals announced this year. As we stated in The Powerful Potential of the of the RIA to RIA. Deal, an RIA can transact with another to potentially accomplish one or more of the following strategic objectives: realize economies of scale, access a new market (geographic or niche markets), bring in new skills and experience, or enable a succession in ownership." Here's a look at deals by buyer types and their share of acquisitions over the last six quarters. Pershing Advisors Need To Pay More Attention To The Needs Of Generation X Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors need to pay more attention to Gen Xers because they are now in their 40s and making up a larger part of the market, according to Elise Fortin of Seattle-based Umpuqua Bank. While baby boomers are used to having the advisor set up their goals and objectives, Gen Xers have a more hands on approach. "To illustrate this point, I had a couple in their 40s come to me. They told us that they were passionate about socially responsible investing. We brought in specialists and did the typical process of discovery and goal setting. This didn't resonate well with the couple. It was too formal; we tried to take too much control and we ended up not winning the business. "Five years later, the couple came back to us and said they were thinking of changing advisers. They were even more deeply involved in socially responsible investing, so I went in with that specific need in mind and brought in just one professional to help them build the portfolio they wanted. We had them very involved in the design of the portfolio and ended up winning their business." Jack Bogle: The Active Manager Is The Real Parasite (Financial Times) David Smith, fund manager at Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers wrote, earlier this month, that without active managers the world would be poorer and that passive management is a parasitic industry. In a new FT column, Jack Bogle, founder of Vanguard who is credited with championing passive investing defends his position. "Mr Smith describes the index mutual fund as a ‚Äúpassive parasite‚Äù, rejecting the value of the innovation I created in 1974. He suggests that the index fund simply takes advantage of the market efficiencies created by active manager/traders. His article assumes that my confidence in the index fund is based on the ‚Äúefficient market hypothesis‚Äù. This is not so. Whether markets are efficient or inefficient is beside the point. The cost matters hypothesis is all that is needed to explain why indexing works: gross return in the market as a whole, minus the costs of obtaining that return, equals the net return investors actually receive. ‚Ä¶Paradoxically, it is the active manager who is the real parasite."

Bloomberg TVNevada brothel owner Dennis Hof went on Bloomberg TV's Market Makers today to decry Craiglist and sum up the state of American prostitution. Hof was a mainstay on "Cathouse," an HBO documentary series on his Moonlight BunnyRanch brothel. Prostitution isn't recession-proof, but Hof ‚Äî who owns seven legally-operated brothels¬†‚Äî¬†said he's actually seen an uptick in business over the past few years. In fact, business is so good Hof now wants an IPO. "I'm buying every brothel I can and want to turn it into a public company," Hof said. "It's going to be a great, successful public company." In the colorful interview, Hof also said that Bill Clinton and Eliot¬†Spitzer would have had better luck keeping their infidelities secret if they chose his establishment. Watch the interview at Bloomberg.com.
kokotalola via YouTubeChina accounted for 70% of all counterfeit goods between 2008 and 2010, according to a report released by the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime earlier this year. But China doesn't just have a thriving counterfeit industry with fake luxury goods. The country has gone on to make life-size replicas of European towns. In fact, Shanghai rolled out a "One city, Nine Towns" scheme with small towns built in a different international style. We compiled 26 things that China ripped off, some of which landed the companies involved in hot water.
REUTERS/China DailyThe former Hainan Airlines headquarters topples during a controlled demolition in Haikou, Hainan province.Stock markets around the world got walloped. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Google FinanceThe global market sell-off is getting a whole lot worse. The Dow is down 180 points. The Nasdaq is down 83 points, which translates to a 2.2% loss on the day. The biggest losers today include chip companies AMD and Micron Technology, which are down 5% and 4%, respectively. All of this comes as tensions heat up in Syria. Yesterday afternoon, Secretary of State John Kerry condemned the actions of Syria in the wake of chemical weapons attacks. "Make no mistake: President Obama believes there must be accountability for those who would use the world's most heinous weapons against the world's most vulnerable people," he said. Gold and oil prices are surging.
Wikimedia Commons/ EukuDarryl Layne Woods, the former CEO of a Missouri bank, admitted in court yesterday to using financial crisis bailout funds to purchase a luxury waterfront condo in Florida, Dealbook's Peter Lattman reports.¬† In November 2008, Woods, 48, who was the head of Mainstreet Bank and the bank's holding company Calvert Financial Corporation, applied for TARP money on behalf of his bank,¬†a press release states. In January 2009, his bank received $1,037,000. ¬†A month later, he¬†used $381,487 of it to buy a¬†place in Fort Myers, Florida. ¬† He pleaded guilty to misleading federal investigators about how he used the TARP money. ¬† Woods is no longer allowed to work in the banking industry, according to the release. ¬†He also faces a sentence of up to one year in federal prison without parole and a fine of up to $100,000 plus restitution. ¬† Here's the full press release:¬† JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. ‚Äì Tammy Dickinson, United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri, announced that a Columbia, Mo., bank chairman pleaded guilty in federal court today to misleading federal investigators about his use of $381,000 in bank bailout funds to purchase a luxury condominium in Fort Myers, Fla. ‚ÄúAt a time when many other Americans were losing their homes, he was siphoning off public funds to buy a luxury vacation condo in Florida,‚Äù Dickinson said. ‚ÄúThese federal funds were intended to help stabilize the economy during a fiscal crisis. Instead, this disgraced business leader took advantage of the situation to benefit himself and other bank executives, then lied to federal investigators in an attempt to hide his scheme.‚Äù Darryl Layne Woods, 48, of Columbia, waived his right to a grand jury and pleaded guilty before U.S. Magistrate Judge Matt J. Whitworth to a federal information that charges him with making a false writing. Woods was the chairman and chief financial officer of Mainstreet Bank in Ashland, Mo. He was also the chairman, president and majority shareholder of Calvert Financial Corporation, the bank holding company for Mainstreet Bank. ‚ÄúThe purpose of TARP is to promote financial stability and lending in a time of national economic crisis, not to bankroll the purchase of luxury vacation properties for bank executives,‚Äù said Christy Romero, Special Inspector General for TARP (SIGTARP).¬† ‚ÄúWhen SIGTARP required Mainstreet Bank to disclose how it spent TARP funds, bank Chairman and CFO Woods failed to tell the truth that within days of receiving the TARP funds, the bank spent more than a third of the funds purchasing a waterfront condo in Florida for his and other executives‚Äô use.¬† SIGTARP and our law enforcement partners will hold accountable and bring to justice those guilty of crimes related to TARP.‚Äù In November 2008, Calvert Financial applied to receive funds through the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). TARP was created through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The purpose of TARP was to provide capital to financial institutions to enable them to build their capital base and to increase the flow of financing to businesses and individuals. The U.S. Department of Treasury approved the request for TARP funds, and in January 2009 Calvert Financial received $1,037,000 through the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Woods admitted today that he used $381,487 of the TARP funds to purchase the luxury condominium on Feb. 2, 2009. The Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) was required to supervise, audit and investigate institutions that received TARP funds. SIGTARP sent letters to various financial institutions seeking specific information as to how TARP funds were used by the institutions. Woods responded to that inquiry in a letter dated Feb. 10, 2009. Woods failed to disclose in his letter that a significant portion of TARP funds had been used to acquire the condominium. Failure to disclose the purchase of the condominium was a material misrepresentation of facts relating to the true use of TARP funds. Under the terms of today‚Äôs plea agreement, Woods is required to desist from any further involvement in banking and may not serve as an officer, director, employee or affiliated party of any financial institution or agency. The government agrees not to bring any charges against his wife, Jackie Woods (Ralston), for any criminal offenses arising from the facts known by the government as a result of this investigation. Under federal statutes, Woods is subject to a sentence of up to one year in federal prison without parole, plus a fine up to $100,000 and an order of restitution. A sentencing hearing will be scheduled after the completion of a presentence investigation by the United States Probation Office. This case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Jim Lynn. It was investigated by the FBI, the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) and the Federal Reserve Board ‚Äì Office of Inspector General.  
Twentieth Century FoxTwo kidnappers, identified only by their last names Lu and Xie, gave a hostage 500 yuan after they realized her family was poor, according to Shanghai Daily. The duo targeted the 11-year old girl because her family owed gambling debts.¬† They spent 10,000 yuan (approx. $1,634) in renting a car, buying masks and tools in preparation for the kidnapping, only to realize her parents couldn't afford the ransom. The duo were looking to get 1 million yuan in ransom but the girl told them her parents didn't have any money.¬† The kidnappers also gave the girl 500 yuan and sent her back to her family. Some reports suggest it was because they noticed a large police presence on the streets. But they were reported to have taken good care of the girl.¬† Lu and Xie received four and five year sentences respectively for the kidnapping at the Jiaojiang District People‚Äôs Court, according to Shanghai Daily.¬†¬†
pinguino via flickrBitcoin is safe from federal regulators for now ó mostly because they're still not quite sure what it is. Yesterday, law enforcement officials led by the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement network met with representatives from the Bitcoin Foundation, a California-based group that serves as the unofficial custodian of the digital currency, to discuss how Bitcoin works. The meeting was reported by the Washington Post's Brian Fung. Bitcoin Foundation counsel Patrick Murck attended the meeting, and told us it was basically an instructional session for the officials:† "It was more high level ó understanding Bitcoin as a value exchange protocol ... how it works. We weren't there to discuss specific policy, that'll come later, this was to establish an open dialogue." In its earliest days, Bitcoin, which is essentially a series of unique computer codes that can be transacted, was frequently used to purchase illicit items. It has since become an accepted medium of exchange on countless websites, as well as a safe-haven asset of sorts, especially in countries with troubled sovereigns. But it's now grown so big that it's caught the attention of the government ó the SEC recently brought a case against a Texas man who attempted to execute a Ponzi scheme using Bitcoin. We recently explained why Bitcoin may lose its luster as it gets more attention from regulators†ó basically, the scrutiny undermines the whole purpose of conducting business via a medium other than the dollar. Murck said it was too early to say what new regulations might be coming down the pike ó but that if and when something does, the Bitcoin community can now avoid getting "blindsided" by it. "Everybody was there to learn, understand the issues," he said. "That's all you can ask for ó come together, have a dialogue, when issues come up solve them together. That's the message we had going on, and hopefully message they took away. It wasn't the time or place for people being hostile; frankly I wouldn't understand why you would be hostile to a protocol for the Internet."
Flickr/bookemspookyMADRID (Reuters) -†Spanish police†arrested†former†JP Morgan Chase trader†Javier Martin-Artajo†on Tuesday as he prepares to fight possible extradition to the†United States†over a $6.2 billion financial scandal at the†United States' largest bank. The arrest came after the†United States†charged Spaniard Martin-Artajo and a junior colleague, Frenchman†Julien Grout, with wire fraud and conspiracy to falsify books and records related to the trading losses, which were executed by†Bruno Iksil. Iksil, who was nicknamed the "London†Whale" for his large bets on derivatives markets, is cooperating with U.S. prosecutors and has not been charged. Martin-Artajo was released on condition he stays†in†Spain†and checks†in†regularly with a court. A judicial source said on Tuesday he had told a†Spanish court†he is unwilling to be sent to the†United States†to face the charges. Martin-Artajo, who handed himself†in†at a†Madrid police†station after being contacted by police, is accused of trying to inflate the value of trading positions held on his group's books. The mismarking allegedly took place as the traders tried to hide mounting losses†in†an illiquid derivatives market, where they had made outsized bets. Martin-Artajo was Iksil's†supervisor†at†JP Morgan's Chief Investment Office†in†London. JPMorgan is battling to salvage its corporate image amid a swirl of litigation and investigations†in†the wake of the financial crisis, including a federal bribery investigation into whether it hired the children of key Chinese officials to help it win business. The bank's boss Jamie Dimon attempted to dismiss the†London†Whale losses as a "tempest†in†a teapot" but this remark has come back to haunt him. Martin-Artajo previously said through lawyers that he expects to be cleared of any wrongdoing and that he had cooperated with regulators. His lawyer†in†London†could not immediately be reached for further comment. EXTRADITION Meanwhile†Spain's High Court†has taken on his case and will decide whether he should be extradited, althoughSpain's cabinet has its say too. The†United States†has 40 days after his arrest to present its full extradition request to Spanish courts, according to the usual procedure. Extraditions from†Spain†to the†United States†are rare and†Madrid†has tended to shun requests to send its citizens to be tried there. "Spain†does not extradite its citizens," a police source said, explaining that it was one of the reasons Martin-Artajo was not directly†arrested†but asked to present himself to police, after he was found, identified and deemed not to be a flight risk. But one extradition lawyer who declined to be named said Martin-Artajo's alleged offence would†in†principle be considered extraditable, as it is punishable†in†both countries. Either way, administrative and judicial procedures can take many months. Martin-Artajo handed himself†in†to police after they found him and got†in†touch with him, the authorities said, without detailing where they had tracked him down. Former†JPMorgan colleague†Julien Grout, now living†in†his native†France, has not yet been†arrested, his lawyer said. "No, they have not†arrested†Julien, nor would they because†France†does not extradite their own citizens," said Grout's U.S. lawyer†Edward Little†at Hughes Hubbard &amp; Reed. "We are†in†discussions with the U.S. prosecutors about how we will proceed, but no decision has been made yet." Grout, who reported to Iksil and is the lowest-ranked person so far targeted†in†the investigation, is†in†his mid-thirties and is married to an American. His lawyer previously said he had moved to†France†several months ago and was not fleeing anything. A source with knowledge of the matter has said Grout would offer to face the charges†in†the†United States†on condition he is granted bail. Grout himself declined to answer questions from a Reuters reporter at his parent's holiday home†in†southern France†earlier this month. (Additional reporting by Clare Hutchison†in†London, Catherine Bremer†in†Paris and Blanca Rodriguez†in†Madrid; Editing by Louise Heavens and David Holmes)
Sure, Wall Street's changed dramatically over the last few years, but according to Alan Breed ‚Äî the CEO of leading asset manager Edgewood Management ‚Äî there are still two surefire ways you can get paid handsomely on The Street. In the most recent episode of the¬†Open Door¬†interview series, hosted by finance career site¬†OneWire, Breed discusses these two crucial skills: raising money and marketing. ‚ÄúFirst,‚Äù Breed says, ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre going to be able to raise money.¬† People who can raise money in an environment like this are going to be very rewarded‚Ä¶Moneymakers are few and far between; if you can generate alpha, you will get money.‚Äù The second way to get ahead, he says, is marketing. Breed explains, ‚ÄúMarketing is a vital source of growing your business, and it‚Äôs barely been moved from the back burner to the front burner.¬† It used to be that Portfolio Managers who had all the big ideas were the ones that ran the firms. And nowadays you‚Äôre finding that marketing people who can develop distribution channels are the really second most important people in the firm and are going to get paid.‚Äù Breed also warns against lower compensation in other areas. ‚ÄúEveryone else in the middle,‚Äù he says, ‚Äúwho processes transactions, is going to make less in the future than they are today.¬† Whether you‚Äôre stock broking, whether you‚Äôre analyzing, whether you‚Äôre working in private equity firms; if you‚Äôre just doing the grunt work‚Ä¶you‚Äôre going to find compensation under pressure.‚Äù So figure out where you fit in. Watch the full¬†Open Door¬†interview below: 
via DVDBeaverThere is a way you can predict which skills will carry the most clout in the future workplace. Ask yourself whether those skills could be replicated through the use of¬†machines or offshore workers. If your answer is "yes" to either of these questions, Laurence Shatkin, Ph.D., a career information expert, says¬†your future career might be headed for trouble. To identify these transferable skills, Shatkin used the statistical procedure known as correlation to measure how closely median income correlates with 35 Occupational Information Network¬†skills and the 747 occupations that are identified by the U.S. Department of Labor. "Basically, when something changes consistently, it results in a higher correlation," Shatkin tells Business Insider.¬†‚ÄúCorrelation doesn‚Äôt necessarily mean causation, but it does happen so often together that sometimes it does.‚Äù For example, heavy smokers tend to be sick often. Before researchers had proof that smoke is harmful to the body, they knew that there was a¬†statistically strong correlation between smoke and certain diseases. It's not always true, but it happens enough to pinpoint an affiliation. Most of the transferable skills that Shatkin identified with¬†the highest correlations (1.0 being a perfect correlation) tend to be soft skills, such as "judgment and decision making," "complex problem solving," and "active learning." That's because these soft skills are harder to automate, he says, meaning it's difficult to outsource these jobs to foreign workers or have machines replace humans to complete the tasks. For example, "anything that requires public speaking, you can't really send that to a foreign worker," Shatkin explains. Skills with the lowest correlation include equipment maintenance, repairing, installation, and troubleshooting, which all require some form of training (and re-training) to efficiently do the job. Below, Shatkin gave us permission to post his list of the most valuable transferable skills: Laurence Shatkin¬†¬†
REUTERSAs China engages with its credit problem, Morgan Stanley's Jonathan Garner asks in a new note, "Can China achieve a 'beautiful' deleveraging?" "This phrase was first coined ‚Äì by Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates ‚Äì to describe a process whereby a country brings a period of excessive credit growth to a halt, and achieves an economic rebalancing, without an overly pronounced or prolonged recession," said Garner. Plenty governments have tried, but few have succeeded. "The most successful deleveragings, such as in Korea or the US, were associated with both Net Exports and Consumption making a positive contribution to growth during deleveraging," Garner writes. Garner breaks down a few historical examples to see how, when, and why delevering looks "beautiful." 1. Japan (1990) - "Ugly and then failed deleveraging" Fiscal deficits and high real interest rates have dogged Japan since its 1990s bust. "Although there was a moderate pickup in growth by 1995, Japan has not in the subsequent 15+ years managed to achieve a successful deleveraging, with chronically low GDP growth (averaging just less than 1% per annum since 1995) and entrenched deflation," Garner writes. 2. Mexico (1995) - "Chaotic and then more beautiful deleveraging" Mexico's deleveraging, though chaotic in the beginning, was relative short-lived thanks in part to a boom in its major trading partner, the US. "It is testament to the power of net exports to turn a chaotic post-Inflexion leveraging situation into something more beautiful." Morgan Stanley3. Indonesia (1998) - "Chaotic deleveraging" Indonesia had a deep recession, with -13.1% GDP growth in 1998. "There was a much bigger reduction in the growth CAGR post-Inflexion than in the case of Mexico or Korea, our other EM comparators," writes Garner. And: "Real interest rates were exceptionally volatile." 4. Korea (1998) - "Chaotic and then beautiful deleveraging" Korea's East Asian growth model is similar to China, but "Korea had built up a much higher burden of short- to medium-termexternal debt in the mid-1990s than China has today." Korea's growth bounced back as the "real policy rate was kept below the real growth rate in four of the five years post-Inflexion."¬† 5.¬†US (2008) - "Beautiful deleveraging" After some roadbumps, the US went on a solid macro adjustment path, according to Garner. "First, nominal interest rates were cut dramatically (followed by various rounds of QE). Second, relatively high inflation was tolerated and real interest rates moved into negative territory and stayed there from early 2009." And real GDP growth exceeded real interest rates. Morgan Stanley6.¬†UK (2008) - "Ugly then more beautiful deleveraging" The UK's slow policy response hurt its recovery, but eventually the real policy rate was moved well into negative territory (-4%, below real GDP growth). "It was a slow grind back, but by mid- 2013 the UK economy was starting to grow quite strongly again." 7. Spain (2008) - "Failed deleveraging" Spain's growth rate plummeted from +4% to -4% and has been negative ever since, Garner notes. "They did not move into negative [real interest rate] territory until 2010, and even then did not sustain a level well below real GDP growth in 2011 and 2012. Spain‚Äôs overall leverage to GDP has continued to rise significantly, which is why we classify it as a failed deleveraging." Morgan Stanley8. Ireland (2008) - "Ugly deleveraging" A similar experience to Spain, with real policy rates well above GDP growth in the immediate crisis aftermath, but "unlike Spain, Ireland‚Äôs GDP growth rate has returned ‚Äì just ‚Äì to positive territory in recent years." 9. Australia (2009) - "Beautiful so far, but too soon to tell?" The most recent example, Australia benefitted from the bounce in commodity prices in 1999. "GDP growth itself accelerated back to over 2.0% in 2010 and 2011, rising to a peak of over 4.0% in early 2012; this despite a resumption of real exchange rate appreciation." But with such strong economic ties to China, it may be too soon to call Australia's economic situation "beautiful."¬†
The worst-performing currency today is the Indian rupee. The second-worst is the Turkish lira (the U.S. dollar is up more than 2% against it today). Meanwhile, the Turkish stock market is down 4.7% today, and the yield on dollar-denominated 10-year Turkish government bonds is up 19 basis points. In a press conference this morning, Turkish central bank governor¬†Erdem Ba≈ü√ßƒ± told reporters that the central bank was going on the offensive against recent lira depreciation and yield increases with surprise maneuvers. "Believe in me and win,"¬†said Ba≈ü√ßƒ±. The press conference clearly had the opposite effect of what¬†Ba≈ü√ßƒ± likely intended. The following charts show the performance of the lira, the Turkish stock market, and the yield on 10-year Turkish government bonds year-to-date. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThe adult world of investment requires lots of study, discipline and patience. But does it rock? Though I avoid absolutes when it comes to investing, I declare this without fear of error: No stock, bond or title ranks as cool as an investment you can plug into a Marshall amp and turn up to 11. Vintage guitars have become a hot commodity among collectors over the last two decades. But the question remains: Is it a good time to get into the market? Big rewards, but big risks That depends on whom you ask. Like any other collectible (fine art is a good example), vintage guitar values play by a rulebook that‚Äôs highly subjective, and that you have to study close to understand. In that way, vintage guitars might more closely resemble foreign exchange (forex), where a few simple hunches could reap huge rewards ‚Äî or get you in huge trouble. There‚Äôs no substitute in this case for talking to experts, learning the market and taking calculated risks based not so much on what‚Äôs already sky high, but what stands a chance of rising in the future. And just like everything else touched by the Great Recession, vintage guitars took a big hit. Prices for prized instruments soared in the early 200os as speculators jumped in, then the market plummeted by as much as 30 percent by the end of the decade. Wayne Sefton, who runs¬†Midwest Buy and Sell in Chicago, is one of the area‚Äôs top vintage dealers. He counts the members of Wilco among his happy customers, and he maintains that vintage guitars look ready to rock again, so long as you pick your investments carefully. ‚ÄúThe question is, how much will prices go back up?‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúSome people are holding on to their old [pre-recession] pricing, and they‚Äôre never going to sell those guitars. But it is a good time to buy, and you can find nice items.‚Äù Finding valuable guitars Now, time for a primer: A vintage guitar, generally speaking, is one made in the 1980s or earlier. American Gibson and Fender guitars from the 1950s and 1960s are among the most valuable, though vintage Rickenbackers (favored by The Beatles, The Byrds and Tom Petty) have made big strides in recent years. On the acoustic side, Martin, Gibson and Guild rank as highly prized brands. So yes, that guitar your parents passed on to you could be something really valuable. And don‚Äôt worry if it‚Äôs beaten up: Some Baby Boomers pay thousands of dollars on brand-new guitars that are pre-fab relics, beaten up to look like they‚Äôve been dragged around a smoky bar for 40 years. But if the stock market represents one level of volatility, vintage guitars rank right up there with a 100-story, sheer-drop roller coaster. Some examples of a collectable guitar‚Äôs highs and lows To illustrate the wild ride of the last 10 years, let‚Äôs look at a particular prize: a 1956 Gibson Les Paul ‚ÄúGold Top‚Äù (so named for its metallic-champagne color), stocked with P90 pickups, a Tune-o-matic bridge and a stop tailpiece. In 2002, George Gruhn of Gruhn Guitars in Nashville, Tennessee, could get $5,500 for that axe. By the end of 2006, the Gold Top‚Äôs value had skyrocketed to $85,000. ‚ÄúThen they plunged down to $30,000, and a nice one today is worth $35,000,‚Äù Gruhn says. (That‚Äôs a big short-term loss, but new, that guitar probably sold for about $400.) So if you‚Äôre thinking of getting in, consider first of all whether you‚Äôre passionate about guitars, as a player or music fan. If you are, that passion should feed your desire to know the market inside and out. Then, take a look at the guitars Sefton says are holding their own right now, and stand a good chance of going up in value. These include 1970s Fender Precision basses (about $2,000) and Rickenbacker guitars from the 1980s onward (usually about $1,500-$2,500). Let‚Äôs not forget amplifiers, too. Sefton is a big fan of Fender amps made before 1966, and known as ‚Äúblackface‚Äù for the color of the front control panel. He‚Äôs still fetching good money for Fender Champs, Princetons and Deluxes, small amps that are easy to carry and care for, and sound great even at low volumes. The Princeton in particular is a favorite of Eric Clapton, who some say started the whole vintage guitar boom. In 1999, he auctioned 100 of his guitars to benefit his Crossroads Centre, a charity he founded to help people affected by drug and alcohol abuse. The date was June 24, and by vintage guitar market standards it was the equivalent of the British Invasion: His 1956 Fender Stratocaster Sunburst known as ‚ÄúBrownie‚Äù fetched an astounding $450,000. Never had a guitar sold for so much money, and it started a musical equivalent of the Dutch Tulip Craze. Suddenly, investors and speculators entered the market, driving up the prices of the most mundane instruments as they traded with the fury of junk bond dealers. Things are more sane today, and while Sefton and other dealers miss those days of insane pricing, it‚Äôs good news for anyone who hopes to start a vintage guitar collection as an investment and a store of value. Just be careful, he says, and plan on holding onto an instrument for at least a decade before you see stable, sizable growth. Look at it this way: The worst that could happen is that you wind up with a closet or basement full of really cool guitars. And if the market recovers to anything like the previous decade, returns of 30 to 300 percent are entirely feasible. And while you could go out and blow $35,000 on an old Les Paul, ‚ÄúStay under $5,000 for a guitar,‚Äù Sefton says. ‚ÄúAnything under that is a nice buy.‚Äù
REUTERS/Andy ClarkDonald Trump addresses a ceremony announcing a new hotel and condominium complex in Vancouver, British Columbia June 19, 2013. Trump has put his name to the development to be called the Trump International Hotel & Tower Vancouver and to be built by TA Global Bhd. and the Holborn Group. New York is suing Trump University for alleged fraud. Until this weekend, when the suit was announced, most of us were probably unaware that there was such an institution. But for more than 5,000 Americans, it was a very real organization that NY Attorney General Eric Schneiderman says collectively cost them $40 million. We went back through the full complaint, and it basically sounds like an episode of "Seinfeld" (specifically, the one where Kramer recreates "The Merv Griffin Show" in his apartment using a set he found in the dumpster) crossed with a pyramid scheme. Here are the best and most cringeworthy allegations from the suit: For more than five years, the group allegedly ignored the warnings of ¬†the New York State Education Department to correct its business practices and change its name (of note: state comptroller Thomas DiNapoli just issued a scathing report of that agency). And Trump U. has still never applied for a license to operate as an educational institution. Here's the full complaint: NY Attorney General vs. Trump University, Verified Petition by Classlawsuit.com 
As interesting as these contributions will be, I hope that we will also see another genre: analyses of the previously unthinkable outcomes that have become reality ‚Äì with profound implications for current and future generations ‚Äì and that our systems of governance have yet to address properly. With this in mind, let me offer four. The first such outcome, and by far the most consequential, is the continuing difficulty that Western economies face in generating robust economic growth and sufficient job creation. Notwithstanding the initial sharp drop in GDP in the last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, too many Western economies have yet to rebound properly, let alone sustain growth rates that would make up fully for lost jobs and income. More generally, only a few have decisively overcome the trifecta of maladies that the crisis exposed: inadequate and unbalanced aggregate demand, insufficient structural resilience and agility, and persistent debt overhangs. The net result goes beyond the weak growth, worsening income inequality, high long-term unemployment, and alarming youth joblessness of the here and now. Five years after the global financial crisis, too many countries are being held back by exhausted and out-dated growth engines. As a result, prospects for a rapid, durable, and inclusive economic recovery remain a serious concern. Given this harsh reality, it is not surprising that the second previously unthinkable outcome concerns inadequate policy responses ‚Äì namely, the large and persistent imbalance between the hyperactivity of central banks and the frustrating passivity of other policymakers. The big surprise here is not that central banks acted decisively and boldly when financial markets froze and economic activity plummeted. Given their relatively unrestricted access to the printing press and their high degree of operational autonomy, one would expect central banks to be active and effective first responders. And they responded in an impressive and globally coordinated fashion. What is surprising is that, five years after the crisis, and four years after disrupted financial markets resumed their normal functioning, Western economies still overwhelmingly rely on central banks to avoid even worse economic performance. This has pushed central banks away from their core competencies as they have been forced to use partial and imperfect policy tools for quite a long time. This outcome reflects domestic political polarization in the United States and the complexity of regional interactions in Europe, which have blocked comprehensive and balanced policy approaches. To appreciate the extent of the problem, consider the repeated failure of the US Congress to pass an annual budget (let alone deliver medium-term reforms) or incomplete eurozone-wide initiatives at a time of alarming unemployment and residual threats of financial disruptions. Such political dysfunction has undermined the responsiveness of other policymaking entities, including those that possess better tools than central banks. This has compelled central bankers to remain in the policy forefront, building one bridge extension after another as they wait for other policymakers to get their act together. The result has been to expose Western economies to ever-more experimental measures, with considerable uncertainty about the longer-term impact of operating sophisticated market-based systems on the basis of artificial constructs. The third previously unthinkable outcome relates to how developing countries have fared. Having initially suffered from the financial crisis as much as Western countries did (indeed, more in terms of output and trade), these historically less-robust economies staged a remarkable comeback ‚Äì so much so that they became the engine of global growth. In the process, however, they slipped into an unbalanced policy mix that now threatens their continued growth and financial stability. Renewed risks of financial instability point to the fourth and final surprise: the failure to recast major contributors to the crisis in a credible, sustainable, and socially responsible manner. Consider large Western banks. Given their systemic importance, many were bailed out and, with continued official support, returned to profitability quite quickly. Yet they were not subject to windfall profit taxation, nor have policymakers sufficiently altered structural incentives that encourage excessive risk-taking. In the case of Europe, only now are banks being pushed to deal decisively with their capital shortfalls, leverage problems, and residual weak assets. Call me a worrywart, but I remain concerned by the extent to which our systems of economic governance have lagged in addressing these four outcomes. The longer this unusual environment persists, the greater the risk that the disruptive ramifications of the 2008 crisis will continue to reach far and wide, including to future generations.

REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiThe euro currency sign sculpture with a damaged star stands in front of the headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) prior to the monthly ECB news conference in Frankfurt, August 1, 2013.Markets have closed in Europe, and stocks ended deep in the red. Britain's FTSE 100 fell 0.7%. France's CAC 40 fell 2.4%. Germany's DAX fell 2.2%. Spain's IBEX fell 2.9%. Italy's FTSE MIB fell 2.3%. The sell-off comes as tensions rise in Syria. Yesterday afternoon, Secretary of State John Kerry condemned the actions of Syria in the wake of chemical weapons attacks. "Make no mistake: President Obama believes there must be accountability for those who would use the world's most heinous weapons against the world's most vulnerable people," he said. Markets in the Middle East got punished amid the regional uncertainty. Meanwhile, the Emerging Markets continue to crumble led by India and Indonesia. Here's an intraday look at the Euro Stoxx 50 index via Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg
Flickr/johntylerSometimes my personal-finance articles make my friends feel guilty. ‚ÄúI read your article about saving money, and now I feel bad about the shoes I just bought,‚Äù says Guilt-Stricken Friend. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt need them. I think I should return them.‚Äù Perhaps she‚Äôs waiting for me to tell her that she‚Äôs right, that she¬†should¬†return them. And then she should take that money she almost blew on something fun and put it into her 401K. But my actual reaction is more like this: ‚ÄúWhy do you want to return them? Also: Tell me about those shoes!‚Äù Because here‚Äôs the thing. While no, the purchase wasn‚Äôt a need, and yes, it‚Äôs more logical to not spend the money, there‚Äôs no reason she shouldn‚Äôt enjoy a fun purchase that‚Äôs well within her means. Guilt is a Killjoy The problem was that my friend wasn‚Äôt enjoying her purchase. She thought it was somehow ‚Äúbad‚Äù and felt guilty about it. She thought she should have saved that money instead. As someone who feels a lot of guilt over the things I should or shouldn‚Äôt be doing, I know how it can suck the joy out of life. Guilt can undermine any good feelings a purchase (or a piece of chocolate cake, for that matter) might bring. And if you look at the Big Picture, my friend has healthy savings, doesn‚Äôt have credit card debt, and is saving for retirement. One purchase doesn‚Äôt make her a bad person. Call me Irresponsible As a personal-finance writer, I‚Äôm exposed to a lot of money advice, tips, and tactics. Sometimes I feel like I‚Äôm not perfect enough when it comes to handling my own money because I don‚Äôt follow more of the advice I read. I feel like I should¬†be more frugal. More minimalistic. I feel irresponsible because two months ago I was double-billed for my Internet service, and I just caught the mistake last week. ‚ÄúMaybe if I tracked every penny in a notebook, that wouldn‚Äôt have happened,‚Äù says the little voice inside my head. Also, I realized that when I¬†do¬†follow frugal, minimalistic advice, it isn‚Äôt because it saves money (although that‚Äôs an added benefit). For instance, I like having a small, functional wardrobe, so I scrutinize clothing purchases. I don‚Äôt really like or watch much TV, so I don‚Äôt pay for cable. I enjoy cooking, so 99% of my meals are home-cooked. I don‚Äôt like big gyms, so I work out at home. These things might make me sound frugal and responsible, but in truth I do them because they‚Äôre personal preferences, which happen to save money over their alternatives. So I‚Äôve finally come to grips with something:¬†There‚Äôs some personal finance advice out there that could save money or make me more responsible according to the financial gurus, but I‚Äôm never going to do it.¬†Ever. Want a few examples? Here are the eight that top my list: ‚ÄúWrite down every penny you spend¬†and every penny you make.‚Äù¬†I‚Äôve tried so many times. So many. I‚Äôve tried a notebook, Quicken, and various apps, and it just doesn‚Äôt stick. The only thing that‚Äôs worked for me is automated savings into targeted savings accounts. That‚Äôs how I was able to build an emergency fund, take a trip to Europe, and make sure I had enough money to pay the irregular gas bill. I‚Äôve about given up on maintaining a detailed budget, even though I‚Äôve advised other people to do it in the past, and even though I want to be able to do it myself. ¬†‚ÄúDrink tap water; it‚Äôs free.‚Äù¬†If you‚Äôre buying water or you‚Äôve purchased a home filter, there‚Äôs probably a reason for it. Your water smells like chlorine or you‚Äôre a health nut like me who‚Äôs concerned about what‚Äôs in her water. So advising people to drink tap water is pretty worthless money advice. And while we‚Äôre on the subject of beverages‚Ä¶ ‚ÄúDrink water instead of coffee.‚Äù¬†Seriously? I go to bed excited that I get coffee when I wake up. I can‚Äôt even deal with this one. ‚ÄúBuy everything secondhand from garage sales or¬†thrift shops.‚Äù¬†I can‚Äôt tell you how much I wish I could do this. The problem is that I hate shopping. Sorting through a bunch of stuff for hours just to find a pair of used jeans that actually fit is kinda my idea of hell. I‚Äôve also bought secondhand things that were ‚Äújust okay‚Äù just because they were so cheap, and they wound up in my donation pile a few months later. These days I do buy some used things, especially antiques, but usually it‚Äôs because my mom found it for me. ‚ÄúStart a garden¬†and grow all your food.‚Äù¬†This is great if you know how to garden and have the room. But to amuse myself, I like to imagine people reading this tip who have zero gardening know-how. They go to the plant nursery and buy mulch and dirt and fertilizer and seeds and shovels, spend days making garden beds and starting seeds, water every day, weed the beds, transplant seedlings, then harvest their overflowing bounty. All to save exactly how much money? And that‚Äôs only if the¬†squash vine borer¬†doesn‚Äôt decimate your crops. Little jerks. I like the idea of growing all my own food, and maybe one day I‚Äôll get there, but right now I‚Äôm just proud that I‚Äôve kept my tomato plants and herbs alive all summer. ‚ÄúInstead of buying books or paying for Netflix,¬†use the library.‚Äù¬†I know it‚Äôs free, but I never go. I got as far as getting a library card, which expired. Then I renewed it, and now it‚Äôs expired again. Also, I‚Äôm pretty bad at remembering to return books and movies on time. Blockbuster made mad late-fee money off of me. ‚ÄúMake your own laundry detergent.‚Äù¬†I tried this for a few months because I thought it was kind of fun. But it doesn‚Äôt save that much money and the novelty wore off the second time my husband had to say, ‚ÄúUh, I need to do some laundry and there‚Äôs not enough detergent‚Ä¶‚Äù ‚ÄúHave a no-gift policy.‚Äù¬†I don‚Äôt care about gifts personally. Instead of buying anniversary gifts, my husband and I splurge on a really great meal. But if my nieces want a popcorn machine for Christmas, they‚Äôre gonna get a popcorn machine. Gifts are a social norm I just don‚Äôt want to disregard. I‚Äôve read that I¬†should¬†do each of these things, but the fact of the matter is that none of them work for me. And I‚Äôve decided that that‚Äôs okay. I say we shouldn‚Äôt let the ‚Äúshoulds‚Äù make us feel bad anymore. What are¬†your¬†‚Äúshoulds‚Äù? What money advice have you tried to follow, but couldn‚Äôt keep up in the long-term? What are examples of personal finance advice that¬†doesn‚Äôt¬†work for you?
APDebt ceiling panic is back. But why? House Speaker John Boehner (R) says raising the debt ceiling will require "a whale of a fight."†He says, "Iíve made it clear that weíre not going to increase the debt limit without cuts and reforms that are greater than the increase in the debt limit." He now says he wants the cuts on the mandatory spending side: That is, Republicans won't raise the debt ceiling without big, cost-cutting changes in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. All this saber-rattling has our Executive Editor Joe Weisenthal very nervous. He's worried, again, about the economic damage that could come from either hitting the debt ceiling or Republicans extracting major austerity concessions in exchange for raising it. He shouldn't worry. Republicans are full of itójust as they were in the winter, when they threatened to hit the debt ceiling if the President did not agree to another big round of spending cuts. Do you remember what Boehner's spokesman Michael Steel was saying in December 2012? It was the same line: "Any debt limit increase would require cuts and reforms of a greater amount." Of course, in January 2013, House Republicans voted overwhelmingly for a debt ceiling increase that came with no such cuts. All they got was a pledge that the Senate would pass a non-binding budget resolution, which would not even have to be reconciled with a House budget or become law. When Steel said Republicans wouldn't raise the debt limit without spending cuts, he was†lying. The reason Republicans caved in January is simple: Hitting the debt ceiling is a political disaster for them. It would cause†all the problems of a government shutdownódisruption of government services, angry constituents, economic contractionóplus the risk of a crisis in the Treasury bond markets. It is an even less viable political strategy than a shutdown, which Republicans are openly admitting is politically unviable. Worse, Republicans cannot figure out what to demand in exchange for raising the debt ceiling. The House GOP does not have consensus on a package of entitlement reforms. The party is lukewarm on the idea of cutting Social Security and Medicare. They just spent two election cycles attacking President Obama for cutting Medicare. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), who heads the House Republicans' campaign committee, has been vociferously attacking President Obama's "chained CPI" proposal to cut Social Security benefits, which many other Republicans favor. If Republicans were to stage another debt ceiling showdown over entitlement reform, they would have to (1) threaten to cause an economic crisis unless (2) they are given a package of reforms that many Republican officials don't even want, which (3) would also happen to be hugely unpopular with voters. This. Is. Never. Going. To. Happen. So why is Boehner making debt ceiling threats again? Well, for one thing, it's August, and in August, Republican House members go to town halls filled with rabid conservative constituents who need red meat. A lot of Republican activists think rendering the government unable to pay its bills is just what the country needs. But also, the debt ceiling won't hit until mid-October, while a government shutdown must be averted by September 30, and Boehner needs an explanation of why he won't back efforts to shut down the government unless Obamacare is defunded. Focusing on the debt ceiling allows him to make a case for not shutting down the government. With the restive GOP caucus, it's always one step at a time. But once they get to the point of having to push the country over the debt brink, and suffer the political consequences of that, Boehner and his caucus will cave, just like they did in the winter, for exactly the same reasons they did in the winter. I have personal experience with being wrong about this. In fact, Joe and I were both wrong about it in January, when we were urging the Obama Administration to mint a trillion dollar platinum coin as a gimmick to effectively raise the debt limit to infinity. At the time, we thought the coin was a necessary strategy to neutralize an economic doomsday machine that Republicans were intent on misusing. But the Obama administration knew better, and on a cold, cruel Saturday and January they killed Joe's and my platinum dreams with a statement saying the Federal Reserve would not accept a platinum coin as a valid deposit. Eleven days later, the Republican-held House had passed a debt ceiling increase.†Republicans saw that with the coin gone as an option, their choices were to give up a "clean" debt ceiling increase or take the blame when the government stopped paying its bills and the economy tanked, and they blinked. Ignoring Joe's and my (and Paul Krugman's) advice is the smartest economic policy decision the White House has made all year. Their instinct was right then and it's right now. The platinum coin isn't needed. All the White House needs to do is exactly what it's doingósay they won't negotiate the debt ceiling over and over until Republicans panic again.
Associated Press Real estate mogul Donald Trump is profiled against his 92-story Trump International Hotel & Tower during a news conference on construction progress in Chicago in a May 24, 2007, file photo.The New York state attorney general's $40 million lawsuit against Donald Trump's real estate investment "university" alleges some of the school's instructors had previously only worked as motivational speakers or salesmen while others had gone bankrupt investing in real estate. Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's damning suit repeatedly refutes Trump's claims that he handpicked instructors who could guarantee students success at real estate investing in exchange for $25,000 to $35,000 in tuition. In one video, Trump said "if you don't learn from me, if you don't learn from the people that we're putting forward, and these are all the people that are handpicked by me, then you're just not going to make it," according to the complaint. In reality, Trump allegedly failed to do substantial research to back up job candidates' claims that they'd made money from investing in real estate. From the lawsuit: In addition, many candidates came directly to Trump University from other seminar† companies ó where they worked as motivational speakers or sales representatives ó or† employment having little if anything to do with real estate investment. Trump University was also aware that some of its instructors and mentors who had been† investing in real estate had filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection shortly before coming to work at Trump University, belying any claims of success as real estate investors. The students who attended Trump now have their own financial troubles, Schneiderman says. Some students allegedly took on $20,000 in credit card debt after Trump University speakers encouraged them to do so. One lost her life savings at Trump University, according to the complaint. For his part, Trump says Schneiderman filed the lawsuit because he was angry the real estate mogul didn't contribute to the attorney general's political campaign.
If there's been a single dominant theme driving global markets this summer, it's been the prospect that the Federal Reserve will taper back the amount of monthly bond purchases it makes under the quantitative easing program it introduced in September 2012. There's been a huge sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market, which has in turn driven a broader sell-off across global bond markets, and notably, a brutal unraveling of emerging-market currencies, stocks, and bonds. All of these markets have been fixated on labor market releases like the monthly U.S. jobs report and weekly jobless claims figures, which the Fed has tied directly to its outlook for when it will taper. Meanwhile, U.S. housing market data releases have become less interesting to investors in 2013, as continued strength in the data month after month has become routine, and most have accepted that the market appears to have carved out a bottom and started a new upward trajectory. However, the rise in interest rates that accompanied the sell-off in the bond market has sparked a sharp rise in mortgage rates this summer, raising fears that the Fed's actions are dampening housing market activity, which could in turn slow the economic recovery in the United States. Now, with the first wave of July housing market data starting to come in, we're finally getting a glimpse of the impact the rise in mortgage rates has had on the home-buying activity. Thinkorswim10-year U.S. Treasury futures surge Friday following the release of July new home sales data.And financial markets are starting to react once again. On Friday, the release of July new home sales data revealed that sales plunged 13.4% last month. Economists were predicting a much smaller 2% decline. That sent Treasuries surging, erasing all of their losses on the week. The bond market was suddenly pricing in the possibility that the rise in mortgage rates spurred by talk of Fed tapering was having a much-worse-than-expected impact on the housing market, which could cause the central bank to rethink its plans. "Interpreting housing data is critical for investors trying to determine the timing and composition of likely upcoming Federal Reserve tapering of its monthly quantitative easing (QE) securities purchases," say UBS economists. "Mortgage rates already have risen by over a full percentage point from their lows earlier this year as fixed-income markets have been bracing for the start of tapering before year-end. If there is much related negative feedback on the housing market, the Fed might delay tapering or could limit the tapering to just Treasury securities instead of Treasuries and mortgage-backed bonds." After all, in the minutes of the Fed's most recent FOMC policy meeting held in July ‚Äì released to the public last Wednesday ‚Äì the Fed seemed to give this possibility some thought. "While recent mortgage rate increases might serve to restrain housing activity, several participants expressed confidence that the housing recovery would be resilient in the face of the higher rates, variously citing pent-up housing demand, banks' increasing willingness to make mortgage loans, strong consumer confidence, still-low real interest rates, and expectations of continuing rises in house prices," said the minutes. "Nonetheless, refinancing activity was down sharply, and the incoming data would need to be watched carefully for signs of a greater-than-anticipated effect of higher mortgage rates on housing activity more broadly." This morning, ahead of the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index release, Citi strategist Steven Englander warned clients in a note that this "second-tier data" release "should punch above [its] weight." "There is a debate on whether the weakening sales in housing markets reflect housing price or demand, so price indicators are the key to unraveling what is driving weak sales," says Englander. Today's S&amp;P/Case-Shiller release showed a deceleration in home price increases, but it reflected June data, so it's not quite relevant yet. However, tomorrow brings the release of July pending home sales data, which investors will likely be watching closely.
IMDBScary MovieThe CBOE Implied Volatility Index, or VIX, measures the premium that option buyers pay to protect themselves against volatility. Simply put, it measures investors' expectations for big prices swings. Over time, the VIX has become known as the "fear index" or "fear gauge." When the VIX is high, fear is thought to be high. And when it's low, complacency is thought to be high. Traditionally, fear and complacency are contrarian indicators, which help traders and investors predict short-term moves in the market. Unfortunately, the the empirical evidence on this is anything but clear. "Looking back at volatility data reveals that there are much higher probabilities for market gains when the VIX is sitting between 10 and 15 than when it is in the 20-25 range," wrote Citi's Tobias Levkovich in his August chartbook. "Levels of 20-25 do not generate good probabilities of market gains." Levkovich reviewed the short-term returns in the S&amp;P 500 given various levels in the VIX since 1990. At the low 10-15 range, the 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month returns were positive 74.4%, 85.0%, and 87.9% of the time, respectively. At the low 20-25 range, the 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month returns were positive 58.0%, 55.8%, and 60.5% of the time, respectively. "Hence, the so-called "fear gauge" is wildly misunderstood and misinterpreted by many equity observers," he added. So, while the VIX may reflect expected volatility, it does a poor job of predicting actual volatility. Levkovich currently sees the S&amp;P 500 falling to 1,615 by the end of the year. It's worth noting that this was a target he established last September. And he entered 2013 as the most bullish strategist on the Street.
APHouse Speaker John Boehner predicted a "whale of a fight" over raising the nation's debt ceiling this fall, despite†Treasury Secretary Jack Lew's assertions that†President Barack Obama wouldn't negotiate on the point before a mid-October deadline. Boehner visited Idaho on Monday, where he spoke at a fundraiser for Rep. Mike Simpson. He told the crowd there that the Republican-controlled House of Representatives would only agree to lift the debt ceiling without significant cuts and changes to†Social Security, Medicaid, Medicare, farm programs and government pensions. ìNow, itís time to deal with the mandatory side,î Boehner said to applause, according to the Idaho Statesman. ìIíve made it clear that weíre not going to increase the debt limit without cuts and reforms that are greater than the increase in the debt limit. ìThe president doesnít think this is fair, thinks Iím being difficult to deal with. But Iíll say this: It may be unfair but what Iím trying to do here is to leverage the political process to produce more change than what it would produce if left to its own devices. Weíre going to have a whale of a fight." Boehner's comments could be significant, in that they exhibit the "Boehner rule" proclamation that he adopted during 2011 talks. The "Boehner rule" requires spending cuts and/or reforms equal to or greater than the amount of the debt-limit increase. The†House last passed a debt-ceiling bill†in January.†That legislation attached the reform of a "No Budget, No Pay" provision that ultimately ended up in both chambers of Congress passing budgets. It also wasn't technically a clean increase in the borrowing limit, as it simply suspended the debt ceiling for a three-month period. Ultimately, what Boehner's comments signal is that this debt ceiling fight ó which needs to be resolved by mid-October ó could end up looking a lot more like 2011 than it did in early 2013. ìI wish I could tell you it was going to be pretty and polite, and it would all be finished a month before weíd ever get to the debt ceiling. Sorry, it just doesnít work that way,î Boehner said in Idaho. ìIf this were easy to do, somebody over the last 20 or 30 years would have gotten it done. Weíre going to do it this fall.î Meanwhile, Lew went on CNBC Tuesday morning and stuck to the Obama administration's line that it wouldn't negotiate over the debt ceiling, casting it as a false debate over bills that Congress has racked up. He was following up on a letter he sent to Boehner and other Congressional leaders on Monday, which predicted possible "irreparable harm" to the economy if Congress didn't act. This post has been updated to signify that the "Boehner rule" applies to not only cuts, but also spending "reforms" such as in January's debt-ceiling bill.
Gold keeps making new highs today as the stock market sells off. A few minutes ago, the metal hit $1424 an ounce, but has since backed off slightly to $1420, up 1.9% on the day. Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 110 points, or 0.8%. The last time gold was trading at these levels was in early May, when it was on the way down. Since bottoming out at $1179.40 on June 28, the metal has rallied more than 20% to today's prices. The chart below shows trading in gold in 2013. Thinkorswim
Noorman's KilWith a staggering 400 bottles of scotch, bourbon, and rye, Noorman‚Äôs Kil bar in Brooklyn is a whiskey fan‚Äôs dream. ‚ÄúWe all loved whiskey and grilled cheese, so we thought, ‚ÄòLet‚Äôs go nuts with both,‚Äô‚Äù co-founder Marcel Simoneau told Business Insider. The bar is a place for serious and casual whiskey drinkers alike (grilled cheese enthusiasts too), so we sat down with Simoneau to learn some tips on how to drink scotch and bourbon without looking like an idiot. 1. Just get to it, tipplers. Drinkers often start with bourbon because of the taste accessibility and price point. Eventually, many¬†connoisseurs want to move toward scotch.¬† So just start tasting them, Simoneau says. For a good first date, try the classic single-malt Oban 14. Another ‚Äúnice and accessible‚Äù scotch stepping-stone is The Balvenie Doublewood 12, whose sherry finish gives it a sweeter taste. For fans of peatiness ‚Äì the smoky flavor that results from peat firing malted barley ‚Äì Simoneau recommends Laphroaig. 2. Relax. You‚Äôre not doing it wrong. Whiskey snobs may say there‚Äôs a ‚Äúright‚Äù way to drink the stuff, but just relax. Simoneau has seen every request, from a Laphroaig 10 year Manhattan (a cocktail usually prepared with rye) to Johnnie Walker Blue and ginger ale. Point being: You don‚Äôt always need to drink it neat. Simoneau says he sometimes adds water to scotch and ice to bourbon when drinking, but the best way to really taste a whiskey is still when it's alone in a glass. Getting the full taste and aroma also looks dorky, so know your surroundings. Swirl the snifter by your nose to get a whiff. Then put the glass to your face and leave your mouth open as you sniff ‚Äì you get more of the smell that way. Now take a sip and chew the scotch to let the flavor really hit you. Boom. 3. Look for ‚Äúdistiller‚Äôs editions.‚Äù Trying to impress? Peruse the menu for a ‚Äúdistiller‚Äôs edition‚Äù scotch or bourbon. You‚Äôll probably find a tasty, rare, and expensive treat. 4. Older is not necessarily better. ‚ÄúSome people say an 8-9 year old bourbon is the sweet spot,‚Äù according to Simoneau. Don‚Äôt just go with the oldest thing you can find to look cool, even with Scotch. Age is just a number. 5. Branch out. Everybody has staples, but don‚Äôt be afraid to do something different. You could try the High West Campfire ‚Äì a wacky combination of bourbon, rye, and scotch (one hearty sip will put hair on your chest). There‚Äôs Old Pulteney‚Äôs sea salt finish or Balcones Brimstone, a Texan corn whiskey with a hint of powdered sugar. 6. Buy the app that will make sure you never pronounce anything wrong. Go ahead and splurge $5 for Malt Whisky, a comprehensive whiskey app for your iPhone. The app comes with an essential pronunciation guide. Simoneau says a patron once asked him for a glass of ‚ÄúLe Frog‚Äù (apparently that‚Äôs not how you say Laphroaig). 7. Get local. Craft distilling takes more time and effort than craft brewing, but the two industries are both in a renaissance right now. Simoneau likes to feature New York brands, like Brooklyn‚Äôs own Kings County Distillery, distiller of award-winning moonshine. Because distilling can take upwards of 10-20 years, fledgling brands will often sell colorless, un-aged "white dogs" for their first few years. 8. It‚Äôs fine to shoot flavored whiskey. If the owner of a whiskey bar thinks it‚Äôs OK to take shots of Fireball and honey whiskey, it‚Äôs probably OK. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not going to sit with it on the rocks, but it‚Äôs just fun to shoot,‚Äù Simoneau says. There you have it. Enjoy responsibly.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz The Conference Board's August consumer confidence report is out. The headline index rose to 81.5 in August from an upward-revised 81.0 July reading. Economists were predicting a decline to 79.0. Below is the full text from the release: NEW YORK, August 27, 2013‚Ä¶The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had declined in July, increased slightly in August. The Index now stands at 81.5 (1985=100), up from 81.0 in July. The Present Situation Index decreased to 70.7 from 73.6. The Expectations Index increased to 88.7 from 86.0 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was August 15. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence increased slightly in August, a result of improving short-term expectations. Consumers were moderately more upbeat about business, job and earning prospects. In fact, income expectations, which had declined sharply earlier this year with the payroll tax hike, have rebounded to their highest level in two and a half years. Consumers‚Äô assessment of current business and labor market conditions, on the other hand, was somewhat less favorable than last month.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô assessment of current conditions moderately declined. Those stating business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù decreased to 18.4 percent from 20.8 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù was virtually unchanged at 24.8 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the labor market was mixed. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù decreased to 11.4 percent from 12.3 percent, while those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù declined to 33.0 percent from 35.2 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations, which had retreated in July, increased in August. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months edged up to 20.1 percent from 19.9 percent. Those expecting business conditions to worsen declined slightly to 11.1 percent from 11.3 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market remained upbeat. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead increased to 17.6 percent from 16.7 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs edged down to 17.3 percent from 17.7 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase improved to 17.4 percent from 15.7 percent. Those expecting a decrease declined slightly to 13.5 percent from 13.7 percent. Click here for the full release ¬ª
REUTERSThe Richmond Fed manufacturing index surged to 14 in August. This crushed expectations for a rise to zero, from -11 in July. The slump in July was led by a slowdown in retail sales.¬† Moreover, manufacturers were upbeat about business prospects for the next six months. The index for expected shipments surged to 36, from 24 in July. Below is an overview of the data from the release: Fifth District manufacturing activity strengthened in August, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Shipments, new orders, and capacity utilization rose. Additionally, the ongoing decline in the backlog of orders slowed this month. Vendor lead-time flattened and finished goods inventories grew a bit more slowly. Employment measures improved as well; the number of employees expanded modestly, and the average work week also picked up. Average wages increased. Manufacturers expected greater strength in the six months ahead. Expectations rose across all categories measured: new orders and shipments, backlogs, capacity utilization, and vendor lead time. Capital expenditures were also projected to expand further. Producers anticipated modest growth in the number of employees and a somewhat longer average workweek. In addition, they expected average wages to increase briskly. Raw materials and finished goods prices grew more slowly in August. However, compared to a month ago, survey participants expected faster future price increases for both raw materials and finished goods. Here's a look at the trajectory of the Richmond Fed manufacturing index: Richmond Fed
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozLast week, NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the founder of Bloomberg LP, recommended that people who want to successful should take fewer bathroom breaks. "I always tried to be the first one in in the morning and the last one to leave at night, take the fewest vacations and the least time away from the desk to go to the bathroom or have lunch.¬†You gotta be there. I mean, everybody says, ‚ÄòOh, that‚Äôs crazy!‚Äô But if you want to succeed, ‚Ä¶ you can‚Äôt control how lucky you are, you can‚Äôt control how smart you are, but you can control how hard you work, so that‚Äôs the first thing,"¬†he said on his radio show. Maybe he was onto something. Bloomberg News surpassed Reuters in web traffic during the month of July,¬†Mashable reports citing a source from comScore.¬†¬† From Mashable:¬† The researcher reported that¬†Bloomberg¬†netted 418.6 million page views worldwide for July and 24.8 million unique views. In comparison, Reuters recorded 248.4 million page views over the same period and 24.1 million uniques. Bloomberg hasn't beaten Reuters since December 2010, according to the report.
Beverly & Pack via flickrYesterday afternoon, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew told Congress that the U.S. would hit the debt ceiling in mid-October. So, what does this due to the credibility of the U.S. in the eyes of its creditors. Well, in the wake of the 2011 debt ceiling debate, the U.S. saw its AAA credit rating stripped by S&amp;P.† It's worth noting, however, that interest rates actually trended lower for two years. In a note to clients on August 16, Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips discussed what's going on at the credit rating agencies: Standard &amp; Poorís and Moodyís revised their outlook on the US rating from negative to stable earlier this summer, with AA+ and AAA ratings respectively.3 Given this, it seems unlikely that the debt limit debate would trigger negative ratings action from either agency unless Congress actually missed the deadline. Fitch has indicated that the projected level of US debt is slightly below the level it views as inconsistent, so a downgrade from them on fiscal fundamentals appears unlikely.4 However, for now Fitch maintains a negative outlook on the rating, and noted in June that ìfailure to raise the federal debt ceiling in a timely manner (ie. several days prior to when the Treasury will have exhausted extraordinary measures and cash reserves) will prompt a formal review of the U.S. sovereign ratings and likely lead to a downgrade.î Fitchís review looks likely to be completed before year end, probably after the upcoming fiscal deadlines have passed. Here's a look at what rates did before and after the 2011 debt ceiling deadline. Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchNot All Fiscal Deadlines Are Created Equal
WikimediaThe Vermont Yankee nuclear power plant, which just two years ago had its license renewed, will be decommissioned, plant owner Entergy announced. This is the fifth nuclear plant in the U.S. to go down this year: The common thread for each: it has become prohibitively expensive to operate a nuke plant, especially when the cost of natural gas is so cheap. Here's the key part from Entergy's statement on Vermont Yankee: The decision to close Vermont Yankee in 2014 was based on a number of financial factors, including: -- A natural gas market that has undergone a transformational shift in supply due to the impacts of shale gas, resulting in sustained low natural gas prices and wholesale energy prices. -- A high cost structure for this single unit plant. Since 2002, the company has invested more than $400 million in the safe and reliable operation of the facility. In addition, the financial impact of cumulative regulation is especially challenging to a small plant in these market conditions. The company also cited the lack of subsidies going to nuclear compared with other sources in the area. Also of note is that regulatory uncertainty in the wake of Fukushima is now a permanent of Entergy's material risk statement ("nuclear plant re licensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami" it says). The future of nuclear in the U.S. has never looked more uncertain.
AP ImagesConvicted inside trader Raj Rajaratnam is living the good life in prison, with plush accommodations and a personal ìmanservant.î According to a source cited by the New York Post's John Crudele, Rajaratnam ñ the former CEO of Galleon Group ñ has a prime cell that usually houses ill inmates. Rajaratnam has a private toilet, shared balcony, television, and adjustable bed. Eddie, a fellow prisoner responsible for wheeling around infirm inmates, has taken a liking to Rajaratnam and cooks for him when the billionaire doesnít want to walk to the chow hall, a source told the Post. Eddie hopes to be the former hedge funderís driver when he gets out of Federal Medical Center Devens, according to the Postís report. Apparently the other prisoners are upset about Rajaratnamís ìspecial treatment,î and believe he should be relegated to general population digs. Other sicker inmates have to walk a halfmile to get grub. Not Rajaratnam. Though all of Devens is a ìmedical facilityî and Rajaratnam has diabetes and may need a new kidney, the source told the Post that Rajaratnam gets around fine and has lost weight.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz speaks during an interview at his office at the Department of Energy in Washington, July 18, 2013.It's time to get real about the prospects for shale oil and gas development transforming global markets, U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz said yesterday.¬† At an event organized by Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy,¬†Moniz cautioned that while¬†newly expanded estimates of physical resources are real, and he noted U.S. natural gas production has eased pressure on European liquefied natural gas imports. But expectations about future unconventional resource development and trade growth in the rest of the world should be tempered.¬† It's a big unknown, how much and when, but certainly if the world's unconventional gas resources are developed aggressively ‚Äî¬†nominally, resource in place in China is bigger than the U.S. for shale, Argentina has got some very attractive looking reservoirs, Eastern Europe.  Now¬†a lot of this was very enthusiastic a few years ago. A few below-ground realities and above-ground realities have taken a little bit of the bloom off the rose in some places, but again there is the potential for dramatically shifting the flows of natural gas globally, that will play out over next decade. Moniz actually played down the potential for shale oil development to remake markets even further. I think sometimes, especially on the oil side, the assumptions about big geopolitical shifts just because of that tend to be perhaps overplayed. I would note for example that we get very little of our imported oil from the Middle East. It doesn't change our security posture in that part of the world. I mean that's just a fact right? There are many reasons ‚Äî one is we have many more security equities than just oil, but secondly the U.S. has unique national security and foreign policy responsibilities in the global order. And to the extent to which our key allies are subject to strong energy security problems, that inevitably influences our freedom of action in national security and foreign affairs. So I think it's a much more complicated story. Bottom line: if unconventional resources are developed strongly over the next decade there is no doubt global markets will change, shifts will be different, infrastructure requirements will be different, and we'll se how that plays out. 
S&P Dow Jones Indices and CoreLogicThe S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index data for June are out. The headline 20-city composite index rose 12.07% year over year in June, slowing from May's upward-revised 12.20% advance and missing estimates for 12.10% gains. The absolute level of the index, however, came in at 159.54, above expectations for a 159.30 reading, as May levels were revised upward slightly to 156.18 from 156.14. In July, new home sales plunged more than 13% ‚Äì way worse than expectations for a 2% drop ‚Äì raising fears that the Federal Reserve's plans to taper back its quantitative easing program in the second half of the year could be having a much-worse-than-expected impact on the housing market via higher interest rates. "There is a debate on whether the weakening sales in housing markets reflect housing price or demand, so price indicators are the key to unraveling what is driving weak sales," says Citi strategist Steven Englander. "Case-Shiller¬†is for June so not as timely as other indicators but is viewed as the best read on prices." Below is commentary from the release (emphasis added): ‚ÄúNational home prices rose more than 10% annually in each of the last two quarters,‚Äù says David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices. ‚ÄúHowever, the monthly city by city data show the pace of price increases is moderating. ‚ÄúThe Southwest and California have consistently led the recovery with Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Phoenix and San Francisco posting at least 15 months of gains. Looking at the cities, New York recorded its highest monthly return since 2002. Atlanta was up the most at +3.4% and Washington DC had the lowest return at +1.0%. In terms of annual rates of change, San Francisco lost its leadership position with Las Vegas showing the highest post-recession gain of 24.9%. ‚ÄúOverall, the report shows that housing prices are rising but the pace may be slowing. Thirteen out of¬†twenty cities saw their returns weaken from May to June. As we are in the middle of a seasonal buying period, we should expect to see the most gains. With interest rates rising to almost 4.6%, home buyers may be discouraged and sharp increases may be dampened. ‚ÄúOther housing news is positive, but not as robust as last spring. Starts and sales of new homes continue to lag the stronger pace set by existing homes. Despite recent increases in mortgage interest rates, affordability is still good as credit qualifications have eased somewhat.‚Äù Click here for the full release ¬ª
The tone is decidedly "risk-off" in global markets this morning. We've already highlighted how gold and oil are both having a monster day. (Right now, gold is up 1.9%, trading at $1419 an ounce, and oil is up 2.0%, trading around $108.10 a barrel.) Meanwhile, Treasury futures have just soared to their highest levels of the day, and S&amp;P 500 futures have just dropped to their lowest levels of the day. 10-year Treasury futures are up 0.4%, with the yield on the 10-year note at 2.75%, down 4 basis points from yesterday's close, while S&amp;P 500 futures are down 1.0%, trading near 1638. "Two major themes have reared their ugly heads Tuesday to dominate fast-souring sentiment amongst investors," says Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak. "Risk is off and¬†causing U.S. Treasury yields to drop as investors consider the potential fallout from U.S.-inspired retaliation for a chemical attack on its own people by the Syrian al-Assad regime and at a time when the fork in the path for the U.S. economy shows taper-talk meets signs of slowing growth." The chart below shows S&amp;P 500 futures. Thinkorswim The next chart shows 10-year Treasury futures. Thinkorswim The next chart shows gold futures. Thinkorswim Finally, oil futures. Thinkorswim
The massive sell-off that has gripped emerging markets over the past several weeks continues with a vengeance this week. The Turkish lira, the Brazilian real, the Mexican peso, and several other emerging-market currencies are down big against the dollar. Far and away the biggest loser, though, is the Indian rupee: the U.S. dollar is up 2.9% against the rupee today. It's not just today that the rupee is underperforming vis-a-vis its emerging-market peers, either.¬†The dollar-rupee exchange rate is currently the highest percentage above its 20-day moving average of any major currency pair. India is desperately trying to stave off a balance-of-payments crisis that is causing the currency to tank, but so far has been unsuccessful, judging by the reaction in currency markets. Exacerbating the rupee crisis today is the fact that the lower house parliament voted to pass a huge food subsidy bill that will likely expand the deficit, and increase inflation. The chart below shows the big losses in the rupee against the dollar year-to-date. Business Insider
Another sign of the market volatility. GOLD. Kitco.com
APIn an interview on CNBC Tuesday morning, Treasury Secretary Jack repeated, multiple times, the Obama administration's familiar line that the President "won't negotiate" over raising the nation's debt limit later this fall. "The President has made it clear: we're not going to negotiate over the debt limit," Lew said. That has been a sticking point for President Barack Obama since the summer of 2011, when negotiations over the debt ceiling led to a near breach and played a part in a downgrade of the nation's credit rating. During the fiscal cliff debate late last year, Obama said he wouldn't be negotiating over the debt limit. Lew drew a contrast between the upcoming fiscal debates, which also includes the need to pass a continuing-resolution bill to fund the government after Sept. 30. In another familiar line, he cast the debt-limit debate as one over bills that Congress has already racked up. "The debt limit is just different. ... These are old bills that have to be paid," he said. Lew wrote a letter to Congressional leaders on Monday outlining a mid-October deadline for raising the nation's debt limit. The Treasury actually hit its borrowing limit in May, but it has used certain "extraordinary measures" to keep paying bills. At one point during his interview, Lew lamented that the debt-ceiling debate had become a recurring last-minute situation. "It used to be that the debt limit was used as a deadline to force action to come together," Lew said. Lew also said that under no circumstances would Obama sign a continuing-resolution bill that defunds parts of Obamacare, something that conservative lawmakers have pushed during August.
Just so you know: The Syria tension seems to be having an impact on oil, which is having a big day to the upside. Gold has also had a strong day. Further evidence of Syria-related nerves: Key Mideast stock markets, such as those in Dubai and Saudi are getting smoked. FinViz
REUTERS/Amit Dave A girl dressed as Hindu god Krishna waits backstage to perform during celebrations ahead of the Janmashtami festival in the western Indian city of Ahmedabad August 25, 2013. The festival, which marks the birth anniversary of Lord Krishna, will be celebrated across India on August 28. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
There's a lot of ugly stuff today. Emerging markets (India, Indonesia, Turkey, etc.) are getting crushed on all the standard emerging market worries. Plus there's all the Syria stuff that seems to be having a financial market impact. You can really see that in Mideast stock markets. Dubai is getting simply demolished, as the stock market there is down 7%. Bloomberg Saudi Arabia is down 3.5%. Bloomberg.com Meanwhile, US futures are fading, with S&amp;P futures off about .75%.
Johannes Eisele/AFPA 'Secure Cloud Storage' drive is seen at the CeBIT, world's biggest IT fair, in Hanover, Germany, on March 3, 2011. Estonian President Toomas Hendrik last month urged the EU to develop its own cloud industry, noting that 95 percent of the services come from US firms.Revelations about vast US data collection programs are starting to hit American tech companies, which are ramping up pressure for increased transparency to try to mitigate the damage. An industry group, the Cloud Security Alliance said last month that 10 percent of its non-US members have cancelled a contract with a US-based cloud provider, and 56 percent said they were less likely to use an American company. A separate report this month by the Information Technology &amp; Innovation Foundation, or ITIF, a Washington think tank, said US cloud providers stand to lose $22 billion to $35 billion over the next three years due to revelations about the so-called PRISM program. Daniel Castro, author of the report, says a loss of trust in US tech firms could lead to "protectionist" measures that hurt the fast-growing cloud sector. "The risk is that a country like Germany will say you have to be a German company to provide data services in Germany," Castro told AFP. "I don't think that helps anyone. We do benefit from free trade and the robust competitiveness in the tech industry." The report notes that the United States dominates the cloud computing market both domestically and abroad, and that US firms could lose between 10 and 20 percent of the foreign market in the next few years. Tech companies, especially firms in cloud computing, have been in a frenzy since details leaked in June about surveillance efforts led by the secretive National Security Agency, including PRISM, believed to scoop up massive amounts of data as part of efforts to thwart terrorism. Castro said in his report "the disclosures of the NSA's electronic surveillance may fundamentally alter the market dynamics." The news "will likely have an immediate and lasting impact on the competitiveness of the US cloud computing industry if foreign customers decide the risks of storing data with a US company outweigh the benefits," he wrote. Much concern in being expressed in Europe. Estonian President Toomas Hendrik last month urged the EU to develop its own cloud industry, noting that 95 percent of the services come from US firms. "Recent months have proven once again that it's very important for Europe to have its own data clouds that operate strictly under European legislation," he said. Some analysts say losses could be even greater than the ITIF predicts, if the fallout affects consumer-based services like email and search. And Forrester Research analyst James Staten argued that, in addition to the loss of foreign customers, US customers may look overseas for cloud services, and the rest of the tech sector could also see an impact. "Add it all up and you have a net loss for the service provider space of about $180 billion by 2016, which would be roughly a 25 percent decline in the overall IT services market," Staten said. The tech sector has been active on several fronts, filing court cases and making public pleas to the US administration for more transparency, in the hope that fuller disclosure will ease fears about how data is shared. Six large high-tech lobby groups sent a letter to President Barack Obama this month asking for such steps, saying more transparency "can assist in reestablishing trust, both domestically and globally." Ross Schulman of Computer &amp; Communications Industry Association, one of the tech associations, said "the lack of information is compounding the trust problem." Schulman said it's not clear if the volume of data collected by the government is more or less than people believe. "If it's less, that could help trust," he said. "If it's more, people could have an informed discussion of surveillance practices." But in the current situation, he said, "it's difficult to go to customers and say the cloud is the best place for your data." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesGiven that every datapoint is being obsessively analyzed due to to the imminent Fed meeting (mid-September), here's a heads up that there are three pretty top-shelf datapoints coming up today. From Calculated Risk: ‚Ä¢ 9:00 AM ET, S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for June. Although this is the June report, it is really a 3 month average of April, May, and June. The consensus is for a 12.2% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA) for June. The Zillow forecast is for the Composite 20 to increase 12.1% year-over-year, and for prices to increase 1.1% month-to-month seasonally adjusted. ‚Ä¢ At 10:00 AM, Conference Board's consumer confidence index for August. The consensus is for the index to decrease to 78.0 from 80.3. ‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM, Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for August. The consensus is for a reading of 0 for this survey, up from minus 11 in July (Above zero is expansion).
While emerging markets deteriorate, the other half of the theme (strength returning to developed markets) remains intact. The latest evidence comes from Germany's Ifo institute, which reports that according to its survey, the German business environment has improved to its best level in over a year. Here's the press release and chart from Ifo: The Ifo Business Climate Index for industry and trade in Germany continued to rise. Companies are more satisfied with their current business situation. Their optimism regarding future business developments ‚Äì although slightly cautious ‚Äì also grew. The German economy moved up a gear. The business climate indicator in manufacturing rose significantly to its highest value since April 2012. Assessments of the current business situation were considerably better than last month. Business expectations also continued to brighten. Firms expect stronger impulses from export business. The business climate index in retailing edged downwards. This is primarily due to somewhat less positive assessments of the current business situation, while business expectations brightened slightly. In wholesaling, on the other hand, the business climate improved significantly. Wholesalers are far more satisfied with their current business situation. Furthermore, business expectations are positive for the first time since April 2012. In construction the business climate index fell, but nevertheless remains above its long-term average. Assessments of the current business situation are slightly less favourable than last month. Contractors are more cautious about future business developments. Ifo
REUTERS/Umit Bektas Turkey is finding itself these days in the same boat as many other emerging economies. Interest rates are jumping. The currency has been tanking. The economic and trade picture is deteriorating. Central bank governor Erdem Basci gave a press conference this morning addressing some of the market weakness. Here's some of the Bloomberg headlines: *BASCI: DON'T EXPECT TURKEY INTEREST RATES TO RISE*BASCI: LIRA DEPRECIATION MAY REVERSE IN DAYS IF FIRM ON RATES *BASCI: 'BELIEVE IN ME AND WIN' *BASCI: WITH SURPRISE MANEUVERS, WE ARE GOING ON THE OFFENSIVE *BASCI SAYS GOING ON SHORT HOLIDAY WITH FAMILY ON AUG 30 So how did those lines go over? Here's a chart of the US Dollar against the Turkish Lira (which we ripped off from @pawelmorski) XE.com Anyway, all of this really speaks to the crisis of the moment. It reminds us of the Euro crisis back in 2011 and 2012, when some official would come out and try to say something soothing, and the market would immediately call their bluff. Now it's happening with emerging market currencies.
Jennifer Polland/Business InsiderIndia is suffering from a spate of economic ills: too much state control in the government, too much inflation, too high deficits, and so forth. And it may be on the verge of making things worse. India's lower house of parliament just passed a food bill that will give subsidized grain to 2/3rds of the country's citizens. The aim of the bill, which is supported by Prime Minister†Manmohan Singh, is to reduce hunger. But economists are saying things might backfire. In a note to clients this morning, Nomura says the law (if it goes all the way through) will be problematic for several reasons. In our fiscal balance estimates for FY14 (year ending March 2014), we expect the food subsidy bill to rise to INR1.04trn (0.9% of GDP) versus the governmentís budgeted target of INR900bn (0.8% of GDP). The full fiscal impact of the bill will not be felt this year, as half of the current fiscal year is already over and states will take some time to identify the list of beneficiaries. However, once the bill is fully implemented (likely from FY15), the total cost is likely to rise substantially for two reasons. First, the food subsidy bill will rise, and second, there will be ancillary expenditures associated with creating the infrastructure to implement this bill. Additionally, we see the bill as inflationary, because it creates a demand-supply mismatch, requires raising minimum support prices to encourage production, could create a shortage of non-grain food items and reduces the marketable surplus for the private sector.† Overall, while the bill aims to promote inclusive growth and the government hopes to garner political mileage from it (general elections are due by May 2014), we believe that a reliance on the existing, very leaky, public distribution system will have adverse macro repercussions and cause increased imbalances in the agriculture sector. The economy can ill-afford this at the current juncture. Here's a one year chart of the US Dollar vs. the Indian Rupee which shows both how bad the Rupee has performed over this time frame, and as well as the immediate past, including today. XE.com
BIWhen Bill McBride speaks, we listen. McBride is the writer behind the pathbreaking economics blog Calculated Risk, a site which we've been reading for years, due to an obsession with chronicling the datapoints that surpasses our own. McBride doesn't always make "calls" but when he does they're done with a feel for the drivers of the economy that are more reality-based than just about any other pundit out there. He was early on calling for the housing crash, and he nailed its causes and ripple effects. And yet unlike many other early doomers, he switched his view at the right time (basically the bottom) and has been right since then. He called the housing rebound in 2011, and has continued to be optimistic. And so you should know that he recently stated again his optimism about the US economy, which basically boils down to a few simple ideas: Just due to pent up demand and demographics, we're still at the early stages of the real estate cycle, and if you believe that that cycle is going to continue to improve, then there's virtually no chance of an imminent recession. Add in the return of growth from state and local (which are done with their multi-year austerity campaign), the end of the fiscal drag, and the end of the household deleveraging, there's a case to be made that plenty of cyclical upward drivers persist. Read McBride's full post here &gt;
Flickr/LeeLeFever Markets have a negative feel today, and once again the real pain is centered on emerging markets. India is down 2.3%, and Jakarta fell 3.4%. Thailand dropped 1.4%. The currencies of India, Turkey, and South Africa are sharply lower. Meanwhile, European markets are lower. Italy is down 0.8%, about the same amount as Germany. The weakness of emerging markets has been a big story since the Spring, and the last few weeks have been especially painful. Later today the US will get Case-Shiller home prices, as the market sits on pins and needles watching every datapoint to figure out what it means for the Fed (and more importantly the real world). Thanks to @nemo_incognito for the "EMageddon" line this morning.
We went back into the history books to carefully examine which sectors perform the best in the various points along the business cycle. Inventory investment and housing are classic early cycle performers. They tend to give up leadership in mid-cycle, when consumer spending and exports take over in terms of relative growth rates. Capital spending (Machinery &amp; Equipment) and nonresidential investment are classic late cycle sector outperformers. I think we are heading into mid-cycle where consumer spending is going to take the baton from the housing market. This is currently being delayed by the lagged impact of the early year tax bite and the current round of sequestering, but next year we should begin to see the impact of gradually improving job market fundamentals spill into a pickup in consumer spending growth. This would not just be desirable ‚Äî it would be natural. Exports should also take on a leadership role as the recession in Europe ebbs and Chinese growth stabilizes. The cyclical outlook in Japan is also constructive as the monetary and fiscal stimulus has to fully percolate but there is already evidence that the two-decade experience with deflation is drawing to a close. The next chapter would then involve capital spending and plant expansion, and capacity utilization rates and an increasingly obsolete private sector capital stock will trigger accelerating growth in business spending, likely by 2015 or perhaps even earlier. Profit growth is slowing and normally that would be an impediment, but there is ample cash on balance sheets and what businesses need is a less clouded policy outlook, which hopefully will be resolved in the coming year as we get a new Fed leader, greater clarity on monetary policy and some fiscal resolution ahead of or following the mid-term elections. That may be nothing but a hope and prayer, but more fundamentally, productivity growth has stagnated and the best way the corporate sector can reverse the eroding trend and protect margins at the same time will be to move more aggressively to upgrade their operations and facilities ‚Äî we are coming off the weakest five-year period in the past six decades with regards to growth in capital formation. Perhaps the parting of the clouds in the euro area will serve to be the shot-in-the-arm that companies need to make a capital commitment to the real economy. All that said, I really don‚Äôt want to obscure the main point here, or delve too far into the future on that capex call. For the here and now and immediate future, no, I am not worried about the housing revival peaking out. There is no evidence that when this happens, the economy suddenly rolls over and plays dead. Quite the opposite. A peaking in the housing market right now would be perfectly normal ‚Äî normal defined as the historical norm. Just look at the evidence: So there are two takeaways here. If we did peak this time at one million units back in March, it will have been the lowest peak ever (back to the 1950s) and by about half. Second, as you can see from the lags, the next recession does not begin, on average, for nearly three years after the peak in housing starts. There is more to life ‚Äî and the economy ‚Äî than this 3% chunk of GDP. Housing always peaks early in the business cycle. The lag between the peak in housing and the peak in the economic cycle is typically 40 months, not three months. And if the peak was one million in housing starts last March, it will be the first time that has ever happened (and I do understand that the world is different post-crisis as it relates to credit availability and demographics). The two lowest peaks ever in U.S. housing starts were 1.8 million units in the mid-1960s and the late 1990s. So it is unclear that one million was the peak this time around, and higher mortgage rates have to be viewed in the context of improving job market conditions. And even if one million was the peak, the time lag between the peak in the residential sector and the next recession is just far too long for me to fret about right now. Inflation, the yield curve, the unemployment rate and housing all scream early-cycle to me, though the stock market, the boom/bust ratio, productivity and capacity utilization rates in industry suggest mid to late cycle. So I do acknowledge that it is not 100% clear as to where we are in the business cycle right now ‚Äî but the yield curve tends to win out and is so steep that it would be bizarre to be talking about the expansion being long in the tooth at the current time (though the equity market looks fully priced to say the least). There is also tremendous angst following the 13.4% slide in new home sales for July (data out on Friday). The bottom line is that about the only piece of data out there that is more notoriously volatile is the monthly durable goods orders report (the numbers just came out for July and were quite a bit softer than expected but did come off significant strength during the Spring) ‚Äî in fact, no fewer than 10 times in the past 10 years have we seen a month that saw new home sales dive doubledigits ‚Äî consider it an annual event. Now I am not downplaying the recent softening in the housing market here ‚Äî but again, like housing starts, sales tend to peak in the early part of the cycle ‚Äî and generally four years before the expansion dies. If you thought that the last cycle was going to be aborted, for example, after home sales peaked in July 2005 (again, in response to a 130bp backup in mortgage rates from the lows), you would have missed out on another 2¬Ω years of positive cyclical momentum (and a good two years before the most optimal time to re-extend duration). In fact, while we seem to be in the mid-cycle segment of the economic cycle, sector rotation within the equity market suggests we are later in the investment cycle. What we did was assess relative sector performance across the market in up-phases ‚Äî what leads and lags in the first 20% of the equity bull market (early), next 20% (early-mid), the next 20% (mid), the next 20% (late-mid) and the final 20% (late). As you can see from the table below, late-cycle tends to see Tech, Materials, Industrials and Consumer Discretionary near the top, and the rate sensitive Telecom, Utilities and Financials lagging behind ‚Äî which is almost precisely the backdrop of the action we have seen over the past month. It would not be that unusual to have the market in the later stage, and the broad economy in the mid stage, since it is the S&amp;P 500 that leads GDP, not the other the way around. Gluskin Sheff
