Due to the holiday, almost everyone in the US is blissfully ignoring anything market-related. But actually there were fireworks today, and they emanated from the Bank of England and the European Central Bank. In the words of Citi's currency expert Steven Englander the "ECB, BoE make the world safe for currency wars." And on the 4th of July, no less! What happened? Well it was the first meeting of new Bank of England chief Mark Carney (whom they poached from the Bank of Canada last year). Carney has been dubbed the George Clooney of Central Bankers, and he has the difficult task of reviving one of the most unimpressive economies in the world right now. Carney's move was to indicate that at a future meeting, the Bank of England might adopt forward guidance, i.e. stronger messages about how long the BoE would stay on hold. Economist Justin Wolfers was amused. Did the Bank of England really provide forward guidance that in August it may provide forward guidance? The UK's FTSE 100 stock market index rallied over 3%. Meanwhile, the pound plunged. FinViz Why did the pound tank so much? The aforementioned currency analyst Steven Englander explains (and note that the ECB did something similar, resulting in a similar Euro dive): Both the ECB and MPC came out swinging today, promising forward guidance and low rates for as far as the eye can see. The problem is that interest rates in the US, euro zone and UK are heavily correlated. The effort that it will take to unwind the last two months‚Äô¬† upward move in UK and euro rates, assuming US rates stay flat, will probably put EUR and GBP under sustained pressure. In fact, UK and euro zone policymakers may be more successful in weakening their currencies than in restoring the May 1 profile of rates in their fixed income markets.¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† A glance at Figure 1 shows that the upward moves in euro zone and US interest rates caused by the backing up of US yields is large relative to interest rate differentials that normally persist between these bond markets. This makes us think that it will take a strong policy to unwind the rates move, and that policymakers are likely to encourage GBP and EUR because this pushes financial conditions in the desired direction. Citi That being said, the ECB and the BoE didn't quite make the exact same move. Lorcan Roche Kelly of Trend Macrolytics explains: While both central banks are adopting forward guidance, they are taking different paths. The ECB started its forward guidance today, while the BOE promised to start forward guidance with thresholds next month.  -- The BOE said that "The latest remit letter ‚Ä¶ from the Chancellor had requested that the Committee provide an assessment‚Ä¶ of the case for adopting some form of forward guidance, including the possible use of intermediate thresholds." -- The ECB said, "The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time." So today was a very active day for a holiday. And tomorrow should be as well, as we get a US Non-Farm Payrolls report that's significant, in its own right, as a measure of the economy's health, as well as for what the US Federal Reserve will do next.
For those looking for a way to be patriotic on your computer. Via Mpennington: 
In honor of the Fourth of July, here are 25 great things about America. Weber Brewer's Association Forbes Forbes US Trust Google/DoubleClick Mark Perry/AEI Mark PerryAEI BP EIA Mark Perry/AEI Bloomberg Mark Perry/AEI NewEconomist OECD via Willisms World Climate Report PowerLine The Economist IMF Wikipedia Wikipedia The Economist World Bank via Google Wikipedia Wikipedia Wikipedia Wikipedia
John Nelson / IDVIt's the Fourth of July, and there's never been a better day to reflect on the state of the country.¬† Everything from the teams Americans root for, to the companies they work for, to the dangers they contend with, make America unique. Here, we look at 22 maps that show us the similarities and differences between Americans.  It's a big country and every state is¬† unique.¬† Let's break down some of the most interesting distinctions among Americans as well as other amazing features of this county.¬†
Markets are closed in the U.S. for Independence Day. But they were open in Europe, and they went totally nuts. England's FTSE 100 jumped 3.0%. France's CAC 40 rallied 2.9%. Germany's DAX climbed 2.1%. Spain's IBEX 35 gained 3.0%. Italy's FTSE MIB surged 3.4%. These moves came in the wake of two big central bank announcements. Bank Of England First, was the Bank of England. Today was the first Monetary Policy Committee meeting with Canadian Mark Carney at the helm, and the markets are feeling it. In its statement, the BoE said it would look into giving forward guidance. The dovish tone of the statement also caused the pound to tank. ECB Later, the European Central Bank straight up gave forward guidance. "Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary," said ECB president Mario Draghi during his press conference. "The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time." "The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside," added Draghi. "The recent tightening of global money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions." The euro tanked on that commentary. But on the flip side, stock markets surged. Portugal Portugal is up more than 3%. This follows yesterday's 6% plunge in the wake of the surprise resignation of the country's finance minister. "The political crisis thatís unfolding in Portugal is a reminder that staying the course on fiscal consolidation and structural reform crucially depends on the ëbuy iní of the politicians and the population at large," said Morgan Stanley's Daniele Antonucci. " A U-turn in policy might perhaps be averted ñ as the situation is such that thereís little alternative to the current path ñ but the news flow surely has become more negative." Egypt Meanwhile, the Egyptian stock market is up 7% today, and is currently at its highest level in a month. This comes a day after the military ousted Egyptian president Mohamed Morsy. US The U.S. stock markets will reopen at 9:30 a.m ET Friday. But before the open, we'll get the all-important June jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Economists estimate that U.S. companies added 165,000 net new payrolls in June. They also expect the unemployment rate to fall to 7.5% from 7.6% in May.
AP Photo/Richard Drew NEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî To see how a small business can transform a neighborhood, just follow the barrels. About 30 years ago, beer lovers wanting to create their own drinks started taking over abandoned old buildings in rundown city districts, refitted them with tanks, kettles and casks, and started churning out beer. The byproduct was a boom in craft beer drinkers: Barrels shipped have more than doubled in the past decade, according to trade publication Beer Marketer's Insights. Craft beer now makes up nearly 7 percent of the slow-growing U.S. beer market. But beer drinkers weren't the only beneficiaries. The arrival of a craft brewery was also often one of the first signs that a neighborhood was changing. From New England to the West Coast, new businesses bubbled up around breweries, drawing young people and creating a vibrant community where families could plant roots and small businesses could thrive. It happened in Cleveland. Once an industrial powerhouse, the Rust Belt city has been losing residents since the 1950s. Manufacturing jobs disappeared. The city nearly went bankrupt in 1978. Marred by abandoned buildings and boarded-up stores after several hard decades, the downtown Ohio City neighborhood, just west of the Cuyahoga River, which divides Cleveland, was "perceived as dangerous and blighted" into the 1980s, says Eric Wobser. He works for Ohio City Inc., a nonprofit that promotes residential and commercial development while trying to preserve the neighborhood's older buildings. Enter Great Lakes Brewing, which opened in 1988. Over the years, it's built a brewery and a brewpub from structures that once housed a feed store, a saloon and a livery stable. "We resurrected all of them," says Pat Conway, who founded Great Lakes with his brother, Daniel. "We've beautified the neighborhood, provided a stunning restoration." Other breweries and businesses ‚Äî a pasta maker, a bike shop, a tortilla factory, as well as restaurants and bars ‚Äî followed. Newcomers are flocking to the neighborhood, even though Cleveland's overall population is still declining. The city repaved the quiet street next to the brewery, Market Ave., with cobblestones, and poured millions into renovating the West Side Market, whose origins date back to the 19th century. Today, more than 100 vendors sell produce, meat, cheese and other foods there. What's going on in Cleveland is happening across the country. Trendy small businesses like breweries and younger residents have been returning to downtown neighborhoods in many cities across the U.S. The biggest cities are growing faster than the suburbs around them, according to Census data. Another benefit of the brewery boom: Manufacturers like brewers typically pay workers more than service businesses like restaurants or shops do. That's good for local economies. But for some, the bubbles are bursting. In Brooklyn, N.Y., breweries are feeling the heat from rising real estate costs. When Brooklyn Brewery opened in the Williamsburg section of the borough in 1996, its neighbors were mostly deserted warehouses and factories. Today, Brooklyn Brewery is surrounded by modern apartment buildings, trendy bars, shops and restaurants. There's still some graffiti, but that hasn't deterred the influx of new residents willing to spend a lot of money to live there. In the past decade, home values in the Brewery's neighborhood have more than doubled ‚Äî up 145 percent, according to real estate appraiser Miller Samuel. Rising prices might force Brooklyn Brewery to exit the trendy scene it jump-started. It has two buildings in Williamsburg, the brewery and a building across the street where it stores and ages its beer. Leases are up in 2025, and Brooklyn Brewery's co-founder and president, Steve Hindy, is already worried that the company will get kicked out of its warehouse. Once an iron foundry, the building, built in 1896, has been bought by developers who Hindy says won't renew the lease. He suspects that they want to convert the space into apartments. The landlord, Solomon Jacobs, says he doesn't yet know what's going to happen with the lease. But Hindy is already scouting other, cheaper neighborhoods in Brooklyn. "We sowed the seeds of our own demise here," Hindy says. Gentrification is pressuring at least one other nearby brewer. Kelly Taylor, who owns Kelso, is looking for new space in Brooklyn or the Bronx because he thinks his landlord won't renew the lease in 2017. In Kelso's neighborhood, the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, home prices have almost doubled over the past 10 years, according to Miller Samuel data. "He'll tear down and build something more lucrative," Taylor says speculatively of his landlord. However, the building's manager, Fred Sanders, says the lease was just renewed last year for five more years, and he hasn't had any conversations with Kelso about the future. Even if the brewery owners don't have confirmation that they'll be forced to move, history shows they have reason to be concerned. Winifred Curran, a geography professor at DePaul University in Chicago, studies how gentrification changes cities. She wrote her graduate-school dissertation on how gentrification in Brooklyn's Williamsburg neighborhood affected small manufacturers. Small businesses struggled to stay put while developers converted factories and warehouses into lucrative lofts and swarms of wealthy new residents drove up prices, she says. She warns that the appeal of revitalized neighborhoods can decimate small businesses, both old and new. "You can try to use the establishment of manufacturing businesses to be the wedge that allows gentrification to happen, but then you need to protect those businesses," Curran says. Otherwise "the market creates this demand for industrial space and then kills the goose that laid the golden egg." Outside of New York, costs are lower, and many brewery owners in other cities say they haven't felt similar pressures from developers. But New York flashes a warning sign for what can happen when neighborhoods become popular. One brewery, in Boston, is relatively protected. Harpoon Brewery opened on the South Boston waterfront in 1986, when it was surrounded by auto body shops and little else. Now the brewery draws more than 85,000 people a year from tours and tastings. These days, the city is focused on redeveloping the area. New apartment and office buildings, restaurants and a convention center sit nearby. Harpoon recently negotiated a 50-year lease with the city. The rent will rise over time, but generally, long leases provide protection from spikes that can happen when an area becomes so popular that property values skyrocket. On the country's other coast, the tech boom has made one brewpub's growth plans more complicated. The 21st Amendment brewery, in San Francisco, is two blocks from the Giants' baseball stadium, which opened in 2000 and, along with the bustling technology sector, transformed the city's SoMa neighborhood from abandoned warehouses to hot spot. Now the company wants to build an 80,000-square-foot brewery ‚Äî but that's not possible in SoMa. "The manufacturing element of the business has been priced out," says 21st Amendment's founder, Nico Freccia. The company has opened offices in the East Bay, and he's scouting space there for the brewery, hoping to "help anchor the revitalization" of an Oakland neighborhood. Similar dreams are fueling a new beer company in New York. Bronx Brewery is setting up shop in the Mott Haven section, next to a lumberyard, a manufacturer and the plant that prints the New York Post. "We really want to be in the Bronx, be a part of a south Bronx community that's growing like crazy," says Chris Gallant, co-founder of the brewery, which will have a space for visitors. "We hope to get as many people there as possible ‚Äî it'll definitely serve as marketing," he says. About 29 percent of Bronx residents live in poverty, compared with 15 percent for all of New York state, according to Census data. "I think that entire area is going to increase in value," Gallant says. "That's great for the south Bronx. But it could put us in a tough spot 10 years from now." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
But it is very unlikely that you know the name Haym Solomon. This is unfortunate, because he's the guy who arranged financing to keep the Continental Army alive during its darkest days, finding the money to keep the revolution going when many were ready to throw in the towel. He was also instrumental in the founding of the Bank of North America - the country's first "national" bank. Solomon's contributions to the war and the founding of the nation, though seldom discussed, were of major importance. Haym Solomon was born to a sephardic Jewish family in Poland in 1740. He travels widely through the banking and finance capitals of western Europe, learning a thing or two and then moving on. He arrives penniless in New York City via England as the colonies are on the cusp of revolution. His expertise with money, along with his ability to converse in several European languages, makes him extremely valuable to overseas traders - he becomes a financial broker to New York's bustling merchant community. Solomon also establishes what will become a key friendship with Scottish maniac Alexander MacDougall, a businessman and erstwhile "politician" who was known for his aggressive disdain for class systems, hereditary titles and everything else British rule in the colonies reminded him of from back home. MacDougall, a merchant seaman by trade and privateer (pirate) during the French and Indian wars, was the street leader of the Sons of Liberty in New York. He liked to surround himself with other self-made men like Solomon and he especially liked busting heads and railing against the King. In the summer of 1776, the Sons of Liberty attempt to burn New York City to the ground, thus denying shelter to the British army stationed there. This was General Washington's whim and the Sons nearly destroyed a quarter of all standing buildings before being rounded up. Solomon is captured by the British army in September of that year and held for 18 months, some of that time confined on a boat and tortured as a spy. He successfully convinces his captors that he is more helpful to them as a translator and is employed as a¬†liaison¬†between the English officers and their Hessian mercenary allies. Solomon uses this role to access enemy military installations and to undermine German support for the Brits. He is sabotaging from the inside, talking the Hessians out of fighting for the English king. When this is discovered, Solomon is arrested again. This time, he pulls out a gold coin that had been sewn into his clothes and bribes a guard to let him escape. He flees to Philadelphia and arranges for his wife and son to meet him there. For the second time, Solomon has arrived in a new American city penniless and forced to start over. By this time, the tide has turned and the Continental Army is beginning to pile up victories. It is still, however, massively underfunded. General Washington is without readily available cash. Into this breach steps Haym Solomon, ready to serve in the capacity in which he is best suited - as broker to the fledgling America. With his merchant finance business is up and running and he is funneling his own personal profits from the enterprise directly to the revolution. According to records of the time, he extends no-interest "loans", many of which were never¬†repaid, to James Monroe, Thomas Jefferson,¬†James Madison, and even Don Francesco Rendon, the Spanish Court‚Äôs secret ambassador. www.thereformedbroker.com According to the¬†Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation: Three years after having arrived in in Philadelphia, 1781, Salomon‚Äôs extraordinary abilities and multilingualism, positioned him near the center of the American Revolutionary financial heart. He became the agent of the French consul and the paymaster to the newly allied French military forces in North America. The French, Dutch (through St. Eustatius) and the Spanish governments used Salomon to broker their loans helping finance the American Revolution. Enormous loans passing through his brokerage business was converted into desperately needed specie for the American Revolutionary government and military. Paper money was almost never worth hard gold and silver. Salomon‚Äôs fees for his brokerage services to the struggling American government were extremely modest, if there were any at all. Perversely, partlybecause he was a Jew, the French, Dutch, Spanish and Americans alike viewed Jews in anti-Semitic stereotypical roles. They saw Jews as Shylocks from Shakespearian imagery. They saw Jews as medieval money lenders. Ironically their bigotry greased the way for Salomon‚Äôs success. Salomon‚Äôs brokerage business became so big that he was the largest depositor in Robert Morris‚Äô Bank of North America. Solomon arranges some of the most crucial loans of the war effort and, working in concert with Robert Morris - the Revolution's chief banker - becomes central to colonials' eventual victory. When George Washington sees his one-in-a-million opportunity to trap and destroy Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown, it is money that is wanting and Solomon comes through. Washington can't move his army into siege position to capitalize on Cornwallis's historic error because an army on the march must be fed. Robert Morris turns once again to Solomon the broker, who comes up with the vital $20,000 when the Treasury itself is empty. Within a day, the French and American armies, flush with the funds necessary, make their way to Yorktown and surround the city. Cornwallis is cut off from supply lines and promptly gives up. The war is over, the colonies have won. The painting below, by John Trumbull, depicts the surrender of Lord Cornwallis after the Siege of Yorktown: ¬†www.thereformedbroker.com In the 1780's, the United States is just getting off the ground as a new nation - but it is again short of funds, having borrowed from all over Europe and from just about every merchant of renown in the colonies. Once again, Morris and the founding fathers turned to Solomon.¬†‚ÄúI sent for Salomon and desired him to try every way he could devise to raise money, and then went in¬†quest of it myself...Salomon the broker came and I urged him to leave no¬†stone unturned to find out money and means by which I can obtain it.‚Äù Legend has it that in the aftermath of the war George Washington asked Haym Solomon what he wanted in return for his incredible service to war. Solomon allegedly said he wanted nothing for himself, but for the Jewish people to be recognized in some way. Washington is said to have arranged for the thirteen stars representing the colonies on the great Seal of the United States of America to be laid out in the shape of a Star of David. If you look at the back of a dollar bill, it looks like this: www.thereformedbroker.com We are told by urban legend debunkers that this is untrue, a myth owing to the Jews' desire to be incorporated into the early history of the country's founding. They are probably right, it's way too fantastic of a story to be true, but it would be cool if it was. Haym Solomon will attempt to rebuild his fortune once again as it becomes apparent that the loans he'd been making to early America would not be paid back anytime soon. At the outset of 1785, he dies of tuberculosis at age 44. His estate is worth $350,000 at the time of his death, a paltry total in relation to the estimated $600,000 in principle and interest owed to him, money his family will never end up seeing. Unlike the majority of the heroes of the American Revolution we are taught about in grade school, Solomon does not originally hail from Britain or the American colonies. He is not a statesman or a soldier or a wealthy landowner turned patrician Founding Father. ¬†But without his contributions and brokering skills, Washington's army could not have been ¬†outfitted, armed and fed. The surrender at Yorktown that ended the war may not have been possible and the founding of the nation could not have been financed in the early going. Haym Solomon was the nation's financier when capital was scarce, credit was tight and everything depended on the flow of funds to keep the British on the run. He was the broker who saved America.
ArchivesIN CONGRESS, July 4, 1776. The unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America, When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. --That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security. --Such has been the patient sufferance of these Colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former Systems of Government. The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States. To prove this, let Facts be submitted to a candid world. He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary for the public good. He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent should be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them. He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of large districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of Representation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidable to tyrants only.¬† He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public Records, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.¬† He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people. He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause others to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapable of Annihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise; the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without, and convulsions within. He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for that purpose obstructing the Laws for Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising the conditions of new Appropriations of Lands. He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers. He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries. He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harrass our people, and eat out their substance. He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the Consent of our legislatures. He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to the Civil power. He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent to their Acts of pretended Legislation: For Quartering large bodies of armed troops among us: For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from punishment for any Murders which they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States: For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world: For imposing Taxes on us without our Consent:¬† For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury: For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offences For abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouring Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlarging its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies: For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, and altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments: For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves invested with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever. He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his Protection and waging War against us. He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and destroyed the lives of our people. He is at this time transporting large Armies of foreign Mercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with circumstances of Cruelty &amp; perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the Head of a civilized nation. He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas to bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of their friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.¬† He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes and conditions. In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress in the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by repeated injury. A Prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people. Nor have We been wanting in attentions to our Brittish brethren. We have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have appealed to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which, would inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must, therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, in Peace Friends. We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by Authority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.
Flip Schulke / EPA (via archives.gov)Are you a "Lone Ranger" investor, or do you lean heavily on a trusted financial advisor? Maybe you even take a hybrid approach. No matter what your approach is, we can all benefit from a periodic financial checkup. That's why we took an in-depth look at independent financial advisors in the February issue of¬†Miller's Money Forever. In order to give our subscribers the most bang for their buck, we called in¬†Jeff White¬†of American Financial Group, Ltd. to help teach us the best way to choose a financial advisor and how to get the most from their services. Some of our subscribers asked for more information on annual financial checkups, so I asked Jeff to do us a favor and teach us more on that topic. His reply is a must-read, in my opinion. I should mention that we have no financial connection with Jeff and his firm. He has gladly given his time as a true expert in these matters, and we thank him for doing so. Is It Time for Your Financial Checkup?  By Jeff White Most of us schedule periodic medical checkups to monitor our blood pressure, cholesterol, and other signs of health. Preventive medicine lets us know where we stand against the grim reaper, and in some cases can even help us renegotiate life's final chapter. Most insurance companies pay for annual physicals, knowing that they help people to adopt healthy habits and avoid major expenses. It makes equally good sense to have periodic financial checkups. Broadly speaking, we all face three possibilities in our golden years, each with its own risks:  How long has it been since you had a financial checkup to see if you are prepared for each of these possibilities? Just as we shouldn't remove our own appendix because we don't have the skills, most of us likely don't have the tools or skills to perform an objective, thorough financial exam either. There are plenty of services available for this, both online and with a financial advisor. An independent financial checkup with a professional can go a long way toward making our money last so we can enjoy retirement. Just choose whom you listen to wisely. When¬†picking a financial advisor¬†for your annual checkup, find one who's a member of a team of specialists. In medicine, an internist who finds a lump will refer you to an oncologist to determine if it is malignant, who will refer you to a surgeon if it is. A financial advisor should work in concert with investment, insurance, tax, and legal experts to create an accurate picture of where you stand and give independent advice on how to correct any problems. Hot Dogs and Beans, or Lobster and Caviar Let's be optimistic and assume you will live long enough to retire, as most of us will. There are four levels of retirement lifestyles:  I will focus on the have-to-have and comfortable lifestyles today, as this is where most of us fall. The subsistence lifestyle is not relevant, because it is likely too late for people in that category. If you fall in the luxurious lifestyle group, you have probably been receiving good professional help already. In other words, what will be on your retirement menu? Hot dogs and beans, lobster and caviar, or something in between? Tools of the Trade  A doctor uses x-rays, EKGs, and other tests to do his job. A financial advisor, on the other hand, should check things like the asset allocation in retirement accounts and personal investment accounts, expense ratios, commissions and fees for mutual funds and¬†exchange-traded funds¬†(ETFs), amount and type of life and disability insurance, employee benefits derived from employment,¬†etc. One frequently misunderstood term in retirement planning is the "funded ratio," which points to whether we are on track for the retirement lifestyle we hope to achieve. The funded ratio is comprised of the income-producing assets we have today, plus the annual amount we are investing at a reasonable rate of return (net of inflation), divided by the total assets we will need at retirement to sustain our desired retirement income. It sounds complicated, but a good advisory team can calculate it easily, explain it in understandable terms, and ‚Äì most important ‚Äì monitor our progress as we move toward retirement and beyond. Most financial planners have computer programs where they can plug in numerous variables to make the appropriate calculations. Online tools may be adequate for basic calculations, but they have limitations. The output of such a program is only as good as the input. If you deviate from standard inputs, you run the risk of being misdiagnosed, particularly because they often use a one-size-fits-all approach. In many cases, these programs simply miss meaningful differences between people. Bob and Betty Jones  Bob and Betty Jones are both age 50 and hope to retire in 15 years. They have two concerns:  They believe their "have to have" lifestyle will require an annual income of $25,000 on top of Social Security. They think a "comfortable" lifestyle will call for $50,000 in addition to Social Security. Both of these estimates will need to grow with inflation. Bob has a modest pension of $6,800 from his company starting at age 65, but it is not indexed for inflation. The company switched to a 401(k) years ago. According to a recent survey by the Employee Benefit Research Institute, only about 3% of those working in the private sector have a pension. Like Bob, unless you work for the government, your employer likely converted to a 401(k) or similar program long ago. This won't guarantee a certain amount of income; they are basically tax-deferred savings plans. As Bob and Betty realized, it is up to them to save and then invest wisely so they have enough to retire comfortably. They currently have a total of $265,000 in 401(k)s, IRAs, and personal investments. They are adding $6,000 a year to their portfolio. Let's look at the funded ratio for both their have-to-have and comfortable lifestyles to find out if they are on track. As we do this, keep in mind that there are unknown factors to consider:  One obvious question then should be: Is age 65 the appropriate retirement age? Unless you have accumulated enough money to afford the luxurious lifestyle mentioned earlier, we don't think so. Considering the loss of work-related benefits including medical, dental, and life insurance, there are many reasons to defer retirement. Many retirees have changed careers and are enjoying new careers doing what they want in a less stressful environment. Another factor to consider is whether they will free up any money by moving from their family home to a less expensive place. Has that prospect changed since the recession drove housing prices down? Do they really need a new car every three years? Could they increase their savings rate by eating out just twice a week instead of their usual three times? By forgoing one $60 dinner out every week, Bob and Betty could save an extra $3,120 every year. Investing this at a real return of 3% would give them another $53,309 at age 65. You will see below that something as simple as this will make quite a difference in your retirement lifestyle. The Results of Bob and Betty's Checkup  Recall that they need $25,000 to meet their basic needs. Bob's pension guarantees them $6,800 using a 100% joint and survivor option. However, since it is not indexed for inflation, its value must be recognized as only $5,800. Using the assumptions noted above, the income-producing assets needed at age 65 for the two different lifestyles are:  Translating a lump sum into a monthly income requires skill, just as removing an appendix does. When working with a financial advisor, make sure you understand every assumption used in calculating this figure, and err on the conservative side. Better to have a little extra. Bob and Betty knew that these numbers were assumptions. It is up to them to save and invest accordingly in order to realize their goals. But it is also imperative that they not fall prey to emotional investment decisions. Common mistakes like being out of the market when a rebound follows a decline, chasing the performance of an asset class that topped the field last period, or failing to rebalance their portfolio could all defeat their goals. A team of skilled, independent financial advisors, however, can go a long way toward keeping them on track. Let's see how they are doing so far by calculating their funded ratios. If their $265,000 portfolio grows as assumed, this will give them $412,861. Their annual investments of $6,000 a year will add $114,941, so their total projected assets at age 65 are $527,802. Bob and Betty are projected to be okay for their "have-to-have" retirement income, as their funded ratio is a bit over 140%. But their funded ratio for the comfortable retirement lifestyle is 61%, so they are not on track for that level. They are short $388,537. Recall that eating out one fewer night per week and investing that money increased their total by $53,640. That one commitment would make up approximately 14% of the gap and raise their funded ratio to 67%. Even if they were okay today, they cannot sit back and neglect their financial health. Periodic medical and financial checkups are good for us. The good and bad news for Bob and Betty is that they are on track for their "have-to-have" retirement, but will need to take corrective actions if they want to retire at age 65 in the style they really want. Getting Bob and Betty on Track  Fortunately Bob and Betty did not fall into the common trap of thinking that the seemingly big number on their 401(k) statement meant they were in great shape. Like many folks who come in for a checkup, they were not totally surprised by the results and said, "That's what we were afraid of. What can we do?" There are three steps Bob and Betty can take to reach their goal:  Bob and Betty did the right thing by addressing each option independently. They did not want to risk taking a step backward with their current nest egg, and preferred to forgo a bit more yield if it meant taking on more risk. In addition, they looked at their current lifestyle and made a commitment to spending less, saving more, but still enjoying life. The more they made up the gap, the sooner they could retire. They also realized that they might have to work a bit longer, but that was not a decision they had to make today. They simply needed to acknowledge that it is a likely possibility. And they understand that their investments have more room to grow. Their life expectancy after retirement will be longer, and their health may remain better if they have a place to go each morning, assuming the work is not stressful. They also discussed the possibility of part-time jobs doing something fun, as opposed to continuing with their current careers. When Bob and Betty left, they booked an appointment for next year's checkup. They anticipated following their plan and hoped to be closer to their goals next year. The Second Opinion  We would be remiss if we did not mention that a second ‚Äì or even third ‚Äì opinion is just as important for financial planning as it is for medical issues. Asking two or three advisors to give you their recommended game plan could be a good way to identify useable information in the forest of financial noise. Second opinions are worth the time and effort. If your medical checkup shows some issues, then diet, exercise, and maybe medication changes are key. If your financial checkup shows some issues, saving more, spending less, better asset allocation, and retiring at a later age are all changes worth considering to optimize your financial health. ---- Folks, it's Dennis here again. If you'd like to find out more about choosing the right financial advisor, please check out¬†The Financial Advisor Guide, a special report we published as a result of the research we did with Jeff White.
Two hundred and seven years ago today, America was born. Kind of. More like we announced an intention to be born.† In that year, there were just 2.5 million people living in what would, in a few years, become the United States of America, according to current†Censusestimates. Today, the metropolitan areas of both New York City and Los Angeles have larger populations. Essentially, America was the size of modern Chicago. www.theatlantic.com Although the country has grown in both space and population, not everybody knows exactly what we're meant to be celebrating on the Fourth of July.† Asked in what year America claimed independence, less than a third of Millennials correctly guessed 1776, according to a†2011 Marist Poll†survey. www.theatlantic.com But enough celebrating ignorance and more celebrating America. In 2012, Americans spent nearly $1 billion on about 207 million pounds of display and consumer fireworks. That's about 60 percent more than we spent in 2000. Interestingly, the sheer number of pounds of fireworks we bought peaked in 2005. www.theatlantic.com The U.S. imports about†a quarter of a billion dollars†worth of fireworks with the vast, vast majority coming from China (appropriately enough, since the first fireworks in recorded history were from†7th century China). www.theatlantic.com The American Pyrotechnics Association (actual URL:http://www.americanpyro.com) claims that the rate of firework injuries has declined by about 80 percent since 1980. But there are still 4 recorded injuries for every 100,000 pounds of fireworks today. Here's how those injuries tend to break down (graph via†Wonkblog). www.theatlantic.com For a safer way to celebrate, there are always flags. The Flag Manufacturers Association of America claims its members sell more than $300 million in "fabricated flags, banners and similar emblems" each year. We still import nearly $4 million of American flags every year, six-times more than we export.† www.theatlantic.com Famously, we get the vast, vast majority of our flag imports from China. www.theatlantic.com Fireworks and flags are fine, but you can't eat them (safely). Fortunately for our stomachs, the final hallmarks of the holiday are hot dogs and burgers. So where do our American-bred pigs, hogs, and cattle come from? The folks at the Census and the USDA†have data†on that $90 billion mega-meat business, too. If the meat of choice on your grill is beef hot dogs, steaks or burgers, there's a decent chance your food came from Texas, Nebraska, and Kansas, which combined account for about a third of annual meat production from cattle and calves in the U.S. (The†American Meat Institute†has slightly different figures.) www.theatlantic.com The hog and pig industry is more centralized. There are 66 million hogs and pigs in the U.S. today. About a third of them, producing 10 billion pounds of meat, are in Iowa. www.theatlantic.com More from The Atlantic: Nashville in Paris: The Quintessential American Film as Seen Abroad Soloists are American, Bands are British America's Common Ground is Disappearing
ToyotaAmericans are buying cars like crazy again, with auto sales accelerating to their fastest pace since June 2006. According to Wards Auto, U.S. light-vehicle sales jumped 9.2% to 1.4 million in June, or 15.9 million at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Particularly impressive, though, is the major increase in pickup truck sales, signaling a recovering economy and housing improvements.
The bottom just fell out of the euro. This is all happening as ECB president Mario Draghi speaks about his latest monetary policy decision. "Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary," said Draghi in his introduction. "The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time." This is "concrete forward guidance," said Morgan Stanley's Elga Bartsch. Later in the press conference, Draghi said that the decision to provide forward guidance was a unanimous one. Based on the market's reaction, it's pretty clear that the market wasn't expecting such a dovish tone. Here are his full introductory comments: Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome of todayís meeting of the Governing Council, which was also attended by the Commission Vice-President, Mr. Rehn. Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming information has confirmed our previous assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, recent confidence indicators based on survey data have shown some further improvement from low levels. Our monetary policy stance is geared towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by the outlook for price stability and promoting stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a recovery in economic activity later in the year and in 2014. Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as necessary. The Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time. This expectation is based on the overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the real economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price stability. Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting with the economic analysis. Real GDP declined by 0.3% in the first quarter of 2013, following a contraction of 0.6% in the last quarter of 2012. At the same time, labour market conditions remain weak. Recent developments in cyclical indicators, particularly those based on survey data, indicate some further improvement from low levels. Looking ahead to later in the year and to 2014, euro area export growth should benefit from a gradual recovery in global demand, while domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative monetary policy stance as well as the recent gains in real income owing to generally lower inflation. Furthermore, notwithstanding recent developments, the overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer should work their way through to the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. This being said, the remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity. Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace. The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area continue to be on the downside. The recent tightening of global money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries. As stated in previous months, annual inflation rates are expected to be subject to some volatility throughout the year owing particularly to base effects. According to Eurostatís flash estimate, euro area annual HICP inflation was 1.6% in June 2013, up from 1.4% in May. This increase reflected an upward base effect relating to energy price developments twelve months earlier. However, underlying price pressures are expected to remain subdued over the medium term, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the recovery. Medium-term inflation expectations remain firmly anchored in line with price stability. The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker than expected economic activity. Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm the subdued monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics. Annual growth in broad money (M3) decreased in May to 2.9%, from 3.2% in April. Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to 8.4% in May, from 8.7% in April. The annual rate of change of loans to the private sector remained negative. While the annual growth rate of loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) remained at 0.3% in May, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year, the annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) weakened further to -2.1% in May, from -1.9% in April. As in April, strong monthly net redemptions in May were concentrated in short-term loans, possibly reflecting reduced demand for working capital against the background of weak order books in early spring. More generally, weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets. Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed countries. This has contributed to reducing reliance on Eurosystem funding, as reflected in the ongoing repayments of the three-year longer-term refinancing operations (LTROs). In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets continues to decline further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps for establishing a Banking Union will help to accomplish this objective. In particular, the future Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system and therefore require swift implementation. To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price developments should remain in line with price stability over the medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this picture. With regard to other economic policies, the Governing Council notes the initiatives taken by the European Council of 27-28 June 2013 in the areas of youth unemployment, investment and financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the European Councilís endorsement of the country-specific recommendations of the 2013 European semester. The Governing Council stresses that implementation of these recommendations is essential to contribute to a sustainable recovery in the euro area. Moreover, the new European governance framework for fiscal and economic policies should be applied in a steadfast manner and much more determined efforts should be pursued to carry forward structural reforms to foster growth and employment. In this respect, the Governing Council deems it particularly important to target competitiveness and adjustment capacities in labour and product markets. Finally, the Governing Council welcomes the setting-out of a number of steps towards the completion of the Banking Union as moves in the right direction, but also urges that they be implemented swiftly. We are now at your disposal for questions.
REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El GhanyTraders work at Egypt's Stock Exchange in Cairo July 3, 2013.The dramatic events in Egypt hit a crescendo on Wednesday when the military removed President Mohamed Morsy. Despite this political turmoil and uncertainty, the Egyptian stock market is exploding higher. Egypt's EGX 30 is at 5,334, up 363 point or 7.3% on the day.† This is the highest level in a month. PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian prefers to look at Egypt's credit-default swaps (CDS), which he believes offers a better and "far more comprehensive" snapshot of the country. Unfortunately, the latest numbers on the CDS were not immediately available. For now, here's the year-to-date chart of the EGX (formerly the CASE) 30 via Bloomberg: Bloomberg

wwarby / FlickrThe British pound just tanked. This is coming in the wake of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee announcement. While the MPC is keeping interest rates and its assest purchase plan unchanged -- as expected -- the language appears to signal that the BoE could keep monetary policy loose for longer. From the statement: Since the May Inflation Report, market interest rates have risen sharply internationally and asset prices have been volatile. ¬†In the United Kingdom, there have been further signs that a recovery is in train, although it remains weak by historical standards and a degree of slack is expected to persist for some time. ¬†Twelve-month CPI inflation rose to 2.7% in May and is set to rise further in the near term.¬† Further out, inflation should fall back towards the 2% target as external price pressures fade and a revival in productivity growth curbs domestic cost pressures. At its meeting today, the Committee noted that the incoming data over the past couple of months had been broadly consistent with the central outlook for output growth and inflation contained in the May Report. ¬†The significant upward movement in market interest rates would, however, weigh on that outlook; in the Committee‚Äôs view, the implied rise in the expected future path of Bank Rate was not warranted by the recent developments in the domestic economy. Here's a look at the British pound, which is down 1.2% against the U.S. dollar: Bloomberg
The Bank of England is keeping interest rates and its asset purchase plan unchanged as expected. But in an unusual move, the BoE issued a statement, which it typically does only when it makes a change in policy. Some are attributing this to new BoE governor Mark Carney, who appears to be pushing for more transparency. "The latest remit letter to the MPC from the Chancellor had requested that the Committee provide an assessment, alongside its August Inflation Report, of the case for adopting some form of forward guidance, including the possible use of intermediate thresholds," noted the statement. Forward guidance is one of the tools employed by the U.S. Federal Reserve in its effort to be more transparent. Here's the full statement: The Bank of Englandís Monetary Policy Committee today voted to maintain the official Bank Rate paid on commercial bank reserves at 0.5%.† The Committee also voted to maintain the stock of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank reserves at £375 billion.
The high growth, Emerging Markets (EMs) have watched their stock markets tumble. On the other end of the spectrum is the wildly volatile Japanese Nikkei. Even after tumbling into a bear market this year, the market is still up 36% year-to-date and 57% from a year ago. But the happiest equity investors in the world¬† should probably be the ones with money in the U.S. stock markets. Not only is the U.S. outperforming the EMs, it's also outperforming the Developed Markets (DMs). This goes for year-to-date and one year returns. Sure, the Nikkei is crushing the S&amp;P 500 in terms of returns. But volatility has been much lower. From Deutsche Bank's Priyal Mulji and John-Paul Smith: Over the last 12 months, EM equities have underperformed DM equities by -15.7%. In absolute terms, EM returned +2.4%, whilst DM returned a much higher +18.1%. Against the US, which has been one of our most favoured markets, EM underperformed by -17.1% (absolute US returns over the last 12 months were +19.5%)... Here are the 12-month returns: Deutsche Bank Here's Mulji and Smith on year-to-date returns: ...The poor total returns generated by EM equities have been even more pronounced over 2013 YTD, when the relative underperformance versus DM equities has been -18.0%. So far in 2013, EM equities have recorded significant negative returns in absolute terms of -9.6%, whilst DM has remained positive at +8.4%. US equities have delivered even higher absolute returns of +13.3% YTD, implying EM relative underperformance of -23.0% over the same period. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Jose Manuel RibeiroTraders monitor the screens at a bank in Lisbon July 3, 2013. Portugal's benchmark PSI20 equity index tumbles 6.4 percent in massive volumes, hitting a near eight-month low, as the country's political crisis fuels fears that Lisbon's plan to exit an international bailout could derail. Portuguese banks are the most hit, with Banco Espirito Santo sinking 10 percent and Banco Comercial Portugues dropping 12.9 percent. European stock markets are in the green today, recovering some of yesterday's losses. Leading the way is Portugal, which tanked yesterday after the country's Finance Minister unexpectedly resigned over a dispute about austerity. "The political crisis that‚Äôs unfolding in Portugal is a reminder that staying the course on fiscal consolidation and structural reform crucially depends on the ‚Äòbuy in‚Äô of the politicians and the population at large," said Morgan Stanley's Daniele Antonucci. ". A U-turn in policy might perhaps be averted ‚Äì as the situation is such that there‚Äôs little alternative to the current path ‚Äì but the newsflow surely has become more negative." "The risk is that, regardless of whether new elections can be avoided, political mistakes or a weaker political commitment might well result in a slower pace of adjustment," he continued. "In turn, this could complicate the upcoming Troika review, with the official lenders struggling to continue to depict Portugal as a ‚Äògood student‚Äô, and perhaps delaying future loan tranche disbursements." Until we get more clarity, we can probably expect more up-and-down volatility. Here's a look at Portugal's PSI 20 today via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Dr. Ed's BlogStock prices have had a tendency to rise during the first trading day of every month. The S&amp;P 500 has been up 0.3% on average during the 52 such days since the start of the current bull market on March 9, 2009. It was up 0.5% yesterday. The S&amp;P 500 has been up 65% of those days with an average gain of 1.1%. The average decline during down days was 1.3%. Before we are tempted to quit our daily jobs to play the odds of the one-day-a-month trade, we should try to explain the first-day-of-the-month pattern. The most obvious explanation is that the US manufacturing PMI is always released on that day. Bull markets tend to coincide with economic expansions, during which the M-PMI tends to remain above 50. In addition, surprises are more likely to be to the upside than to the downside when the economy is expanding than when it is contracting. Why does the market seem to give so much weight to the M-PMI? It tends to be a good leading indicator for the y/y growth in S&amp;P 500 revenues. M-PMI readings above 50 tend to be associated with positive earnings growth. However, the recent batch of readings suggests a continuation of low-single-digit revenues growth, which was only 1.3% during Q1-2013. Of course, S&amp;P 500 revenues are driven by global growth. So it was good to see improvements in European M-PMIs during June. The UK M-PMI increased to 52.5 in June from 51.5 in May. Spainís index actually rose to 50.0, after spending the past 25 months mostly well below that level. Germany and France were both below 50, but getting closer. I calculate a Super M-PMI using an equally weighted average of the indexes of the US, the UK, the euro zone, Japan, and China. It increased to 50.9 in June, the second consecutive reading above 50 and the highest since March 2012. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Independence Day. (1) Great holiday in the US. (2) ìGroundhog Dayî in the rest of the world. (3) Greece again. (4) Another European Grand Plan. (5) Chinese property prices defy Chinese government. (6) Egyptians want a do-over. (7) QE could be Fedís Groundhog Day. (8) US economy showing self-sustaining growth. (9) Will the Affordable Care Act be unaffordable? (10) The NFL takes a pass. (11) In America we trust. (12) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Health Care. (More for subscribers.)
Sluggish global growth and a recent economic slowdown in resource-hungry China have hammered commodities markets this year, sending the price of everything from iron ore to copper tumbling. With those sharp reversalsóas well as the Fedís comments about tapering the size of the United Statesí monetary stimulusófresh in their minds, the 300 clients who convened last week at Credit Suisseís New York headquarters for the bankís third annual Commodities Day had plenty to talk about. With few exceptions, the prices of commodities such as oil products, precious metals and industrial metals have been steadily rising over the past decade in what analysts have termed a ìcommodities supercycle.î That era is over, Credit Suisse experts say, and they expect prices to remain under pressure at least through the end of the year. Whatís more, the prices of individual commodities will no longer rise and fall together as they have for the last five years, Credit Suisseís commodities team explained in a June 25 research note (ìCommodities Forecast Update: The Return of Fundamentalsî). As a result, investors and traders are going to have to focus on the specific supply and demand dynamics for individual commodities. Copper and iron ore prices, for example, are expected to decline because supplies of both metals are becoming more plentiful at the same time that demand is declining. Copper is used in wiring and electrical equipment, and is thus sensitive to both building activity and demand for electronics. And iron ore is an indicator of industrial activity of all kinds. Prices of both should soften as Chinaís building and manufacturing boom cools off. Demand for palladium, on the other hand, should stay strong thanks to the steadily growing Chinese car market, at the same time that labor unrest in South Africa looks likely to slow growth in supply. That points to higher prices. The Attendees Attendees at Commodities Day represented a wide variety of investors. Close to one-third were from hedge funds, while roughly one-fourth were institutional investors. The Financialist The Year Ahead Out of four commodity sectors ñ energy, precious metals, industrial metals and agriculture ñ energy and agriculture nearly tied (37 percent and 36 percent, respectively) as investorsí pick for the most promising bet over the next year. Most investors ñ 41 percent ñ think commodity prices will remain at their current levels a year from now. Perhaps more telling is the fact that nearly one in four respondents (23 percent) said they had absolutely no idea where commodity prices were going. The Financialist One thing is clear, though. Investors donít expect the market to stabilize. More than half (53 percent) of those surveyed believed volatility would be higher over the coming year than it was in the previous year. About a third of investors thought volatility would stay the same, but only 15 percent thought it would decline. Oil Markets Brent crude oil prices have fallen from a high of $118.90 in February to just over $100 in early July. Most investors think that decline will continue. The Financialist Credit Suisse recently cut its Brent crude oil forecast for the next six months to $108 from $112, due to concerns about how much consumption can rise given a still-fragile U.S. recovery as well as the risk of a slowdown in emerging markets. But in the medium term, Credit Suisseís oil analysts are optimistic about prices, noting that global supply is likely to stay tight this year as international sanctions are successfully keeping Iranian crude off European and other key markets. Ongoing conflicts in large OPEC countries such as Iraq, Nigeria and Libya, have also tightened production. Credit Suisse expects Saudi Arabia, the worldís largest oil producer, would have to boost production by 1.2 million barrels per day in the third quarter to keep prices from falling. In the long term, analysts say, developed markets will use†less†oil, not more, and emerging markets could see a similar decline within a decade. At the same time, a shale drilling boom in the U.S. will bring more supply of shale oil online. ìThe clear implication is that in a slower-growth world, still fraught with uncertainty, plentiful supplies eventually bring down oil prices,î analysts said in the ìReturn to Fundamentalsî research note.† Metals Of the four base metals used for industrial and commercial purposes (copper, aluminum, zinc and lead), 35 percent of investors predicted that copperówhich has shed 34 percent of its value since a 2011 peakówould be the best-performing base metal over the next year. But Credit Suisseís commodities team said copper prices might fall further still. ìCopper stands out as being the most overvalued of the LME metals, in our view,î analysts said the ìReturn to Fundamentalsî research note. ìInevitably, we think prices must come under further downward pressure soon.î The Financialist Nearly half of attendees think the recent rout in gold prices isnít quite over, and think the metal will be trading between $1,000 and $1,200 an ounce in a year. Gold has not dipped below $1,200 an ounce since 2010, but is currently trading around $1,246, down from a high of nearly $1,792 in October. But if investors were pessimistic about gold, they were hot for palladium. More than half of the survey respondentsó53 percentóthought palladium would outperform gold, silver and platinum in the coming year. Credit Suisse analysts are maintaining a long-term bullish outlook on palladium and believe that supply will fall short of demand through 2016, keeping prices high. But they also noted that ETF holdings, investors and funds account for 50 percent of annual palladium demand, making the precious metal vulnerable to a selloff if investor fears about a global macroeconomic slowdown return.
Markets are rallying in Europe. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.8%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.9%. Germany's DAX is up 0.7%. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.6%. "Portugal is conveniently reminding investors that the Euro area still has its problems and Greece has also offered its concerns to the mix," said UBS's Paul Donovan of the volatility that's returned to Europe this week. "Although not seemingly as severe as other years, 2013 does seem preparing for a Euro summer problem or two." Later today, the Bank of England and European Central Bank will wrap up their respective meetings and update the world on their local interest rate policies. "This week‚Äôs meeting will be the first with the new Governor, Mark Carney, in the chair," said Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard of the Bank of England. "He will arrive to a great fanfare but he will first need to familiarise himself with his new colleagues and with the issues before suggesting policy changes, even if he already deems that appropriate. So no action is likely this week." Here's Donovan on today's ECB meeting: "Draghi has been at pains to point out that there are limits to monetary policy and the economic stimulus it can provide, but attention has perhaps now shifted more to the question of market stability (i.e. Portugal) and the press conference may see OMT questions asked." In Asia, markets mostly ended higher closed with Australia's S&amp;P/ASX up 1.0% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 1.6%.¬† Japan's Nikkei shed 0.2%. U.S. markets are closed today for the Independence Day holiday.
