APTravelers of America, rejoice! The Senate just passed the ëëReducing Flight Delays Act of 2013." The bill will attempt to eradicate the flight delays of the past week, which were caused by the sequester-related budget cuts, by allowing the FAA to allocate money as it sees fit, rather than having to cut all departments equally (which was causing staffing reductions among air-traffic controllers). Assuming it passes the House, Obama should veto it. Josh Barro explained why in a Bloomberg View post yesterday. Fixing the flight problems, while leaving the Sequester in place is just a way of helping relative elites (people who fly a lot) while ignoring everyone else who's being affected by the budget cuts. ...the administration is actually right to resist a standalone fix for air-traffic control. Implicitly, it is holding fliers hostage and saying it wonít repeat a common mistake of the last five years -- enacting economic policies that respond to elite problems while ignoring ones that mostly affect the poor. At the same time the sequestration is delaying fliers, itís also causing state and local agencies to stop issuing Section 8 housing subsidy vouchers to families on waiting lists. Thatís a crisis too, just not one that affects the sort of people who sit on newspaper editorial boards. The issue is not that elites shouldnít have their problems addressed. The Troubled Asset Relief Program became law because elites were freaked out about a collapse of the banking system, but the crisis that TARP averted would have been terrible for people at all points on the economic spectrum. A fix for air-traffic control wouldnít just make frequent travelersí lives less annoying, it would also reduce damage to the economy and improve job growth. The Sequester is terrible policy. But it won't go away if the first thing the government does is address the frequent fliers of the world, leaving only the voice-less to suffer. If you want to read the full text of the bill to end the flight delays, we uploaded it to Scribd here.
In case you were hoping that America's three-decade-long trend toward extreme wealth inequality was starting to reverse itself, Pew has some bad news for you. Nothing has changed. The rich are still getting richer... and everyone else is still getting hosed. Pew's latest data looked at how American households have fared since the depths of the recession. The richest 7% of American households--8 million with more than $836,000 in net worth--did quite well from 2009 to 2011. Their average net worth rose from $2.5 million to $3.2 million, a 28% jump. The other 93% of American households, meanwhile, lost out. Their average net worth dropped from a measly $140,000 to $134,000. †Pew Research In case that's not depressing enough for you, take a look at what happened to the relative wealth shares of these two groups of households over the 2009-2011 period. The richest 7% of American households went from owning 56% of the country's net worth to owning 63% of it. That left only 37% of the country's net worth to everyone else. Pew Research The source of this relative wealth bonanza for the richest households, not surprisingly, is the stock market. America's richest households own most of the stocks in this country. The stock market has more than doubled since the 2009 lows and is hitting new highs. The value of houses, meanwhile--the most valuable asset for almost "everyone else"--has risen only slightly. And house prices are still well below their pre-recession bubble peaks. Pew Research Now, if you're in the 7% of households that are getting richer, you might think this trend is perfectly fine. After all, who minds getting rich? The problem, unfortunately, is that America's growing wealth inequality is hurting the purchasing power of mainstream American consumers. And these consumers provide the spending that drives most of the economy. (Rich folks actually don't spend that much as a percentage of the economy). So with "everyone else" getting hosed, the health of the overall economy is deteriorating. That's hurting the ability of companies owned by the richest households to grow. And their lack of growth will eventually be reflected in the value of the stocks owned by the richest households. (Eek!) More on America's shocking inequality below... SEE ALSO: AMERICA TODAY: 3 Million Overlords, 300 Million Serfs Monty Python And The Holy Grail
Wikimedia CommonsA great professor can bring a dry academic subject to life while educating and inspiring students. But if you add a level of fame to that mix, students will really pay attention. From former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to Pulitzer Prize-winning writer Junot Diaz, we found the most famous professors teaching college courses right now.
Yesterday Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and David Vitter (R-LA) presented a new bill that could seriously curtail the size of Wall Street banks. It's called the "Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness" Act. The law is intended to eliminate what the lawmakers consider is a market preference for Wall Street megabanks. The market, they charge, knows that the American tax payer is on the hook for Wall Street excess. To change that, the law forces banks to hold a certain amount of capital depending on their balance sheet. Community/regional banks have to hold cash equivalent to 8% of assets on their balance sheets. For big banks the magic number's 15%. So we know the "why" of this bill... but the more important question is "why now?" The financial crisis is abating, regulations like Dodd-Frank, The Volcker Rulle, and Basels I-III already require banks to stop some of the activities that led to the crisis. Plus, everyone's thinking about other stuff ‚Äî the Boston Marathon bombing, George W. Bush painting dogs, Honey Boo Boo... The thing is, there have been signs that this was coming ‚Äî signs that anger at Wall Street was growing on both sides of the aisle. House Financial Services Committee, FacebookThat's what is key here: The fragmentation of the Republican party into your traditionals (think: John McCain) and your Libertarians (think: Rand Paul) has made room for different thoughts about the relationship between Wall Street and the GOP. The first sign was the backlash Marco Rubio got when he went to Blackstone to court Steve Schwarzman last month. Even former Reagan speech writer and WSJ columnist Peggy Noonan got on his case. From her column: "I'm going to steer this party away from Wall Street and toward what used to be called Main Street and doesn't have a name anymore. Our economy won't take off again until our pigsty of a tax code is cleaned up. People have to feel everyone's being treated fairly, that the rich aren't calling the shots and gaming the system. And all future growth could be stymied if you guys make a half-trillion-dollar wrong bet tomorrow because some trader in London was high as a kite on Ambien. That could bring down the system the way it crashed in '08. So we have to change the system. Too big to fail is too big to live.‚Äù If that wasn't enough, then Attorney General Eric Holder admitted that 'Too Big To Fail' was real ‚Äî something Wall Street's advocates had fiercely denied. He said the Justice Department had held off on prosecuting banks for their misdeeds because the agency feared what would happen to the financial system as a whole. ‚ÄúThat is a function of the fact that some of these institutions have become too large," said Holder. Adding that the size of Wall Street's biggest banks ‚Äúhas an inhibiting influence ‚Äì impact on our ability to bring resolutions that I think would be more appropriate...And I think that is something that we ‚Äì you all ‚Äì need to consider.‚Äù If that's not too big to fail, nothing is. There's more though ‚Äî like Rand Paul's raucous speech at the CPAC Convention when he said that there was "nothing conservative about bailing out Wall Street." That's a message that resonates with Tea Partiers and Libertarians. And it's a message that Brown and Vitter are zeroing in on for this bill. In a video released this morning, Brown explains: "If megabanks want to be large and complex that's their choice but tax payers should not have to subsidize their risk taking. If big banks fail their executives and investors should have to pay the price." Even Jamie Dimon said that "Old Testament Justice" should rain down on those who fly their banks into a mountain. So let the spin begin. Watch Brown's video below: 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from†Business Insider†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Talk Of A Bear Market Signal Is Premature†(DowTheory.com) Dow Theory's Richard Moroney says that while Dow transports and industrials have been moving sideways for the past few weeks, he does not see a bear signal on his radar. "The primary trend is squarely in the bullish camp," he writes, "as the last important signal under the Dow Theory was the mid-March move to all-time highs in both averages. The Transports have not confirmed subsequent moves to new highs in the Industrials, and such divergence can be a bearish omen. But it is worth remembering that both averages are within 3% of all-time highs. Even at their recent April 15 closing low, the Transports were down less than 6% from their high and had not corrected even one-third of their November-to-March advance."† Gold's Anomalous Behavior During The Flash Crash (Deutsche Bank) More fallout from the errant AP Tweet about a non-existent White House attack that sent markets plummeting: gold was the only asset to not instantly collapse, according to DB's Jens Johansen. Here's the chart, with Johansen's†commentary: Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP† Twitter Is A Double-Edged Sword For Markets (MoneyBeat) Chris Dieterich writes algorithmic trading firms will have to reevaluate programs that use social media trends to spot market opportunities, following the Twitter crash. "The accuracy of tweets is a major concern,"†Flyberry Capital's†Zeid Barakat told him. At the same time, Dieterich notes, any firm who wasn't on Twitter would have been clueless about what was behind the flash crash.† America's Largest Active ETF Sponsors (Josh Brown) Josh Brown says the following league table, via †AdvisorShare Investments, of firms whose active ETFs boast the most assets, should be a lot larger. ETFTrends/AdvisorShares Investments The problem, Brown says, is that most funds still charge way too much. "iShares seems to have the right idea, what with their launch of two active ETFs with extremely low costs (under 50 basis points)," he writes. "In this environment, the traditional 1% + is a hard sell to the advisor community, which is largely becoming more and more Fiduciary in its standard of care." New Bank Bill Unlikely To Prevail, But Higher Capital Ratios Coming (Morgan Stanley) A bill that would ask banks to vastly increase capital requirements is not likely to become law, MS' Betsy Graseck writes, since it would cut return on equity by about 40 percent for the largest banks. That does not mean higher capital ratios are out ó quite the opposite.†Basel 3 Common Tier 1 ratios will rise to as high as 12% by 2015.
CNBCEntrepreneur Mark Cuban made an interesting admission today on CNBC: he's massively short the yen. The conversation started with a discussion on tech stocks, but then Cuban said: Honestly, I don't jump into a lot of public technology stocks other than to have fun and trade every now and then. Where I have made my biggest trades have been in currencies, because there is a lot more transparency, and a lot more information available, than there are with stocks. It's just a more efficient market, in my mind. CNBC anchor Scott Wapner then asked Cuban, "Now that you went there, I've got to ask you: what are you trading now? Are you short the yen, like everybody else?" Cuban replied: Yeah. Actually, in early December, I went and took every penny of debt that I had ‚Äì with the Mavericks, and personal debt, and everything ‚Äì and converted it to a yen loan, when I think [the yen] was in the mid 80s [against the dollar]. So, I've been really happy with it. When the value of the currency decreases, it reduces the burden of the debt in real terms. The yen has decreased from "the mid 80s" against the dollar (when Cuban says he converted the loans) to around 100 against the dollar today, so Cuban has done pretty well on his yen trade so far.
Flickr / Rushing ManiaCiti's Tobias Levkovich is out with his latest update to his "Citi Research Recommended List." Levkovich, who has a 1,615 target for the S&amp;P 500, touches all bases, from consumer cyclicals to financials to utilities. There are a lot of ancient brand names you wouldn't necessarily think still had room to run. Most of them pay a nice cash dividend. There's also a rather large Mountain View, Calif.‚Äîbased tech company.
Soros Fund Management owns¬†17,386,361 shares of the retailer, the 13G filing shows. The stock is soaring on the news.¬† JCPenney was last trading up about 6% in the after-hours session. Earlier this month, the struggling retailer said that its CEO Ron Johnson had stepped down effective immediately. JCPenney's former¬†CEO Mike Ullman became the interim chief.¬† Soros' stake has to be good news for activist investor¬†Bill Ackman. Ackman, the CEO of $12 billion¬†Pershing Square¬†Capital Management, is the biggest shareholder of JCP with a 18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares, according his latest¬†13F filing.¬† He has taken a bath on the stock so far.¬† Both Pershing Square and Soros Fund Management are also located in the same building, 888 Seventh Avenue.¬†
Associated PressAmazon just reported first quarter earnings of $0.18 per share. Analysts were expecting the company to report $0.10 EPS. Revenues were a little light at $16.07 billion (versus $16.14 billion expected by analysts). The company offered revenue guidance for the second quarter in the range of $14.5 to $16.2 billion. Analysts' average estimate was $15.92 billion. Operating income came in at $181 million versus expectations for $96.8 million. Shares are flat in after-hours trading. Below is the full text from the release: SEATTLE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2013. Operating cash flow increased 39% to $4.25 billion for the trailing twelve months, compared with $3.05 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012. Free cash flow¬†decreased 85% to $177 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $1.15 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012. Free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013 includes fourth quarter 2012 cash outflows for purchases of corporate office space and property in Seattle, Washington, of $1.4 billion. Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards totaled 471 million on March 31, 2013, compared with 464 million one year ago. Net sales increased 22% to $16.07 billion in the first quarter, compared with $13.18 billion in first quarter 2012. Excluding the $302 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 24% compared with first quarter 2012. Operating income decreased 6% to $181 million in the first quarter, compared with $192 million in first quarter 2012. The unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter on operating income was $12 million. Net income decreased 37% to $82 million in the first quarter, or $0.18 per diluted share, compared with $130 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in first quarter 2012. ‚ÄúAmazon Studios is working on a new way to greenlight TV shows. The pilots are out in the open where everyone can have a say,‚Äù said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. ‚ÄúI have my personal picks and so do members of the Amazon Studios team, but the exciting thing about our approach is that our opinions don‚Äôt matter. Our customers will determine what goes into full-season production. We hope Amazon Originals can become yet another way for us to create value for Prime members.‚Äù Highlights Financial Guidance The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com‚Äôs expectations as of April 25, 2013. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below. Second Quarter 2013 Guidance A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at¬†www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company‚Äôs financial and operating results. Click here for the full release &gt;
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThe S&amp;P is getting close to an all-time high again. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,700, +24.5 pts, +0.1%S&amp;P 500: 1,585, +6.3 pts, +0.4%NASDAQ: 3,289, +20.3 pts, +0.6% And now the top stories:
Flickr/Ramin AmiriTwo Canadian businessmen recently got some bad news from their banks. Melvin Ng, proprietor of CADBitcoin, got a phone call. A Bitcoin brokerage owner, who wishes to remain anonymous for fear of attracting further scrutiny from banks, got a letter. Both men run online exchanges where you can purchase Bitcoins for Canadian dollars. ¬† And both were informed their businesses' accounts frozen by Canada's largest banks. "It's a weird situation," Ng told us by phone recently. "We're a normal Canadian business, we're registered with the government, and a Canadian bank can just block it off." The anonymous brokerage proprietor was more blunt: "They just don't like Bitcoins." As the price of Bitcoin has steadily increased and purchases with the digital currency become more commonplace, large institutions were bound to begin paying more attention to ‚Äî and cracking down on ‚Äî places who traffic in the currency. Royal Bank of Canada, which shut down the accounts, sent us a statement saying they do not comment on client matters. As of this writing we had not heard back from TD Bank, the other bank that shut down or turned away the Bitcoiners.¬† We've already discussed why Bitcoin is such an extreme gray area for regulators ‚Äî it's not quite a currency, not quite a commodity, and there's lots of interstate and international commerce involved, both of which in theory must be regulated by federal governments. But they've only just begun to catch up with its explosion ‚Äî Bitcoin merchants must now report all large and/or unusual transactions. ¬† Joseph David appears to have successfully navigated the legal minefield of Bitcoin business. The co-founder of CAVirtex, Canada's largest real-time Bitcoin exchange (like NYSE, or more precisely, Japan's Mt. Gox), David says he too had his company's account shut down in its early days. But by the beginning of 2012, they were back up and running. The site now sees $15 million a day in transactions. David believes the two businesses may not have obtained the proper money service licensing. But Ng says he did just that. Even so, he's already moved on. He says the company plans to open what he believes will be the first ever brick-and-mortar Bitcoin stores in Canada. There will be one in Vancouver and one in downtown Toronto, he said. That seems to be the mindset among Bitcoin professionals ‚Äî press on at all costs, because Bitcoin is only going to get bigger. "You have¬† have $150 million worth of Bitcoins being transacted every 24 hours," David said. "It's not a fad."
After a strong morning, the stock market has reversed course and is now heading lower. The S&amp;P 500 peaked at 1592.64 around 2:10 PM ET and is now trading around 1584, up 0.4% on the day. Thinkorswim At 3 PM, Bloomberg sent a report from German newspaper Handelsblatt across the wire that the German Bundesbank rejected the ECB's "OMT" bond buying program in a secret opinion prepared the German constitutional court (which is set to rule on OMT in June). The euro fell sharply against the dollar on the news, but the move wasn't all that big ‚Äì only about 15 basis points or so. Now, it's trading right at 1.30. (Following on the euro's muted reaction, it's unclear why this is negative, because it's well known that the Bundesbank is against OMT.) The yen briefly weakened against the dollar this afternoon on a report from Nikkei that the Bank of Japan would start investing foreign exchange reserves in the sovereign debt of other east Asian countries, but it already retraced the entire move following that report and is now strengthening. Stocks headed lower. Euro headed lower against the dollar. Dollar headed lower against the yen. A small bout of "risk off" this afternoon.
China has a major corruption problem. "2013 will mark the most vigorous anti-corruption fight by the Chinese leadership in decades," write the analysts at Deutsche Bank. This initiative is expected to be bad news for China's liquor suppliers, watch-makers, and food-service industry workers.¬† But it'll be a big win for investor confidence. In its new "Equity House View" report, Deutsche Bank includes this stunning chart showing how much more wealthy Chinese congressman are compared to American politicians. They cite it as a reason why so many are worried about corruption. Bloomberg Finance LP, Hurun Report, Deutsche Bank Research
¬∞Florian/FlickrYou can'tJustin Jeffers is the editor of The Fine Young Gentleman.  For some, graduation is only a few weeks away. Whether that's a good†thing or bad thing is unimportant ó it's inevitable. For some guys that means it's†time to dress up and work for the man, and if you do have to dress up†you should definitely do it right. Here are 10 things you should look to have†in your wardrobe if you're heading out into the real world. It may not be feasible to buy them all at once but in†short order they can all be had. Along with each item is a list of 3-5 places†to acquire it, or at least a place to start your search. Most of†the places are not as well known as the places you would find walking up†and down 5th Avenue. However, they all provide a better value for your†money.
Flickr / zcopleyA funny thing just happened: virtual currency bitcoin has now passed the first round of approval required to become a standard for the web, alongside other familiar ‚Äúschemes‚Äù which allow elements on a webpage to, for example, open your email application when you click on an email address on a webpage. This is the first time a payment system has ever been legitimized in this way. The web‚Äîand more specifically HTML5, the language which web browsers understand‚Äîworks because everyone who makes websites and builds web browsers has agreed on a common standard. It‚Äôs just like a regular language‚Äîif I say ‚Äúchair‚Äù and you think ‚Äúpants,‚Äù we have a problem. The same goes for the grammar in which vocabulary is embedded. One piece of the language of HTML5 is ‚Äúschemes,‚Äù which allow websites or apps to designate themselves as the ‚Äúhandler‚Äù of the content located at a particular address on the internet. These schemes include, as I noted, one called ‚Äúmailto:‚Äù that, when used as a link in a webpage, tells your browser to automatically email an address after you click on it, by whatever means you have previously specified. So this is where things get interesting: With a bitcoin-specific ‚Äúscheme,‚Äù any link on a webpage becomes a one-click route to instantaneously transmitting money‚Äîor at least bitcoin. Imagine you‚Äôre buying socks or more likely, since this is bitcoin, assault rifles stuffed with heroin. On the checkout webpage, the ‚Äúbuy‚Äù button could use the ‚Äúbitcoin:‚Äù link, which would automatically pop open your bitcoin wallet, which might reside in an external application, on another website, or even in your browser itself. In any event, it would make paying with bitcoin dead easy and absolutely universal. The ‚Äúbitcoin:‚Äù scheme has at this point, in technical parlance, merely been ‚Äúwhitelisted.‚Äù That means it‚Äôs OK, in the eyes of at least one web standards body, to start incorporating it into web pages‚Äîbut it‚Äôs not mandatory, yet. This is a sign that the powers that be‚Äîi.e. the folks who administer the HTML5 standard‚Äîtake bitcoin seriously. And it also means that some day ‚Äúbitcoin:‚Äù might become part of the universal standard (administered by the W3C) that virtually guarantees that an HTML5 standard will make it into every web browser on the planet. It‚Äôs all terribly complicated, and I invite you to read the thread on Hacker News or a similar one on Reddit if you want to confuse yourself further. But here‚Äôs the bottom line: bitcoin just took an important step closer to becoming the universal, open, distributed payments glue that binds the world of digital money, anonymous transactions, and extra-governmental currencies together. And if some day it‚Äôs a part of HTML5, or HTML6 or 7 or what have you, and federated across every web-connected device on the planet, well, you can say you read about it here first.
WikipediaThe source of the smell.This spring, New Yorkers will have their noses assaulted by an unpleasant odor coming from the army of white-blossom covered trees that line many of the city's streets. † These flowers, though lovely in appearance, smell like a mixture of rotting fish†and semen, according to a†variety of web reports, and personal accounts from those in our own newsroom.† A tall, deciduous tree called the†Bradford Pear (scientific name Pyrus calleryana) is to blame for the†raunchy-smelling flowers. The trees were planted all throughout New York in the 1960s because they are hard to kill ó they grow fast and can thrive in tough conditions. People also think they are pretty. In the eastern United States, they are considered an invasive species because of their prevalence.† A path of pear trees. One downside is that these hardy "street trees" really stink. Urban Dictionary has labeled Bradford Pears the "semen tree," with an equally inappropriate, though colorful, description of their smell, which you can read over there.† Getting to the source Everything we smell ó from bananas to pine needles ó comes from molecules, usually made of volatile chemicals, meaning chemicals that evaporate easily. The molecules evaporate from the food or flower and travel into your nose, where they bind with receptors in our nose.† The compounds that make the Bradford Pear tree's flowers smell are likely due to a type of chemical called amines,†Dr. Eloy Rodriguez,†a professor of†plant biology at Cornell University, told Business Insider. † We come in contact with the smell of amines every day in the form of body odors, like under the arm pits. Flickr/Janice WaltzerPretty, but smelly.  The fishy odor produced by the Bradford Pear is likely a combination of two amines called†trimethylamine and dimethylamine, according to Richard Banick, a botanical manager at Bell Flavors and Fragrances. Although perfumers know what chemicals produce the fishy smell (trimethylamine is often used an indicator of how fresh a fish is)†they can't be certain what causes the odor of the Bradford Pear, said Banick. † Plants that produce volatile amines, some that smell like rotting meat, use the gas either to attract flies who will then spread the flower's pollen, or to ward off insects that might want to steal the nectar, said Rodriguez. Rodgriquez suspects that the volatile compounds in the Bradford tree are there as attractants, and not necessarily to repel pollinators.† Later, the trees produce little green-yellow fruits that you cannot eat.
Another technical glitch hits the Stree t... Today the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), the largest U.S. options exchange, wasn't able to start trading until mid-day.† According to the Wall Street Journal, the CBOE blamed the delay on software problems. †† "Some users are experiencing issues downloading CBOE and CFE products this morning. The CBOE is looking into this issue and will advise. CSM is unavailable," the CBOE said in a statement around 8:17 a.m. EDT.† As a result, people weren't able to trade options on the S&amp;P 500 and the CBOE Volatility Index (VIX), the WSJ pointed out. †There was a three-and-a-half hour delay in trading. Just before 1 p.m. EDT, CBOE SPX products had opened up, the exchange Tweeted. †The VIX and other products opened up at 1 p.m. EDT.† You can see the traders just standing around in the Tweet below.† Guys standing around in $VIX pit waiting for CBOE to reopen. twitter.com/BrianStutland/Ö
Think of it like this: You're a teenager asking your parents if you can borrow the car to go hang out with your friends, and your little brother steps in to say that you should be driving him to a piano lesson instead. This, obviously, is a major bummer. It's also basically what Paul Singer and other hedge fund managers suing Argentina for $1.4 billion of sovereign debt are experiencing this week. Yes, Singer lost the naval vessel he seized from Argentina as collateral last fall, but since then things have gotten better for him. On Sunday, Singer might have even thought he'd won. His lawyers filed a brief rejecting Argentina's payment plan (which looked like payment plans the country had submitted before) and the ball was rolling along. Then there was Monday. As the NY Post reports, that's when Singer and co. were forced to file a brief telling Italy to back up off their money. Apparently, Argentina owes Italy money as well, so the Italians filed a brief saying that if Singer gets his money in full, they want theirs in full too. From their brief (h/t Credit Slips): [T]he only sensible resolution is a lump-sum payment of all interest and principal that has accrued and become due and payable in eleven years to all the current holders of the holdout bonds ...¬†. Such a payment would be directed through an order for specific performance, which this Court has endorsed as the appropriate remedial device. NML Capital Ltd., 699 F.3d at 261-262.4B. [Emphasis in the original.] Singer and co. hate this. If Argentina ultimately has to pay up to Italy too, Singer and co. may get less money as the cash is spread more thinly. Not only that, but what Italy is arguing, Argentina has been arguing all along ‚Äî there are more players in here than just NML, and the Court should treat them all equally. In doing so, Argentina argues, the Court would be opening the country up to $15 billion in debt. From Argentina's brief on this matter (h/t Credit Slips): [T]he Motion demonstrates that the present appeal does not concern ‚Äúonly‚Äù the $1.47 billion demanded by NML and the other plaintiffs-appellees ..., but potentially the entire amount of outstanding defaulted Republic debt subject to a pari passu clause. ... [A]cceptance of the district court‚Äôs ‚Äúratable payment‚Äù formula could open the floodgates for over $15 billion in similar pari passu claims. And who's got $15 billion to just hand out? Not Argentina.
REUTERS / Toru HanaiBoJ Governor Haruhiko KurodaIt's the hottest trade in the world right now: betting the Japanese yen will decline against the U.S. dollar. As part of the Japanese government's new "Abenomics" strategy to lift the Japanese economy out of a decade of deflation, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) recently announced a massive quantitative easing program, unprecedented in scale. Investors ñ especially those outside of Japan ñ have taken this as a sign that the Japanese government and the BoJ are serious about weakening the yen and inducing a little inflation. A mini market crash caused by a fake AP tweet earlier this week showed how correlated the short yen trade is with risky assets in general right now. While the S&amp;P 500 tanked in response to the tweet, the yen instantly strengthened against the dollar. And since so many investors are now using the cheap yen ñ which has already weakened considerably in recent months ñ to fund carry trades in other risky assets, it's important to consider what else could derail the short yen thesis, which has become one of the most "consensus" trades on the planet. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale FX strategist Alvin Tan says the biggest risk to the "widespread expectation of lower yen over the next several quarters" is pretty simple: a global slowdown in economic growth. He uses the Swiss National Bank (SNB) as an example. Over the last 21 months, the SNB has expanded its balance sheet by an amount equivalent to 40% of Swiss GDP (the new BoJ program will fall short of that). Yet the Swiss franc hasn't weakened. Of course, the reason for this is the ongoing euro crisis and the flight to safety into Swiss francs that has caused the currency to appreciate. So, the comparison, considering the context, is not really apples-to-apples. That is, unless you consider a scenario in which global growth enters a slowdown phase. And that happens to be a scenario that is beginning to generate a lot of buzz on Wall Street†(see also: Why Everyone Is Rushing Into Bonds Again &gt;). Tan outlines the risk a global slowdown poses to the short-yen agenda in a note to clients this morning (emphasis added): Nonetheless, this very simplistic juxtaposition of the external macroeconomic circumstances faced by Switzerland and Japan also helps to pinpoint the weak link in the consensus weak-yen view, namely the external environment matters greatly to the success or failure of BOJ super-QE policy. Japan's loan-to-deposit ratio is noticeably the lowest among all developed economies, yet domestic private credit growth has been flat for many years. As numerous commentators have†noted, there is a credit demand problem in Japan, not a supply one. Given this, it is not immediately obvious that the BOJ will be able to boost Japanese domestic demand significantly through lower borrowing costs. The BOJ will have to rely on the net exports channel to lift growth through a weaker yen. Furthermore, a declining yen will also help to raise inflation expectations in Japan, again through the external sector. Hence, the success or failure of BOJ policy will depend crucially on the external sector. If global growth falters, the BOJ is unlikely to succeed as net exports growth will suffer due to weaker external demand. To exacerbate the situation, the safe haven nature of JPY will cause it to rebound even more as it becomes evident that BOJ policy has failed and global growth risks rise. As evidenced by the yen's epic strengthening phase that began in 2007 ñ amid the same sort of global growth environment ñ the fate of Abenomics may once again end up outside of Japan's control. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Tesla Motors will announce a new strategy tomorrow that its customers will like, CEO Elon Musk said on Twitter today. There's a lot going on with Tesla these days, so it's hard to guess what the new approach will be. Our best bet is that it's a new way to change laws in many states that prohibit automakers from selling cars directly to buyers (as opposed to doing it through dealerships). Musk has been on the campaign trail this month in Texas, and has been making progress in Virginia and New York lately. Just how Tesla could change its approach ‚Äî which has consisted mostly of petitions and lawsuits so far ‚Äî is unclear. The last time Musk promised a big announcement, it was a new financing scheme that is a hybrid of owning and leasing a Tesla Model S, and uses some questionable math. Here's Musk's tweet: Announcement of new @teslamotors strategy tomorrow. Tesla owners will like this.
Bloomberg TVLast week was an interesting one for commodities, especially gold. Gold crashed, having its worst two-day period in three decades. Other commodities plunged hard, and stocks were wobbly. Suddenly everyone started screaming the same thing: Deflation! This week has seen things calm down quite a bit, and because of that, David Zervos of Jefferies says there are some lessons we can learn from the gold crash. Specifically, we see now that the gold crash was just about hyperinflationists getting carted off, and not about deflation. So the verdict is in. Gold is settling down 8 to 10 percent from its pre-crash levels and the world feels mighty fine. Spoos are a few ticks from record highs and the Nikkei is moeteimasu!! So much for the endless stream of comments suggesting that because of a Gold crash all leverage will be purged from the system. Yes gold collapsed. And since 2010, Gold has consistently traded above spoos, sometimes by hundreds of points. But this is a crash back to reality - a cathartic move that is importantly NOT a sign of global deflationary Armageddon. Its a sign that a bunch of misguided hyperinflation focused investors were carted out. FINALLY!† In fact, most of the old spoo haters from 2009-2011 stopped out of their 600 forecasts and turned towards 10,000 gold forecasts. Deflationists turned hyerinflatioists in an instant. These people are simply not happy unless something is blowing up!! And of course the only thing thus far that has truly blown up is their pnl. This is very similar to the argument that we made at the time, that the gold crash was about rebuking the anti-human collapsist nonsense that has been predominating. And Zervos is of course right about the deflationists becoming hyperinflationists. There are just some folks who can't accept that governments can act to address a market without it all ending in some catastrophe.
AP ImagesOn Tuesday (April 23), a tweet from a hacked Associated Press account claiming there had been explosions at the White House sent the¬†Dow Jones¬†Industrial Average plummeting 145 points almost instantaneously. The incident was an example of how quickly the Internet can send shock waves through the financial world, given how many trades are completed by computers rather than humans. But new research finds the financial world doesn't just respond to the Internet; the Internet can also predict what the¬†stock market¬†will do. The research isn't the first to find such online clairvoyance. For example,¬†Google¬†may even be able to¬†predict medication side effects¬†before doctors can, thanks to people's tendencies to self-diagnose using the search engine. Google searches can also forecast the¬†spread of the flu. The new study, however, takes the extra step of testing out how well stock-buying would go, usingGoogle¬†search trends as guidance. The result: a pretty nice return. Googling the markets University of Warwick Business School researcher¬†Tobias Preis¬†and colleagues had previously found a correlation between the number of Google searches for a company's name and the number of times that company's stock was bought and sold. However, that method couldn't predict a stock's price. [The 10 Most Disruptive Technologies] Now, Preis and his colleagues have turned to broader search trends to try to predict the whole stock market's movements. Using publicly available data on search terms from¬†Google Trends, the researchers tracked 98 terms, many of them finance- or economics-related, such as "debt," "crisis" and "derivatives" from 2004 to 2011. They then compared the searches to the closing prices of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, a major stock-market index. To test whether the terms searched in the week prior to any given closing day could predict the Dow Jones, the researchers invented a pretend investing game. If searches for¬†financial terms¬†went down, they opted to buy stocks and take a "long" position, holding on to the stocks and waiting for their value to go up. If searches for financial terms went up, the researchers instead chose to "short" the market ‚Äî a strategy that allows buyers to sell stocks they don't own, with the understanding that they will buy the stocks later at a lower price ‚Äî in essence, gambling that the¬†stocks are going to fall¬†in value. Worried searchers The reasoning behind the game was simple. If people get anxious about the stock market, they will likely seek out information on financial issues before trying to dump their stock. Thus, finance-related Google searches should go up before a stock market decline. That's exactly what the researchers found: An uptick in¬†Google searches¬†on finance terms reliably predicted a fall in stock prices. "Debt" was the most reliable term for predicting market ups and downs, the researchers found. By going long when "debt" searches dropped and shorting the market when "debt" searches rose, the researchers were able to increase their hypothetical portfolio by 326 percent. (In comparison, a constant buy-and-hold strategy yielded just a 16 percent return.) "Trends to sell on the financial market at lower prices may be preceded by¬†periods of concern," the researchers write today (April 25) in the journal Scientific Reports. "During such periods of concern, people may tend to gather more information about the state of the market. It is conceivable that such behavior may have historically been reflected by increased Google Trends search volumes for terms of higher financial relevance." Nevertheless, the average day-trader might find the strategy tough to implement, Preis said.¬† "This is something I wouldn't recommend to do without testing this very carefully," Preis told LiveScience. For one thing, markets have a tendency to adapt. If everyone starts using Google search terms to try to game the system, the strategy will become less effective.¬† For another, the financial terms used by the researchers may no longer be the best predictors of how buyers and sellers are feeling.¬† "You would need to find a way to identify, on the fly and in real time, what are the emerging topics that are relevant to markets?" Preis said.¬† The findings are scientifically "truly exciting," Preis said, because they have implications far beyond the stock market. Online chatter could help predict disease spread, civil unrest and political elections, he said. And Google is only the beginning, he added. Wikipedia, for example, provides open-source information on how many people view specific articles hour-by-hour, making the online encyclopedia another potential predictor of stock markets and other real-life behavior.¬† Follow Stephanie Pappas on¬†Twitter¬†and¬†Google+. Follow us¬†@livescience,¬†Facebook¬†&amp;¬†Google+. Original article on LiveScience.com. Copyright 2013¬†LiveScience, a TechMediaNetwork company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Wikimedia Commons/ Andreas PraefckeA well-connected Wall Street trader told Business Insider that when he wants to talk shop over dinner he goes to the Olive Garden.¬† Yes, the Olive Garden.¬† It makes perfect sense, though. No one would ever expect it and it's a great way to avoid all those prying eyes and ears. He goes to the 23rd Street location in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood, but the Times Square location would also work well, especially since it's mostly tourists dining there anyway.¬† Oh, and there's the extra bonus of the all you can eat soup/salad and bread sticks.¬†
Shares of controversial electric car maker Tesla are up 2% today, and hitting a new 52-week high. Stockcharts.com Tesla is one of the most hated companies there is, as people think it will inevitably flop. Its recent financing initiative was panned as gimmicky. But the stock market doesn't lie. So naturally CEO Elon Musk is trolling the haters on Twitter. Seems to be some stormy weather over in Shortville these days
If commodity prices weaken further, I will have to reassess this outlook, especially if the dollar continues to strengthen. There is a strong inverse correlation between the y/y percent changes in the CRB index and the JP Morgan trade-weight dollar index. A strong dollar tends to decrease the demand for many commodities that are priced in dollars. A strong dollar also depresses the value of profits earned abroad by US companies. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing:The Pits and the Pendulum. (1) Dr. Copper isn‚Äôt the only economist in the commodity pits. (2) CRB spot price index less volatile. (3) World exports and production rose to record highs in January. (4) The relationship between S&amp;P 500 revenues, commodity prices, and the dollar. (5) Germany‚Äôs Ifo dipping. (6) US capital goods orders slowing. (7) China not as weak as Dr. Copper suggests. (8) Underweight-rated Materials may be oversold. (9) Focus on overweight-rated Industrials, especially enablers of factory automation. (More for subscribers.)
YouTubeI‚Äôm finishing up teaching an undergraduate course on Personal Finance this month, for which I find the assigned textbook totally useless, so I am on a quest to come up with a useful book to recommend for students as well as Bankers Anonymous readers. What‚Äôs useful The most impressive strength of Master Math: Business and Personal Finance Math¬†by Mary Hansen is that it cuts out all the (mostly) banal ‚Äòadvice‚Äô of a personal finance book, and concentrates instead on how to do the calculations.¬† The math level never rises beyond algebra, which frankly is all anyone needs to know, in order to competently manage their personal or small business finances. I find this a useful guide for a ‚ÄòDo-It-Yourselfer,‚Äô or a person intent on learning exactly how car loan companies calculate APR vs. APY, or insurance companies quote term life insurance.¬† A CFO for a small business or non-profit would also likely benefit from this useful introductory reference. I‚Äôve frequently paid but never personally calculated FICA taxes, for example, and it‚Äôs somewhat satisfying to learn how straightforward the math is.¬† I have personally prepared business balance sheets and budgets, debt to equity ratios, and tracked profitability, but the straightforward presentation would be useful to others who have not done so before, but who need to learn. What‚Äôs missing Missing from Master Math, however, is my personal pet project: Understanding discounted cashflows and compound interest ‚Äì the keys to good personal finance decisions.¬† While the author presents a ‚Äòcompound interest‚Äô table and defines the term (in contradistinction to simple interest), a table does not really cut it. The limitations of print media for personal finance math Reading the book this week has inspired a new thought, however, of which I‚Äôm increasingly convinced. Personal finance and small business math, while not complicated, requires fluency with a spreadsheet program like Excel. Master Math offers good, but somewhat convoluted algebraic formulas to calculate answers.¬† In print, the author cannot show the dynamic changes in personal finance outcomes from changes in variables. Properly set up in a spreadsheet like Excel, by contrast, a change in loan interest rate, for example, alters every monthly payment as well as the total cost of a loan.¬† A small change in automatic monthly withholding, for example, changes everything when it comes to long-term retirement savings. ¬†Only by seeing the dynamic effects, I think, can we understand what control we can have over personal financial decisions and outcomes. What is the right media? I know Khan Academy has changed everything when it comes to math pedagogy.¬† Although I enjoyed Master Math, I‚Äôm also sure personal and small business math has to be taught, and learned, through a combination of video, practice problem sets, and acquired fluency with Excel.¬† Static text on a page isn‚Äôt enough. This is something I‚Äôd like to work on over the next few years.  ¬† Post read (81) times. Thanks for visiting Bankers Anonymous. Be sure to sign-up for my newsletter so you never miss what's happening on my site. You can also connect with me on Facebook and Twitter to keep the conversation going. Tags: algebra, compound interest, discounted cashflows, finance math, personal finance
jurvetson / FlickrThe Kansas City Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturing conditions is out. The headline index was unchanged from last month at -5. Economists were looking for a rise to -1. In other words, the regional economy continues to contract at a moderate pace this month. Below is the full text from the release: Tenth District manufacturing activity continued to fall modestly, at a pace similar to last month, and producers‚Äô expectations moderated while still remaining positive overall. Of the firms that reported optimism on future activity, several cited new product opportunities and pent up demand as key reasons for a more positive outlook. However, other firms noted their outlook has deteriorated since the beginning of the year. Most price indexes decreased somewhat or were relatively unchanged from the previous month.  The month-over-month composite index was -5 in April, equal to -5 in March but up from -10 in February (Tables 1 &amp; 2, Chart). The composite index is an average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes. Durable goods-producing plants reported a smaller decline in activity, but production at nondurable-goods plants fell after increasing last month, particularly for food and plastics products. Most other month-over-month indexes improved somewhat. The production index edged higher from -1 to 1, and the shipments index also increased, with both indexes moving into positive territory for the first time in 8 months. The employment index rebounded from -15 to -3, and the order backlog index also rose. The new orders and new orders for exports indexes were basically unchanged. Both inventory indexes fell further into negative territory after increasing last month.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes declined. The composite year-over-year index fell from -1 to -6, and the production, shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also decreased. The capital expenditures index moderated but remained positive, and the employment index fell into negative territory for the first time since October 2010. The new orders for exports index declined from -3 to -12, its lowest level in nearly four years. The raw materials inventory index edged down from -6 to -11, and the finished goods inventory index fell back into negative territory.  Most future factory indexes decreased after improving last month, but still remained positive. The future composite index fell from 14 to 4, and the future production and shipments indexes declined to four-year lows. The future new orders index dropped from 30 to 9, and the future order backlog and capital expenditures indexes also decreased. The future employment index moderated from 12 to 8 after increasing last month. The raw materials inventory index fell from -2 to -7, and the finished goods inventory index also eased somewhat.  Most price indexes moderated slightly or were unchanged from the previous month. The month-over-month raw materials price index declined from 19 to 7, while the finished goods price index was unchanged at -1. The year- over-year raw materials and finished goods price indexes eased slightly. The future raw materials price index remained stable at 38, while the future finished goods price index inched higher, indicating more firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers. Here is what the survey respondents are saying: Click here for the full release &gt;
Remember that fake AP tweet sent out by hackers that caused a mini market crash for a few minutes on Tuesday afternoon? Deutsche Bank derivatives strategist Jens Johansen and his team say the market reaction revealed a "new reality" for gold. In a note to clients, Johansen writes: On Tuesday around 1:08pm a hacked tweet from a well-followed news agency appeared suggesting explosions White House. Markets across the board spiked down and recovered quickly as the tweet was confirmed hacked ñ well nearly across the board. Gold was a notable exception (see Figure 1 on page 2). While equity fell around a percent and the dollar strengthened just shy of that against the yen, for example, gold barely budged. Moreover, our chart which shows prices at 1 minute increments shoe in exaggerated fashion that gold responded last. We feel this lends significant support to our commodities strategistsí view that there is a new reality for gold. Their current view is that gold ought to stabilize around 1300 (just about 10% below todayís level). The chart below shows the reaction of gold to the fake tweet versus that of other markets. Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP
APGoogle IrelandOn Tuesday (April 23), a tweet from a hacked Associated Press account claiming there had been explosions at the White House sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeting 145 points almost instantaneously. The incident was an example of how quickly the Internet can send shock waves through the financial world, given how many trades are completed by computers rather than humans. But new research finds the financial world doesn't just respond to the Internet; the Internet can also predict what the stock market will do. The research isn't the first to find such online clairvoyance. For example, Google may even be able to predict medication side effects before doctors can, thanks to people's tendencies to self-diagnose using the search engine. Google searches can also forecast the spread of the flu. The new study, however, takes the extra step of testing out how well stock-buying would go, using Google search trends as guidance. The result: a pretty nice return. Googling the markets University of Warwick Business School researcher Tobias Preis and colleagues had previously found a correlation between the number of Google searches for a company's name and the number of times that company's stock was bought and sold. However, that method couldn't predict a stock's price. Now, Preis and his colleagues have turned to broader search trends to try to predict the whole stock market's movements. Using publicly available data on search terms from Google Trends, the researchers tracked 98 terms, many of them finance- or economics-related, such as "debt," "crisis" and "derivatives" from 2004 to 2011. They then compared the searches to the closing prices of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, a major stock-market index. To test whether the terms searched in the week prior to any given closing day could predict the Dow Jones, the researchers invented a pretend investing game. If searches for financial terms went down, they opted to buy stocks and take a "long" position, holding on to the stocks and waiting for their value to go up. If searches for financial terms went up, the researchers instead chose to "short" the market ‚Äî a strategy that allows buyers to sell stocks they don't own, with the understanding that they will buy the stocks later at a lower price ‚Äî in essence, gambling that the stocks are going to fall in value. Worried searchers The reasoning behind the game was simple. If people get anxious about the stock market, they will likely seek out information on financial issues before trying to dump their stock. Thus, finance-related Google searches should go up before a stock market decline. That's exactly what the researchers found: An uptick in Google searches on finance terms reliably predicted a fall in stock prices. "Debt" was the most reliable term for predicting market ups and downs, the researchers found. By going long when "debt" searches dropped and shorting the market when "debt" searches rose, the researchers were able to increase their hypothetical portfolio by 326 percent. (In comparison, a constant buy-and-hold strategy yielded just a 16 percent return.) "Trends to sell on the financial market at lower prices may be preceded by periods of concern," the researchers write today (April 25) in the journal Scientific Reports. "During such periods of concern, people may tend to gather more information about the state of the market. It is conceivable that such behavior may have historically been reflected by increased Google Trends search volumes for terms of higher financial relevance." Nevertheless, the average day-trader might find the strategy tough to implement, Preis said.¬† "This is something I wouldn't recommend to do without testing this very carefully," Preis told LiveScience. For one thing, markets have a tendency to adapt. If everyone starts using Google search terms to try to game the system, the strategy will become less effective.¬† For another, the financial terms used by the researchers may no longer be the best predictors of how buyers and sellers are feeling.¬† "You would need to find a way to identify, on the fly and in real time, what are the emerging topics that are relevant to markets?" Preis said.¬† The findings are scientifically "truly exciting," Preis said, because they have implications far beyond the stock market. Online chatter could help predict disease spread, civil unrest and political elections, he said. And Google is only the beginning, he added. Wikipedia, for example, provides open-source information on how many people view specific articles hour-by-hour, making the online encyclopedia another potential predictor of stock markets and other real-life behavior.¬† Follow Stephanie Pappas on Twitter¬†and Google+. Follow us @livescience, Facebook¬†&amp; Google+. Original article on LiveScience.com.
Here's a cool chart that comes to us from Deutsche Bank's "Equity House View" report.† It captures the most productive businesses at the big investment banks as measured by revenue per employee. As you can see in the upper right corner, trading the interest rates of the biggest countries in the world is a major moneymaker. However, Deutsche Bank warns that it's also a segment that will get hit hard by regulation. "We think that G10 Rates (predominantly swaps and swaptions) is the most affected area," they write. "We expect pre-and-post trade transparency and the shift to electronic venues to markedly reduce what was the largest revenue source for the investment banking industry in 2012." Deutsche Bank
Bloomberg made the relationship between Wall Street and Twitter official when it added a Twitter application to its ubiquitous terminal. Earlier this week, we saw how important Twitter is to markets too, when a false AP Tweet claiming the White House had been attacked and that President Obama was injured sent the market into a tailspin. And just as quickly as the market sold off, it stabilized when the truth was discovered. So our questions is: Are traders using Bloomberg's Twitter platform for those crazy rides? Or are they still getting their information from trader chats, or using other Twitter clients to keep track of what people are talking about? You tell us.
Bernard Pollack via FlickrAFT President Randi WeingartenThe American Federation of Teachers, a labor union that represents teachers, is going after a bunch of hedge funders who support education reform.† Last week, the AFT†released a "watch list"†of hedge funds they think are "attacking" their defined benefit plans (DB plans) through their support of various educational reform groups.† Typically, education reform groups advocate replacing DB plans with defined contribution plans to lower costs for schools. That doesn't sit well with powerful teachers unions. That's why last week AFT's president Randi Weingarten circulated a report called "Ranking Asset Managers" to pension trustees who invest in hedge funds.† The AFT's report names hedge funders who support education reform organizations that go after their DB plans, while at the same soliciting investments from teachers pensions.† A total of 33 asset managers were named.†There were big names on the so-called "watch list", including†David Tepper†(Appaloosa Management),†Cliff Asness†(AQR),†Paul Singer†(Elliott Management),†Henry Kravis†(KKR),†Daniel Loeb†(Third Point),†Julian Robertson†(Tiger Management) and†Paul Tudor Jones†(Tudor Investments), just to name a few.† The report states that the AFT "is committed to shining a bright light on organizations that harm public sector workers, especially when those organizations are financed by individuals who earn their money from the deferred wages of our teachers."† The education reform organizations named in the report include, Students First, the Manhattan Institute and the Show-Me Institute. The†general sense that Business Insider's gotten from speaking to folks in the hedge fund space is that this list is sending a broader signal that "You might be next."† The AFT document explicitly states that it's not intended for "one-time publication" and that other donors and organizations will be included in future reports.† One money manager, who wished to remain anonymous, commented that the AFT's actions may intimidate some money managers into adopting a lower profile, while others view their inclusion on the list as a "badge of honor." Some view the AFT's actions as being "thuggish."† Union pension funds control enormous amounts of capital, so being on their blacklist could really hit money managers in their pocketbooks. "It looked like this was an attack on any investment professional intended to scare away potential investors and try to get existing investors who are teachers' pension funds, which are huge investors...trying to get them to divest from some of these funds who supported Students First, the Manhattan Institute and the Show-Me Institute," another hedge fund source, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, told Business Insider.† This source felt the AFT list was a low blow, aggressive and personally targeted. †† "The report attacks firms with the explicit intent of scaring away existing or potential limited partners on the basis of the political views of their individual employees, which is kind of McCarthyist at heart,"†our source told us. We reached out to the AFT multiple times for comment. †We will update this piece as warranted if we hear back.† Hedge Funders Taking The Heat Reuters/ Steve MarcusDaniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC.Of all of the fund managers named in the AFT report, Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, has probably been targeted the most. For Loeb, the criticism started a couple weeks ago with a scathing Matt Taibbi article in†Rolling Stone. In his piece, Taibbi said that Loeb solicits the business of pension funds, but betrays them through his involvement with Students First. According to the article, Taibbi asked Loeb for a comment, but didn't hear back. Then, last week, Loeb also†cancelled a panel appearance†at the Council of Institutional Investors in D.C. after Weingarten and union leaders threatened to confront him. He was also mentioned in several media reports ó one New York Post headline even said, "Flunk You, Loeb!"†over his involvement with Students First. †He is on the board of the New York chapter. "Contrary to reports, I have never taken a position against DB plans nor has any philanthropic organization I lead. In fact, my support for and contribution to DB Plans is demonstrated by maximizing returns for union members who rely on us to deliver their pension goals," Loeb wrote in a letter to the CII. Another big hedge funder, Cliff Asness, who runs AQR, was also named on the AFT's list for his involvement as a trustee of the Manhattan Institute.† "AQR helps many defined-benefit plans achieve their investment objectives.† It is critical that defined-benefit plans survive and thrive to provide secure retirements for their beneficiaries," the firm said in a statement. † Fiduciary Responsibilities The other issue here is that the AFT is seeking to punish the hedge fund firms because of the political viewpoints of individual partners and managers, our hedge fund source explained. "Investment committees are beholden to pick investment managers based on how their strategy helps a pension fund achieve a return necessary for the pensioners, irrespective of the portfolio manager's philanthropic activities, political affinities, or personal lifestyle choices,"†a consultant to family offices, pension funds, and expert on portfolio construction told Business Insider. Hedge fund managers who manage the pensions' money have the responsibility to support the best and safest returns for them. Their job is not to support the political objectives of teachers' unions, our hedge fund source explained. What teachers pensions want to do about defined benefits is up to them, but what hedge fund managers advocating for reform do care about is "doing the right thing for the public schools to improve them," †our hedge fund source said. "I worry that the AFT is kind of becoming the NRA of the left. It has so much power," the hedge fund source added. Hedge Funds Investing In Educational Reform CNBCWhitney TilsonSo why do hedge fund managers care so much about education reform? † We reached out to hedge funder Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital. †Tilson is viewed as a leader in the education reform space. He even helped Wendy Kopp launch Teach For America.† People from all across the investment community have been involved in educational reform efforts, not just NYC hedge funds. But there are a couple of specific reasons why hedge funders are passionate about educational reform, Tilson told us. First, because they're investors it's only natural that they would look for higher return on investments.† "I think it's because investors look for higher return on investments, high ROI investments. The old saying about 'You give a man a fish and he eats for a day. You teach a man to fish and he eats for a lifetime,' education is just so obviously one of the key leverage points for changing the trajectories of individual lives or entire communities if you can improve the education," Tilson told Business Insider. †† The other reasons, he explained, are generational, and/or also have to do with social networking.† In the previous generation, people would join the board of the Met, or Lincoln Center, or something like that. Then they would invite their friends and it became the thing to do. Tilson went to college with the generation that started Teach For America.† "It's not just a money management/Wall Street thing versus other industries. It's also a generational thing."† By generational, Tilson explained that it's people in their 20s, especially their 30s and 40s versus people in their 60s. He noted that there are some folks such as Julian Robertson who have been very supportive of education reform. As Teach For America has become widely known, people are now just more familiar and this generation has grown up around this issue of education reform.† "It's a natural area for our philanthropy," Tilson said.†
Here's a snapshot of the financial markets since the beginning of the year (and the beginning of the month) via Deutsche Bank's "Equity House View" report. Not surprisingly, gold is the biggest loser.¬† And thanks to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo "Abenomics" Abe, the Nikkei is the top performer and the yen is a major loser. Deutsche Bank
Flickr/pbranzUMass' Sam, The MinutemanSo far, the the stock market has avoided the spring slumped it had experienced during the past three years. This has happened even despite the deterioration in much of the global economic data. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations asked around to see what traders thought was behind this (emphasis added): Is This The Reinhart/Rogoff Rebuttal Rally? ‚Äì Two weeks ago, the financial world seemed to be a much different place. Stock markets on three continents were sputtering and appeared to be on the verge of a Spring swoon.¬† Gold, oil, copper, and a variety of other commodities appeared to be in virtual freefall.¬† Economic data around the globe seemed to weaken noticeably and universally.¬† Deflation was a key topic. Now markets around the globe are displaying a new buoyancy.¬† Yields on government bonds have fallen to stunning lows as bidders outdo each other at auctions of what was recently looked upon as sovereign debt with near-junk status. What has changed things in the last two weeks? Some point to growing optimism that Italy might finally be able to form a government.¬† Others cite the fact that the G20 appeared to give the BOJ a hall pass on their re-inflation efforts. A few even point to Merkel slipping in the polls, possible decreasing the power of the "austerity first" crowd. Some traders, however, think that the new rally really kicked in when news that a graduate student had found flaws in the Reinhart/Rogoff paper on the limiting power of public debt on the economy ‚Äì thus casting doubt on that thesis. As the rebuttal made headlines, markets rallied ‚Äì especially in Europe ‚Äì as cries that austerity had seen its day came from leader after leader. Was it really the rebuttal that moved markets?¬† We may never be able to prove it conclusively but the timing seems like a perfect fit.¬† Maybe we should ask a graduate student to look into this. Cashin is talking about UMass grad student Thomas Herndon, who has basically turned the global austerity movement into a joke.
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesVery nice. Initial jobless claims for the past week fell to 339K from an upwardly revised 455K last week. Analysts had expected 350K, so this is a big beat. Initial jobless claims give us a nice, real-time look at the state of the labor market. So although there have been some worries that the economy is deteriorating again, this number does not corroborate that. The lowest point for the economic cycle is 332K, so this is good.
The librarians at the new George W. Bush presidential center should buy this book on Amazon: The Great Recession: Market Failure or Policy Failure by Robert Hetzel. The author, a Richmond Fed economist, persuasively argues the nasty downturn and ensuing Financial Crisis were caused by the Federal Reserveís overly tight monetary policy in 2008. The Great Recession was a minor replay of the Great Depression, which most economists also blame on the Fed ñ including its boss today, Ben Bernanke. In the 1930s, it was Wall Street and the Hoover Republicans that earned public opprobrium. So too, most Americans blame the 2007-2009 unpleasantness on the Bush Republicans and the bankers. The dedication of the Bush library is as good a time as any for some mythbusting. Hetzelís key insight: Not only did the Fed leave rates alone between April 2008 and October 2008 as the economy deteriorated, but central bankers ìeffectively tightened monetary policyî in June by pushing up the expected path of the federal funds rate through hawkish statements. Without the Fedís foul up, the housing slump might have led to a mild downturn at worst and no financial collapse. Indeed, from the end of the peak of the housing market through April 2008, the unemployment rate was virtually unchanged. FRED If the U.S. were like Mexico, President Bushís big-picture, macroeconomic reputation might be viewed much differently. Mexican presidents serve single, six-year presidential terms. And Bushís six-year economic record, from 2001 through 2006, was OK, actually. GDP growth was 2.7%, roughly at trend. And although job growth was anemic, the average unemployment rate was 5.4% ó a level that Obama White House economists consider a healthy economyís natural rate. Why werenít those pre-recession years stronger, particularly the labor market? Some possibilities: 1. The 2000 bursting of the Internet stock bubble and resulting mild 2001 recession. 2. Uncertainty from 9-11 terror attacks and the Iraq War buildup. 3. Simple mean reversion: The Clinton boom and bubble years were balanced off by a flat recovery after the mild 2001 downturn. 4. Globalization and automation cost 4 million manufacturing jobs between 1999 and 2007. (These trends also explain much of the three-decade rise in income inequality.) The Bush administration policy response was actually more or less the right one: Reform education, entitlements, healthcare, and the tax code. Some plans never got off the drawing board, others died on Capitol Hill, still others didnít work quite as well as hoped. Katrina and the war consumed massive amounts of political capital. The Bush administration did make some key mistakes, particularly in adding to Bill Clintonís housing miscues. As AEIís Peter Wallison has put it: ìRegulators, in both the Clinton and Bush administrations, were the enforcers of the reduced lending standards that were essential to the growth in home ownership and the housing bubble.î The point here isnít a Bush restoration or to nudge W up a couple of spots on some Ivy League historianís presidential ranking. The Bushies can handle that task themselves. Rather, itís so America draws the proper lessons from the Bush years: Free markets arenít fragile. But a free-market economy works best when it operates against a stable monetary background. Bush didnít fail America. The Fed failed Bush ó and us.
Quartz Quartz Quartz Quartz Quartz Quartz More from Quartz: Click here¬†to sign up for¬†the¬†Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with¬†the¬†latest intelligence on¬†the¬†new global economy
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Robert Galbraith / ReutersSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Zynga Inc's management on Wednesday pleaded for more time for its turnaround effort after the online game maker forecast a steeper-than-expected loss for the current quarter, sending its shares lower. The embattled publisher behind games such as "FarmVille" and "Words With Friends" reported a surprise profit for its latest quarter through steep cost-cutting, but Chief Executive Mark Pincus said Zynga's business, although stabilized, may not pick up until the latter half of the year. The company also reported a 13 percent slide in monthly figures for the number of people playing its games. "We know that 2013 is a year of transition," Pincus told analysts on a conference call. "We continue to expect non-linear, uneven results." On an adjusted basis, Zynga reported earnings of 1 cent per share, beating analyst expectations of a loss of 4 cents per share. But the company also projected a second-quarter loss between 3 and 5 cents per share, exceeding the 1 cent per share loss analysts had expected. The results and Zynga's forecast sent its shares 9 percent lower to $3.05 in extended trading. Over the past 12 months, Zynga's shares have shed two-thirds of their value while investors have watched the company struggle to keep hold of gamers who once flocked to its games on Facebook Inc's website. "While we recognize the decline in the user base on a macro level, we have the pipeline coming down," Barry Cottle, the company's chief revenue officer, said in an interview. "That's going to happen over a period of time, not something that happens in a quarter." The company aims to build up its business with gamers on smartphones as it loses users on PCs, but doubts remain over whether this can sustain its revenues and profits. In recent months, Zynga and Facebook have revised their business partnership, as the game company sought to establish a more independent network even at the risk of getting less visitor traffic from the social media giant. Over the past year, Zynga's monthly players have fallen to 253 million from 292 million, while its number of monthly paying users shrank to 2.5 million from 3.5 million, the company said. "The stock is down because of the guidance," said Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia. But in the long term, he added: "We continue to think that any hope for real growth for this nebulous company really depends on what it can do in real-money gaming." REAL-MONEY POTENTIAL In past quarters, Zynga has promised investors that it could tap into a potentially lucrative new revenue stream by launching real-money casino games around the world. The effort kicked off in the last quarter in Britain, where such games are highly regulated. But executives on Wednesday stayed largely mum about the progress of its real-money inroads in other markets, saying that it could be at least months before Zynga could begin any meaningful operations in the United States, where real-money gambling is illegal in many states. "We can't tell you when the regulatory environment will let us test that audience," Pincus said. Other analysts said it was unrealistic to consider the talk about real-money gaming as anything but a long-shot for the coming years. "They're kind of in dream mode here as they go through the process of trying to materialize the business," said Mike Hickey, an analyst at National Alliance Capital Markets. "They started with partnering in the UK market, which is probably at least a year from ever being material." Zynga executives blamed their eroding user base on gamers abandoning computers for mobile devices, but pledged to recapture the market once it releases its slate of mobile games due out later this year. In the meantime, the company will continue to rely on its brand-name franchises, such as its aging but still-robust "FarmVille" series, to generate sales from both mobile and desktop users. Executives argued that Zynga, which has been the most popular game publisher for Apple Inc's iPhone, would be better placed than rivals with its independent gaming network to generate game downloads. "Discoverability becomes such an important factor in how apps are found," Cottle said. "If you look at challenges in mobile, it gives us a distribution advantage in the marketplace." Still, it was unclear if the company would be able to wring as much revenue from mobile users as it had from desktop gamers, analysts said. "The majority of their games are lower-monetizing experiences on mobile platforms," Hickey said. "Certainly they've attracted a large audience but it's hard to get much money from that audience." The company now derives 22 percent of its revenue from its mobile platform, compared with 12 percent a year ago, but that share remains modest compared with similarly sized technology companies such as Twitter Inc, which gets more than half of its revenue from mobile users. On Wednesday, Zynga reported revenue of $263.6 million, down 18 percent from the year-ago quarter. For the full year, the company projected that it could be narrowly profitable. "If we launch the right games and get the right sort of engagement, there's an opportunity that revenues will go up as well," Chief Financial Officer Mark Vranesh said. "2013 is going to be bumpy. It's going to be hard to predict." (Reporting By Gerry Shih and Malathi Nayak; Editing by Leslie Adler, David Gregorio and Edmund Klamann) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Quick heads up: Everything is rallying. Here's a look at various currencies, metals, futures and indices via FinViz. FinViz
AP / Paul SakumaVerizon CEO Lowell McAdamNEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Verizon Communications has hired advisers to prepare a possible $100 billion cash and stock bid to take full control of Verizon Wireless from its partner Vodafone, two people familiar with the matter said. Verizon, which already owns 55 percent of the company, which is the biggest U.S. wireless carrier, has not put a proposal to Vodafone yet but it has hired both banking and legal advisers for a possible bid, the sources said. Verizon, which has made little secret of its wish to buy out its British joint venture partner, has ramped up the pressure in recent months, and London-based analysts and investors interpreted the latest move as an attempt to force Vodafone in to serious talks. The two sides have previously held high level talks to discuss possible options for their holding, another person familiar with the situation has told Reuters. The sources said Verizon was now ready to push aggressively for a deal. It hopes to start discussions with Vodafone soon for a friendly agreement but is prepared to take a bid public if the British company does not engage, one of the sources added. "I don't really see this as a surprise," one of Vodafone's 15 largest investors told Reuters, on condition of anonymity. "The talk about this deal has been quite intense recently. We knew that Verizon were definitely a keen buyer and that Vodafone were a keen seller." Vodafone Chief Executive Vittorio Colao has so far said he has an open mind on whether to sell the group's 45 percent stake, which has come to make up around 75 percent of the firm's value in recent years as its core European business suffered. One of the main sticking points to a deal though has been the belief that Vodafone would incur a tax bill of around $20 billion if it sells its holding, meaning Verizon would have to pay a high price to make it worthwhile for Vodafone to walk away. But the sources said any deal would be structured in such a way that the eventual tax bill would likely be $5 billion or less. The news sent shares in the British group up 1.9 percent to 197 pence in early trading on Thursday in a London market down about 0.1 percent. "The tax problem has always been the issue. If a way can be found around that, then it is highly likely that a deal will be done," the top-15 investor said. One other way to avoid the tax issue would be for the two groups to merge, but Verizon said earlier this month that it was not looking to buy or merge with its partner. Verizon, which is benefiting from record low interest rates as well as its own strong stock price, is instead confident that the company can raise about $50 billion of bank financing, the sources said. It plans to pay for the rest of the deal with its own shares, they added. The sources asked not to be named because the discussions are confidential. BOARD ACTIVITY Verizon's board is expected to discuss details of a potential Verizon Wireless buyout next week at a regularly scheduled meeting being held ahead of the company's annual shareholder meeting, one of the sources said. Verizon spokesman Bob Varettoni declined to comment, but pointed to the U.S. telephone company's statement earlier this month, in which it said it would be a willing buyer of Vodafone's share of their Verizon Wireless venture. Vodafone declined to comment. Analysts have said a sale of Verizon Wireless would enable Vodafone to return cash to shareholders, purchase fixed-line assets in Europe or potentially make the company an attractive takeover target for other telecom giants such as AT&amp;T Inc. Shares in Vodafone have risen 26 percent this year on speculation that it could finally be ready to sell its stake, but most analysts had put the value of the Vodafone holding at nearer $120 billion. Taking full ownership would give Verizon, which is reliant on the Verizon Wireless operations for growth, a lot more flexibility with the cash generated from the wireless business. Verizon came close to doing a deal in 2004, when Vodafone tried to buy AT&amp;T Wireless but lost the auction to Cingular. That deal would have allowed Vodafone to bring its brand across the Atlantic and would have required it to sell its 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless. Any deal now, if it were to happen, would come at a time when the telecommunications industry is undergoing a fresh round of consolidation activity. MetroPCS Communications Inc shareholders voted on Wednesday to approve a merger with No.4 U.S. wireless service provider T-Mobile USA, a unit of Deutsche Telekom AG. An earlier attempt by Deutsche Telekom to sell T-Mobile to AT&amp;T for $39 billion in 2011 was blocked by U.S. antitrust regulators. Verizon would be unlikely to face any such obstacles in a Verizon Wireless buyout. Meanwhile, Dish Network Corp, the No.2 U.S. satellite TV provider, last week offered to buy wireless service provider Sprint Nextel Corp for $25.5 billion in cash and stock, challenging a proposed deal between Sprint and Japan's SoftBank Corp. The major changes to the industry mean the U.S. market could become more competitive in the next two years, which might push Vodafone's Colao into a calculation on the right time to sell out. Some analysts believe the Italian, who has won praise for his dealmaking during his almost five years at the top of the group, will try to hold on to the asset for a little longer, until he sees some sign that his core European businesses are starting to stabilize. Verizon's shares have risen about 20 percent so far this year as its wireless business has been easily outperforming its smaller colleagues in terms of profitability and customer growth, and on rising hopes that it will buy the rest of Verizon Wireless. Investors say the conditions for a deal have improved because of Verizon's strong results, its share price gains, and low interest rates. Verizon shares are valued at 17.9 times forward earnings, compared with 11.8 for Vodafone. (Reporting By Soyoung Kim and Sinead Carew in New York, and by Kate Holton and Sinead Cruise in London.; Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Martin Howell and Will Waterman) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 

This is always reassuring. SocGen strategist Albert Edwards remains an ultra-bear, and predicts everything will go to hell. In his new note he writes: We still forecast 450 S&amp;P, sub-1% US 10y yields, and gold above $10,000 My working experience of the last 30 years has convinced me that policymakers‚Äô efforts to manage the economic cycle have actually made things far more volatile. Their repeated interventions have, much to their surprise, blown up in their faces a few years later. The current round of QE will be no different. We have written previously, quoting Marc Faber, that ‚ÄúThe Fed Will Destroy the World‚Äù through their money printing. Rapid inflation surely beckons. But that will not occur without firstly a Japanese-style loss of confidence in policymakers as we dive back into recession and produce dislocative market moves. So yeah, it goes on from there. Lots of doom. This is why everyone loves Albert Edwards.
MADRID (Reuters) - More than six million Spaniards were out of work in the first quarter of this year, raising the jobless rate in the euro zone's fourth biggest economy to 27.2 percent, the highest since records began in the 1970s. The huge sums poured into the global financial system by major central banks have eased bond market pressure on Spain, but the cuts Madrid has made in spending to regain investors' confidence have left it deep in recession. Unemployment - 6.2 million in the first quarter - has been rising for seven quarters and the latest numbers will fuel a growing debate on whether to ease off on the budget austerity which has dominated Europe's response to the debt crisis. "These figures are worse than expected and highlight the serious situation of the Spanish economy as well as the shocking decoupling between the real and the financial economy," strategist at Citi in Madrid Jose Luis Martinez said. The collapse of a property boom driven by cheap credit has seen millions in the construction sector laid off since 2009 and private service sector, worth almost half gross domestic product, has followed as Spaniards tightened purse strings and investment plummeted. The malaise has been made worse by billions of euros in state spending cuts and tax hikes to reduce one of the euro zone's highest deficits and convince nervous markets Spain can control its finances. Spain and Italy's costs of borrowing hit their lowest in more than two years this week and EU officials have begun to talk openly of easing up on deficit targets. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said earlier this week that a new reform plan, to be announced on Friday, would not include more austerity measures in an effort to calm increasingly desperate Spaniards and reassure investors the country will soon be able to grow. Protests have become commonplace across the country and thousands of police have been drafted in to Madrid to handle a march on Parliament on Thursday. But few believe the government's plans will be ambitious enough to restart the ailing economy and create jobs. The International Monetary Fund sees Spanish unemployment at 26.5 percent next year. (Additional reporting by Manuel Maria Ruiz; Editing by Julien Toyer) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
After getting routed early last week, gold has definitely found its footing again. It had a strong night, and is now in the mid $1400s. At its worst point last week, it was just above $1300/oz. Via Kitco: image
One of the sickest economies in the developed world is the UK. But for a brief moment, the country has reason to celebrate. UK GDP for Q1 grew at 0.3% vs. 0.1% expected. That means that for now it has avoided the triple dip recession. This will be a big relief to the government of David Cameron and Finance Minister George Osborne, who have been taking a shellacking with rebukes from the IMF, from the press, from the public, and even the ratings agencies on their economic management. The British Pound, which has been one of the world's weakest currencies, is up huge on the news. Here's a chart (via FinViz) going back several days. The big green bar at the end is today's surge. FinViz Interestingly, despite all the talk about austerity, the big bonus seems to have come from a reversal of government spending. A big swing in the UK GDP numbers was the Govt contribution going from -0.2% in 4Q12 to +0.1% in 1Q13.
YouTube / Margin Call TrailerWe'll get another look into the state of the US economy with two datapoints: One on labor, and one on manufacturing. Via Calculated Risk, they are: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to decrease to 350 thousand from 352 thousand last week. The "sequester" budget cuts might be starting to impact weekly claims.¬† ‚Ä¢ At 11:00 AM, Kansas City Fed regional Manufacturing Survey for April. The consensus is for a reading of minus 1, up from minus 5 in March (below zero is contraction). The regional Fed data has been pretty poor lately, auguring a bad ISM.
APAfter four years of silent obscurity, former President George W. Bush will return the national spotlight Today for the inauguration of his presidential library in Dallas, Texas.¬† When Bush left office back in 2009, he was the politician that everyone in America loved to hate. His approval ratings were in the tank at 33 percent ‚Äî the lowest of any outgoing president since Richard Nixon ‚Äî and just 24 percent of Americans approved of the way he had handled the economic collapse.¬† On the eve of Bush's political comeback tour, however, the American people appear to have largely forgiven and forgotten their issues with Dubya. According to a new Washington Post ABC poll, a full 47 percent of Americans approve of Bush's eight years in office ‚Äî a seven-year high for the much-maligned former President.¬† While those marks still aren't stellar, Bush appears to be having a new moment in the American imagination. From his enigmatic shower paintings to his low-key grandfatherly pride, the 43rd President has shown off his softer, folksier side since leaving office, reminding everyone why they liked him in the first place ‚Äî and even miss him a little bit now.¬†
Wikimedia Commons / Stephan HerzThings have gotten very quiet. Markets are basically doing nothing all around the world. After starting flat, Japan did gain half a percent, hitting a new 5-year high. China fell a bit, but less than 1%. European markets are virtually at the zero line, as are US futures. Later in the day we get initial jobless, which will give us another nice look at the labor market, but that's about it. Again, things feel very different from last week, when we had that mini deflation panic.
