Back in May the word on Wal Street was that Bloomberg reporters were able to access information about users. The scandal has raised questions about what information could be obtained, how often it was accessed, and what exactly reporters did with that information.† Former Bloomberg reporter Dylan Ratigan scoffed at the scandal, saying that it was a joke. Bottom line ó nothing you could see would answer any questions for any reporter. Ratigan explains why. Produced by Business Insider Video
As we rapidly approach the 100 year anniversary of the Federal Reserve (signed into law on December 23, 1913) and the 16th amendment (ushering in that IRS favorite - the income tax) a question arises: what was life like a century ago?  Conveniently, the following infographic breaks down some of the main ways in which life has changed in the past 100 years: from life expectancy, to marriage, education, employment, wages, entertainment, sport, and shopping (we finally find a time when JCPenney was actually popular), all the key ways in which the world and life in the U.S. has changed in the past century are mapped out.¬†  Source: MoneyChoice.org
YouTube / Seinfeld"I was in the pool!"Companies have been buying back stock like crazy lately. Some are even taking advantage of cheap credit to finance† buybacks with borrowed money. Of course, many investors would rather see extra cash reinvested for growth. But with limited opportunities in this slow growth environment and low returns on cash in this low interest rate environment, buybacks have been one of the favored methods for returning wealth to shareholders. With so many companies announcing they would engage in this practice, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco thinks the downside risk to owning stocks in the near-term could be limited. "Robust 1Q buybacks and large authorization reloads suggest 2013 weighted average shares decline 1.5-2%,"†wrote Bianco in a June 9 note to clients. "However, buybacks should be sensitive to share prices. Repurchases at high prices can destroy value. We expect buybacks to limit the downside of any summer dips, but if they lead the market higher it will raise autumn risk." Here's more color on buybacks from Bianco: Shares shrink less than net dollars spent on buybacks of market cap because companies buy shares at higher prices than issued via employee stock option programs and rising stock prices put past option grants further into the money. Buybacks have clearly been the dominant source of inflows into the equity market this year and last. We have always viewed the prospects of a great shrinkage more promising than a great rotation. There is little evidence of monthly QE sums directly leading to equity buying albeit depressed interest rates have helped dividend paying stocks attract income starved investors. Provided long-term interest rates donít rise too much there should be a healthy bid for equities from both corporate and ordinary investors. Indeed, the "great rotation"†ñ the idea that investors would dump bonds for stocks†ñ may go down as one of the more overrated and misunderstood ideas in the market. Here's a chart of buyback announcements and actual buybacks by S&amp;P 500 companies: Deutsche Bank
¬†Raised in the NSA's shadow, a life of disillusionment, a decision to leak secrets... FORT MEADE, Maryland (AP) ‚Äî In the suburbs edged by woods midway between Baltimore and the U.S. capital, residents long joked that the government spy shop next door was so ultra-secretive its initials stood for "No Such Agency." But when Edward Snowden grew up here, the National Security Agency's looming presence was both a very visible and accepted part of everyday life. When Snowden ‚Äîthe 29-year-old intelligence contractor whose leak of top-secret documents has exposed sweeping government surveillance programs ‚Äî went to Arundel High School, the agency regularly sent employees from its nearby black-glass headquarters to tutor struggling math students. When Snowden went on to Anne Arundel Community College in the spring of 1999 after leaving high school halfway through his sophomore year, he arrived on a campus developing a specialty in cybersecurity training for future employees of the NSA and Department of Defense, though, according to the records, he never took such a class. And when Snowden joined friends in his late teens to edit a website built around a shared interest in Japanese animation, they chartered the venture from an apartment in military housing at Fort George G. Meade, the 8-square-mile (21-square-kilometer) installation that houses the NSA center dubbed the Puzzle Palace and calls itself the "nation's pre-eminent center for information, intelligence and cyber." In this setting, it's easy to see how the young Snowden was exposed to the notion of spycraft as a career, first with the Central Intelligence Agency and later as a systems analyst for two companies under contract to the NSA. But details of his early life ‚Äî in the agency's shadows and with both parents working for other branches of the federal government ‚Äî only magnify the contradictions inherent in Snowden's decision to become a leaker. What, after all, did he think he was getting into when he signed up to work for the nation's espionage agencies? And what specifically triggered a "crisis of conscience" ‚Äî as described by a friend who knew him when he worked for the CIA ‚Äî so profound that it convinced him to betray the secrets he was sworn to keep? The latter is a question that even Snowden, in interviews since his disclosures, has answered piecemeal, describing his decisions as the same ones any thoughtful person would make if put in his position. "I'm no different from anybody else," he said in a video interview with The Guardian newspaper, seated with his back to a mirror in what appears to be a Hong Kong hotel room. "I don't have special skills. I'm just another guy who sits there day to day in the office, watches what's happening and goes: This is not our place to decide. The public needs to decide whether these programs and policies are right or wrong." Posts to online blogs and forums, public records and interviews with Snowden's neighbors, teachers and acquaintances reveal someone who prized the American ideal of personal freedom but became disenchanted with the way the government secretly operates in the name of national security. Those who knew him describe him as introspective, but seem puzzled by where the mindset led him. "He's very nice, shy, reserved," Jonathan Mills, the father of Snowden's longtime girlfriend, told The Associated Press outside his home in Laurel, Maryland. "He's always had strong convictions of right and wrong, and it kind of makes sense, but still, a shock." Snowden, who was born in 1983, spent his early years in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, before his family moved to the Maryland suburbs when he was 9. His father, Lonnie, was a warrant officer for the U.S. Coast Guard, since retired. His mother, Elizabeth, who goes by Wendy, went to work for the U.S. District Court in Maryland in 1998 and is now its chief deputy of administration and information technology. An older sister, Jessica, is a lawyer working as a research associate for the Federal Judicial Center in Washington, according to LinkedIn. In the suburbs south of Baltimore, the younger Snowden attended public elementary and middle schools in Crofton. In the fall of 1997, he enrolled at Arundel High School, a four-year school with about 2,000 students. At all three schools, many parents worked for the military, nearby federal agencies and the contractors serving them. But those employed at the NSA were tight-lipped, said Jerud Ryker, a math teacher who retired from Arundel in 1998. He recounted conversations over the years with people who mentioned they worked for the spy agency. "Oh, what do you do?" Ryker says he asked. The answer was always the same: "Nothing that I can talk about." At Arundel, Snowden stayed only through the first half of his sophomore year, a school district spokesman said. Former teachers and classmates interviewed in the days since he surfaced as the leaker said they had no recollection of him. It's not clear why he left. Four years later, in a post Snowden wrote for the anime website jokingly explaining his irritation with cartoon convention volunteers, he wrote: "I really am a nice guy, though. You see, I act arrogant and cruel because I was not hugged enough as a child, and because the public education system turned its wretched, spiked back on me." Years later, he "made a big deal of it (failing to finish high school), just in our everyday conversations," Mavanee Anderson, who met Snowden when they worked together in Switzerland in 2007, said in an interview with MSNBC. "I think he was slightly embarrassed by it." With high school behind him, Snowden registered at the community college, taking for-credit classes from 1999 to 2001 and again from 2003 to 2005, as well as some non-credit classes in between, spokeswoman Laurie Farrell said. Snowden told friends and reporters that he later earned a high school general equivalency diploma. In 2001, Snowden's parents divorced and his father moved to Pennsylvania. The next year his mother bought a gray clapboard-sided condominium in nearby Ellicott City, Maryland., and her son, then 19, moved in by himself. His mother dropped by with groceries from time to time and a girlfriend visited on weekends, said Joyce Kinsey, a neighbor who lives across the street from the unit, where Snowden's mother now resides. Otherwise, Snowden appeared most often by himself, said Kinsey, who recalled seeing him working on a computer through the open blinds "at all times of the day and night," a period that coincided with his work on the anime venture, Ryuhana Press. During this same time, it appears Snowden became a prolific participant in a technology blog, Arstechnica, under the pseudonym TheTrueHOOHA, posting more than 750 comments between late 2001 and mid-2012. In 2002, he posted a query asking for advice about getting an information technology job in Japan and mentioned he was studying Japanese. Later he argued that by pirating poorly made software he was justly punishing companies for their ineptitude. But he also touched on questions of security and privacy. In one October 2003 thread, he asked so many questions about how to hide the identity of his computer server that another discussion participant asked why he was being so paranoid. Snowden's answer: "Patriot Act. If they misinterpret that actions I perform, I could be a cyb4r terrorist and that would be very ... bad." In another post that fall, he mulled the politics of personal identity. "This is entirely dependent on the individual -- as is the definition of freedom. Freedom isn't a word the can be (pardon) freely defined," he wrote. "The saying goes, 'Live free or die,' I believe. That seems to intimate a conditional dependence on freedom as a requirement for happiness." In that discussion, Snowden mentioned that he had identified himself as a Buddhist in paperwork he filled out for the Army. And in May 2004, he enlisted, with aspirations of becoming a Green Beret. "I wanted to fight in the Iraq war because I felt like I had an obligation as a human being to help free people from oppression," he told The Guardian. "Most of the people training us seemed pumped up about killing Arabs, not helping anyone." Snowden reported to Fort Benning, Georgia, in June 2004, where "he attempted to qualify to become a special forces soldier but did not complete the requisite training and was administratively discharged," said an Army spokesman, Col. David H. Patterson Jr. Snowden left the Army at the end of that September. He mentioned on the tech forum that he was discharged after breaking both legs in accident, a detail the Army could not confirm. He returned home, enrolling again in classes at the community college and working through most of 2005 as a security guard at the University of Maryland's Center for Advanced Study of Language, a mile (1.6 kilometers) off campus. The center, affiliated with the Department of Defense, says on its LinkedIn page that it was founded after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to help the intelligence community improve language preparedness. But a university spokesman said the center's work is not classified. When he went public with his decision to leak the NSA's documents, Snowden told interviewers that he studied at Maryland, Johns Hopkins University and the University of Liverpool. A Maryland spokesman, Crystal Brown, said Snowden did not take classes at the school's flagship campus. However, Robert Ludwig, a spokesman for the University of Maryland University College, which offers classes online and at military bases, said Snowden registered for one term in its Asia Division in the summer of 2009, but did not earn a certificate or degree. Johns Hopkins said it had no record of Snowden taking classes. The only possibility, the school said, is that he might have enrolled at a private, for-profit entity that offered career training under the name Computer Career Institute at Johns Hopkins University. The university said it ended its relationship with the training school in 2009 and it had since shut down, making it impossible to check any records. Liverpool said in a statement that Snowden had registered for an online masters' program in computer security in 2011, but never completed it. Snowden has said that he was hired by the CIA to work on information technology security and in 2007 was assigned by the agency to work in Geneva, Switzerland. Anderson, Snowden's friend at the time, made the same assertion. The Swiss foreign ministry confirmed that Snowden lived and worked in Geneva, where it says he was accredited to the United Nations as a U.S. Mission employee from March 2007 to February 2009. Snowden appears to have been well-known among U.S. staff in Geneva, though none of those contacted by the AP would comment about him. But Anderson, who met Snowden when she spent part of 2007 as a legal intern at the mission, said many others can't speak out in his defense, for fear of losing their jobs. In both the cable TV interview and an op-ed piece for Tennessee's Chattanooga Times Free Press, she recalled him fondly as very intelligent ‚Äî and increasingly troubled about his work. "During that time period he did quit the CIA, so I knew that he was having a crisis of conscience of sorts," Anderson said in the TV interview. "But I am still surprised, even shocked. He never gave me any indication that he would reveal anything that was top secret." She could not be reached for additional comment. Snowden told The Guardian he was discouraged by an incident in which he claimed CIA agents tried to recruit a Swiss banker to provide secret information. They purposely got him drunk, Snowden said, and when he was arrested for driving while intoxicated, an agent offered to help as a way to forge a bond. "Much of what I saw in Geneva really disillusioned me about how my government functions and what its impact is in the world," he said. Snowden has said he left the embassy to take a job with private contractors for the NSA ‚Äî first with Dell, the computer company. That work appears to have taken him to multiple locations. Public records show Snowden had a mailing address with the U.S. military in Asia, and he has said that he worked at an NSA installation on a U.S. military base in Japan. His girlfriend, Lindsay Mills, wrote on her blog that the two had fallen in love with Japanese street festivals. By then, Snowden and Mills ‚Äî who was raised in Laurel, Maryland., on the opposite side of Fort Meade from where Snowden grew up ‚Äî had long been a couple, albeit a study in contrasts. The 28-year-old Mills, who earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the Maryland Institute College of Art, styles herself a performer, frequently posting carefully composed photos to a blog and Facebook page, many of them showing her scantily clad, pole dancing and doing acrobatics. A friend of Mills from Laurel High School, Erin Shaw, said that back then Mills was a creative spirit, notable in the photography work they did together on the school newspaper, The Shield. But she also was relatively quiet, making it a surprise that she ended up comfortable as a performer, rather than in an arts-related job behind the camera or backstage, Shaw said. "Lindsay is a wonderful, sweet, caring person who is artistic and beautiful," Shaw said, speaking in the midst of a move from Texas to California. "The idea of caring about state secrets does not occur to me that is anything she would be part of or care about." After Japan, Snowden's work took him back to Maryland. In March 2012, he listed an address in Columbia when he made a donation to the libertarian-leaning U.S. Rep. Ron Paul's campaign for president. But when he made another contribution to the campaign two months later, Snowden listed an address in Hawaii. Mills, his girlfriend, joined him in Hawaii in June of last year, and they settled into a rented blue house on a corner lot fringed with palmettos. Neighbors said the couple were pleasant, quiet and kept to themselves. Angel Cunanan, a 79-year-old doctor who lives next door, said he would wave to them and say hello in the morning. "Sometimes I said, 'Why don't you come in for a cup of coffee?' But they never did," Cunanan said. Cunanan says Snowden said he worked for the military. Another neighbor, Carolyn Tijing, said the couple always left the blinds closed and stacked the garage from floor to ceiling with moving boxes, so high they blocked any view inside. Mills' online posts hint at a happy home life in Hawaii together: pictures of sunsets, time on the beach and his-and-hers cups of Japanese shaved ice. But by January of this year, Snowden secretly was edging forward with a plan to leak NSA documents, contacting documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras with an anonymous offer to share information on U.S. intelligence. The following month he contacted Glenn Greenwald, an American living in Brazil who writes on surveillance issues for The Guardian, as well as Barton Gellman, a reporter for The Washington Post. In March, Snowden switched employers, moving to contractor Booz Allen Hamilton in Hawaii. The company confirmed he was an employee for less than three months, at an annual salary of $122,000. Snowden and Mills prepared for a May 1 move a couple of blocks away, because the owner of the rental wanted to put it up for sale. "E and I received the keys to our next abode yesterday," Mills wrote on her blog on April 15. "We took time to envision what each room could look like once we crammed our things in them. And even discussed hanging silks in the two-story main room." Mills headed back to the East Coast for a visit and when she returned to Hawaii, she wrote, Snowden unexpectedly told her he, too, needed to get away; he told his employer that he needed some time off for medical treatment. On May 20, Snowden flew to Hong Kong. Three weeks later, as intelligence officials raced to control the damage from the NSA leaks, Snowden revealed himself as the person responsible. "When you're in positions of privileged access," Snowden told The Guardian, "you see things that may be disturbing ... until eventually you realize that these things need to be determined by the public ‚Äî not by somebody who is simply hired by the government." ___ Geller reported from New York. AP writers Oskar Garcia and Anita Hofschneider in Hawaii; John Heilprin in Geneva; Kimberly Dozier, Jack Gillum and Jessica Gresko in Washington, D.C.; Emery Dalesio in Raleigh, North Carolina; Brock Vergakis in Elizabeth City, North Carolina; Sylvia Hui in London; and AP researchers Judith Ausuebel, Rhonda Shafner and Monika Mathur in New York contributed to this story. Geller can be reached at features @ ap.org. Follow him on Twitter at http://twitter.com/AdGeller The AP National Investigative Team can be reached at investigate@ap.org Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Getty ImagesIn honor of the U.S. Open golf tournament going on this weekend, we decided show how the biggest name¬†bankers and hedge fund managers stack up against each other the fairway. ¬†¬† We know Wall Street trading floors have probably been changing the channel from financial television to watch the action on the course for the past few days.¬† For our ranking, we combed through the latest handicap data of some of the Street's biggest names compiled by GHIN, a website run by the U.S. Golf Association. We've included a full rundown of Wall Street golfers in the slides that follow. ¬†We also threw in some of the more infamous names who are no longer on the Street. ¬† Some of these golfers are very, very talented, while others could use a bit more practice. Take Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein for instance. He seems to find shooting low-scores a difficult endeavor. Keep in mind, the higher the handicap number, the worse the player is in comparison to others with lower handicaps. Also, JPMorgan's CEO¬†Jamie Dimon¬†doesn't golf.¬†His two predecessors at JPMorgan were members of the prestigious Augusta National Golf Club though.¬†
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Facebook and Microsoft have struck agreements with the U.S. government to release limited information about the number of surveillance requests they receive, a modest victory for the companies as they struggle with the fallout from disclosures about a secret government data-collection program. Facebook on Friday became the first to release aggregate numbers of requests, saying in a blog post that it received between 9,000 and 10,000 U.S. requests for user data in the second half of 2012, covering 18,000 to 19,000 of its users' accounts. Facebook has more than 1.1 billion users worldwide. The majority of those requests are routine police inquiries, a person familiar with the company said, but under the terms of the deal with Justice Department, Facebook is precluded from saying how many were secret orders issued under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Until now, all information about requests under FISA, including their existence, were deemed secret. Microsoft said it had received requests of all types for information on about 31,000 consumer accounts in the second half of 2012. In a "transparency report" Microsoft published earlier this year without including national security matters, it said it had received criminal requests involving 24,565 accounts for all of 2012. If half of those requests came in the second part of the year, the intelligence requests constitute the bulk of government inquiries. Microsoft did not dispute that conclusion. Google said late Friday that it was negotiating with the government and that the sticking point was whether it could only publish a combined figure for all requests. It said that would be "a step back for users," because it already breaks out criminal requests and National Security Letters, another type of intelligence inquiry. Facebook, Google and Microsoft had all publicly urged the U.S. authorities to allow them to reveal the number and scope of the surveillance requests after documents leaked to the Washington Post and the Guardian suggested they had given the government "direct access" to their computers as part of a National Security Agency program called Prism. The disclosures about Prism, and related revelations about broad-based collection of telephone records, have triggered widespread concern and congressional hearings about the scope and extent of the information-gathering. The big Internet companies in particular have been torn by the need to obey U.S. laws that forbid virtually any discussion of foreign intelligence requests and the need to assuage customers. "We hope this helps put into perspective the numbers involved and lays to rest some of the hyperbolic and false assertions in some recent press accounts about the frequency and scope of the data requests that we receive," Facebook wrote on its site. Facebook said it would continue to press to divulge more information. The person familiar with the company said that it at least partially complied with U.S. legal requests 79 percent of the time, and that it usually turned over just the user's email address and Internet Protocol address and name, rather than the content of the person's postings or messages. It is believed that FISA requests typically seek much more information. But it remains unclear how broad the FISA orders might be. Several companies have said they had never been asked to turn over everything from an entire country, for example. However, the intelligence agencies could ask for all correspondence by an account holder, or even all correspondence from the users' contacts. Among the other remaining questions are the nature of court-approved "minimization" procedures designed to limit use of information about U.S. residents. The NSA is prohibited from specifically targeting them. "If they are receiving large amounts of data that they are not actually authorized to look at, the question then becomes what are the procedures by which they determine what they can look at?" said Kevin Bankston, an attorney at the Center for Democracy &amp; Technology. "Do they simply store that forever in case later they are authorized to look at it?" In addition, some legal experts say that recent U.S. laws allow for intelligence-gathering simply for the pursuit of foreign policy objectives, not just in hunting terrorists and spies. Google, Facebook and Microsoft have already directly contradicted the Guardian and Washington Post reports about "direct access" to their servers. Both newspapers have since backtracked, and it now appears that at least some of the companies allowed neither government-controlled equipment on their property nor direct searches without company employees vetting each inquiry. Google has been the most forthright on the technology issue, saying that it provides information only on request via an old-school data-transfer protocol called FTP and that Google legal staff must approve each request. Beyond that, it is now clear that many of the companies have objected, at times strenuously, to both individual requests and the broad sweep of the program. It remains unclear how successful they have been. WRESTLING OVER SECRET ORDERS The initial reports about Prism included an internal NSA slide listing the dates that each of nine companies began allowing Prism data collection, starting with Microsoft in 2007 and Yahoo in 2008. The other companies include Apple, AOL and PalTalk as well as YouTube and Skype, which are owned by Google and Microsoft respectively. Sources familiar with the conversations between the government and the Internet companies say there are frequent disagreements over how to handle specific requests. Only one company, Yahoo, is known to have taken the highly unusual step of appealing an order from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The company argued in 2008 that the order violated the Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable searches and seizures. But U.S. District Judge Bruce Selya, who headed the FISA court's Court of Review, ruled the data collection program did not run afoul of the Bill of Rights. Selya's ruling was published in redacted form, only the second time such a decision had ever been made public. A Justice Department spokesman said it was published at the court's behest, but the executive branch would have had to approve the waiving of secrecy rules. Two days after that, according to the leaked NSA slides, Google joined the Prism data-collection effort. "When Yahoo lost that case, it dissuaded everyone else from going to court," a person at another company told Reuters. "A provider seeing that decision erases the doubt about whether a judge would approve this process," said a former lawyer for Yahoo. Twitter, which has positioned itself as a hard-line defender of free speech and customer privacy, is still not participating in Prism. But people familiar with talks between the tech companies and the government said it will likely be forced to comply. In Twitter's case, as in that of some other companies, the objections have ostensibly been about the technological difficulty in complying with orders and the format in which the information will be shared, people familiar with the situation say. (Reporting by Joseph Menn and Gerry Shih in San Francisco. Additional reporting by Alexei Oreskovic. Editing by Jonathan Weber and Xavier Briand) NOTE: In case this makes you comfortable that the government doesn't have your emails, time to freak out again. The government has been keeping records of your emails since 2000. They're just not getting them from the companies...†
CNBCGoldman Sachs' Abby Joseph CohenDespite elevated volatility in recent weeks, the stock market has rewarded investors who embraced risk in the U.S. since the beginning of the year. Today, Barron's published a report card on the investment recommendations made at its January roundtable. And it's worth noting that of the panelists, only PIMCO's Bill Gross saw all of his recommendations lose value. In case you forgot, Goldman Sachs' Abby Joseph Cohen came out bullish during the roundtable, but Gross fired back calling her forecasts "not only extreme but almost farcical." But only one of Cohen's picks is out of the money. Now, most of the roundtable panelists make clear that their recommendations aren't intended to be short-term trading vehicles. And it's far too early to declare one a winner and the other a loser. But for now, one's a bigger winner while the other's a bigger loser. Here's a tally of Gross' picks' total returns via Barron's: And here are Cohen's: Read the roundtable participants' midyear update at Barrons.com.
But when a wife suddenly invites herself to the show, and not demurely behind or next to her husband, but vocally at the opposite end of where he stands, it causes a stir. In particular if she takes on the nuclear power industry. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, as part of Abenomics, wants to restore the nuclear power industry to its formerly omnipotent glory and bring its reactors back on line that were shut down after the Fukushima fiasco ñ regardless of how many people might oppose it. And there are a lot of them, 58% most recently; only 28% were for it. The survey didnít even include any respondents from Fukushima Prefecture who might have been slightly biased! He also wants to export Japanís wonderfully reliable nuclear technology. Turkey already signed a deal in May for a big plant on its Black Sea coast. The United Arab Emirates signed a nuclear cooperation agreement. Negotiations are going on with customers in Asia. When Abe met with French President Hollande in Tokyo, they too talked about nuclear cooperation. But at a closed-door event organized by a non-profit dedicated to revitalizing regional economies hard-hit by depopulation, his wife, Akie Abe, gave a speech. And a video of the speech has now appeared. ìI am opposed to nuclear power, and my heart aches,î she said. ìI feel bad that Japan is trying to sell nuclear power plants overseas because I am anti-nuclear,î she said. Instead, Japan should redirect ìpart of the money being spent on nuclear powerî to renewable energy projects. And the country should focus on selling Japanese-made clean energy technologies abroad, she said.† Even if it comes at a price. In May, Makoto Yagi, Chairman of the Federation of Electric Power Companies (FEPC), discussed the electricity supply and demand outlook for the summer, a delicate ritual since Fukushima, associated with threats of electricity shortages and rolling blackouts, impossible cut-back targets for electricity use, and visions of sweltering offices. But this time, he was more relaxed ñ thanks to ìthe enormous efforts of all our customers to save electricity which have now taken root,î he said. Instead of draconian cut-back targets of 10% or 20%, he asked for ìa reasonable levelî on business days between July 1 and September 30, ìwith as little impact as possible on the lives of the people and economic activities.î In 2010, nuclear power provided 28.6% of Japanís electricity ñ the recent high was 30.8% in 2005 ñ but following the Fukushima fiasco, the remaining 50 functional reactors were shut down one after the other, and for a few months last year, nuclear energy provided 0%. Then, after two reactors at the Ohi plant were restarted last year, nuclear energy rose to 1.7% of the mix. The rest had to be made up through other sources of power. In 2012, geothermal and ìnew energiesî accounted for 1.6%, hydropower for 8.4%. Thermal power, which used to provide about 60% of the mix, soared to 88.4%, with Liquefied Natural Gas accounting for 42.5%, coal for 27.6%, and petroleum for 18.3%. The cost of fuel more than doubled from •3.7 trillion ($37 billion) in 2010 to •7.8 trillion ($78 billion) in 2012. But even reactors that are off line are expensive to maintain. And they donít produce revenues. Consequently, most of Japanís ten mega-utilities, which have been bleeding copious quantities of red ink, applied for steep rate increases, and now businesses and consumers are paying out of their noses for juice. Then, Chairman Yagi went astray. He said that nuclear power provided ìcheapî electricity. Alas, TEPCO, the owner of the Fukushima nuke, was bailed out by taxpayers. And containing the nuclear catastrophe still playing out in Fukushima, decommissioning whatís left, and decontaminating the area may well end up costing the taxpayer $1 trillion after many decades of work. Part of the cost of nuclear power. So Akie Abe had had enough. She described herself as ìan opposition party within the family.î Which apparently makes for some interesting pillow talk about Abenomics. Itís not always easy. ìWhen (the prime minister) gains power, it gradually becomes difficult for those around him to tell him what he does not want to be told,î she said, but...†îHe had better hear something he does not want to hear.î Maybe she has a sense for money that her husband, whoís fantasizing about the boundless possibilities of printed money, no longer has ñ or never had. Catastrophic nuclear accidents, like Chernobyl or Fukushima, are very rare, weíre told incessantly. But when they occur, theyíre costly. So costly that the French government, when it came up with estimates, kept them secret. But the report was leaked: an accident at a single reactor in a thinly populated part of France could cost over three times Franceís GDP. Read.... Potential Cost Of A Nuclear Accident? So High Itís A†Secret!
Dividends have accounted for over 40% of total returns for stock market investors since 1930. Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus and Matt Naidorf argue that dividend considerations should be a "central component of the investment process." In a recent report to clients, the analysts note that it's a mistake to assume that only mature non-cyclical companies pay dividends. "Of the 500 current members belonging to the S&amp;P 500 index, 411 currently pay a regular dividend (82.20%)," wrote Stoltzfus. "Even smallcap companies, which are traditionally viewed as incipient firms in high growth areas, often pay dividends. Among the 1,978 current members of the Russell 2000 Smallcap Index, 41.15% currently pay regular dividends." It used to be that tech companies were not known for paying dividends because they were too busy reinvesting any extra cash into growth projects. But that no longer is the case. "Investors might be surprised to see that 64.29% of information technology companies pay a regular dividends, and among those payers the current average yield is 2.27%óhigher than the comparable yield for all other cyclical sectors and even higher than healthcare, a classic defensive," said Stoltzfus. Here's a sector by sector breakdown of dividend profiles based on recent data. Oppenheimer †Check out the rise of dividends as the stock market fluctuated. "The ten-year inflation-adjusted CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of dividends paid by the index is 4.33%," Stoltzfus added. Oppenheimer
You know what I'm talking about. Henry Blodget calling a stock a P.O.S in an email. Libor traders slapping each other on the back for rigging the rates via instant messaging. S&amp;P analysts rating cows.¬†Goldman's Fabulous Fab trying to impress a girl by saying he would be the only potential survivor of the coming CDO collapse. The list goes on and on. Those are the more famous instances. There are far more obscure‚Äîand arguably less important‚Äîinstances of Wall Streeters blowing themselves up with help from the Internet. There was the Goldman associate who set up his own blog and was fired for lifting Bloomberg screenshots. Another Goldman associate was secretly a famous sportswriter at Deadspin. A trader at¬†Fortress¬†was fired for emailing a well-known Wall Street blog a picture of one of the firm's traders asleep at his desk. Somehow Wall Street never seems to learn the lessons of these moments. Be careful whom you email. Stay off the work email account for social conversations. Watch what you say. Things that are jokes in context are the stuff of criminal indictments out of context. (Hint: Text messages from your personal phone are still somewhat safe). Perhaps the pressures of Wall Street‚Äîas well as the loneliness of long hours‚Äîare such that it is inevitable that they'll turn to electronic communications to blow off steam. Suddenly, this summer, many seem to have found that Snapchat is the best way to do this. "I'd never used Snapchat until I saw the interns using it. Now we're on it every weekend, sending ridiculous pictures of the beach, the clubs, whatever," one private equity guy told me. "I use it to show how lame I am. Taking pictures of myself, alone at my desk on the weekend," a Goldman associate said. Kevin Roose at New York magazine¬†says that Snapchat is "taking Wall Street by storm." In an industry where a stray¬†Facebook¬†photo of a drunken escapade can get a junior banker fired on the spot, Snapchat's disappearing photos have made it a useful tool for Wall Street's party crowd. "It's absolutely blowing up right now," a former banker and current business school student said. "People are generally sending shots of cubicles, laptops, airports and other motifs of corporate life." "Over 75 percent of the snaps I get are from bankers," concurred one frequent Snapchat user. "It's usually the way we use texts‚Äîlike, 'at a bar,' drawn over an image, to show that they're out." Of course, as Roose points out, there's no real way to measure this. All the evidence is anecdotal. And, for now, it's mostly confined to the younger set on Wall Street. But it is ubiquitous with them. Every summer intern I've encountered is on Snapchat, as are quite a few analysts and associates. At the vice president level, usage drops off dramatically. I've never met a managing director who knows what Snapchat is‚Äîwhich is exactly the way the junior employees like it. Snapchat, for those of you who don't know, lets users send pictures over your mobile device that self destruct after a few seconds‚Äîleaving no trace. There's no permanent status update that your boss‚Äîor the SEC‚Äîcan find. Some phones can take a screenshot of the image, however, so you still have to be careful what you send around. A few years ago, Snapchat's popularity would have been impossible. Back when most people only carried phones‚Äîmostly Blackberrys‚Äîsupplied by the firm where they worked, the software could be blocked, messages could be tracked, and everything was monitored by some algorithm in the IT department. But these days nearly everyone has a phone of their own, so the Wall Street firms have lost much of the ability to track people. By the way, I'm on Snapchat. Feel free to send me your snaps‚Äîof work or play. You'll find me under the username humansubject9. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney. Follow him on Twitter¬†@Carney. 
Jack Bogle, the outspoken godfather of index funds and passive investing strategies, didn't approve of a recent Wall Street Journal article defending hedge funds. In particular, he took issue with the author's reference to Benjamin Graham, the legendary Columbia finance professor who literally wrote the book on Security Analysis and mentored Warren Buffett. Bogle wrote a letter to the editor. Here's an excerpt: Citing Benjamin Graham as the first "hedged fund" operator is an especially unfortunate example. "The trick," Mr. Rice writes, was Graham's "clever way to make money . . . whether it [the market] continued to rise, or started to fall." How did the hedged strategy work out in the bull market of the Roaring Twenties and thereafter? Thanks to Joe Carlen's recent book, "The Einstein of Money," we know the answer. Mr. Carlen carefully documents the returns earned in the "Benjamin Graham Joint Account" (the predecessor to Graham-Newman Corporation). From 1929 through 1932 inclusive, the Graham account turned in a loss of 70%, compared to a loss of 64% for the S&amp;P 500 Index. (Dividends are included in both cases.) "The strategy unraveled quickly," Mr. Carlen writes. "There was no longer any reliable advantage to be gained from that kind of hedging." Some hedge fund manager. At least he didn't do much worse.
Emerging markets build more and developed markets eat more.¬† That seems to be a universal truth in this world. Here's some commentary from Societe Generale's new Global Economic Outlook report: ...Urbanization usually comes with economic development and commodity intensity evolves with economic development. Steel intensity is expected to peak first as the construction cycle matures and as emerging economic growth transitions from being investment-led to consumption-led. Commodities such as copper are generally regarded as mid/later cycle commodities and tend to plateau later in the super-cycle. We are not at that stage for China or India (based on GDP per capital figures). Energy and food demand is linked with economic expansion in a more linear fashion. Corn and soybeans and meat especially are driven by income and population growth as people switch to more expensive food items. Population rather than income growth will be the main driver of wheat demand in the commodity super-cycle because China (for example) has already reached a per-capita calorie intake level that is comparable with the OECD countries. From hard commodities to soft commodities... Societe Generale &nbsp;
None other than Warren Buffett warned in November 1999 that ‚ÄúOver the next 17 years equities will not perform anything like ‚Äì anything like - they‚Äôve performed over the last 17 years.‚Äù When Buffett made his perceptive forecast in 1999 the market had been in a typical 18-year secular bull market since 1982, and had become extremely overbought in the process. Over the last 110 years the market has cycled fairly regularly between secular bull markets that lasted up to 18 years, and sideways secular bear markets that typically lasted about 17 years. In a secular bull market there are periodic bear markets, but they are usually brief, and then the next cyclical bull market takes over and carries the market onward and upward to ever higher new highs. In a secular bear market, periodic cyclical bull markets take place that carry the market back up to the vicinity of its previous peaks. But then the next bear market takes over, the market tops out again, and the long-term sideways secular bear market continues. The last secular bear market ran from 1965, when the Dow reached 1000 for the first time ever, until 1982, when it reached 1000 for the sixth time in 17 years, and finally kept going into the 18-year 1982-2000 secular bull market.  In the current cyclical bull market that began in 2009, within the secular bear market that began 13 years ago in 2000, the market recently again reached its previous peaks of 2000 and 2007, and this time exceeded those peaks. But rather than the excitement and bullishness that has created, it might be more appropriate to consider whether the secular bear market remains in place. Because if it does, the current situation of the S&amp;P 500 looks ominously similar to when the Dow returned to its previous two peaks in 1973, and broke out to a new high, which had investors excited, bullish, and convinced that the secular bear was over. But the next cyclical bear was even worse than the previous two.  So is the current secular bear market over? Is the current bullishness and confidence justified? A few observations: If the current secular bear is over it will be the shortest one in the last 110 years. Then there is the fact that there have been 25 bear markets over the last 110 years, one on average of every 4.4 years. The bull market that began in March, 2009 is now 4.2 years old. We are also in the first year of the Four-Year Presidential Cycle. The historical pattern is that the first year or two of the cycle tend to be negative, while the last two years of the cycle tend to be positive. The catalyst for the pattern seems to be that each administration wants to see any problems for the economy or the stock market take place in the first two years of the term. They then have time to pull out all the stops in the third and fourth year, to make sure the economy and markets are recovered and positive by the time the next election rolls around. Then we also have the remaining serious situations created by the 2008 financial collapse that still must be tackled at some point down the road, with their impact unknown. They include the record global government debt loads, the reversal of the unprecedented massive stimulus efforts of central banks, including the U.S. Fed, the return of near zero interest rates to more normal levels, and so on. We also have a number of conditions that are not comforting if you think about conditions at the market top in 2007, including very bullish investor sentiment, record margin debt (confident investors buying stock with 50% down-payments), consumer confidence, auto sales, home sales, etc. being described as at ‚Äúlevels not seen since 2007‚Äù.¬† ¬† That‚Äôs similar to conditions during the last secular bear market of 1965-82. Some issues would be resolved, supporting the periodic bull markets, only to have it realized that other unusually serious problems remained to be solved. In those times it was the Vietnam war, runaway inflation, oil embargoes by OPEC, repeated economic recessions, political scandals (Watergate, Nixon‚Äôs resignation, etc.), and then record government debt and budget deficits incurred in trying to pull the country out of the malaise of the 1970‚Äôs. That‚Äôs not unlike the current situation of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, political gridlock, two recessions in 8 years, the still questionable anemic recovery from the last one, record budget deficits and debt loads, and still to come fiscal and monetary reversals of the unprecedented stimulus efforts of the last five years. Unfortunately, the evidence seems to indicate the secular bear market is not only still with us, but may be near its next critical point.
REUTERS/Jason LeeFor years, China has been way out front as the world's most important source of economic growth. While the country's mammoth economy†ñ the second largest in the world†ñ continues to grow at a rapid clip, it is cooling as other enormous economies heat up. Specifically, Japan†ñ the third largest economy†ñ is on the receiving end of massive monetary stimulus. And the U.S.†ñ the largest economy†ñ is picking up. From Societe Generale's new quarterly Global Economic Outlook report: End of China growth dominance: China has long been the dominant driver of Asia growth, but this is no longer the case as the economy undergoes a structural slowdown. Japan has engaged policy stimulus and US recovery marks an additional positive for global growth. The PBoC has resisted the temptation to ease and, looking ahead, we expect to see tighter credit conditions in China act as an additional brake on economic activity. The Fedís QE exit may amplify the situation, drawing out capital and placing downward pressure on the yuan. Structural reform will ultimately determine how painful the adjustment will be ñ the right reform efforts have the potential to smooth the adjustment. Below are two charts from SocGen that show how important China is to the rest of the world. First is SocGen's estimate for the impacts of a major economic slowdown in China: Societe Generale And here are China's big trading partners: Societe Generale
The analysts at Societe Generale published their latest quarterly Global Economic Outlook report this week. As usual, it includes an update to their chart of black swan risks. These are the unlikely events that could rock the economy and financial markets. "On balance, risks to our Global Economic Outlook remain biased to the downside," they write.† "Feedback loops from markets to the real economy (as opposed to the other direction) feature more prominently in our new Swan Chart, highlighting the major risk factors." Societe Generale
Turmoil has been coming to and from the emerging markets lately.¬† Borrowing costs have been rising as funds leave these asset classes. To address this, the analysts¬† at Morgan Stanley published a massive 82-page report titled: "What If The Tide Goes Out?"¬† The addresses the idea of the "sudden stop." What is a sudden stop? A stop or even reversal in capital flows into some emerging markets that dramatically reduces their access to international financial markets for a considerable period of time. As the table below shows (via finansakrobat), this is not the first time the emerging markets have faced increasing difficulty tapping the capital markets. "Most shocks that have created sudden stops in the last 30 years have not been big enough to engulf all of EM, nor did they affect systematically important countries first," write the analysts. "Rather, it was the combination of a shock to a vulnerable economy and contagion that spread the shock to other economies sharing a common characteristic with the economy at the epicenter of the shock." Morgan Stanley
Here's a handy chart from Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus. It reminds us that a little bit of growth in the U.S. will go a lot farther than a lot of growth out of China. And don't forget: Japan is the world's third largest economy, which shows just how high the stakes are as the country's leaders embark on extremely aggressive monetary policy. "Germany‚Äôs 4th place position and relative size to the top three economies adds credence, in our view, to expectations that the European monetary union and its singular currency (the euro) will outlast skeptics," added Stoltzfus. "In aggregate the countries of the EMU, even in austerity and recession, nearly rival the size of the US economy." Oppenheimer
Bloomberg TelevisionDeutsche Bank's David Bianco just unveiled its targets for the S&amp;P 500 through 2015, joining peers David Kostin of Goldman Sachs and Andrew Garthwaite of Credit Suisse who also recently published their long-term targets on the S&amp;P 500. "We introduce a 2014 end target of 1850 and a 2015 end target of 2000 as the S&amp;P PE climbs from about 15x today to 16x or higher," wrote Bianco in a new note to clients. That may sound bullish, but those numbers are actually relatively cautious.¬† Garthwaite sees the S&amp;P at 1,900 by the end of next year. Kostin sees it at 2,100 by the end of 2015. Indeed, Bianco's short-term, tactical forecast calls for the S&amp;P to fall 5%. Still, Bianco's forecast is based on assumptions that may seem optimistic to some, especially those who believe valuations are already too high. Here's Bianco: Reduced recession risks and S&amp;P EPS grinding higher despite macro challenges has increased investor confidence in EPS sustainability and shifted the debate from normalized EPS to normalized long-term interest rates. Interest rates staying lower than history, even after the Fed stops purchases, as moderate growth persists making for an extended cycle, should drive the PE higher. But, investor confidence in the sustainability of growth and low interest rates will take time. Hence, we think it‚Äôs a multi-year path to PE expansion. One big risk that sticks out is oil. "But a significant decline in oil (WTI &lt;$85) is a risk to S&amp;P EPS as this cycle matures," wrote Bianco. "An oil price decline would pressure S&amp;P EPS via Energy earnings and weigh on global capex, which would challenge many Industrial and Materials S&amp;P firms." Here's a roundup of his new forecasts: Deutsche Bank
