Sub-Zero via YouTubeThe Bank of Japan just updated us on its monetary policy. As expected, it's keeping things unchanged. The BoJ is continues to plan to expand the monetary base by 60-70 trillion yen, or $585-680 billion, per year. CNBC's Deirdre Wang Morrie noted that the BoJ acknowledge improvement in the economy. Meanwhile, Japanese stocks are surging again.
Crazy. Japan is up another 1%. Nikkei.com This is just a regular occurrence now. Cullen Roche whips out this stunning stat. Nikkei now up 80% since November.
LinkedInRight now is not the most promising environment students have ever graduated into. Students fear entering a job market that doesn't want them, and losing vital years of their careers.¬† Great advice is needed more than ever.¬†In its latest¬†"Influencers" series,¬†LinkedIn¬†asked 70+ top professionals, from Fortune 500 CEOs to media icons what the class of 2013 needs to succeed. ¬† Some share their commencement speeches while others share the things that they wish they knew before starting out. They explain everything from how to create your own company to how to overcome what seems like constant rejection from employers, because they've all done it before, and succeeded wildly.
Today's gain in the Dow Jones Industrial Average marked its 19th straight positive Tuesday. Here's what the streaks look like for the rest of the week via Laszlo Birinyi. † *Streak ongoing.
Giuseppe Cacace/Getty ImagesBernie Ecclestone (R) with his daughters Petra and Tamara and his ex-wife SlavicaRich kids usually have a pretty good idea that their families are wealthy. Maybe the Gulfstream tipped them off.Or the fourth home in Aspen. Or the Elton John performance at their 16th birthday "destination party" held at the Esperanza in Cabos. But wealthy kids don't learn†how†wealthy their families are untilówell, sometimes after their parents die. A new study from U.S. Trust suggests that millionaire parents may want to start a little earlier. The study, part of U.S. Trust's Insights on Wealth and Worth series, found that very few parents believe their kids should know about the family's wealthy before the age of 25. About half say the kids should be told when they're between 25 years old and 34 years old. About one fifth believe the "kids" should wait until they're at least 40 years old to learn the numbers. The study found that more than half of the parents had disclosed "just a little" about their family wealth to their kids and eight percent have disclosed "nothing at all." Why are parents so tight-lipped about their money? Most say it's an "overall aversion to the topic, having been taught not to discuss wealth with anyone." The second reason, according to the study, was that they didn't want to deprive their kids of a work ethic. (Read More:†Where the Millionaires Are Might Surprise You) Keith T. Banks, president of U.S. Trust and Bank of America Wealth Management, said that there is no magic age for telling kids about their wealth. He said the decision of when you tell themóand how much to tell themóshould be specific to each family. "What you disclose and when you disclose it is a very personal decision," he said. "A lot depends on the children. And for some, maybe 40 is the right time." The more important issue is when to prepare the kids to manage their wealth, he said. The ideal age for starting wealth-education programs for kids is when they turn 20, or just before they graduate college, he added. U.S. Trust runs its own "Financial Empowerment" program to educate inheritors and investors and the program is generally designed for people between the ages of 20 years old to 30 years old. (Read More:†Ralph Lauren's New $700,000 Supercar) Banks said that age 20 is "the age when they're most receptive and when they're about to go out into the job market." There's another issue, however, that parents should consider. It's called the Internet. Specifically,†Google†and Zillow and all the other sites that would allow a kid to piece together a rough picture of the family's net worth or their family's private company. Parents may think they're keeping their kids in the dark. But they're really just practicing a form of family wealth denial. Eventually the kids will find outóand it may not be in the way the parents prefer. Of course, not all families have obvious trappings of wealth. There are plenty of stories of quiet, simple families having vast amounts of wealth that no one knew about. Still, even if parents don't give their kids "the number" for their wealth, they should at least give them the skills and the values to manage it well.†
Flickr via Christopher SessumsDon't let the white picket fences fool you. Suburban poverty has grown faster than anywhere else in the country over the last decade, at a rate of 64% since 2000, according to¬†"Confronting Suburban Poverty in America,"¬†a new book by the Brookings Institute.¬† For the first time ever, the number of poor people in America's largest suburbs outnumbers those in cities. It's a nationwide trend that's left pretty much no region untouched. Eighty-five of the nation's 95 largest metro areas¬†saw a rise in poor households between 2000 and 2011.¬† "As jobs moved into suburbs‚Äîparticularly lower-paying jobs in sectors like retail and hospitality‚Äîpoverty did,¬†too," the authors write. "And job losses triggered by the Great Recession in industries like construction, manufacturing, and retail¬†hit hardest in suburban communities and contributed to rising suburban unemployment and poverty."
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from†Business Insider†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Rosenberg: "The Bull Market May Well Be In Complacency" (Gluskin Sheff) "The gold-silver ratio has risen to its highest point in three years (August 2010) and in the past this served as a flash-point for a renewed risk-off trade. See the chart below and the divergence (S&amp;P 500 surging and the gold-silver ratio sliding ó historically this has a 71% correlation, likely because silver has far more industrial applications and as such this ratio is viewed as somewhat of a global economic barometer.) I have to say that when I read the front page of the USA Today business section and see this lead title: With Stocks This Hot, Why Worry?, with famed strategist Ed Yardeni declaring this to be the "mother of all melt-ups," I do begin to worry. The bull market may well be in complacency." Gluskin SheffBlackRock's Russ Koesterich Identifies 3 Places To Put Your Cash (Advisor Perspectives) BlackRock's Russ Koesterich writes that it isn't too late to move cash into† the market, though he warns that certain parts of the stock market look very expensive. Instead he suggests investors focus on 1. Some international markets like Brazil, China and Hong Kong. 2. U.S. Mega Caps - "they're the cheapest area of the U.S. market and ten to be less volatile that small and mid-cap names." 3. Some cyclical sectors like energy and technology. FINRA Chief Tells Advisors To Talk To Clients About Risks In The Fixed Income Market (FINRA) Speaking at FINRA's annual conference, chairman and CEO Richard Ketchum told advisors that they should speak to their clients about risks in the fixed income market.† "Take the fixed income market for example. In this zero-yield environment, where investors are understandably frustrated with the return on many of their investments, many are taking on more risk by moving to longer-duration or high-yield fixed income products. We're worried about investors taking on risks that they either don't understand or cannot afford. "I don't come today with Cassandra-like warnings about the fixed income market. Given the activism of central banks and the complex challenges facing the global economy, I don't claim any ability to predict whether inflation will rise or interest rates increase from their historically low levels in the near term.† "But it is clear that interest rates have far more room to go up than down and that history would tell us that, in this environment, the quality of non-investment-grade bonds able to be floated is likely to go down. Accordingly, it is a great time to have conversations with your clients about the risks and possible negative scenarios of concentrated holdings in longer duration or more speculative fixed income securities. Similarly, it is a great time to remind clients that bond funds are not the same as directly owning fixed securitiesóif the market moves, losses will occur instantaneously and there will be no ability to hold a bond to maturity." The S&amp;P 500 Is Going To 1,750 And Will See A Whopping 33% Return Through 2015 (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs raised its S&amp;P 500 price target to 1,750 by year end. They expect it to rise 9% to 1900 in 2013, and 10% to 2100 in 2015. "Our positive 2013 outlook for S&amp;P 500 has played out much faster than we expected. Earlier this year we raised our earnings and return forecasts but the index has soared 15% YTD and has rallied 18% during the past six months. Multiple expansion accounts for three fourths of the YTD return. We ascribe the rally to a combination of moderating policy risk in the US; improvement in housing and employment that have been primary post-crisis economic risk barometers; and the FOMC commitment to easy monetary policy despite stronger housing data and a 100 bp fall in the unemployment rate to 7.5% in 16 months." LPL Financial Gets Biggest Ever FINRA Fine (Investment News) LPL Financial has been fined $7.5 million by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) for 35 email system failures between 2007 and 2013. It was also ordered to create a $1.5 million fund to compensate clients that could have been affected by this failure. FINRA also said that LPL made misstatements to the regulator during the investigation.
ScreenshotApple CEO Tim Cook testified to Congress about Apple's tax-dodging today. He did a superb job. Within minutes, he had parried a few lame attacks from Senators Levin and McCain. And for the rest of the hearing, he had the rest of the sub-Committee eating out of his hands. As Cook explained, Apple does indeed employ spectacularly successful tax-dodging techniques. But they're all perfectly legal. So, as is often the case, if Congress is looking for someone to blame, Congress can start by looking in the mirror. Not long into Tim Cook's testimony, Congress began asking him for advice on how to change the tax code to encourage companies to use their cash to invest in the United States. Cook said that Congress should cut the "repatriation" tax on cash earned overseas from 35% to a "single-digit" percentage. This cut, Cook suggested, would encourage so many more companies to repatriate cash that it would be revenue neutral. The government would reap less tax per dollar of repatriated cash, but a lot more cash would get repatriated. This might actually be an excellent idea. But the sub-text of the discussion was that, if companies repatriated more cash, they would use it to "invest in America" ó hiring more Americans, building more plants, etc. That's a nice theory. Based on historical precedent, however, it's also a bunch of crap. In 2004, you may recall, Congress gave companies a "repatriation holiday" that allowed them to bring boatloads of cash home without paying tax. The idea was that corporations would use this cash to invest in America. So, did companies actually use the cash to invest in America? As if! According to a 2011 post-mortem unearthed by Anthony DeRosa of Reuters, here's what happened after the repatriation bonanza: 1. U.S. Jobs Lost Rather Than Gained. After repatriating over $150 billion†under the 2004 American Jobs Creation Act (AJCA), the top 15 repatriating†corporations reduced their overall U.S. workforce by 20,931 jobs, while†broad-based studies of all 840 repatriating corporations found no evidence that†repatriated funds increased overall U.S. employment.† 2. Research and Development Expenditures Did Not Accelerate. After†repatriating over $150 billion, the 15 top repatriating corporations showed slight decreases in the pace of their U.S. research and development expenditures, while†broad-based studies of all 840 repatriating corporations found no evidence that†repatriation funds increased overall U.S. research and development outlays.† 3. Stock Repurchases Increased After Repatriation. Despite a prohibition on†using repatriated funds for stock repurchases, the top 15 repatriating corporations†accelerated their spending on stock buybacks after repatriation, increasing them†16% from 2004 to 2005, and 38% from 2005 to 2006, while a broad-based study†of all 840 repatriating corporations estimated that each extra dollar of repatriated†cash was associated with an increase of between 60 and 92 cents in payouts to†shareholders. 4. Executive Compensation Increased After Repatriation. Despite a†prohibition on using repatriated funds for executive compensation, after†repatriating over $150 billion, annual compensation for the top five executives at†the top 15 repatriating corporations jumped 27% from 2004 to 2005, and another†30%, from 2005 to 2006, with ten of the corporations issuing restricted stock†awards of $1 million or more to senior executives. 5. Only a Narrow Sector of Multinationals Benefited. Repatriation primarily†benefited a narrow slice of the American economy, returning about $140 billion†in repatriated dollars to multinational corporations in the pharmaceutical and†technology industries, while providing no benefit to domestic firms that chose not†to engage in offshore operations or investments. 6. Most Repatriated Funds Flowed from Tax Havens. Funds were repatriated†primarily from low tax or tax haven jurisdictions; seven of the surveyed†corporations repatriated between 90% and 100% of their funds from tax havens. 7. Offshore Funds Increased After 2004 Repatriation. Since the 2004 AJCA†repatriation, the corporations that repatriated substantial sums have built up their†offshore funds at a greater rate than before the AJCA, evidence that repatriation†has encouraged the shifting of more corporate dollars and investments offshore. 8. More than $2 Trillion in Cash Assets Now Held by U.S. Corporations. In†2011, U.S. corporations have record domestic cash assets of around $2 trillion,†indicating that the availability of cash is not constraining hiring or domestic†investment decisions and that allowing corporations to repatriate more cash†would be an ineffective way to spur new jobs. 9. Repatriation is a Failed Tax Policy. The 2004 repatriation cost the U.S.†Treasury an estimated net revenue loss of $3.3 billion over ten years, produced no†appreciable increase in U.S. jobs or research investments, and led to U.S.†corporations directing more funds offshore. So much for the theory that, if we cut companies a break to "repatriate" their cash, they'll use it to invest in America.
NBC News/ScreenshotLois Lerner, the head of the IRS division that oversees tax-exempt organizations, will invoke her rights under the Fifth Amendment and not answer questions while testifying before a House committee on Wednesday about the IRS' inappropriate targeting of conservative groups.¬† Lerner is scheduled to testify before the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday. In a letter to committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) that was¬†obtained by the Los Angeles Times on Tuesday, Lerner's attorney,¬†William W. Taylor III, wrote that "she has no choice but to take this course." Taylor also asked that she be excused from the hearing, writing that it would "have no purpose other than to embarrass or burden her." However, Issa has issued a subpoena to require her appearance before the committee.¬† Lerner revealed the IRS' inappropriate targeting and sparked the scandal after answering a planted question at a May 10 conference from Washington tax lawyer Celia Roady. Wednesday's hearing is expected to be loaded, with¬†former IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman, Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin, and¬†J. Russell George, the Treasury Department's Inspector General, also scheduled to testify.
REUTERS / Toru HanaiBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko KurodaOvernight, the Bank of Japan holds its first monetary policy meeting since going big with an unprecedented-in-scale bond buying program last month. Then, Wednesday morning, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. As central banks are seen to have a lot of influence in financial markets these days, investors will be watching both events closely. The Bank of Japan is not expected to unveil any new policy measures at its meeting. Nonetheless, BofA Merrill Lynch Japan economists†Masayuki Kichikawa and†Setsuko Yamashita flag what to watch for: We do not expect the BoJ to make any changes to its monetary policy framework at its Monetary Policy Meeting (MPM) scheduled for 21-22 May. For the coming 3-6 months, the central bank will try to implement its "quantitative and qualitative easing" (QQE) program adopted on 3-4 April as smoothly as possible, while assessing its impact. Currently, the strong yen has corrected, with the yen-dollar rate dropping to •102/US$ for the first time in four years and seven months, while equity prices also continue to rise, and the BoJ is unlikely to consider further easing under such circumstances. In our view, key themes at the next meeting are likely to be progress in implementing QQE, and, what the data are suggesting about the economy and inflation (including inflation expectations). In this QQE one-month spot check, the most important issue is how the BoJ should interpret the recent rise in JGB market volatility and how it can improve the implementation of QQE. Bernanke's testimony is being billed as the event of the week amid a relatively slow economic data calendar. Miller Tabak's Andrew Wilkinson previews the testimony and offers thoughts on possible market reactions to what Bernanke says: Second, for it to build on already heady gains ñ the market closed 1,000 points off its March 2009 lows on Monday - the stock market needs a green light from Mr. Bernanke. Any reference to future bubbles building in ìcertainî asset classes or financial markets will be cause for a sell off in stocks. However, the Fed has developed ëasset patrol committeesí in the aftermath of the financial crisis whose role it is to monitor developments in financial markets and send up distress flares when unusual correlations begin. Thus far they have only spotted minor solar flares in some asset markets, but nothing to worry about. If Mr. Bernanke is grilled on the topic of the advancing stock market, we expect he will explain it in terms of a revaluation of earnings potential as a consequence of several years of financial repression rather than blaming it on ëirrational exuberanceí. He has said it before and we expect him to say it again, the stock market is hardly overvalued despite its recent rise. Bernanke's testimony begins at 10 AM ET. Follow it LIVE on Business Insider &gt;
Philly FedIn recent weeks, the U.S. economy has shown some signs of slowing. But the good news is that it continues to grow.† And conditions are without question much better than much better today than they were during the height of the financial crisis. Over the past three months, 45 of the 50 states showed increasing activity, according to the Philly Fed's coincident index of employment, unemployment, manufacturing hours and wages. Every month, the Philly Fed produces these fantastic maps tracking economic activity across the country.† Red shows economic decline while blue or green show gain. The maps start in 2005 when the economy was booming.
It's no surprise that huge numbers of Americans joined the ranks of the poor over the last decade. What's more interesting is where poverty is growing. The poor population in the nation's suburbs has grown faster than anywhere else in the country, at a rate of 64% since 2000, according to¬†"Confronting Suburban Poverty in America," a new book by the Brookings Institute.¬† "For the first time, the number of poor people in major metropolitan suburbs surpassed the number in cities, making suburbia home to the largest and fastest growing poor population in the country," the authors write.¬† Check out the shocking growth in suburban poverty in the illustration below:¬† Brookings Institute
APApple CEO Tim Cook charmed the Senate today, testifying on the company's tax avoidance practices. The most interesting part of the story wasn't on the Senate floor, however. The report published by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations detailing Apple's strategies is a great read on its own. The report gives an inside look on Apple's absolutely genius tax avoidance strategies.¬† Apple uses a variety of offshore structures and arrangements to shift billions of dollars from the United States to Ireland. The U.S. corporate tax rate is 35%, while Apple said it has negotiated a special corporate tax rate in Ireland of less than 2%*. (The 2% rate statement has proven controversial, see below for details) Apple has found the secret to not paying taxes. You just avoid taxes by not declaring a tax residency for the company that oversees the entirety of your international income.¬† First, let's look at Apple's main offshore holding company: Apple Operations International (AOI) is the company's primary offshore holding company. It was registered in Cork, Ireland in 1980, and its purpose is to serve as a cash consolidator for most of Apple's offshore affiliates. It receives dividends from those affiliates and makes contributions as needed. Apple explained that, although AOI has been incorporated in Ireland since 1980, it has not declared a tax residency in Ireland or any other country and so has not paid any corporate income tax to any national government in the past 5 years.¬†Apple has exploited a difference between Irish and U.S. tax residency rules. Ireland uses a management and control test to determine tax residency, while the United States determines tax residency based upon the entity‚Äôs place of formation. Apple explained that, although AOI is incorporated in Ireland, it is not tax resident in Ireland, because AOI is neither managed nor controlled in Ireland. Apple also maintained that, because AOI was not incorporated in the United States, AOI is not a U.S. tax resident under U.S. tax law either.¬† Please take a moment to consider the genius of Apple Inc.¬† Apple Sales International (ASI) is a second Irish affiliate. It is the repository for all of Apple's offshore intellectual property rights.¬† Apple Sales International pays very, very little in global taxes: Subcommittee Report The rest of the report is fascinating, but somewhat obtuse for people uninterested in international corporate finance. Basically, Apple makes sure that income isn't taxed by the U.S. by exploiting a loophole in Subpart F of the corporate tax code. They're able to route profits offshore and keep them there through licenses.¬† Here's the bottom line.¬† Apple was kind enough to tell the Senate investigators exactly how many taxes the company has dodged over two years by these arrangements: Senate Report Every day, Apple avoids paying more in taxes than Tumblr can hope to make all year. Click here to read the full report &gt;¬† ¬† *UPDATE: Earlier today an Irish minister disputed that Apple negotiated a tax rate less than two percent.¬† Here's the section from the subcommittee report disputing that comment, directly from Phillip Bullock, Apple Inc.'s Tax Operation Head. The interview was conducted on May 15, 2013.¬† Apple told the Subcommittee that, for many years, Ireland has provided Apple affiliates with a special tax rate that is substantially below its already relatively low statutory rate of 12 percent. Apple told the Subcommittee that it had obtained this special rate through negotiations with the Irish government. According to Apple, for the last ten years, this special corporate income tax rate has been 2 percent or less:  ‚ÄúSince the early 1990‚Äôs, the Government of Ireland has calculated Apple‚Äôs taxable income in such a way as to produce an effective rate in the low single digits .... The rate has varied from year to year, but since 2003 has been 2% or less.‚Äù Other information provided by Apple indicates that the Irish tax rate assessed on Apple affiliates has recently been substantially below 2%. For example, Apple told the Subcommittee that, for the three year period from 2009 to 2011, ASI paid an Irish corporate income tax rate that was consistently below far below 1% and, in 2011, was as low as five-hundreds of one percent (0.05%):¬† It seems as if any deal pertains to a calculation of taxable income that procures a sub-2% rate rather than a toggled rate in and of itself.¬† And from document PSI-Apple-02-004, provided by Apple to the Senate: Since the early 1990's, the Government of Ireland has calculated Apple's taxable income in such a way as to produce an effective rate in the low single digits, and this is the primary factor that contributes to Apple's rate. The rate has varied¬†from year to year, but since 2003 has been 2% or less. This result is similar to incentives made available by many U.S. states and other countries to entice investment in their jurisdictions.¬†
So this happened outside JPMorgan's headquarters in New York today...¬† Photo courtesy of Marni HalasaThis is Marni Halasa, a performance artist who moonlights as the "Bank Reform Bitch," an Occupy Wall Street dominatrix character.  Her mission is to spread the message that "naughty bankers" should be "seriously spanked."  Photo courtesy of Marni HalasaShe appeared this morning in front of JPMorgan's 270 Park Avenue offices to protest the shareholder vote over whether or not to split Jamie Dimon's role as CEO/Chairman at today's meeting in Tampa, Fla.   Photo courtesy of Marni HalasaShe told us that people seemed to enjoy her performance.  "Let me tell you something...No one is really a fan of the megabanks. There are numerous bankers who came out of 270 Park and took my photo, gave me a thumbs up and a nod of approval," she said in an email to us. 
Winter basically decided to bypass Spring and move directly to Summer in New York City this year, and while it's been jarring, we'll take it ó anything to see the temperature above 60 degrees. Unfortunately in this town, it doesn't just stay in that calm, cool 70 degree range. Oh no, summer means humidity and temperatures above 85 or 90 degrees. For Wall Streeters, that means sweating in your suit. It's time to get prepared. And no, "prepared" doesn't mean that we can't wait to see you bust out your Lilly Pulitzer whale shorts or green cargo pants from college (if that's what you're into...). It means you'll still need to look good and feel comfortable while socializing with colleagues and clients. It's best if you do all that without sweating, and since one of Wall Street's favorite drinks (Scotch) tends to be a warm one, it's time to consider other options. Business Insider reached out to some of the most badass, nationally recognized bartenders in the game to get a few recommendations on what a professional gentleman (or gentlewoman) should drink when it's too hot for scotch. Here's what we got: Our first cocktail comes from Jeff Bell, the head bartender from one of NYC's best speakeasy cocktails bars,† Please Don't Tell (PDT). He mixed this new spring recipe with his colleagues as a spin-off from the traditional Tom Collins. Tomrís Collins By Jeff Bell, Jim Meehan and Edixon Caridad of PDT 1.5 oz. Plymouth Gin .75 oz. Tomrís Tonic Syrup .5 oz. Grapefruit Juice .25 oz. Lemon Juice Shake with ice and strain into a chilled Collins glass filled with ice Top with 1.5 oz. MoÎt Imperial Champagne Garnish with half a lemon wheel Another riff on the Tom Collins comes to us from Trevor Easter. After working in some of the best bars in the country, he took a sort-of day job as the Brand Ambassador for English Gins. Now he basically travels around the country teaching people how to drink cocktails (awesome, we know). Lavender Collins 2oz beefeater 24 1oz fresh lemon juice .75oz lavender syrup Combine ingredients, shake, and strain into a Collins glass. Fill with ice and top with soda. Garnish with a lavender sprig. If those citrusy, flowery drinks are too... citrusy and flowery for you, consider this recommendation from Erick Castro,the proprietor and bartender at San Diego cocktail club, Polite Provisions. He created the Statesman to provide a more modern, spring variation of a classic martini.† The Statesman  2oz beefeater 24 .75oz dry vermouth .25oz apricot liqueur 2 dashes orange bitters That's it. If you have recommendations leave them in the comments. If you want to see more, shoot us an e-mail. Stay cool.
Werner Kunz / FlickrIt was another quiet day in the markets.† But the markets closed up. First the scoreboard: Dow: 15,387, +52.3 pts, +0.3%S&amp;P 500: 1,669, +2.8 pts, +0.1%NASDAQ: 3,502, +5.6 pts, +0.1% And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Jason ReedPublic education spending per student fell in 2011 for the first time since 1977, according to the latest data from the Census Bureau. The 50 states and the District of Columbia spent $10,560 per student in 2011, down 0.4% from the previous year. New York spent the most at $19,076, the District of Columbia came in second at $18,475, followed by Alaska at $16,674. New Jersey and Vermont rounded off the top five. Meanwhile Utah spent the least per student at $6,212. This was followed by Idaho, $6,824; Oklahoma, $7,587; Arizona, $7,666; and Mississippi, $7,928. Overall expenses declined for the second year in a row, down 1.1% on the year in 2011 to $595.1 billion. Meanwhile, revenue for public schools increased 1.1% on the year to $599.1 billion. Here's a map that shows per student public spending by state: U.S. Census Bureau
What Warren Buffett once called "financial weapons of mass destruction" are firing again, with securitization and shadow banking at post-financial crisis highs. The twin powers of bank funding that helped propel the nation into turmoil have regained ground swiftly, and analysts say it's both a challenge for regulators and a sign that the economy is recovering. Securitization, or the channels through which banks repackage loans and farm them off to investors, has hit volume of $225.6 billion by way of 365 deals this year, according to Dealogic. That's a 14 percent increase over 2012 but still miles away from the heady days of 2007, which saw a staggering $777 billion in volume at the same point‚Äîright before securitization, and the rest of the mortgage market, came crashing down. At the same time, shadow banking, which refers to lending apart from traditional banks, has amassed assets of $16 trillion, according to financial services firm Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods. The total now surpasses the $15 trillion in total assets at private depository institutions and more than double the $6 trillion or so in corporate bonds. "The re-emergence of shadow banking may trouble regulators, but likely will boost near-term economic growth and expand growth opportunities in many non-bank financial service sectors," KBW analysts said in a note to clients. "In addition, the growth in non-bank financial sectors is, in part, related to the increased regulation and litigation since the financial crisis." (Read More: Jamie Dimon Vote: A New Referendum on Governance) Rather than seeing the re-emergence of shadow banking as a threat, KBW said it should be considered a sign of healing. Corporate debt has swelled since the crisis and traditional lending turned around in mid-2011, which signaled the end of the decline for banks. "The missing pieces to the story of private sector debt are financial assets outside the bank and corporate balance sheets," KBW said. "This is an area we believe has been lacking in growth since the financial crisis and likely has been a factor keeping overall economic growth limited." The firm expects the shadow banking industry to keep growing apace with or slightly ahead of nominal gross domestic product, helping cushion the soft recovery. "This is because of increased market acceptance of debt and improving credit quality statistics in the economy as a whole," KBW said. "If that trend does hold, it will likely support improved economic growth in the near term." (Read More: Market and the Economy: What the Fed Is Missing) The move back to some of the less traditional forms of banking comes as regulators and lawmakers push for greater regulation and higher capital requirements. Bank earnings continue to rise and profits were $34.7 billion in the fourth quarter, but analysts say the institutions will continue to need ways to innovate to grow. "The shadow banking market is coming back relatively strongly and it will be a dominating force in the financial markets a couple years from now," said Dick Bove, vice president of equity research at Rafferty Capital Markets. Bove said he expects the market to grow for collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations as well. "The government is forcing it to rise again by making the situation for banks so onerous that they cannot do some of the transactions they used to do," he said. "That's forcing some of this money into the shadow banking market, where this is getting done."
We devote this commentary each week to assessing the many reasons markets may rise or fall.† But at the heart of it, all markets come down to just one thing: buyers and sellers. Taking a look at who is buying and who is selling can tell us something about the durability of the marketís performance and what may lie ahead.† Currently, there are six notable trends in buying and selling in the stock market. U.S. stocks are being purchased by corporations and foreigners.†Demand from individuals and hedge funds has been mixed.†Pensions and insiders remain net sellers. Figure 1: Buyers &amp; Sellers Investor††††††††† Buying U.S. Stocks† Demand Trajectory Companies††††† Yes††††††††††††††††††††††††††††† Accelerating Foreigners†††††† Yes††††††††††††††††††††††††††††† Slowing Individuals†††††† Yes††††††††††††††††††††††††††††† Flat Hedge Funds† No † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † †Flat Institutions†††††† No † † † † † † † † † † † † † † † Stable Insiders††††††††††† No†††††††††††††††††††††††††††††† Accelerating Source: LPL Financial, various sources cited individually† Foreigners Data released by the Treasury Department last week showed that the pace of net purchases of U.S. stocks by foreigners so far in 2013 has slowed sharply from the strong pace seen in late 2012 [Figure 2], led mainly by a waning of demand from European investors. Net purchases quadrupled in 2012 over 2011ís pace owing to two factors: 1.)††††The net selling that began in July 2011 and continued through year end after the debt ceiling debacle and downgrade in July and August; and 2.)††††The surge in buying of U.S. equities by Europeans that began in September 2012, as the European market momentum stalled after the run-up ahead of the widely anticipated announcement of its bond-buying program by the European Central Bank. The weakest pace of net purchases of U.S. stocks by foreigners at the start to any year since 2004 sets 2013 on a disappointing pace.† However,†just as buying rebounded in 2012, we may see stronger demand from foreign buyers as confidence improves that U.S. fiscal challenges will not return the United States to recession as it has in Europe. Figure 2: Foreigners Demand for U.S. Stocks Waning in 2013 Foreign Net Purchases of U.S. Equities in $ Billions by Month U.S. Treasury 05/20/13 Hedge Funds The U.S. Treasury tracks net purchases of U.S. stocks from investors in the Caribbean, which primarily represents demand by hedge funds.† The net buying by hedge funds is negligible in 2013, as it was in 2012, with net buying in some months offset by net selling in others. Over the past three years, the monthly average has been a net sale of less than $1 billion of U.S. stocks, ranging from a net purchase of $5.2 billion to a net sale of $10.2 billion. Companies Companies themselves have been the biggest buyers of stocks.†After reducing purchases during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 as companies were focused on hoarding their capital, corporations have returned to near-record levels of net share repurchases.†New buyback announcements have surged this year [Figure 3]. Corporations have been aggressively buying back shares, adding up to hundreds of billions in purchases each quarter. Interestingly, the actual number of companies repurchasing shares has fallen as stock prices hit all-time highs, but the total amount spent continues to rise as the buying is concentrated among fewer, larger companies. Figure 3: Corporations Are Buying Back Shares Aggressively New U.S. Corporate Buyback Announcements by Quarter in $ Billions LPL Financial, Bloomberg data 5/20/2013 Corporations have become net buyers of shares as rising cash flow and wide profit margins compel them to shrink their share count to boost earnings per share as revenue growth slows. Insiders* In contrast to the buying they are directing their companies to undertake, insiders, or top executives of companies, have been net sellers of shares. While the pace of insider selling often slows during the ìblackoutî periods around the earnings season, recent data show that the number of shares of S&amp;P 500 companiesí insiders have sold relative to those that they have bought has soared. The main reason is that while selling has averaged a below average $2 billion per month this year, buying has been way below average and close to zero. Should†this net selling be seen as an important signal by those ìin the knowî of impending doom for corporate America?† History offers a very different interpretation. Corporate insiders were buying in 2007 at the peak, and they were selling in 2009 as stocks were bottoming. Back in August of 2007, around the peak of the stock market, insiders at financial companies were doing the most buying in 12 years.† At the time, this trend was interpreted by some as a buy signal for financials just before the companies in this sector saw their stocks fall more than 80%.† Given this track record, we do not interpret the insider selling as a signal that they are acting on any inside information that would benefit an individual investor. Instead, we see it as another indicator of relative demand for stocks.† *†Data gathered from Bloomberg reported SEC filings. Institutions Pension plans, both defined benefit and defined contribution, have been net sellers of stocks. The latest data from the Federal Reserve (Fed) show that through the end of 2012, pensions were selling stocks every year since the Great Recession began in 2008. Data for the first quarter of 2013 will be available in a few weeks, but it is unlikely that pensions have sharply turned around after years of relentless selling quarter after quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2012, although stocks were flat, the value of stocks in corporate retirement plans dropped $40 billion from the previous quarter. Pensions have been selling stocks to fund payouts and greater allocations to bonds [Figure 4]. Stocks now make up only about 53% of pension assets, down from a peak of about 70% before the financial crisis.† A recent survey by†Pensions and Investments†confirmed that the current asset allocation of major U.S. pension plans now has the lowest percentage of stocks held within investment portfolios over the past 30 years, and 14 percentage points below the average. This may mean that an increased allocation to equities may be coming. A reallocation of pension fund assets could be a long-term trend that would affect the investment landscape for many years. Figure 4: Pensions Selling Stocks to Fund Payouts and Greater Allocations to Bonds Defined Benefit Pension Flows by Year and Source LPL Financial, Federal Reserve 5/20/2013 Individuals The power and influence of hedge funds is often discussed and used to explain movements in the markets.† However, individual investors as a group wield far more buying power and influence over the marketplace. When individual investors make up their minds, they can be a powerful and durable force in the markets. Individual investors have been sellers in recent years. It is notable that in 2012, investors in these funds sold more steadily and in a greater amount than they did during the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009.† However, individual investors have been net buyers so far this year, measured by the net flows to mutual funds that invest in U.S. stocks.††While we have seen buying take place in some of the first six months of recent years, the second half of the year has invariably seen outflows every month.† We will have to see if the stronger pace of buyingómuch of which took place in January after a deal was reached on the fiscal cliffóand the potential renewed interest in stocks in 2013 can be sustained into the second half for the first time in six years [Figure 5]. Figure 5: Individual Investors Got Off to a Strong Start in 2013 Money Flows to Domestic Equity Mutual Funds in $ Billions LPL Financial, ICI 05/20/13 It is possible that given the experience of the past decade, individual investors may be more cautious in their investing and allocate less to stocks than in the past. However, individual investors may also be saving more. Even if stock investments receive a smaller slice of the pie, the investing pie may be larger due to increased savings. Fortunately, individual investors do not need to wait for the return of better job growth or a rise in their incomes to invest more. In fact, investors have stashed trillions in cash into bank and money market accounts†, according to Investment Company Institute (ICI)† and Federal Reserve data.† Projecting the Trends We expect foreigners and companies to continue to be net buyers while insiders remain sellers, and hedge funds will average to flat net buying in the coming quarters.† Risks to stocks would be a slowdown in corporate buybacks and a continuation of the slowing pace of net buying by foreigners. On the other hand, fuel for the stock market could come from a re-allocation back toward stocks by pensions and individual investors. The potential for money to flow into the stock market and lift stocks is significant. However, many investors must first become disillusioned with bonds. Since bonds have historically offered returns over the past 30 years that were competitive with stocks and provided much lower volatility, investors may continue to allocate their portfolios toward bonds as they seek to provide for a secure retirement.† It may take a period of rising interest rates from near historic lows to demonstrate the potential for losses and volatility that bond investors throughout the 1970s experienced to reverse the money flows back to stocks.† Evidence of the power of these trends in buying and selling can be seen in the multi-year performance of the bond market (Barclays Aggregate Bond Index) where buying by all partiesópensions, individuals, foreigners, and the Fedóhave pushed bond prices higher, and yields to record lows.
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - A federal appeals court ruled on Tuesday that the†U.S. government†had properly classified top secret more than 50 images of al Qaeda leader†Osama bin Laden†taken after his death, and that the government did not need to release them. The unanimous ruling by three judges on the†U.S. Court of Appeals†for the District of†Columbia Circuit†rejected a request for the images by a conservative nonprofit watchdog group. Judicial Watch sued for photographs and video from the May 2011 raid in which U.S. special forces killed bin Laden in†Abbottabad,†Pakistan, after more than a decade of searching. The organization's lawsuit relied on the Freedom of Information Act, a 1966 law that guarantees public access to some government documents. In an unsigned opinion, the appeals court accepted an assertion from President†Barack Obama's administration that the images are so potent that releasing them could cause riots that would put Americans abroad at risk. "It is undisputed that the government is withholding the images not to shield wrongdoing or avoid embarrassment, but rather to prevent the killing of Americans and violence against American interests," the opinion said. The court ruled that the risk of violence justifies the decision to classify the images top secret, and that the CIA may withhold the images under an exception to the Freedom of Information Act for documents that are classified. Judicial Watch President†Tom Fitton†said in a statement that the ruling "would allow terrorists to dictate our laws." Fitton said his lawyers are considering what to do next. The group could ask the†U.S. Supreme Court†to hear the case. A spokeswoman for the Justice Department, which represents the†Obama administration†in court, had no immediate comment. The images show a dead bin Laden at his compound in†Pakistan, the transportation of his body to a U.S. ship and his burial at sea, the government has said. Some of the photographs were taken so the CIA could conduct†facial recognition†analysis to confirm the body's identity, according to court papers. The case is†Judicial Watch Inc†v.†U.S. Department of Defense†and CIA,†U.S. Court of Appeals†for the D.C. Circuit, No. 12-5137. (Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Doina Chiacu and Cynthia Osterman)
Gary PlayerGary Player is stoked.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The decision on Tuesday by golf's rule-makers to ban the anchoring of putters brought cheers and jeers from among prominent players and major golf organizations. The U.S. PGA†Tour†and the†PGA of America, who both emphatically opposed the proposed rule, said they were still against a ban and would evaluate their positions now that the rule has been officially adopted to begin on January 1, 2016. The†Ladies Professional Golf Association†(LPGA), meanwhile, said it would follow the rules and adopt the ban. "We're obviously disappointed,"†PGA of America†president†Ted Bishop, whose group runs the PGA Championship and jointly administers the Ryder Cup with the European†Tour, told the Golf Channel. "We were holding out hope that there could be some kind of a compromise." The PGA†Tour†said it would discuss their position with members of their†Player Advisory Council†and†Policy Boardbefore announcing their position. Players anchoring long putters have won four of the last six major championships, capped by†Adam Scott†becoming the first Australian to win the Masters last month. Opponents of the anchoring style have said it is not a true golf stroke and that stabilizing the putter against one's body can give users an advantage to combat nervous hands and what golfers refer to as the yips. Hall of Famer Gary Player of†South Africa, winner of nine major championships and a career grand slam, saluted the ban. "I spent hours and hours training my mind to have good nerves under pressure. The long putter takes away the nerves. It allows you to hide the nerves and nerves are an integral part of the game of golf," Player said. Players that anchor their putters have insisted they enjoy no meaningful advantage and should be able to continue. American Keegan Bradley, the 2011 PGA champion, suggested during the discussion phase of the rules process that he might consider legal action against a ban. BIG IMPACT Colin Montgomerie, the 2010 Europe Ryder Cup captain, said he hoped Bradley would not resort to that. "Let's hope not," Montgomerie said on Tuesday. "He is entitled to do what he wants to do but let's hope he plays by the R&amp;A and†USGA†rules. "I have used an anchored putter and it was easier to putt with it, rather than without, but I'm in favor of the ban." USGA†executive director†Mike Davis†said golf would be hurt if the PGA†Tour†decided to ignore the ban. "When we write and interpret the rules of golf we do it for millions of golfers worldwide, 50, 60 million golfers," Davis said at a news conference at†USGA headquarters†in†New Jersey. "The PGA†Tour†is very small, a few hundred players, but they have big impact on the game. "When white belts appeared on the PGA†Tour, guess what, they appeared in recreational golf. I think it's really important that the PGA†Tour†and the professional tours...follow one set of rules." Bishop said the PGA would watch with interest how the PGA†Tour†acts. "We've had our oars in the water with the PGA†Tour, and we'll watch with great interest to see what they do as well," said Bishop. USGA†president†Glen Nager†said this was a critical time for golf to move forward in unity. "We hope that these organizations will continue their past behavior of playing by a single set of rules for the good of the game," Nager said. "A game that's growing globally, that will be going to the Olympics and needs one set of rules to thrive." (Editing by Toby Davis)
Reuters/ Steve MarcusThe Wall Street Journal's Michael Rothfeld reports authorities are considering charging SAC Capital as a criminal enterprise through the Racketeer Influenced and Organized Corruption Act (RICO) act. RICO laws were famously used to bust mafia and drug rings in the '80s and '90s. Fox News apparently first reported this. Here's Charlie Gasparino's Tweet: As first reported by fbn, might might be RICO suave for SAC watch at 140 ...prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation face a five-year legal deadline in July to bring securities-fraud charges in an investigation that touches SAC's billionaire founder, Steven A. Cohen. ... Under RICO, prosecutors could file charges in connection with crimes committed over the past decade, as long as any act that is part of the alleged enterprise occurred within the past five years. The government has been investigating charges of insider trading by the firm and its founder, Steve Cohen, for years. SAC told investors last week that it would cease cooperating unconditionally with the government's investigation. SAC was recently the subject of the largest insider trading settlement in history. Read the full report on WSJ.com &gt;
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellRichard Russell, the author behind the Dow Theory Letters, has long been one of the most bearish voices in the market. So, it was a shock back in March when he told his followers to buy stocks. While his sentiment continues to be overwhelmingly bearish, for now he reiterates his bullishness toward the market. Here's Russell via King World News: ìTo be honest, I'm outright bullish on the market myself.† Strange, I woke up Sunday morning with this dream.† Bear markets are meant to clean out the financial garbage, and put the fear of God into investors and politicians.† The crash of 2008-09 failed to do that, mainly because the Fed stepped in and reputedly saved the US and the world from disaster. Furthermore, bear markets are supposed to put the fear of God into just about everyone.† The crash of 2008-09 failed to dampen the speculative ardor of a good many investors.† Here we are, about 5 years after the 2008-09 crash, and speculative juices are back again....But the reality is that my studies continue to look OK. I'm bullish, although I'm still an incurable worrier.† One more thing.† The Treasury bond market has evolved into the biggest financial bubble in history.† But the Fed has the Treasury market well in hand.† So why worry about bonds? Russell's frustration comes through clearly in his sarcastic tone.† He actually describes a fantasy in which the stock markets open to zero bids.† Read it at KingWorldNews.com.
UPDATE: After a brief experience in negative territory this morning, the S&amp;P 500 has returned to its upward trajectory and is now in the green. Right now, the index is trading at 1672, up 0.4% on the day. One of the FOMC's most dovish voting members, New York Fed President Bill Dudley, is speaking in New York right now. Dudley said he can't be sure whether the next move will be to increase or decrease the amount of bond buying the Federal Reserve is doing under its quantitative easing program and highlighted that the fiscal drag to the U.S. economy from policy tightening is "significant." Dudley also said that he sees a risk that investors could over-react to "normalization" of the Fed's balance sheet when it comes time to unwind the central bank's massive, multi-trillion dollar bond portfolio. -------------- EARLIER:¬†After rising 0.4% to highs around 1,672 shortly after the opening bell, the S&amp;P 500 has already given up all of its gains and has descended into negative territory in the first hour of morning trading. Right now, the index is trading at 1663, down 0.2% on the day. There were no U.S. economic data released this morning. All eyes are on Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's big testimony before Congress tomorrow. The telecoms and tech sectors are the biggest laggards in the market today, down 0.6% and 0.4%, respectively. The biggest individual laggards are Carnival Corporation, which is down 5.8% today after lowering its forward profit guidance for the second half of the year, and Best Buy, which is down 3.4% after a disappointing earnings announcement this morning. The chart below shows the morning action in S&amp;P 500 futures. FINVIZ.com

Tesla Motors is delaying an update on its Supercharger network until next week,†CEO Elon Musk tweeted Monday. Musk said the announcement would be pushed back†to make room for news that Tesla may repay its loan from the Department of Energy (DOE) Wednesday. The early repayment would be a big deal for Tesla and the Department of Energy, but the Supercharger announcement could be more important to the electric car maker's long-term health. The biggest problem for electric vehicles is the lack of cheap, powerful battery technology, keeping ranges limited, charge times long, and prices high.  To get around that, Tesla has plans to install 100 Supercharger stations around the country by 2015, where its customers can charge their car batteries halfway in 30 minutes, for free. So far, only nine stations are active. Seven are in California.  If Tesla significantly expands or improves that network, it could be a boon for drivers, who would be able to travel longer distances without worrying about running out of juice on the road. There is also speculation that Tesla will announce a battery swapping scheme, which would involve replacing a depleted battery rather than charging it. In a May 10 SEC filing, Tesla wrote, "we plan to introduce [the technology] in the near future." As the Christian Science Monitor points out, Musk tweeted on May 9: There is a way for the Tesla Model S to be recharged throughout the country faster than you could fill a gas tank. Batteries can be switched out in less than 60 seconds, as proven by Better Place, the company that developed the battery-swapping technology. Swapping has its problems, however. Better Place recently ended operations in North America after failing to prove the feasibility of its model, the New York Times reported. The Final Piece? Tesla has cleared a lot of hurdles in recent weeks. It's profitable. Its stock is way up. It has plans to repay its federal loan nearly a decade early. Consumer Reports recently called the Model S the best car it has ever tested, and Tesla has introduced a financing system that makes owning one more affordable. It even has a great new service program.† So if Musk can make Tesla's biggest problem ó battery range ó less of an issue, it would be a huge win.
RainForestAction/FlickrWith the recent backlash surrounding the†banking†industry, more consumers are becoming increasingly vocal about the poor service, high fees and dismal interest rates offered by the nationís biggest banks and demanding justice. Usually, when enough customers complain about a business, that business is inclined to make a change and regain the trust theyíve lost. It follows then, that if youíre dissatisfied by your bank, you should make your voice heard and request action. Unfortunately,†big banks†probably arenít going to do much changing anytime soon, because frankly, they donít want your business. Big Banks Donít Want Your Money One of the major reasons banks arenít interested in gaining new business is because most depositors are unprofitable. One would assume that, considering lending out customersí deposits is one of the major ways banks make money, the more cash sitting in†bank accounts, the better. The truth, however, is that most†big banks†have more money on deposit than they know what to do with. Bloomberg†reported in December 2012 that deposits at U.S. banks exceeded loans by an ìunprecedentedî $2 trillion. In fact, deposits have increased by 29 percent since September 2008, while loans have experienced growth of less than 2 percent over the same time period. Additionally, Bloomberg reported the banking industry was lending 78 cents for every $1 in deposits at of the end of last year, well below the mid-90 percent range the Royal Bank of Canadaís Gerard Cassidy states is ideal. Ron Sellers of†Grey Matter Research &amp; Consulting explains, ìConsumers donít understand the finances of banking. They often say, ëWell, youíre using my money, so youíre making money off me.í What they donít recognize is that servicing that account costs money.î Those costs, says Sellers, include processing every transaction; producing and sending statements; and maintaining branches, ATMs and phone service centers. Plus, banks also have to keep a portion of deposits on reserve at all times.† Therefore, itís likely you are costing your bank more than youíre contributing to its bottom line ó so itís no wonder they arenít going out of their way to make you happy. In fact, your bank might actually be trying to drive you away. What Does a Profitable Bank Customer Look Like? Alexey Bulankov, CFP, told me that a few years ago, he worked for the investment arm of a well-known bank as an investment consultant. The bankís management decided to have branch managers compile a list of its most profitable accounts ó defined as bringing in the highest percent of revenue per dollar of deposit. ìI was quite surprised when I saw the list,î says Bulankov. ìIt was compiled almost entirely of the low-balance accounts ó under a $100 ó which had low balances, high overdrafts and were systematically overdrawn, late or had a bunch of bounced checks,î he explains. This was prior to the passing of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, however, which in part limited the bank fees institutions could charge customers.†Reuters†cited Todd Maclin, head of consumer and business banking at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, as explaining that people who couldnít bring at least $100,000 in investable assets, loans and deposits to their banks would be largely unprofitable once Dodd-Frank passed. Driving Away Unwanted Bank Customers Itís important to remember that banks are, in fact, businesses, so their number one driving objective is to turn a profit. Today,†bank fees†make up a much smaller percentage of overall banking industry revenue. Financial institutions are using bank fees to drive away those customers who were once the most profitable, but now cost banks more than theyíre worth to keep. ìIn my experience, I was told by my management to manage out my highest loss ëDí households,î says†Gregory B. Meyer, Community Relations Manager, Meriwest Credit Union. ìIn other words, find ways to encourage these customers to take their unprofitable business elsewhere. In business reviews, my boss would look at the lowest of the D households and directly ask me, ëWhy are these households still here?íî Credit Unions Welcome the Business Meyer explained that credit unions, on the other hand, have a very different perspective regarding customers. As not-for-profit institutions, their priorities arenít driven by revenue. ìI think this is why, every year, credit unions tend to grow the number of households they service,î advises Meyers, adding, ìA while back,†Bank Transfer Day†was a big day when families with bank checking accounts were encouraged to move to a credit unionÖ Since then, every day our credit union is open is Bank Transfer Day.î For the average person with a modest-size bank account, a symbiotic relationship with big banks is probably not possible. Even so, there are plenty of credit unions out there that would be more than happy to have you.
Here's a pretty shocking chart: it's the share price of TEPCO, the beleaguered Japanese power company at the center of the Fukushima nuclear disaster that followed from the Japanese earthquake in April 2011. Year-to-date, the stock is up 396%. In recent days, it's gone absolutely vertical in the past few days on speculation that the company will at last power up its nuclear reactors again, which have been shut down since the disaster. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Bloomberg's†Tsuyoshi Inajima has the details: Tepco shares yesterday rose 16 percent to 726 yen after the†Yomiuri newspaper reported the utility will apply to the Nuclear†Regulation Authority for a restart of No. 1 and No. 7 units at†the Kashiwazaki Kariwa plant in northern Japan in July. Tepco denied the Yomiuri report and said the utility is†still designing a filtered vent system, part of the new safety†requirements to be set by the nuclear safety watchdog. The†company canít say when it can complete the installation. Of course, the announcement and beginning of the implementation of the Japanese government's "Abenomics" economic stimulus strategy has caused the broader Japanese stock market to surge this year, making it one of the best performing global stock markets so far in 2013. (The surge in stocks is also a byproduct of the weakening Japanese yen, which has been the primary conduit of Abenomics so far.) But what exactly does Abenomics have to do with TEPCO? The yen, which has weakened from 86.70 to the U.S. dollar at the beginning of 2013 to levels around 102.40 today, is making energy imports more and more expensive for Japan. This has caused deterioration over Japan's current account, which is leading to concern over rising deficits. Those expensive energy imports are hitting the power companies ñ including TEPCO ñ pretty hard, especially as nuclear reactors remain shuttered. Here's more from†Bloomberg's†Tsuyoshi Inajima: Last month, Japanís nine power companies reported combined†losses of about 1.6 trillion yen ($15.6 billion) for a second†consecutive year as they face higher fossil fuel bills with most†nuclear reactors shut. The utilities will be forced to pay 3.8†trillion yen more in combined fuel costs this fiscal year,†compared with fiscal 2010, because of shutdowns and a weaker†yen, according to a government advisory board estimate in April. The situation is likely increasing the urgency to re-start nuclear power reactors in Japan. New Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said he approves of powering some of them back up as long as they meet safety requirements currently being checked by regulators, a shift away from the previous Japanese government's goal to phase out all nuclear power by 2030.
Tesla Motors will probably repay its loan from the Department of Energy (DOE) Wednesday, nine years ahead of schedule, CEO Elon Musk announced on Twitter on Monday. Last week, Tesla announced it would take advantage of its soaring stock price to raise more money, which it would use to make the payment. The $465 million loan was part of the DOE's Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) program, created by the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act to allocate $25 billion to fund highly fuel-efficient vehicles. Tesla is not required to pay the loan back until DOE until December 2022, according to Bloomberg. Early repayment would be a win for both Tesla and the DOE, which has a lackluster track record of approving loans for automakers. Of the five companies selected under the ATVM program, two have flopped. Now-defunct Fisker Automotive drew down $193 million of the $529 million it was promised before the DOE froze its access to the money over missed production deadlines. The Vehicle Production Group (VPG), a maker of wheelchair-accessible vans that received $50 million, stopped operations in February after the DOE froze its assets, when its finances fell below the threshold required by the loan. Here's Musk's tweet: Given govt loan repayment this week (prob Wed), Supercharger update will be next week. Work continuing independent of announcement.
via Rubloff PropertiesThe ivy-covered historic Chicago townhouse that belonged to a late Merrill Lynch vice president is on the market for $9.95 million, the Wall Street Journal reports. The home located in Chicago's Gold Coast neighborhood was built in 1896, according to a listing from Rubloff Properties.† The most recent occupants were late Merrill VP John C. Shelton and his wife Sandy Shelton lived there. †Sandy is still the owner, according to the Journal.† "One of the most coveted properties on the Gold Coast. House has 35 rooms, 14 bedrooms, 10 fireplaces and 10 baths, 3 decks plus beautiful brick patio," the listing†states. † It sounds like a dream home. †Now we're going to take a photo tour.†
Mario Tama, Getty ImagesSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Yahoo Inc Chief Executive Marissa Mayer's $1.1 billion acquisition of blogging service Tumblr will be a test of her ability to revive the aging Web portal. Luckily for her, her performance may be graded generously. Mayer faces plenty of challenges in her efforts to turn six-year-old Tumblr into a money-spinner, not least among them retaining users while devising new types of non-intrusive online ads outside of Yahoo's traditional area of expertise. And then there is Tumblr's hefty price tag: a sum that equates to a fifth of Yahoo's cash. But some investors and analysts say that Wall Street is more focused on the rising value of Yahoo's Asian assets, such as its 24-percent slice of China's Alibaba, than on actual business operations. That means the 37-year-old executive faces less immediate pressure to prove that Yahoo's biggest acquisition in years is a profitable one. "Overall I'm relatively skeptical, but I don't think it matters much to the stock," Macquarie Research analyst Ben Schachter said of the deal. "Say they destroy 100 percent of the value and drive Tumblr into the ground. It's probably less than a dollar per share in value," he said. If Mayer's bet delivers, however, some investors say it could provide even more upside to a stock already trading at its highest levels in years. "The core business is the lottery ticket," said Ryan Jacob, the chief executive of the Jacob Funds, who owns Yahoo shares. "Investors' expectations for the core business are very low, so if they're able to reinvigorate growth, that will move the needle," said Jacob. Yahoo's stock finished Monday's regular trading session up 6 cents at $26.58. Its shares have surged roughly 70 percent since Mayer became CEO in July, largely due to stock buybacks and the rising value of its Asian investments, which also include Yahoo Japan. CHALLENGES ABOUND Yahoo remains one of the Web's most popular destinations, but has seen its revenue shrink in recent years as consumers and advertisers favor rivals Google Inc and Facebook Inc. By buying Tumblr, Yahoo gets a much-needed platform in social media to reach a younger generation of users less enamored of Yahoo's traditional Web content and email. Yahoo is paying a rich premium for Tumblr, whose nascent advertising efforts generated a scant $13 million in revenue last year, according to media reports. "Tumblr has low revenues and a big multiple, but far-sighted buyers in technology have shown that they can take small properties and put them onto their distribution system and do good things with them," said Adam Seessel, head of Gravity Capital Management, which owns Yahoo shares. Take Google's $1.6 billion acquisition of YouTube. That deal gave the search giant an important video service that boosted interaction with Google's other online services, he said by way of example. Facebook's acquisition of photo-sharing service Instagram for more than $700 million is considered another deft move by technology observers, allowing the social network to scoop up a fast-growing threat to its business - even if the ad-free service hasn't delivered a financial boost to Facebook yet. For every YouTube and Instagram there is a MySpace, the once-red-hot social network News Corp acquired for $580 million in 2005 but whose popularity plunged when its new parent plastered ads all over the service in a rush to monetize. Mayer stressed Yahoo's commitment to create new so-called native ads that mesh seamlessly into Tumblr's content and are considered more suited to the service than the traditional online display ads that have long been Yahoo's bread-and-butter. "We have gotten more and more focused on providing native ads and designing ads for that experience, so that's what we're going to get really focused on," Mayer, a former Google executive, told Reuters in an interview late on Monday. But creating a class of ads that works is no simple feat. "There isn't a template to do it," said Rebecca Lieb, an analyst with research and consulting firm Altimeter Group, who explained that native ads is a catch-all encompassing everything from advertorials to sponsored tweets that appear in Twitter. While Yahoo recently began experimenting with news stream ads on its redesigned home page, doing native ads on a broad scale could be tricky given the challenge of convincing brands and agencies to experiment with formats, Lieb said. Yahoo must also hold onto Tumblr's bloggers, many of whom were already stomping their feet at being assimilated into the decidedly "less cool" Yahoo. Many vented their frustrations on the Tumblr blog entitled "Meltdowns about Yahoo buying Tumblr." Defections have begun. As reports of the deal spread on Sunday, the founder of WordPress, a rival blogging platform, said it "imported" 72,000 Tumblr blogs in a one hour period. Yet for many investors, those questions are secondary to the impending IPO of Alibaba Group, which they say is one of the key factors buoying Yahoo's stock. Analysts and investors estimate the value of Alibaba to be around $70 billion. But Lawrence Haverty, a fund manager with GAMCO Investors, believes it could be worth $100 billion or more when it goes public. In the event Alibaba's IPO does not live up to expectations, the fallout for Yahoo will be far more serious than anything that happens with Tumblr. (Reporting By Alexei Oreskovic; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
Shares of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products, have been halted.¬† The news: Herbalife has hired PricewaterhouseCoopers as its new auditor. PwC will re-audit the company's financial statements for the fiscal years ended 2010, 2011 and 2012, according to the 8-K filing with the SEC. Last month, KPMG announced it had resigned as Herbalife's auditor¬†after one of its now-former partners shared non public information with another person. Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is famously short. ¬†Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife. ¬†He has publicly called the company a "pyramid scheme." Not everyone has agreed with Ackman's short thesis. His rival, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, snapped up a massive stake in the company.¬†
Apple executives are being grilled by the Senate today over their policies to minimize their U.S. corporate income tax expenditures by keeping a mountain of cash offshore.¬† Tons of companies do this. Everyone from Google to Coca Cola keeps billions offshore in tax havens to minimize their liability. Competitor Microsoft has one of the most elaborate off-shoring schemes. It's worth noting that their executives were grilled last September. ¬† However, Apple happens to be the company that keeps the most cash offshore, and offshoring has become a major problem.¬† Here's the issue.¬† Since 1950, corporate profits have exploded in the United States:¬† FRED However, corporate taxes as a percentage of government receipts are at an all-time low, according to this chart from the Tax Policy Center: Senate Report That's a startling divergence. The Senate thinks that offshoring of corporate cash as a way to avoid corporate income tax is what's wrong. Since Apple is one of the most notorious offshorers in the world, they're going to try to crucify them.¬† Since the government is perpetually in a state of perceived fiscal crisis, it would be ideal to raise revenues from companies that are percieved as "tax dodgers" rather that turn the screws on actual people who can legally vote.¬† That's why the Senate is trying to screw with one of America's best companies.¬†
AP ImagesThe word on the Street was that Jamie Dimon would be facing the fight of his life to keep his dual position as Chairman and CEO of JP Morgan. Last year, when this proposal came up 40% of shareholders voted to split Dimon's role, and observers thought it would gain even more support this year. This time around, proxy advisors voiced their for the split, as did major shareholders like CalPers and the NYC Comptrollers Office. But in fact, Jamie Dimon won handily. Only 32.2% of shareholders voted in favor of splitting the roles. Some board members on the risk committee got low approval ratings ó the lowest was 53% ó but other than that, it was smooth sailing for Jamie's team. And that's the problem, according to the CalPers spokesperson who spoke on CNBC directly after the results were announced. The vote turned in to a referendum on Jamie Dimon, and, as she said "It's not actually about him it's about the board." It's possible the Dimon's threat to go nuclear and leave the bank if he didn't win moved major shareholders in his favor ó not pretty, but a win is a win.
Ronald MachenThe New York Times' Gretchen Morgenson asks the following question this morning: is it a coincidence that the attorney who approved tracking the Associated Press's phone calls was also involved in hacking David Einhorn's phones eight years ago? Here's the back story, according to Morgenson: In 2004, Allied Capital was†accused of illicitly accessing the phone records of David Einhorn, as well as CNBC's Herb Greenberg (then with Marketwatch) and an unnamed research analyst.† Each had previously criticized Alliedís accounting and business practices. Ronald C. Machen Jr., the guy in the new AP case, was then serving as counsel for Allied. At first, Allied denied any wrongdoing. But in 2006,†they received a subpoena from the United States attorneyís office for the District of Columbia requesting records ìregarding the use of private investigators by Allied Capital or its agents.î  Allied eventually admitted ìthat an agent of the company obtained what were represented to be telephone records of David Einhorn and which purport to be records of calls from Greenlight Capital during a period of time in 2005.î In 2009, Machen was nominated for his current post, U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia.  In his official nominee†questionnaire, he included his involvement in the Einhorn case as an example of the "most significant legal activities" he'd pursued in his career. In the end, the Justice Department's investigation didn't go anywhere, and Allied never admitted any wrongdoing. For the latest on the AP case, check out Josh Gerstein's dissection of how the Justice Department is going after leaks given the Washington Post's revelation that were treating Fox reporter Josh Rosen as a criminal.† Click here to read the full story on NYTimes.com &gt;
Apple finds itself in front of a Senate Subcommittee today, defending its elaborate practice of keeping cash offshore in order to minimize their tax liability.¬† The thing is, Apple is far from the only company that does this. While they keep the most cash offshore by far, other companies have similar schemes to dodge taxes. For example, we explained Microsoft's elaborate international tax avoidance structure earlier.¬† The use of international tax havens by corporations was¬†detailed in a Senate report¬†released last September.¬† Here's a list of companies that keep upwards of $5 billion in cash equivalents offshore, avoiding paying U.S. corporate income taxes:¬† Senate Report
Proposals at JP Morgan's annual meeting range from issues with corporate governance to lobbying ó shareholders get to ask whatever questions they like with the company's heads in the room. One shareholder even let loose about his concern over JP Morgan's parking lots. From Bloomberg's Dawn Kopecki Twitter Hey man, if you have one shot... take it.
Commodities are getting hit hard today as the big unwind across the asset class continues. Below is a quick snapshot of the damage. (There are a few bright spots: Natural gas is up 2%, and soybeans and sugar are also up slightly today.) Citi's head of commodities research, Ed Morse, is out with another note to clients on the end of the "supercycle" in commodities that has caused prices to soar in recent years. Below is Morse's take on what is going on: Citi expects 2013 to be the year in which the death bells ring for the commodity supercycle after its duly noted sunset, ushering in a new decade of opportunities based on how individual commodities will perform against one another and against broader market indicators such as equities or currencies. It will be a period of focus on unique individual commodity cycles and new relations emerging between and among commodities and other asset classes from fixed income to foreign exchange to global equities. The downward shift in China's economic growth rate combined with the decline in the commodity intensity of growth have a permanent and profound impact on global markets. China has reached a new phase, less focused on infrastructure¬†and urbanization, both of which are highly commodity intensive. Lower single-digit economic growth shifting to a greater emphasis on consumption rather than investment hits industrial metals, bulk commodities and to a lesser degree energy demand. The recent separation of commodities from equity markets is in many respects a return to normalcy, given the sensitivity of commodity prices to coincident conditions and of equities to anticipatory economic changes. The denomination effects of changes in the relative value of the US dollar is likewise going to continue to impact commodities, and Citi‚Äôs long-term bullish view of the US dollar is likely to place an even further drag across the asset class this year. But to the degree that commodity-producing countries depend on specific commodity exports, differentiated conditions should impact the FX values of different commodity currencies in varied ways as well, providing further opportunities for investors. Morse called the collapse of oil in 2008, when it was soaring to record prices that summer.
Unlike many other Chinese food scandals‚Äîrat meat sold as lamb, milk tainted with melamine, dead pigs in the river‚Äîthe cadmium-laced rice isn‚Äôt just the result of unprincipled food providers trying to cut costs. Instead, it‚Äôs a reflection of the heavy levels of heavy-metal pollution that can be found throughout China‚Äôs farm lands.¬†The country loses¬†$3 billion a year to soil pollution. While it‚Äôs less outrageously stomach-churning than, say, rat meat masquerading as mutton, the ‚Äúcadmium rice‚Äù scandal, as the media has named it, is much harder to fix. Health inspectors can crack down on fake meat. But the soil pollution crisis is the result‚Äîand a telling example‚Äîof layer upon layer of state planning gone awry. Here‚Äôs why. No ministry is¬†accountable for regulating soil pollution¬†(pdf, p.6), and earlier this year, the State Council pushed back setting up a soil pollution prevention system from 2015 to 2020.¬†That‚Äôs despite the fact that¬†between 40% and¬†70% of China‚Äôs soil is already contaminated with¬†heavy metals and fertilizers. That results in toxic levels of lead in a third of China‚Äôs rice and high levels of cadmium in another one-tenth of it. The government categorizes soil pollution levels as a ‚Äústate secret.‚Äù¬†This despite the fact Chinese academics have long been documenting the toxic effects of soil pollution‚Äîfor example, one Chinese scientist found that the soil in at least half of China‚Äôs provinces and administrative zones is¬†severely contaminated.¬†The authorities have¬†declined to publish the¬†results¬†of the first national survey of soil pollution, started in 2006; scholars involved in the project say the government has¬†suppressed the¬†preliminary¬†findings. It‚Äôs not just industrial runoff‚Äîit‚Äôs farmers, too. In addition to being a major¬†agricultural¬†producer, Hunan, where the rice was grown, is¬†also a major producer of non-ferrous metals‚Äîone likely contributor to the high cadmium levels. In the last few years, a rising number of Hunan agricultural products have been¬†found to contain toxic substances¬†(link in Chinese).¬†And¬†despite widespread soil pollution, there aren‚Äôt restrictions on planting in polluted soil, say academics. Plus, farmers use a lot of of phosphate-based fertilizers¬†that contain cadmium, which is expensive to remove. One scientist estimates that improper disposal of fertilizer means that farmers leave around 65% of it to pollute soil and water. But the shortage of land and water resources leaves farmers with little choice. The central government encourages this toxic production because it desperately wants farmers to grow rice.¬†The pressure on farmers to produce comes from the government, which is anxious to keep food supply‚Äîand, therefore, prices‚Äîstable. Not only does it encourage high output, but it sets a minimum price for rice and other staples. Any time the price dips below that threshold, the government buys up rice from farmers and socks it away in the state rice reserve.¬†And it¬†bumped that up another 10% at the beginning of this year, even though it was already way higher than international market prices. Oryza/QuartzLocal governments flout regulations with impunity. There so far has been no reaction from the authorities in Hunan, where the rice originated,¬†reports Xinhua¬†(link in Chinese). Meanwhile, the local Guangzhou Food and Drug Administration initially¬†ignored laws¬†(link in Chinese) requiring it to tell the public which brands contained the toxic substances, which companies had sold and distributed it, and what the health risks were. Though it eventually bowed to pressure and named the manufacturers and the brand of the ‚Äúcadmium rice,‚Äù it still hasn‚Äôt released details. The public is getting really ticked off.¬†Unsurprisingly, the Guangzhou FDA‚Äôs silence¬†didn‚Äôt sit well with the public¬†(link in Chinese). ‚Äú[The FDA official] says it‚Äôs inconvenient to publish information about some issues. Then we have to ask¬†why¬†is it inconvenient? What indeed are the things that are inconvenient?‚Äù¬†Zeng Dehong, a member of the local government body,¬†told China National Radio. ‚ÄúThe People‚Äôs Congress actually require a little accountability here.‚Äù¬†(Note that Guangdong province officials are unusually frank compared to those elsewhere in China.) So what‚Äôs the solution?¬†The central government knows it must reassure Chinese households that their food is safe. But that doesn‚Äôt help much when its food safety goals are at odds with its policy of making local governments hit economic growth targets.¬†As one Guangdong FDA official told Beijing News, the pressure faced by certain departments to deliver economic development forced them to¬†look the other way on food safety¬†(link in Chinese). The government must figure out how to get them to prioritize food safety and the environment instead of focusing on growth at any cost. Taking officials off the hook for hitting economic targets would be a good start. Otherwise,¬†even a well-intentioned central government won‚Äôt be able to protect its people. More from Quartz: Click here¬†to sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with the latest intelligence on the new global economy.
After surviving a vote on whether or not he should keep his dual role as CEO and Chairman of the largest bank in the U.S., Jamie Dimon gave a super positive speech about JP Morgan to a room full of shareholders. The speech had a warm, Mighty Ducks victory kind of feel to it, but it didn't stop shareholders from voicing support for the measure to split Dimon's role immediately after he spoke. It's number six on a laundry list of proposals to be considered at the meeting. But first, Dimon's speech. You have to admit, JPM is a massive force. Dimon cited its $97 billion in revenue, $1.8 trillion in credit or capital lent, 1 million mortgages issued... the list goes on. That said: as Dimon said halfway through his speech, "There are a few things that occurred this year that we're not proud of." He called the London Whale trading loss "embarrassing" and said that the bank expected to have more issues with authorities. However, he added, JPM is "doing everything necessary to comply with regulators." Dimon closed his speech reiterating his commitment to Europe, listing opportunities for growth and finally making a pledge: "We promise you we will be a port of safety in the next storm." The shareholders that spoke next tried to tell Dimon that the storm lied within the company. The take away argument they made was that instead of seeing their vote to split his roles as a vote on good corporate governance in general, Dimon's supporters turned it into a popularity contest. "Good corporate governance is not a personality contest," said the first speaker. Turning the vote into a referendum on Dimon's performance detracted from the point that the positions of CEO and Chairman are simply different jobs. Dimon, she added, shouldn't be his own boss. Additionally, the speaker worried about succession planning. At JP Morgan, there is none. "No one person should ever be indispensable," the speaker said. The next speaker was a representative of the NY City Comptrollers Office, which runs the city's pension fund holding about 11 million shares of JPM. "Shareholders interests are best served when a CEO runs a business on the one hand, and the Chairman runs an independant board on the other," said the speaker. "It's unrealistic... and imprudent to have the CEO running the board...The bank leads its peers... but it also leads its peers in regulatory violations." A few other proposals got brief attention before board leader Lee R. Raymond, a former chief executive of ExxonMobil took the floor and responded to Dimon's detractors. Basically, he said the board voted to support Dimon unanimously. "To put the debate over our board structure in context... this is the same board... that helped guide this company through risks associated through the financial crisis, and through the Bear Stearns and Wa Mu transactions without a single negative quarter... We don't think this is time for disruption." So there you have it. At this point, shareholders are still taking the mic and talking about this proposal. We'll keep you posted as to how colorful they get (if at all).
APKentucky Senator Rand Paul went on a great rant during today's Senate subcommittee hearing on Apple's offshore tax practices, slamming his Congressional colleagues for even holding the hearing in the first place.† "Frankly, I'm offended by the tone and tenor of this hearing," Paul said, laying into those who take issue with Apple's tax policies.† "I'm offended by the spectacle of dragging in executives from an American company that is not doing anything illegal," he added. "If anyone should be on trial, it should be Congress."† Apple CEO†Tim Cook†is testifying before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations this morning to defend the company from accusations that it avoids tax payments by shifting profits to offshore subsidiaries in Ireland.† Michigan Democratic Sen. Carl Levin, the chair of the subcommittee, said Monday that he has "never seen anything like" Apple's tax "gimmickry." Paul took issue with the premise of Tuesday's hearing, however, and called on the Senate to stop "harassing" Apple, which he called one of "America's greatest success stories." "Instead of doing the right thing, we drag businessmen and women in here to berate them for trying to maximize their profits for shareholders," Paul said. "Apple has done more to enrich people's lives than politicians will ever do."† Watch the video below:† 

flickr/dpstylesIf you have broken down in tears or literally pulled your hair out while dealing with your Internet service provider (ISP), then you are not alone. ISPs are the least satisfying industry in America, according to¬†the¬†latest ratings¬†from¬†the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), which are based on extensive surveys. Despite service disruptions, high bills, and awful call center experiences, consumers are dependent on these services and often have few companies to choose from.¬† Other low-rated industries include subscription television, social media, and power companies.¬†The biggest drop since our last ranking¬†went to the¬†Long Island Power Authority, broadly criticized for its response to Hurricane Sandy.¬†¬†
The Hispanic Federation sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission on Friday requesting that the regulator investigate Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. "It's our understanding that the company's marketing materials promise richness for a few hours of work from home. You can imagine for immigrants, particularly those who are underemployed or have no papers, this promise can seem like their ticket to achieving the American Dream," the Hispanic Federation's letter states. ¬†¬† Herbalife is the stock that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is publicly shorting. ¬† Ackman believes the company is a pyramid scheme and that the FTC will be induced to investigate the company. "If the FTC misses Herbalife, it's the equivalent of the SEC missing Madoff," Ackman said during a conference earlier this year.¬† Here's the letter (Click to enlarge):¬† Hispanic Federation Hispanic Federation
Shares of Herbalife are ripping again today. ¬†The stock was last trading up more than 6% at about $52.40 per share early on in the trading session.¬† We still haven't come across any news regarding the stock.¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the stock that Ackman is famously short. ¬†Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital, publicly said back in December that he's shorting more than 20 million shares with a price target of $0. ¬† Ackman has slammed the company calling it a "pyramid scheme." Not everyone has agreed with him. ¬†Ackman's rival, billionaire investor Carl Icahn, snapped up a massive long position in Herbalife. ¬† During an epic brawl on CNBC between the two hedge fund titans, Icahn said, "I will tell you one day I think HLF will be the mother of all short squeezes." ¬† And in another interview with CNBC, Icahn reemphasized this.¬† "If Ackman gets squeezed I'm not going to feel sorry..." Icahn said, adding,¬†"The fact that I don't like Ackman you could say is the strawberry on top of the ice cream." Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife has risen more than 15%.¬† Check out the chart:¬† Yahoo! Finance 

The U.S. Congress claims that Apple set up an international paper-based subsidiary called Apple Operations International to hide more than $30 billion in profit from tax collectors between 2009 to 2012. Congress says this company has "no physical presence" and "no employees."* But that doesn't appear to be true!* Reuters photographer Michael MacSweeney says he has found an office in Ireland used by Apple Operations International, at least to collect mail. And he has a photograph to prove it! So, according to Reuters, this building is where you can send stuff to the Apple legal entity that generates the $30 billion of profit and is safely out of the reach of greedy U.S. tax collectors: REUTERS/Michael MacSweeneyThe $30 billion company known as "Apple Operations International."*UPDATE: Gordon Trowbridge from Senator Carl Levin's office reached out to reiterate the Senate's position that Apple Operations International has no employees and no physical presence: Itís incorrect to say AOI has employees or a physical presence at that location. Apple has told the subcommittee that AOI has no employees, and that its Cork mailing address is just that ñ a mail drop ñ and that AOI itself has no physical presence there (or anywhere else, I believe).† Apple has a whole network of Irish subsidiaries, most based at its Cork campus. It says it has about 4,000 employees in Ireland, but all of them are employed by other Apple entities, not AOI. SEE ALSO: Apple's Tax-Dodging Techniques Are Quite Spectacular
Bloomberg TelevisionDavid KostinGoldman Sachs is cranking up its official targets for the U.S. stock market. "We expect S&amp;P 500 will rise by 5% to 1750 by year-end 2013, advance by 9% to¬†1900 in 2014, and climb by 10% to 2100 in 2015," says Goldman's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist¬†David Kostin in a note to clients. Including dividends, this would represent a 33% total return through 2015. The key component underlying the bullish call on the stock market is the investment bank's outlook for an improving U.S. economy, which will cause further expansion of the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio ‚Äì the valuation multiple investors pay to own stocks. Multiple expansion, Kostin points out, already accounts for three quarters of the market's gains in the rally that has taken place throughout 2013 already, with only one quarter of the price appreciation due to increases in earnings. "Our U.S. economists forecast above-trend growth in 2014 for the first time in six years," says Kostin. "In advanced economies, the final year of economic stagnation before GDP growth exceeded trend has been associated with P/E multiple expansions averaging 15%." The note goes into a bit more detail on why Goldman expects multiple expansion to drive the market higher. Here is the key section:¬† Our year-end 2013 forward P/E of 15x would be 14% above last year‚Äôs 13.2x. The S&amp;P 500¬†currently trades at 14.6x bottom-up consensus and 15.0x our top-down NTM EPS estimates.¬† The macro investment environment supports an above-average S&amp;P 500 valuation.¬†Our standard valuation approaches point to a P/E multiple of 14x forward earnings. However, our revised forecast estimates an S&amp;P 500 P/E multiple of 15x-16x during the next three years that is above the long-term average but in line with the post-1990 experience. The S&amp;P 500 forward P/E multiple has averaged 12.9x since 1973 but 15.3x since 1990. Changes to our S&amp;P 500 return forecasts reflect a one P/E multiple point premium to¬†our fair-value estimates. Reasons for a higher multiple include increased confidence in¬†the medium-term outlook for US economic growth, improving investor risk appetite, and¬†the wide gap between equity and bond yields that we now assume will be closed more by¬†stocks than bonds. Sustained Fed commitment to monetary easing, aggressive measures by the Bank of Japan, and persistent weakness in Europe growth mean US Treasury yields¬†may remain low despite strengthening domestic growth. One of the biggest open questions in markets is how bond yields will affect the market once they begin to rise, but Goldman isn't worried. "We believe equity markets will continue to perform well even if US Treasury yields rise provided the higher rates stem from improving economic growth prospects," Kostin says. Here's a summary of their call: Goldman Sachs
Business InsiderAccording to an early tally that could still change, The New York Times is calling the JP Morgan shareholder vote for CEO Jamie Dimon. At 10 a.m. shareholders will begin their annual meeting in Tampa, Florida. This year, they'll also finish up a vote as to whether Jamie Dimon will continue in his dual role as CEO and Chairman of the board. The NYT is basing their call on people that have seen preliminary tallies, though they say the margin of victory is unclear and shareholders can still vote. From the NYT: JPMorgan and board members had run an unusually proactive campaign to avert the split. To help bolster its credibility, JPMorgan‚Äôs board, led by Lee R. Raymond, a former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, slashed Mr. Dimon‚Äôs pay by more than 50 percent in January, to $11.5 million.... The strategy helped to head off a showdown in Tampa. Still, a number of Wall Street insiders have suggested the board could have undercut split‚Äôs momentum earlier by giving more power to Mr. Raymond, the board‚Äôs lead director while shaking up the board‚Äôs risk policy committee, which has been criticized for a lack of oversight. Instead, the board has continued to support the risk policy members even over cries from shareholders to oust some directors. Bloomberg's Dominic Chu is also reporting that preliminary votes indicate that Dimon will stay with 84% of shareholders reporting ‚Äî but again, the margin of victory seems small. Win or lose, given how close and intense this vote was, JPM's board will have to consider making changes to its governance, perhaps by giving more power to Raymond. Three board members had only very slim margins of support as well, and their positions remain in question. Expect one serious gauntlent of a Q&amp;A session here. Business Insider will still be tuning in to the meeting, which will be webcast online. Once the final tally is in, we'll let you know.
We imagine CEO Jamie Dimon's thrilled about that. Dimon faces a controversial vote as to whether or not he should remain both CEO and Chairman of the board at JP Morgan. Mayo ‚Äî known for being an agitator for better bank governance at shareholder meetings, on conference calls, and on TV appearances ‚Äî has said he's going to Tampa to hear more than just 'The Jamie Show' ‚Äî he wants to hear from the board. From WSJ: "Jamie Dimon, you are saying: 'We have a strong board.' Let me see the board, let me hear from Lee Raymond," Mr. Mayo said, referring to J.P. Morgan's presiding director and former Exxon Mobil Corp Chairman and CEO. "If it's just a Jamie show, that would be very disappointing." Mayo has said that he believes people in his profession are too "whimpy" and it's no secret that he and Dimon have their differences. On JP Morgan Investor Day back in February, the two shared this ever-so polite exchange: Mayo: UBS is required to have 10 percent common equity and they've chosen to have 13 percent common equity because they say it's a competitive advantage. Their customers appreciate that. So how much higher would you go above 9.5 percent? And would you view higher capital as a competitive advantage? Dimon: You know, so here's a company I've run with higher capital my entire life. Ok so [when] we went into this crisis we were at 7 percent Basel I, which was higher than most other people. And I do this chart ... 7 percent quarter by quarter '08, '09, never went down. It was clearly adequate for us. The equivalent of that 7 today is 14. So 9.5 Basel 3 is the is equivalent to 14 under Basel 1. Double. I personally think it's plenty of capital. ... We have to meet the regulator requirement and we want you to be completely comfortable. I personally think they'd be comfortable the way we are today. Mayo: I think what I hear UBS saying in the presentation is that if I'm an affluent customer I'll feel a lot better going to UBS if they have 13.5 capital ratio than another big bank with a 10 percent ratio. Do you agree with that? Dimon: You would go to UBS and not JPMorgan? Mayo: I didn't say that. That's their argument. Burn. Today's meeting should get interesting.
How are we doing? Not so good recently. S&amp;P 500 revenues fell during Q1, and are up only 1.4% y/y. This series is highly correlated with the 12-month sum of the value of world exports, which has been flat for the past year. A somewhat more encouraging indicator is 52-week forward consensus expected revenues for the S&amp;P 500--the time-weighted average of analystsí estimates for the current and the coming year. It remains on an uptrend, though it dipped during the Q1-2013 earnings season as analysts lowered their expectations for 2013 revenues because of all the negative revenue surprises. The revenue disappointments were relatively widespread, with only three of the 10 S&amp;P 500 showing modest q/q gains: Energy, Materials, and Utilities. Here is the y/y performance derby for Q1ís revenues: Consumer Discretionary (7.0% y/y), Financials (4.4), Telecom (4.1), Tech (3.8), Health Care (2.7), Consumer Staples (2.6), Materials (1.5), S&amp;P 500 (1.4), Utilities (1.3), Industrials (0.3), and Energy (-7.6). Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Dichotomy. (1) The new worry: strong stocks, weak economy. (2) Economic Surprise Index is down. (3) Growing at stall speed. (4) Not fazed by QE phase-out. (5) Door #1: Rally in a secular bear vs. Door #2: Secular bull. (6) Forward earnings at record highs. (7) Revenues are the key. (8) Soft batch or soft patch for US economy? (9) The biggest dichotomy is Europeís stocks and economy. (More for subscribers.)
Here's a healthy reminder that the issues that outrage and fascinate members of the media are often quite different than the ones that media consumers (a.k.a., normal people) care about. According to a new Pew survey, of the three scandals plaguing the Obama administration, the one that is most troubling to many in the media--the Department Of Justice's secret procurement of Associated Press phone records--is a big yawner among normal Americans. As the following chart shows, normal Americans care a lot more about the IRS and Benghazi. What's also clear, as Josh Barro of Bloomberg observes, is that Americans actually don't care much about any of these scandals. The economy is actually more interesting to us, and only 30% of us care about that. Pew Research
Data group Marchex has¬†examined more than 600,000 phone calls from the past 12 months to find the most polite and vulgar states in the country.¬† (via Peter Nidzgorski) The calls were placed by consumers to businesses across 30 industries, including cable and satellite companies, auto dealerships, pest control centers and more.¬† Interestingly, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New Hampshire somehow managed to be described as both "sailors" and "very courteous." ¬† Marchex
Thomas Hawk via flickrHome improvement retailing giant Home Depot reported strong first quarter earnings this morning, citing the recovering housing market as a key driver. Earnings per share were $0.83 versus analysts' consensus prediction of $0.77. Revenues came in at $19.1 billion, topping estimates for $18.69 billion. U.S. same-store sales rose 4.8% during the quarter. "In the first quarter, we saw less favorable weather compared to last year, but we continue to see benefit from a recovering housing market that drove a stronger-than-expected start to the year for our business," said Home Depot Chairman and CEO Frank Blake in the press release. Shares are up 3.6% in pre-market trading. Below is the full text from the release: ATLANTA, May 21, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- The Home Depot¬Æ, the world's largest home improvement retailer, today reported sales of $19.1 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, a 7.4 percent increase from the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Due to the 14th week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, first quarter sales benefited from a seasonal timing change that added approximately $574 million to sales. On a like for like basis, comparable store sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 were positive 4.3 percent, and comp sales for U.S. stores were positive 4.8 percent. (Logo:http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20030502/HOMEDEPOTLOGO¬†) Net earnings for the first quarter were $1.2 billion, or $0.83 per diluted share, compared with net earnings of $1.0 billion, or $0.68 per diluted share, in the same period of fiscal 2012. For the first quarter of fiscal 2013, diluted earnings per share increased 22.1 percent from the same period in the prior year. ¬† "In the first quarter, we saw less favorable weather compared to last year, but we continue to see benefit from a recovering housing market that drove a stronger-than-expected start to the year for our business," said Frank Blake, chairman &amp; CEO. "I would like to thank our associates for their hard work and commitment to our customers." Updated Fiscal 2013 Guidance¬† Based on its year-to-date performance and outlook for the balance of the year, the Company raised its fiscal 2013 sales guidance and now expects sales to be up approximately 2.8 percent with comparable store sales up approximately 4.0 percent for the year. The Company raised its fiscal 2013 diluted earnings-per-share guidance and now expects diluted earnings per share to be up approximately 17 percent to $3.52 for the year. The Company's fiscal 2013 sales and earnings-per-share guidance is based on a 52-week year compared to fiscal 2012, a 53-week year. The Company's earnings-per-share guidance includes the benefit of its year-to-date share repurchases and intent to repurchase $4.4 billion in additional shares over the remainder of the year, which will bring the total dollar amount of shares repurchased to $6.5 billion for the year. The Home Depot will conduct a conference call today at 9 a.m. ET to discuss information included in this news release and related matters. The conference call will be available in its entirety through a webcast and replay at earnings.homedepot.com. At the end of the first quarter, the Company operated a total of 2,257 retail stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, 10 Canadian provinces and Mexico. The Company employs more than 300,000 associates. The Home Depot's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (HD) and is included in the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index. Click here for the full release &gt;
REUTERS/Gene BlevinsAbby Madi (L) and Peterson Zatterlee comfort Zaterlee's dog Rippy, after a tornado struck Moore, Oklahoma, May 20, 2013. Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
jayneandd/flickrA big story this year has been the decline in commodities. That's bad news for countries and currencies that are closely tied to commodities. In a note, Sebastien Galy has a quick rundown of what currencies are associated with what commodities: Aussie Dollar : aluminum, coal &amp; wheat Canadian Dollar : oil and wheat South African Rand : coal &amp; platinum Chilean Peso : copper Mexican Peso: oil &amp; silver Russian Rubel: oil, nickel, platinum, wheat Brazilian Real: oil Norwegian Kroner: oil
Getty Images/ Mark WilsonTAMPA, Florida (Reuters) - As final ballots come in on a proposal to strip JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co Chairman and Chief Executive Jamie Dimon of his chairman title, some worry about what will happen if shareholders win what will likely be a close vote. JPMorgan's annual meeting on Tuesday will bring to head a months-long and bitter shareholder campaign demanding more oversight of Dimon, who has suggested that he may eventually leave the bank if he loses the vote. Investors say that while Dimon, 57, may need more oversight after the bank posted $6.2 billion in losses from failed derivative trades last year, they do not want him to quit. Among big bank CEOs, Dimon ranks first for stock returns and has been praised for leading the bank through the financial crisis with no quarterly losses and a strong balance sheet. If Dimon were to leave, the bank's shares could fall as much as 10 percent and erase about $20 billion of market value, according to Mike Mayo, a bank analyst with brokerage CLSA. JPMorgan also has no ready replacement for Dimon, Mayo wrote in a research note, adding that the two lieutenants best positioned to succeed him - Matt Zames, 42, and Mike Cavanagh, 47 - seem to be about three years short of being ready for the job. Zames became sole chief operating officer of the largest U.S. bank in April. Last year, Cavanagh became co-CEO of the company's reconstituted corporate and investment banking segment following a stint as head of treasury and securities services and several years as chief financial officer. JPMorgan was not immediately available for comment. "Take a winning football team. One could always ask the question whether the team would have been as effective without the quarterback," said Benjamin Ram, a co-manager of the $1.6 billion Oppenheimer Main Street Select fund. "The team gets part of the credit, but Jamie Dimon as the leader also gets the credit," Ram added. Ram's fund has 6.4 percent of its assets in JPMorgan shares, more than any other diversified fund, according to Lipper, a Thomson Reuters company. The shareholder proposal is non-binding, meaning the bank's board does not have to follow through with the recommendation even if the measure gets majority shareholder support. Still, a defeat would be an unpleasant rebuke for Dimon. A similar shareholder proposal last year won 40 percent of the vote, before most of the trading losses from the so-called "London Whale" imbroglio came to light. JPMorgan's board has recommended that shareholders vote against the proposal and the bank has been lobbying hard against the measure, with tensions rising in the run-up to the meeting. Proponents of the independent chair proposal said that if the measure gets 40 percent or more of the vote for a second consecutive year that the board should feel obligated to make at least some changes to increase its oversight of management. Last week, the company that collects votes from investors, Broadridge Financial Solutions Inc, stopped telling shareholders how votes had been cast so far for this and other measures. Investors use this information to determine how to tailor their campaigns. JPMorgan decided to release the results to shareholders after the New York Attorney General's office intervened over the weekend, a source familiar with the situation said on Monday. "We were cut off from the tallies during the crucial week leading up to the meeting," said Dieter Waizenegger, executive director of the CtW Investment Group, which advises pensions that were voting against the bank in a separate measure regarding the reelection of directors. Waizenegger said receiving the information at this late stage was of limited use. The vote comes amid a growing trend in U.S. corporate governance to have an independent chairman lead the board. Many investors believe that doing so ensures that the chief executive does not have too much sway over the board and leads to better outcomes for shareholders overall. The debate, however, is far from settled. Even if Dimon wins the vote, some shareholders plan to keep the pressure on the bank's board. Two major JPMorgan investors have told Reuters that they will continue to press directors behind the scenes to increase their oversight over management. One investor said that they will likely encourage the bank to give more authority to its lead independent director, former ExxonMobil Chief Executive Lee Raymond. (Editing by Dan Wilchins and Edwina Gibbs) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Copyright Gotham Photo Company via Douglas Elliman Real EstateEAST HAMPTON,¬†New York¬†(Reuters) - Judging by early demand for everything from doggie daycare to Ferrari rentals and fine art, rich Americans are going to make this a strong summer in one of their favorite playgrounds - the beach towns on the eastern end of Long Island collectively known as the Hamptons. With stock prices surging, home prices recovering, and borrowing costs low, there is a renewed sense of confidence among the wealthy and the merely well off. It may not be conspicuous consumption of "The Great Gatsby" kind but it could be the best season since the financial crisis slammed the U.S. economy in 2008. It is "new" money coming in that is making the difference, since the "old" money in the Hamptons never really stopped flowing, at least in terms of the ultra-wealthy spending on things like food, wine and household staff. But discretionary spending did slow down over the past few years, so it's making a noticeable comeback now for vendors like¬†Mark Humphrey, who has owned a gallery on Main Street in¬†Southampton¬†for more than 30 years. "We had a good winter, and that just never happens. We are usually barely open," he says. Last summer, he had a lot of browsers, but they rarely opened up their wallets. Suddenly over the past few months, he has been contacted by some of those window shoppers who were finally ready to buy, and he has sold 10 paintings at $5,000 to $10,000 since December. It is a similar story for American Bull Rentals, which is for the first time expanding into the Hamptons with its rentals of mechanical bulls to bring the rodeo experience to house parties and fundraisers. "I have a sliding scale, and for Hamptons calls, whatever amount I tell them, they say 'whatever, send the contract,'" says¬†Mike Marrazzo, owner of Prestige Excursions, based in¬†Bellmore,¬†New York, which operates the service. While rentals in other areas might run $1,400, he's getting $2,800 to $3,000 for his Hamptons bookings. So far in 2013, luxury spending is correlating highly to the stock market. Both the latest study from the¬†American Affluence Research Center¬†and American Express's Survey of Affluence and Wealth in¬†America, found that spending on second homes, vacation travel, dining in restaurants and new luxury cars is increasing. BRING YOUR OWN STAFF In the Hamptons, second homes can range from a cottage in¬†East Hampton¬†for $1.4 million to an 11,760-square foot mansion in Sagaponack for $13.5 million, with seven bedrooms, 10.5 baths, a swimming pool, tennis court, outdoor kitchen and lower-level entertainment center. There are about 1,200 active sales listings right now. The Corcoran Market Report for the Hamptons for the first quarter of 2013 showed that the number of sales was up 20 percent over last year but average sale prices were down nearly 10 percent, because there haven't been a lot of high-priced sales so far this year. The next report comes out in July. Prices may be hotting up. With locals whispering about¬†Jennifer Lopez¬†scouting properties in the area - and¬†the New York Post¬†reporting that she dropped $10 million on an estate in¬†Water Mill¬†- the summer season is just getting going. As for rentals, there are still some available, but owners are not negotiating and they are going fast, says real estate agent¬†Tom Friedman. Friedman says his busy season started early this year - he usually doesn't get calls about summer rentals until mid-January, but this year they started in November, right after Hurricane Sandy, which largely spared Hamptons beaches. It didn't trickle off until mid-April, and now he's getting last-minute callers. They don't mess around with seeing dozens of places and looking for bargains, but instead jump on whatever is available - whether it is $20,000 per month for a small cottage or $550,000 for a beach-front estate. That price probably includes a driveway, but in the Hamptons, there is daycare for your Bentley instead so it doesn't get damaged by the salt air. Good luck finding a space, though. The¬†Bridgehampton Motoring Club, which has slots for 45 vehicles at two locations, is at capacity for now, says co-owner¬†Adam Bellin, The same goes for renting a Ferrari 458 Italia over the coming¬†Memorial Day¬†weekend for around $2,500 a day from Imagine Lifestyles Luxury Rentals, which services the northeast. The company is sold out of their entire fleet of Ferraris, Bentleys, Porsches and BMWs for the weekend. "We're definitely up this year. People are spending money, and demand is outweighing supply," says co-CEO¬†Ryan Safady, who is based in¬†Pennsauken, New Jersey Also at capacity: doggie daycares and domestic services. "Memorial Day¬†is busier than usual for us," says¬†April Cullum, manager of the¬†Hampton Pet Club, which has daytime care and overnight "hotel-like" accommodations for up to 35 dogs. She has her usual standing reservations that she's had for the past few years - dog owners who have an annual party and send the dogs out for the night, weekend Hamptonites who board their pets during the week - but also a whole influx of new dogs. Hampton Domestics owner¬†Vincent Minuto¬†is turning away callers. New summer folk, he says, should bring their own help with them. The rich are also spending on others. Lavish benefits are a hallmark of the Hamptons social scene, and so far things are going phenomenally well, according to¬†Ruth Appelhof, executive director of¬†Guild Hall¬†in¬†East Hampton, the area's chief arts venue. Overall, her fundraising is up 56 percent since 2009, and the big rise has come in the last year. In March, a fundraiser honoring the retirement of the chairman of the board of trustees,¬†Melville¬†"Mickey" Straus, raised $2.5 million in one evening, when previous spring fundraisers only made about $500,000. "Mickey wanted to make sure we paid off the mortgage before he left," says Appelhof, noting the special draw of the event.¬†Guild Hall¬†was able to use $1.5 million to close out the balance of a $17 million renovation that it had been fundraising for since 2001, years ahead of schedule. "We're feeling flush these days, but that's not to say we don't struggle every day to fundraise to keep our programs going," Appelhof says. (Follow us @ReutersMoney or at http://www.reuters.com/finance/personal-finance; Editing by Lauren Young, Martin Howell and Claudia Parsons)
(Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chairman¬†Ben Bernanke¬†is an optimist about economic growth in the coming decades, rejecting "depressing" views about a slowdown to put his faith in collaborative innovation driven by a jackpot culture for inventors. For his mental health, let's hope he believes it. For our economic wellbeing, let's hope he doesn't act on it. While a series of economic revolutions has driven a 30-fold increase in living standards between 1700 and 1970, economists have recently fretted that the¬†information technology¬†changes of recent years will yield less growth. Bernanke, speaking last weekend to graduates at¬†Bard College¬†at Simon's Rock, in¬†Massachusetts, was having nothing of it. Not only will humans continue to innovate and to find ways to wring value out of recent innovations, the rise of the Internet allows for massive and rapid collaboration, he argued. And, as¬†Mark Zuckerberg¬†can tell you, the potential rewards for innovation exceed those in the past. "Both humanity's capacity to innovate and the incentives to innovate are greater today than at any other time in history," Bernanke said. While Bernanke was careful to couch his views as being about the long-run future, this kind of thinking, while perhaps appropriate to graduation day, is a tad scary when done by the man with his hands on the levers of monetary policy. Hazy faith in a future of explosive growth from as yet¬†undreamt-of technologies¬†is exactly the kind of thing which in the past has led us to stock market bubbles, busts and recrimination. "In the past, Bernanke explicitly stated that his ultra-easy monetary policy is aimed at driving stock prices higher. Now that they are at record highs, his recent cheerleading could contribute to a melt-up, just as¬†Alan Greenspandid during the second half of the 1990s. We all know how that ended," strategist¬†Ed Yardini¬†of Yardini Research writes in his blog. (http://blog.yardeni.com/2013/05/bernankes-melt-up-excerpt.html) And indeed,¬†Alan Greenspan¬†entered his late, late, rococo period of central banking with his own touching faith in technology, opining in 2000, just as the tech bubble was about to burst, that there was a virtuous cycle between technological advances, the economy, the efficient use of capital and the wealth effect of a booming stock market. If only, Alan, if only. It all seems a long time ago, and while Bernanke is no Greenspan-style booster of the stock market, we have more than a decade of reasons for caution. 4'33" And really, those who downplay the effects of technology on the economy and argue that indoor plumbing and the internal combustion engine represent the low-hanging and high-value fruit now plucked are not taking the large view. After all, someone 20 years ago who wanted to listen to composer¬†John Cage's 4 minutes and 33 seconds of a pianist sitting in silence in front of a keyboard had to troop down to the nearest avant garde music store; whereas today a click of a button, an instant transfer of money and the recorded silence is yours via iTunes. What could be more efficient? Take that, Mr Ford and the Brothers Wright! The other difficulty, unstated and unexplored, in Bernanke's millennial faith in innovation is the ways in which it may raise problems for one or both of his mandates: full employment and price stability. The depressing thing about the technological revolution is that it has coincided with a period in which both income growth and meaningful employment have been increasingly difficult for the average U.S. household to obtain. Technology seems to have become rather better at efficiency than job creation, at least for those with modest skills. At the same time, in helping to drive down prices it has set the stage for overly loose monetary policy leading to destructive booms and busts. Equally depressing is the way in which income inequality has only grown, arguably helped along by monetary policy which tends to inflate the value of those things owned by the rich without increasing, by much, the value of the unused labor which the poor possess in abundance. To be sure, for hundreds of years it has been wrong to bet against human innovation. It has, and very likely will, continued to advance and yield benefits. The worry is that Bernanke, as he appears to be doing with quantitative easing, takes that mindset and applies it to the world of money and finance, where, on the evidence, innovation benefits practitioners at the expense of the rest of us. Let's hope that that is a lesson that Bernanke, and, when he graduates, his successor, is able to learn. (James Saft¬†is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own) (At the time of publication, Reuters columnist¬†James Saft¬†did not own any direct investments in securities mentioned in this article. He may be an owner indirectly as an investor in a fund. For previous columns by¬†James Saft, click on)
An incredibly uplifting, joyful moment amid the total devastation of the Oklahoma Tornado. 
Flickr/hideyourarmsIn a note, Citi advises clients to keep buying USDJPY (on the dips) meaning, keep selling the yen against the dollar. Here's the commentary from Valentin Marinov and Osamu Takashima, which notes key events coming up from the Fed and the Bank of Japan on Wednesday: JPY strengthened across the board following comments by Japan‚Äôs economics minister Akira Amari yesterday that further yen depreciation could hurt Japanese consumers. The remarks highlighted the key risk to the latest yen selloff ‚Äì the concern that excessive currency weakness could erode real consumption in Japan and force BoJ to reconsider the speed of its balance sheet expansion. The recent increase in JGB yields also seemed consistent with market fears that the BoJ could taper its asset purchases if (imported) inflation stages an early return.  We expect the yen weakness to resume ahead of the BoJ meeting on Wednesday. Investors will pay particular attention to Kuroda‚Äôs press conference looking for indications about the future policy outlook from here. We think that Governor Kuroda will stick with his goal of achieving 2% annualized inflation in two years. In addition, he could signal willingness to counter excessive moves in the bond yields by adjusting the size and frequency of its asset purchases.  We think that USDJPY remains a buy on dips also ahead of the Bernanke‚Äôs testimony before the Joint Economic Committee and the April FOMC minutes both due Wednesday. The key question for many investors will be the extent to which the recent soft inflation data have affected Fed‚Äôs view on the economy. We doubt that Bernanke would signal a significant change in outlook ahead of the June 19 FOMC. In this regard, if the Chairman highlights the still very stable inflation expectations gauges and hence downplays the importance of recent data, this could support USD. 
Flickr / spierzchalaIf you want a job in banking, you will need to network. A failure to properly engage and to direct applications to named individuals is one reason why your attempts to land a job in banking may fail.¬† With this in mind, we‚Äôve provided a non-comprehensive, non-alphabetical, sort of off-the-cuff list of some of the power-brokers in investment banking recruitment globally below. Not everyone is on here: many have been left off (we may yet offer a follow-up). And we cannot guarantee that all or any of them will take your calls, or open your emails, or respond when you try contacting them on LinkedIn. But if you want a job in banking, these are some of the people best placed to help you find one. 1. Amanda Rajkumar, Global head of fixed income human resources at BNP Paribas Amanda has been at BNP Paribas (which has been building its fixed income business and is now hiring in Asia) for several years. Previously, she was a fixed income headhunter for the Rose Partnership in London. If you want a fixed income sales or trading job at a French bank, Amanda is the person to know. 2. Paul Murphy, Director and global head of recruitment for Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) Capital Markets, covering Asia and EMEA Paul joined RBC as head of recruitment in 2004. Previously, he worked in product control for both RBC and Dresdner. Paul is the person if you want a job in RBC‚Äôs investment banking arm in London or Asia. 3. Pam Krepchin, Director and manager of lateral recruitment at RBC Capital Markets in New York City Krepchin joined RBC in April 2013, having previously worked as a senior recruiter at Macquarie. Krepchin is the contact for investment banking jobs at RBC in New York. 4. Jim Richardson, Global head of recruitment at Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Jim Richardson joined RBS as global head of recruitment in April 2010. Prior to that worked in a recruitment role at Credit Suisse at London. 5. Stephen Mitchell, human resources director for Europe and Asia at BGC Partners and Cantor Fitzgerald Mitchell joined Cantor in January 2012. He was previously global head of HR for ICAP. Cantor has been hiring in Europe, making Mitchell a good person to know. 6. Lori Pennay,¬†Senior Managing Director, Global Head of Human Resources and Partnership at Cantor Fitzgerald Pennay has overall responsibility for all people issues at Cantor Fitzgerald. Given that Cantor is expanding globally, she is also a good person to know. 7. Malcolm Horton, global head of recruitment at Nomura International¬† If you want a job at Nomura outside Tokyo, Horton is the man. He joined Nomura from Lehman in 2008 and was previously a vice president at J.P. Morgan. Unfortunately, Nomura has been making redundancies in its international business and may not be doing too much hiring. 8. Kirsty Howe, head of investment banking recruitment for EMEA at Credit Suisse¬† Howe is responsible for recruitment in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Credit Suisse‚Äôs investment bank. She joined from UBS in 2010. Be warned, however: Credit Suisse has been de-layering its M&amp;A business in recent months. 9. Michael Cole, director of experienced recruitment for Credit Suisse in Asia¬† Cole is Howe‚Äôs counterpart if you want a job at Credit Suisse in Asia. He moved to Singapore with the bank in November 2012, having previously been chief operating officer for human resources in EMEA. In the distant past, Cole was a trainee hotel manager in Australia. 10. Matt Evans, executive director of experienced recruiting at J.P. Morgan¬† Evans is one of the most senior members of the experienced recruiting team at J.P. Morgan‚Äôs investment bank in Europe. He joined the bank in January 2012, having previously worked for recruitment firm The Omerta Group and in a recruitment role at Credit Suisse. 11. Greg Patel, head of recruitment for Asia Pacific at J.P. Morgan Patel is to Asia what Evans is to London. Having worked as head of recruitment for EMEA at J.P. Morgan between 2004 and 2012, Patel moved to Hong Kong in February last year. Click here to meet the other 15 individuals who can get you a job in banking --&gt;
CNBC screengrabIt's well known that Kyle Bass is ultra-bearish on Japan, as he's been calling for the country to undergo a catastrophic sovereign debt crisis for years, ever since the US financial crisis ended, really. In a new interview with the FT, he reiterates all of his points, namely that the government can't sustain its debt much longer, and that Japan can't count on domestic savers to keep the country afloat forever. He even commissioned a poll: Mr Bass says he commissioned a poll of 1,009 Japanese investors that asked: were your country to have a bond crisis and appeal to you to buy more JGBs, would you be likely to buy more or not? He says 8 per cent would buy, while 83 per cent responded that they would ‚Äúrun, not walk.‚Äù That choice is likely within two years, he says, though adds that ‚Äúit‚Äôs naive for anyone to say that they can predict with any kind of accuracy the end of a 70-year debt supercycle.‚Äù Read the whole thing &gt;
Let's just pause for a moment and reflect what a crazy week it's already been for gold and silver, and note that it's still early Tuesday. Both metals dropped hard the instant markets opened in Asia on Sunday evening (silver was especially hard hit). Then the metals strengthened a a bit after the initial drop, rallied a bit mid day, and then went parabolic. And then last night they rallied some more, jutted up sharply, before ultimately cooling down a bit. Just wild action that stands sharply apart from the rest of the market. Kitco
APTwenty children were among at least 91 people killed when a powerful tornado swept through an Oklahoma City suburb, tearing down blocks of homes and two schools, local officials said. The state medical examiner's office released the latest death toll but the number was climbing rapidly, as emergency crews combed through smashed homes and the collapsed remains of an elementary school in Moore, Oklahoma. Stunned weather forecasters reported a two-mile (three-kilometer) wide swath of vicious winds and television news helicopters tracked a dark funnel plowing through densely-packed suburbs. "We've had a massive tornado, a huge one that has passed through this community," Oklahoma's Governor Mary Fallin told a news conference. "We know there are a lot of injuries. We know we've lost a tremendous amount of structures throughout this community and throughout the state," she said, as the Moore police chief urged people to leave the area. "There are a lot of safety issues, gas lines, power lines, things of that nature, that we have to take into consideration and there's just not much else that can be done there at this time," police chief Jerry Sillings said. The 91 dead included at least 20 children, most of them under the age of 12, Amy Elliott, of the state medical examiner's office, told AFP. CNN reported that at least 145 people had been hospitalized. Reporters for local broadcaster KFOR-TV saw children as young as nine being pulled out of the Plaza Towers Elementary School in Moore, a residential community of 55,000 just south of Oklahoma's state capital. Anxious parents were being kept at a distance while search-and-rescue workers scrambled to free the students. A second elementary school, Briarwood, was also hit but did not appear to have sustained casualties. From its news helicopter, KFOR's cameras captured scenes of widespread destruction, with street after street of single-story homes in Moore stripped of their roofs and cars piled atop each other like toys. Utility lines were down and gas lines exposed, triggering localized fires. The Moore Medical Center was evacuated after it sustained damage, and state authorities called out the National Guard to help rescue efforts. US President Barack Obama meanwhile declared a "major disaster" in Oklahoma and ordered federal aid to supplement local recovery efforts. On Twitter, the National Weather Service gave the tornado a preliminary rating of EF-4, indicating that it packed winds of 166 to 200 miles per hour (267-322 km/h) -- more severe than a category five hurricane. In downtown Oklahoma City, tornado sirens went off at least three times and the Interstate 35 highway -- a busy north-south artery through the American heartland -- was closed to all but emergency vehicles. In Moore, live images from KFOR showed people wandering among the debris and even a couple of untethered horses from a local stable that somehow managed to survive the punishing storm. "I had no idea it was coming," said a stable worker, who told how he survived the "unbearably loud" twister by taking cover in one of the stalls. Monday's tornado followed roughly the same track as a May 1999 twister that killed 44 people, injured hundreds more and destroyed thousands of homes. Tornadoes frequently touch down on Oklahoma's wide open plains, but Monday's twister struck a populated urban area and raised fears of a high casualty toll. Because of the hard ground, few homes are built with basements or storm shelters in which residents can take cover. Oklahoma City lies inside the so-called "Tornado Alley" stretching from South Dakota to central Texas, an area particularly vulnerable to tornadoes. On Sunday, a powerful storm system churning through the US Midwest spawned tornadoes in Iowa, Kansas and Oklahoma, destroying homes and killing at least two people, US media reported. Fallin had already declared a state of emergency for 16 Oklahoma counties due to the tornado threat on Sunday, and added five more on Monday after the storms hit her capital. In Washington, a White House official said Obama was getting regular updates and that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) stood ready to provide assistance. "The administration continues to urge all those in affected or potentially affected areas to follow the direction of state and local officials as this severe weather continues," the official added. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Flickr / KristympOne of the big themes these days is the lack of action and... today continues that trend. Around the world virtually nothing is going on. Japan basically didn't move (gaining 0.13%), US futures are flat, and European markets are very close to the zero. This should be another quiet day in financial markets. More action will come tomorrow, when Bernanke speaks and the FOMC minutes are released. And then later in the week we get Flash PMI readings. But for now, traders and analysts will be forced to continue pulling their hair out, looking for something interesting.
