At the end of the FOMC meeting on Wednesday, economists expect the Federal Reserve to announce the tapering of its quantitative easing (QE), a stimulative monetary policy that has consisted of monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. The taper will have implications for interest rates and currencies around the world. So what does the taper mean for China, the world's second largest economy? "China will surely be affected by the incoming QE tapering, but we believe the QE tapering will have little material impact on Chinaís growth, currency valuation and financial stability," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu in a note to clients on September 2. Lu identified six reasons why he expects China to be "largely immune" to the taper (verbatim): Unfortunately, these are characteristics that aren't shared by much of the emerging Asian economies to which China is exposed. "With the rising uncertainty on emerging markets due to the coming QE tapering, the Chinese government will most likely put a special emphasis on financial and economic stability," added Lu. "We expect Beijing to postpone RMB/USD band widening, to ensure the stability of RMB/USD (neither appreciation nor depreciation), to slow the pace of lifting capital control. We expect neither rate cuts nor hikes."
Quick heads up. One day ahead of "Taper day" Japan is rallying nicely, with stocks up about 1.2%. Nikkei.com This comes after a solid day in US markets.
REUTERS/Alfred Cheng JinU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben BernankeOn Wednesday, the Federal Reserve will conclude its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. And at 2:00 p.m. ET, it will publish its statement, which will conclude update information on the Fed's plans for monetary policy. Everyone expects the Fed to keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged at near-0% (officially 0 to 0.25%) But more importantly, most economists expect the Fed to finally announce that it is tapering its large-scale asset purchase program, which is informally known as quantitative easing (QE). QE consists of the monthly purchase of $45 billion worth of Treasury bonds and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds (MBS).¬† All of this has been intended to keep interest rates low to stimulate the economy. And most economists expect the Fed to begin tapering it. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke began talking about tapering QE in late May. But the markets didn't really take him seriously until the June 19 FOMC press conference, which is when he presented a hypothetical roadmap for tapering QE to zero. From the transcript: ...Going forward, the economic outcomes that the Committee sees as most likely involve continuing gains in labor markets, supported by moderate growth that picks up over the next several quarters as the near-term restraint from fiscal policy and other headwinds diminishes. We also see inflation moving back toward our 2 percent objective over time. If the incoming data are broadly consistent with this forecast, the Committee currently anticipates that it would be appropriate to moderate the monthly pace of purchases later this year; and if the subsequent data remain broadly aligned with our current expectations for the economy, we would continue to reduce the pace of purchases in measured steps through the first half of next year, ending purchases around midyear. In this scenario, when asset purchases ultimately come to an end, the unemployment rate would likely be in the vicinity of 7 percent, with solid economic growth supporting further job gains, a substantial improvement from the 8.1 percent unemployment rate that prevailed when the Committee announced this program. Most economists agree that we are on this track. Ever since the Fed began signalling the taper could come in the Fall, economists have generally estimated that the size of the initial taper would be around $15 billion (i.e. reducing Treasury purchases by $10 billion and mortgage purchases by $5 billion). However, with economic data falling short of expectations in recent weeks, many economists have reduced their initial taper estimates to between $5 billion and $10 billion total. (This is why we've been hearing a lot about "taper-light," "token taper," and "soft taper.") Here's a round-up of some taper expectations from Wall Street's top economists: "Regarding the composition of the taper, we assume that the Fed will taper both Treasury and agency MBS purchases," said Gapen. "Many on the committee believe MBS purchases are more beneficial than Treasury purchases, and a paper delivered at the 2013 Economic Symposium at Jackson Hole, WY, also reflects this view." Most economists don't feel 100% confident that the economic data alone is robust enough to justify tapering QE already. Some have explicitly pointed to non-economic reasons why the Fed will taper. One such reason is because volatility in the markets, the economy, and especially Washington D.C. is currently low and is likely to rise in coming weeks. Here's Credit Suisse's Soss: ...The reason is the calendar. If FOMC policymakers don‚Äôt begin tapering this month, the next opportunities are their October 29-30 and December 17-18 FOMC meetings. October is likely to be right in the middle of the debt ceiling fight. In general, people think these fights will end without tearing the fabric apart, but then again, nearly everyone expects a heightened degree of contention and disharmony. Also, President Obama may announce a nominee for Bernanke‚Äôs successor in mid-to-late October. This would not be an ideal moment for the central bank to experiment with a potentially disruptive operational change. The next opportunity after that is the December FOMC meeting. With only minor exceptions, Ben Bernanke has been on a one-way easing street for over six years, beginning back in the summer of 2007. Does he really want his last holiday present to the nation and world economies to be a potentially negative shock? Still, not everyone agrees we'll hear about the taper on Wednesday. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hanson is one of the very few economists who's betting the taper won't be announced on Wednesday. "We see a very close call, with a higher probability of tapering later this year (our base case is December) than at the September meeting," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hanson. "While we expect the Fed to taper at one of the next three FOMC meetings, we see good reasons to be patient: recent data have, on balance, underperformed; the Fed needs to reduce its over-optimistic forecasts; and downside risks have re-emerged." When the Fed publishes its FOMC statement, it will also update its economic forecasts (which Hanson mentioned above). Almost everyone expects the Fed's numbers to be revised downward. There's always the risk that interest rates begin to rise at a rate that puts the U.S. economic recovery at risk again. But the Fed still has "heavy-caliber ammunition in reserve" for such a scenario. Here's Morgan Stanley's Reinhart: ...True, Fed officials have used QE in the past to signal the Fed‚Äôs willingness to keep policy accommodative for a considerable period. But that was then. Now they can signal the intent to keep policy accommodative‚Äîthe forward guidance so much in vogue among central bankers‚Äîby adjusting their threshold on unemployment or introducing a lower bound on inflation. With this heavy-caliber ammunition in reserve in the event yields back up uncomfortably later in the year, they can put QE on the road to retirement. For the incumbents at the Fed, starting now puts a body in motion that will stay in motion for the next leader. Regarding "forward guidance," the Fed employs an unemployment rate threshold of 6.5% and an inflation rate threshold of 2.5% to help guide monetary policy. In other words, as long as unemployment stays high and prices remain low, the Fed will continue to do what it can to keep rates low. Some economists believe the Fed could make an adjustment to its forward guidance on Wednesday. The Fed could conceivably offer a lower bound to its inflation rate threshold (e.g. not raising its benchmark rate as long as the inflation rate is below 1.5%). It could possibly enhance its unemployment rate threshold by adding other qualifiers. "One option... is to qualify the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold with participation rate or employment- to-population ratio variables," said JP Morgan's Feroli. However, Feroli warns that it could be dangerous to adjust the unemployment rate threshold itself. Here's Feroli: We think this is inadvisable, and we don't think the Committee will choose this option. While lowering the unemployment threshold would push back market expectations of the first rate hike, it also comes with some problems. First, as mentioned in the last minutes, it risks creating the impression that the threshold can be adjusted up, as well as down, which would defeat the whole purpose of the threshold as a form of commitment. Second, six Committee participants believe the natural unemployment rate is 5.8% or higher. These participants would likely view lowering the threshold as particularly risky, and would likely increase the number of dissents. Thresholds are only an effective communication device when they are viewed by the public as representing a committee consensus, thus more dissents could actually make this move counter-productive, particularly at a time when prospective Committee turnover is quite high. Third, lowering the threshold would provide additional easing, rather than merely reinforce communications regarding existing policy. Easing and reducing easing (through tapering) at the same meeting makes sense if the Fed explicitly admits that their thinking on asset purchases was faulty -- and the Fed rarely likes to admit their previous thinking may have been flawed. Finally, lowering the threshold does nothing to address what the FOMC is seeing as the emerging communication challenge: guiding expectations for the path of policy rates after the point of lift-off. Feroli echoes a concern that the Fed knows about. From the July 30-31 FOMC Minutes: ...In general, there was support for maintaining the current numerical thresholds in the forward guidance. A few participants expressed concern that a decision to lower the unemployment threshold could potentially lead the public to view the unemployment threshold as a policy variable that could not only be moved down but also up, thereby calling into question the credibility of the thresholds and undermining their effectiveness. Nonetheless, several participants were willing to contemplate lowering the unemployment threshold if additional accommodation were to become necessary or if the Committee wanted to adjust the mix of policy tools used to provide the appropriate level of accommodation.... Any mention of forward guidance will likely come during the Fed's press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET. 14 Questions About The Federal Reserve You Were Too Embarrassed To Ask ¬ª All Of The Non-Economic Reasons To Taper ¬ª Why Stock Market Strategists Are Worried About The Taper ¬ª Why Economists Aren't Worried About The Taper ¬ª
REUTERS/Saudi Press AgencySaudi King Abdullah (front R) talks with newly appointed Saudi Crown Prince Salman bin Abdel-Aziz in Taif, June 19, 2012.Although plans are well advanced for constructing one of the world's biggest combined cycle petrochemicals plants in the kingdom, being built by the Sadara Chemical Company (a joint venture between the state oil company, Saudi Aramco, and Dow Chemical of the US), in reality the petrochemicals sector has mostly taken a back seat in the country's rapid industrialisation of recent years. This is primarily due to the shortage of ethane-rich associated gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs), which are both linked to crude oil production. However, this may well change if a new strategy planned by Saudi Aramco bears fruit. In an indication of the new approach, Saudi Aramco and a joint-venture partner, France's Total, are planning to carry out a feasibility study in October to expand the 400,000 barrel/day heavy-oil refinery at Jubail in Eastern Province that was started up just last week. The expansion is strategic not just for both companies, but also for the kingdom at large, as it will serve as a litmus test for producing significantly higher volumes of naphtha either to partly offset or to replace in full the use of natural gas or natural gas liquids as feedstock for petrochemical products. Undoubtedly, for the past few years the biggest stumbling block for building a downstream hydrocarbons industry has been the availability of feedstock gas. However, an expansion of the Jubail refinery could throw up options for Aramco to extract naphtha from that facility-which could in turn be supplied for new multi-feed crackers. A multi-feed cracker is a facility that can operate using either ethane-rich gas or naphtha as feedstock. The first such facility in the Middle East is being built by the Sadara Chemical Company for its chemical plant at Jubail Industrial City. This will soon be followed a similar facility in Qatar, being built in a joint venture between Qatar Petroleum and Royal Dutch Shell for their olefins project at Ras Laffan. Besides emerging as a new feedstock source, the use of naphtha will result in yet another benefit that is more commercial in nature: compared with a natural gas/NGL cracker, a naphtha cracker can produce a much greater variety of chemicals, such as ethylene, propylene, butadiene, and a full slate of aromatics such as benzene, toluene and mixed xylene. Aramco has labelled its new programme as "downstream refinery integration", and the expectation is that after Jubail, Aramco will start similar projects for the Yanbu, Jizan and Ras Tanura refineries. Reinforcing this expectation, Aramco and the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) have already selected Yanbu, Ras Tanura and Jizan Economic City as the new locations where they will invest first in infrastructure to create a platform for both private Saudi and international players to invest in new facilities. The three sites are already home to crude oil refineries, providing easy access to feedstock. The Aramco-Total feasibility study should indicate the volumes of naphtha that can be "stripped out" of an expanded Jubail refinery, and, if the report is positive, Fluor of the US and Australia-based WorleyParsons have indicated that there may well be potential to build at least six new world-scale crackers, each with a capacity of some 2m tonnes/year. That figure could increase further, if Aramco's efforts to tap into the kingdom's shale gas resources are successful, and also if non-associated gas is discovered in the Red Sea and the Western region where an exploration and drilling programme is currently under way. Aramco and Total are already in talks with the Dow Chemical Company to sell the naphtha it plans to produce from the expanded Jubail refinery, while the local Farabi Petrochemicals Company has already showed its willingness to invest at least US$10bn in several "ancillary" projects that could use naphtha to produce rubber, detergents and soaps, as well as other exotic chemicals. The enormous interest in the sector reflects optimism over likely healthy rates of return, reflecting expected high rates of demand growth for downstream products not just in Asia, but also in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) region where the population is increasingly rapidly. However, one obstacle remains to realising this potential: the need to raise the existing fixed gas price of 75 US cents/m Btu. According to Platts, naphtha prices averaged about US$621/tonne, the equivalent of about US$3.2/m Btu, in the first six months of 2013, and, as a result, if these new naptha conversion plants are to be economically viable, a gas price better reflecting the market rate will be required. However, if a higher price can be implemented, the resulting rise in petrochemicals output would help to mitigate, to a degree, the decline in demand for Saudi crude in North America, owing to rising shale oil output in North America. In addition, by moving towards a naphtha-based petrochemical industry, natural gas would be freed up for reinjection into Saudi Arabia's older oilfields, allowing them to maintain higher levels of output for longer. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Fisker AutomotiveProduction of the long-awaited Fisker Atlantic has been indefinitely postponed.The Department of Energy will auction off what remains of Fisker Automotive's loan obligations, it announced Tuesday afternoon. The defunct electric automaker received $192 million in loans under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) program, which was funded in the autumn of 2008 to provide $25 billion in direct loans to American automakers. Fisker also raised more than $1.2 billion in private financing. Over the past few years, the once promising automaker imploded. In recent months, it has stopped producing cars and fired three quarters of its workforce. Founder Henrik Fisker quit in March. In a note announcing the auction, Peter W. Davidson, the executive director of the Loan Program Office, defended the DOE's overall portfolio for funding automakers. Loans to Ford, Nissan, and Tesla ‚Äî all much larger than what Fisker got ‚Äî have turned out well. That hasn't stopped House Republicans from slamming the Fisker loan as "corrupt" and "mismanaged."¬†The DOE recouped nearly $30 million from Fisker's accounts, but is still out about $168 million. It decided to sell what remains of the automaker's loan obligation, it said, "after exhausting any realistic possibility for a sale that might have protected our entire investment." The DOE requires that all bids include "a commitment and business plan that promotes domestic manufacturing capabilities and related engineering for advanced technology vehicles here in the United States." Bids are due October 7.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBill Gates and Warren Buffett have it all wrong, according to Scott McNealy. In an interview on "Squawk Box" Tuesday, McNealyóthe chairman of Wayin and the co-founder of Sun Microsystemsósaid the wealthy should give less to charity and invest more of their money in start-ups. He said that if Gates and Buffett had given their fortunes to budding entrepreneurs rather than the needy, they could have created many more jobs. "The last thing I want to do is tell Bill Gates and Warren Buffett how to spend their money," he said. "But imagine if they had taken their tens of billions of dollars, chopped it up into $5 million chunks and pledged it to a business plan, sponsored by an MBA graduating from an MBA school with engineers and marketeers that he's recruited and they got 50 percent of the company back to the foundation." (Read more:†Why we likely can't close rich-poor gap) The wealthy should also pay less in taxes, since their money is poorly spent by the government, he said. "Instead of doing the $800 billion stimulus program and took all that money out of wealthy people," he said. "What do wealthy people do with their money? They invest it, spend it, save it or give it away. And I guarantee you, any wealthy person who created that value is going to do far better doing those four things than taxing it and giving it to Pelosi and Reid and Obama." McNealy has never been a fan of government, and has long touted the virtues of the free market. But his comments echo those of other millionaires and billionaires who have come out and said that philanthropy is a poor use of cash. Carlos Slim in 2010 said that he could do more to fight poverty by starting companies rather than "being a Santa Claus." (Read more:†Gates tops Forbes list again) "The only way to fight poverty is with employment," he said. "Trillions of dollars have been given to charity in the last 50 years, and they don't solve anything." Slim, however, has since pledged billions to his foundation and joined with Gates to help fund programs to eradicate polio and to help improve global agriculture. 
What does a single mom earning minimum wage have in common with a millionaire CEO with a calendar packed with back-to-back meetings? They both struggle to find a basic element needed to succeed: The mom never has enough money, and the CEO is constantly running out of time.  While they have different needs, the effect of critical scarcity on their mental capacity to handle their problems is similar, according to a new book by¬†Harvard economist Sendhil Mullainathan and Princeton psychologist Eldar Shafir.¬† In "Scarcity: Why Having So Little Means So Much,"¬†Mullainathan and Shafir use a number of experiments to explore how the struggle to find things we lack can both help and hinder us in our daily lives.¬† ‚ÄúWhen you have scarcity ‚Äî it could be money, food, or time ‚Äî the argument is that scarcity occupies your mind and leaves you with less bandwidth for other things,‚Äù Shafir told Business Insider. Scarcity is the reason that the time-strapped CEO might be so focused on his workload that he misses his son's baseball game or accidentally double-books a meeting with important clients. Scarcity is also the reason that the single mother might be so focused on not having enough cash to pay rent that she ignores the 300% APR on a payday loan and signs up anyway.¬† Rich or poor, every human being only has a certain amount of bandwidth to tackle life's daily challenges, Shafir says. Take away part of that bandwidth, and that's where we begin to unravel. Shafir described a study he performed that shows how distracting scarcity of money can be:¬† "We went to a mall in New Jersey and put volunteers in front of a computer screen. We presented them with financial scenarios. For example, your car breaks down. While you're thinking about these problems, we give you a simple test to complete. Then we tell you that your car will cost $150 to fix, which for most people is manageable. The rich and poor did well on these tests. "Then, we give them the same car but tell them now it's gonna cost $1500 to fix. For low income people $1500 is a serious challenge. We found that the poor did significantly less well than the rich on the tests in this example. These are people who perform equally well on this test when they weren‚Äôt thinking about these difficulties."¬† But unlike the rich CEO in our earlier example, a poor single mother can't take care of her bandwidth limitations as easily. The CEO can hire an assistant or delegate work to others. She's on her own with limited resources to change her state. "When you're poor, you can‚Äôt say 'Hey, let's be rich for a week! I‚Äôll be poor the week after,'" Shafir says. "That's what makes scarcity [for the poor] so overwhelming and all-consuming. It's persistent."¬† Shafir and¬†Mullainathan have used their research to call for reforms in policy surrounding public assistance programs in the U.S. For example, they argue that one of the reasons a large number of low-income people still don't sign up for basic public assistance programs is that the process is too lengthy and time-consuming. They simply don't have the bandwidth to deal.¬† "When you give [a low-income person] a 30-page application form, you've given them a huge tax on bandwidth," Shafir explains. The focus instead should be giving poor people tools to minimize problems and free up more bandwidth. "In Europe for example, you've got childcare from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. everyday. That gives you a lot of bandwidth. If we give you better childcare, better transportation, better baning, then we'd eliminate your bandwidth. You'd eat better, maybe take your medication on time, all of those things that there's plenty of evidence that the poor don't do."¬† The scarcity principle can be applied in the workplace as well. How often are employees distracted by email, phone calls from home or are over-committing themselves to projects they don't have the bandwidth to complete?¬† "[If you get] an email that distracts you before you go into the meeting, like an angry email from a spouse or a reminder of a deadline, then you will have damaged your performance in your meeting," he says.¬†¬†"I think about being distracted in moments when I shouldn't be distracted. We talk about slacking [in a negative way] ... but there is value to introducing slack into the system." Shafir himself has found himself stretched too thin often enough to realize he has to schedule a block of time in his day to catch up on work and breathe or else it won't happen. By freeing up that time in his schedule, he's making sure has time to increase his bandwidth and can tie up loose ends on lingering projects without having to shove them off for later.¬† "It's our responsibility to be the first ones to facilitate [that space] in our lives a little bit," he says.¬†
APDemocrat Bill de Blasio has begun the general election in the New York City mayoral race with a 43-point lead over his Republican challenger, former MTA chair Joe Lhota.¬† A new Wall Street Journal/NBC New York/Marist poll¬†found de Blasio, the city's Public Advocate, with a 65-22 lead over Lhota in the first look at the matchup since both clinched their respective party nominations.¬† Many view Lhota as a longshot to defeat de Blasio, who rode a wave of momentum to a surprisingly easy victory in the Democratic primary that did not require a runoff. Indeed, the poll contains a number of troubling signs for Lhota. Only 13% of likely Democratic voters support Lhota in a city where Democrats outnumber Republicans by a 6-to-1 margin. Moreover, Lhota loses 22% of Republicans. De Blasio also leads by 26 points among unaffiliated voters. Perhaps the biggest problem for Lhota is that a majority of the electorate views him unfavorably. Only 29% have a favorable view of Lhota, compared with 41% who view him unfavorably. About two-thirds of voters, on the other hand, have a favorable impression of de Blasio, compared with only 19% who view him unfavorably.¬† De Blasio also leads with nearly every major demographic group. The only subgroup with which Lhota wins is with white Catholics, where he leads de Blasio 45-40.¬† Election Day is Nov. 5.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderThis week, Wharton announced that it would be the first business school to offer much of the substantive core of its MBA program online for free. If you have a whole lot of time on your hands, you can get a large hunk of the education that MBA students pick up, and instead of paying six figures, you'll pay nothing. In addition to the five electives already offered through the Coursera platform, Wharton is offering what it's calling the "Foundation" series, made up of introductory courses in financial accounting, operations management, marketing, and corporate finance, taught by some of its best-known and most senior professors.¬† The courses are made up of a series of pre-recorded lectures and interactive exercises. They range in length from six to 10 weeks, and take an estimated five to eight hours a week each. Students can already enroll in the accounting course, and the other three start in staggered two-week intervals. The next to begin will be operations management on September 30th. Don Huesman, the managing director of Wharton's innovation group, told Bloomberg Businessweek that those four courses alone would replicate much of what a first-year student learns.¬†Wharton students who actually make it through the school's rigorous admissions process are required to take nine core courses, four of which are now available online, and six electives. The online versions replicate the content of the courses so well that some professors are asking students to watch the Massively Open Online Course (MOOC) versions of the¬†lectures ahead of time so the in-class time can focus on discussion. Students can simply watch the courses casually without additional work,¬†but there are integrated quizzes, readings, homework assignments, and final exams for the more committed. Coursera also gives the option of paying $49 to enroll in a "signature track," which give students a verifiable online certificate for completing the course should they meet the course's standards.¬† Enrolling in the free track takes just a name, an email, a password, and agreeing to¬†Coursera's honor code. Someone looking to take their first MOOC might want to consider the marketing course. It's one of the less time intensive classes, and is team taught by the three of Wharton's top marketing professors, from a department¬†ranked as one of the world's best. After signing up for the accounting course, I immediately got access to the first week's videos, lecture slides, homework, and a forum where students discuss the course and ask questions. Required core courses for a Wharton MBA that are missing from Coursera include an introductory macroeconomics course and regression analysis, a statistics course for future managers.¬†But an enterprising student could fill that skills gap with MIT's highly regarded and popular introductory microeconomics course¬†and Coursera's data analysis course from Johns Hopkins.¬† You'd still be missing the networking opportunities, career services support, alumni network, and the prestige of the degree,¬†but a dedicated student can pick up a lot of the practical skills a business requires. Why is Wharton giving this away? While students get access to high-quality education, Wharton gets to present its best face to hundreds of thousands of people that only vaguely know it. They've already reached more people with the five existing courses than the school has educated in more than a century of existence. You can't earn Wharton credit¬†by taking the free courses, but a future student could potentially use them to test out of the core classes¬†and spend more time on advanced and career-specific studies, according to Huesman. The issue that providers of online courses and the schools that provide the content face is how to get employers to appreciate the effort people put into these courses, and verify that students have put in the work in a rigorous way.¬† Though there are already highly successful online degree-granting programs, they're far less open, more expensive, and require more of a time commitment, which excludes many people. Hundreds of thousands of people have taken Wharton's online courses, and thousands more will take these new offerings, but it's hard to prove to a potential employer that you've picked up Wharton-caliber skills from them.¬†
Max0rz / FlickrThe Federal Reserve is celebrating its 100th birthday trapped in a political bunker. At few points since the Fed's founding in 1913 has it taken such sustained fire. It's taking fire from the left, because its policies favor Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and the other financial corporations that are most responsible for the 2008 financial meltdown and the Great Recession. But it is also taking fire from the right. Conservative or Tea Party Republicans have a different kind of criticism. They reject the notion that the Fed should even have the power to regulate the money supply and "debase" the dollar. They believe in hard money and a return to the gold standard. These Republicans have taken a page from the book of conservative orthodoxies of the late 19th century. Conservatives are again fervently pushing gold as a means to protect the wealth and power of Wall Street financiers and the corporate elite. Conservatives are demanding hard money as part of the policy mix that enriches the top 1 percent. Now, as in the Gilded Age, the United States is a nation of savage inequality. Hard money has often been linked to the conservative cause. But it has been more than 100 years since gold fever has so afflicted American politics. The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 loosened the strings that bound U.S. currency to gold. Other ties were cut under President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933 and 1944. In 1971, President Richard M. Nixon severed the last tie between the dollar and the precious metal. In the years after 1913, the need for a flexible and regulated money supply was widely accepted across the political spectrum. By mid-century, only a small band of right-wing ideologues clung firmly to the gold standard. In a 1990 paper,¬†Milton¬†Friedman, the 20th century's most influential conservative economist, aptly described such holdouts as "monetary monomaniacs." But that was then. Today gold is king of conservative economic thinking. Radio and TV personality Glenn Beck hawks gold coins as a business, and sells the gold standard as America's salvation. President Ronald Reagan's budget director, David Stockman, has written a 700-page jeremiad lamenting the departure from gold as the root of America's "great deformation." Financial magnate Steve Forbes has turned Forbes magazine into a tool of gold advocacy. And the conservative pundit William Kristol has now joined the chorus. Meanwhile, Representatives Paul Broun (R-Ga.), Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) and the congressional Tea Party Caucus are pushing to "audit the Fed" as the first step toward repeal of the Federal Reserve Act and restoring the gold standard. In the Senate, Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.) is gaining support for a commission to study a return to a gold-backed currency. Republicans have also passed state laws in South Carolina and Utah, endorsing the use of gold as currency. What explains this gold mania? The argument for gold is a tortured one. Supposedly it will save the country from the ravages of inflation. But inflation remains at historic lows, leaving many observers to note the dangers of a Japan-style deflation. Supposedly, gold will provide an anchor of stability in a rough economic sea. But, like any other commodity, gold is subject to speculative bubbles. Over the last five years gold prices have been tossed high and low, more like froth in the wind than a sturdy anchor. Supposedly, "ending the Fed" will return us to the firm ground of prosperity of the last gold standard era from 1873 to 1914. But claims that the old gold standard made for a more stable economy have no basis in the historical record. Those years witnessed the terrible depressions of the 1870s and 1890s, and some of the most severe financials busts and economic storms in U.S. history. What the historical record does show is that the politics of gold and hard money bitterly divided the country and contributed to unprecedented levels of economic inequality. This experience helps make sense of the gold fever gripping conservatives today. Then, as now, hard money was the preferred policy of the corporate 1 percent. Before the Civil War, state-chartered private banks issued paper bank notes. But these notes were notoriously unreliable. They were easy to counterfeit and often worth less than their face value. When issuing banks went belly-up, the holders of their notes were stuck with useless paper. Small wonder that working people favored hard coin. During the Civil War the Union government printed paper dollars. They were known as "greenbacks" ‚Äî for the color of the ink printed on the reverse side. The Treasury Department issued this paper or fiat money to pay soldiers and purchase supplies. Greenbacks would gain a wide acceptance ‚Äî at least in the North ‚Äî as the patriotic money that helped save the Union. In the following years Congress took steps to put the U.S. currency on the gold standard. To replace greenbacks, silver coin and other currency, Congress favored gold-backed bank notes. These notes were issued by federally chartered private banks ‚Äî most of which were clustered in the Northeast. This move toward gold-based currency provoked a "battle of the standards." Gold had strong support among the wealthy, including banking executives and conservative Republicans and Democrats mainly from Northeastern districts. But many workers and farmers equated hard money with hard times. This perception grew stronger the further one lived from the financial centers of New York and Philadelphia. By the 1870s and ‚Äò80s, anti-monopolist leagues, the farmers' Grange and the Knights of Labor fought back against the gold standard. Many of their members supported the Greenback Labor Party that stood for labor rights and greenback dollars. This "battle of the standards" came to a head during the depression of the 1890s. A coalition of farm and labor groups had formed the Populist Party. Among other reforms, the Populists demanded an expansion of the money supply by minting silver and printing greenbacks. William Jennings Bryan, a young former congressman from Nebraska, took up the cause of soft money at the 1896 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. Bryan, a powerful orator, was never a Populist ‚Äî but he favored many of their reforms. He captured his party's presidential nomination after he had convention delegates leaping on to their chairs with a speech decrying the crucifixion of humanity "on a cross of gold." Millions of hard-pressed farmers and workers passionately supported Bryan. Their experience with the gold standard helps explain why. Hard money meant a general deflation of prices in relation to the dollar. Each year from 1875 to 1896, farm prices fell 3 percent. Georgia farmers saw the price of a pound of cotton fall from 10 cents to 5 cents. The price of Illinois wheat dropped even further. Corn prices fell so low that Nebraska farmers decided to burn it for fuel rather than spend money and time shipping it to market to sell it. At the same time crop prices fell, the cost of mortgages and loans soared. Farmers needed credit for machinery and other supplies. But an unregulated credit market meant that in some regions loans were either sky high or not available. If farmers could get a loan or a mortgage, hard money made it more expensive to pay off. When the real value of the dollar rose, the real value of their debts rose with it. Farmers had to sell a lot more wheat or corn to meet those debts. Scarce credit combined with scarce dollars. Because the Eastern banks had a monopoly on issuing bank notes, farmers in the West and South often lacked access to currency. The lack of dollars in rural America became particularly acute after the growing season, when there was insufficient currency to move the harvest to market. Farmers were not alone when it came to the burdens of hard money. During the long economic depressions of the 1870s and 1890s, workers and manufacturers felt the weight of the same deflationary price cycle. They asked why anyone would invest in an iron mill, for example, when the price per ton of iron stagnated or fell. The gold standard alone could not explain the extent of farm poverty, or the depth of industrial crises. But many Americans understood that gold produced winners and losers. Gold made losers of farmers and other working people selling goods at deflated prices. It made losers of people who paid mortgages and owed debts. And it made losers of those who lacked access to credit and currency. But gold was good for those who controlled the currency, held gold or issued loans. It was good for the banking corporations, Wall Street financiers and other creditors. As a result, the gold standard shifted resources from the poor to the rich, and from the Midwest, West and South to the financial centers of the Northeast. For millions of Americans, gold symbolized the power of wealth over the rest of the country. Along with corporate subsidies, regressive taxes and suppression of labor rights, the gold standard tilted the economy in favor of the top 1 percent, and opened a chasm between the rich and poor the likes of which the United States had never seen. In the 1870s, anti-monopolists described the gold standard as a "relic of barbarism." This was 50 years before the economist John Maynard Keynes said the same thing. What they meant was that the corporate elites who made such a fetish of gold relied on superstition and myth. For the anti-monopolists, the gold standard was relic of a pre-modern age, unsuitable for a dynamic and expanding economy. Gold supplies, they noted, were limited by the random luck of the mining industry ‚Äî and the even more random schemes of hoarders and speculators. A modern economy, the anti-monopolists argued, required a more reliable currency. It also needed a more flexible money supply aligned to the growing needs of industry, agriculture and trade. This reliability and flexibility could only be assured by the powerful backing of the national government. During the depression of the 1890s, the Populists were able to push their arguments into the center of national politics. They demanded a more flexible and reliable national currency ‚Äî whether paper or silver, or a combination of the two ‚Äî as a means to aid distressed farmers, stimulate commerce and create a more equitable and prosperous country. This demand for soft money found a voice in Bryan's 1896 presidential campaign. Conservatives from business, politics and academia rallied to the gold standard. They were known as gold bugs because of the militant faith that they placed on this precious metal as the key to preserve their wealth, power and way of life. For Republican industrialist Mark Hanna, the political kingmaker behind President William McKinley, the danger lay in the "communistic spirit" of soft money. For Harvard economist Francis A. Walker, paper money would lead to "effeminacy" ‚Äî weakening the control fathers and husbands had over their wives and children. For the journalist William Allen White, Bryan's attack on the gold standard amounted to "riot, destruction and carnage." Bryan lost the 1896 election to McKinley. The Klondike gold strike that same year temporarily relieved the pressure of deflation. But the financial panic of 1907 unleashed renewed demands for monetary reform. Under President Woodrow Wilson, this led to the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 providing for financial regulation and a more flexible money supply. Today, all modern economies have paper or fiat money backed by the power of government. And the possibility that the U.S. will revert to a gold-backed currency is little to none. The gold standard is a relic of history. Yet, the cries of the "monetary monomaniacs" grow louder. Paul, Bachmann, Forbes, Beck and other conservatives now warn that it is either gold or the abyss. They do so because today's gold bugs share the same goals as their conservative ancestors. They, too, understand that hard money serves power and wealth. Conservatives have put the Fed in their crosshairs. They are demanding hard money because it tilts the economic table in the direction of the haves and away from the have-nots. It favors banking corporations and Wall Street financiers. It squeezes homeowners paying mortgages and students with loans. And hard money is used as a justification for cuts in education, healthcare and other needs. The Federal Reserve will be celebrating its 100th birthday with few friends and many enemies. It gained many of these enemies with its deregulatory policies that fueled speculation, enriched banking corporations and contributed to the financial meltdown. And it continues to make enemies with policies that favor Wall Street over Main Street. But gold will not fix what is wrong with the Fed. Quite the opposite. Hard money is part of the conservative policy mix that has opened a chasm between the rich and poor the likes of which has not been seen since soon after the passage of the Federal Reserve Act a hundred years ago.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wealthy Investors Are Increasingly Turning To Farms And Rail (Investment News) Wealthy investors looking for income in a rising interest rate environment are increasingly turning to farms, timberland, and funds that finance rail cars, reports Investment News. "The trick in these hard assets is buying at a reasonable price," Don Heath or Regions Financial Corp.'s (RF) private wealth-management unit told Investment News. "If you buy it right and manage it right, over a long time horizon, you can realize average annualized returns in the five to 10 percent range." Of course these "real assets" bring their own set of risks including illiquidity, natural disasters, termites etc. Some choose to invest in loan funds that lend to American businesses. The Best Strategy For Protecting Your Portfolio From Inflation (BlackRock) "Inflation is a fact of life" and investors should therefore have some "element of inflation protection built into a portfolio," according to Michael Fredricks and Phil Green of BlackRock. And this should be flexible and be able to adapt to changing market conditions and inflation expectations. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), gold, commodities, real estate and stocks are considered good inflation protection assets.¬† "Ultimately, the effectiveness of single-asset-class inflation hedges can vary dramatically based on market conditions. They can introduce high volatility and their valuations can change significantly over time. A diversified, tactically managed, multi-asset portfolio seeks to exploit the best of each by understanding the drivers of a particular inflation scenario and allocating across those assets with the potential to outperform in that specific scenario (e.g., rising growth/falling inflation; rising growth/rising inflation; falling growth/falling inflation; falling growth/rising inflation). We believe this can result in better risk/return characteristics and improved inflation protection through various market cycles." BlackRock ¬† How To Think About The Stock Market In One Huge Slide (Morgan Stanley) Morgan Stanley It Is Important For Investors To Adopt A More Active Approach To Sector Investing (BMO Capital Markets) In the past 40 years, rising rates have helped cyclical areas of the market, according to Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets. This is because rising real interest rates suggest stronger economic growth. "However, based on this data there have been some notable exceptions, namely Energy and Consumer Staples. While historical performance analysis can be insightful, it is important that investors consider valuation within this context as well. Based on our valuation composite, Discretionary, Materials, Telecom, and Utilities are extremely expensive suggesting that these sectors are likely to underperform historical performance patterns. By contrast, Energy and Health Care are very inexpensive increasing the likelihood of outperforming historical performance patterns. "This is important because our three Overweight sectors ‚Äì Financials, Industrials, and Technology ‚Äì have been among the top performers historically during periods of rising real interest rates and is another reason we remain committed to these sectors. However, as stock correlations have fallen, it is also important for investors to adopt a more active approach to sector investing." Advisors Need To Help Clients Before Their Cognitive Decline (The Wall Street Journal) In a new WSJ column, Ted Beck CEO of Denver-based The National Endowment for Financial Education, a non-profit focused on financial education, writes that advisors should have a conversation with their clients about cognitive decline and finances early on. While it can be a touchy subject, advisors should help their clients figure out who will manage their finances and make decisions for them, when they no longer can.¬† Beck suggests that advisors "consolidate their accounts" because "it becomes easy for family members to know where the assets are located if the client passes away or becomes cognitively impaired." It is important to keep family members informed about the decisions that are made.
APA top Senate Democratic aide immediately shot down the new Republican-led House's strategy to bring a government-funding bill to the floor that defunds the Affordable Care Act. "I would say that there is a reason House Republican leaders didnít do this in the first place, which is that thereís no chance in hell it passes the Senate," the Senate aide said in an email. "Itís just a waste of time. The House will eventually have to pass a clean CR or Republicans will shut down the government." Republicans' new strategy, according to National Review's Robert Costa, is bending to the wishes of conservatives like Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), who are insisting that any bill to keep the government funded†must also defund Obamacare.† With only four working days left before Sept. 30, it seems likely that if they adopt this new plan, Republicans would be willing to shut down the government. It's possible that Congress could cancel its planned recess, but there are also only 13 days left before the end of the month.† Costa adds a crucial disclaimer to his report: It is very unlikely that the Senate passes anything that defunds Obamacare, and "many House Republican insiders say a 'Plan B' may be needed." So it's up to Cruz to turn what has been a conservative movement thus far into broad pressure on the Senate.†
BEA The Bureau of Economic Analysis is out with a report on¬†real GDP growth across metropolitan areas. "Real GDP in metropolitan areas increased 2.5 percent in 2012 after increasing 1.7 percent in 2011," according to the BEA. The above map shows which metropolitan regions are booming (blue) and which are shrinking (orange). Here are the fastest growing metropolitan cities in terms of 2012 GDP growth. Texas and Indiana are getting it done: And here are the ones heading in the opposite direction. Louisiana is struggling:
Dell Inc. via flickrBefore you attack former Wall Streeter-turned-writer Laura Hemphill for her recent article published in The New Yorker, which advises young women to opt out of getting MBAs, you should seriously hear out her argument.¬† While Hemphill tells women specifically to skip B-school, her advice should be geared toward any¬†20-something professional. Not just women. She argues that your 20s are vital and getting an MBA during it will only waste your time.¬†She says this is especially true for women, citing a¬†Harvard study¬†that found that¬†13% of women weren't working compared to 1% of men a decade¬†after earning their MBAs. Career interruptions happen to women around this time because they either decide to have children or they "actively choose jobs that are family friendly and avoid jobs with long hours and greater career advancement possibilities," she writes. "Given this possibility, isn‚Äôt the most important thing for a woman to work as hard as she can and advance as far as possible while she‚Äôs still in her twenties and her life is as uncomplicated as it‚Äôs going to get? That way, by the time she‚Äôs a decade or so along, she‚Äôll have more savings, more job experience, and more bargaining power ‚Äî all of which translate into more options." The truth is, no matter your gender, your 20s are a crucial time of professional exploration and career advancement. When things don't work out right away, many young people turn to graduate school with the false assumption that another degree will make them more legitimate. But this isn't necessarily the case. If you're not going to school for the right reasons and haven't done your research, you may find yourself hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt, having¬†lost time that you could've spent advancing your career. And this is true whether you're a man or a woman. ¬†
¬† ¬† A messy desk boosts creative thinking while a clean desk promotes order and overall better decision-making, says a study published in Psychological Science. Improve your space and become more efficient at work with these office hacks below. Produced by William Wei. Follow Us On YouTube &gt; 
Business Insider is looking for an entrepreneurial Sales Manager or Director of Enterprise Subscription Sales to join our growing Business Insider Intelligence team. The key responsibility of this sales position is to drive revenue growth through corporate subscriptions. ¬† What is BI Intelligence?  BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from¬†Business Insider¬†that provides insights, data, and tech industry analysis.¬†We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends.¬†The service, launched in 2012,¬†has experienced rapid growth focusing on the mobile industry and is now expanding to analyze all things social media. Check out BI Intelligence¬†here.Responsibilities include:¬† The ideal candidate should: This opening is immediate and is based out of our New York City office (no remote work or relocation assistance).¬†To apply, please email a resume and short cover letter to mktgjobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance.
Flickr/DaduneStocks inched higher as the Federal Reserve began its historic two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
White House photo/Pete SouzaHere's a feature of Obamacare you probably don't know about: A transfer of hundreds of billions of dollars in liabilities to retired public employees from state and local governments to federal taxpayers. Here's how it's going to work. States and localities have enormous liabilities in the form of health benefits they have promised to provide to retired workers. (Finance professionals call these benefits OPEB, or "other post-employment benefits.") Most public sector retirees get health plans until they turn 65, and then supplemental coverage on top of Medicare after that. In most cases, state and local governments haven't prefunded these liabilities at all. As Americans age and health care costs rise, this is becoming a major drain on state and local finances, arguably more important than more-widely-discussed problems with public employee pensions. But Obamacare will give states and cities a major out. Instead of providing health care to under-65 retirees, they can tell them to go buy health plans in the Obamacare exchanges. In many cases, those retirees will qualify for substantial subsidies to buy such plans. States and localities will often stand to save thousands of dollars per retiree per year, even if they provide a cash stipend to help each employee buy insurance in the exchange. All told, state and local governments should be able to shift hundreds of billions of dollars in OPEB liabilities to the federal government. That will mean major savings for those governments. But it will also drive costs upward at the federal level. Stressed local governments already making the shift Detroit, as part of its bankruptcy plan, wants to stop providing health care to retirees and instead give them each a $125 monthly stipend to buy insurance in the exchange. Currently, Detroit spends $721 per month per retiree on health benefits, so this move will allow Detroit to cut its OPEB liability by 80%. But it won't just be bankrupt cities like Detroit making the move. Chicago and Rhode Island ‚Äî governments facing tight fiscal situations but not on the brink of bankruptcy ‚Äî are considering similar shifts. Unlike pensions, retiree health benefits are usually not legally guaranteed. Stressed cities and states will see kicking OPEB costs up to the federal government as a politically appealing option because of that legal flexibility. Even in places where finances are flush, the shift will be tempting. Public employee unions that work together with state and local governments to switch to federal coverage will be playing a positive sum game: Existing benefits can be replaced with a combination of Obamacare coverage and cash that leaves retirees with more income and local governments with lower costs. Only federal taxpayers will get left holding the bag. The numbers are big Surprisingly, we don't know the total amount of state and local OPEB liabilities. My best back-of-the-envelope guess is that they are about $2 trillion. For comparison, total outstanding state and local bond debt is $3 trillion. In 2012, the Pew Center on the States calculated that states have accrued $627 billion in unfunded OPEB. But most OPEB liabilities are at the local level, since most public employees work for local governments. There's no way to determine the total amount of local liabilities without examining financial statements on a county-by-county and town-by-town basis. Federal agencies like the Census Bureau and the Bureau of Economic Analysis don't do that for retiree health benefits. The Empire Center for New York State Policy did a fairly comprehensive review in New York State last year, looking at the reported liabilities of the state's 89 largest local government employers and imputing liabilities for other, smaller governments. They estimated $177 billion in local liabilities, 2.5 times the $73 billion in liabilities accrued by the state government. Applying a similar ratio nationally would imply just over $2 trillion in total OPEB liabilities. A 2007 research note from Credit Suisse put the figure at $1.5 trillion, but liabilities have grown significantly over the last six years. How many of those liabilities can be shifted? A substantial fraction. Consider the below example. A retired public employee in New York City, age 60, is married to another 60-year-old, with $50,000 a year in retirement income. New York City's most common health plans would have cost about $12,500 per year for that couple in 2012, paid entirely by the city of New York. Given the current pace of medical inflation, such a plan will likely cost about $14,000 in 2014. The default Obamacare exchange plan for that couple will be substantially cheaper ‚Äî about $9,360, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. But it gets better: The federal government will provide a subsidy of $4,610 to help that retired couple buy a health plan. Instead of $14,000, that retired couple can get exchange coverage at a cost of just $4,750 after federal subsidies. Instead of directly providing a health plan, New York City could just give that couple cash to buy such a plan. Even if it adds $1,000 to cover added income taxes and $3,000 to compensate for the plan's reduced generosity, New York City will still come out ahead by about $5,000 a year, cutting the cost of insuring this retiree by more than a third. What costs won't get shifted to the federal government? States and cities won't be able to offload their entire OPEB liabilities, even if they move under-65 retirees into the Obamacare exchanges. Here are a few components that they'll still have to pay for: What to do with the "windfall" As some states and localities start switching retirees to federal coverage, the temptation is likely to spread. It's similar to the Medicaid expansion: Holdout states will have increasing difficulty justifying why they're not taking federal dollars that their neighbors are getting. The question for cities and states will then be what to do with all the money they're saving. In Detroit, the answer is simple: The city doesn't have any money anyway. But in solvent jurisdictions, the temptation will be find new ways to spend money that lawmakers had been expecting to spend on retiree health care. In general, the first choice should be to cut taxes. After all, new federal health benefits for retirees won't be free. They'll be an added in unexpected cost to the federal government, which will have to collect taxes over time to pay for them. But very often, I expect that state and local officials will find other ways to spend the money.¬† Bill de Blasio, New York's Democratic nominee for mayor, wants a new pre-Kindergarten program that he estimates will cost $350 million a year. He wants to pay for it with a high-income tax increase that state lawmakers aren't likely to approve. His Republican opponent, Joe Lhota, says he also favors universal pre-K but wants to find a different funding mechanism. Meanwhile, in the next mayor's first year in office, New York City will spend $2.3 billion on health benefits for retirees. Cutting a deal with unions to shift many of those costs up to the federal government would produce enough savings to pay for universal pre-K, and then some. Watch for the next mayor to do so, whomever it is.
The NAHB's measure of homebuilder confidence was unchanged at 58 in September , the highest level since November 2005. Homebuilder confidence used to be considered a good leading indicator for housing starts. But in recent months¬† confidence has gained momentum while housing starts have failed to keep up. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics has previously explained that "the NAHB index has a habit of over-exuberance during rebounds." This he said is because of the way the housing market index (HMI), the gauge for homebuilder confidence, is constructed. "If all survey participants thought that conditions were ‚Äògood‚Äô, even if only marginally so, the index would report a value of 100. But that extremely strong reading would not be a great reflection of actual market conditions." Here's an updated chart from Calculated Risk. We highlighted two previous instances when homebuilder confidence decoupled from housing starts. Business Insider/Calculated Risk
Three-dimensional printing was recently named by Goldman Sachs as one of eight technologies that are going to creatively destroy how we do business. In a new note, a Credit Suisse team led by Julian Mitchell dives into the sector, coming up with some projected growth figures and pinpointing which markets will be doing most of the driving. "Most corporate guidance defaults to the assumptions of industry consultants who estimate that the 3D printing market will grow at ~20% annually. We challenge this assumption and attempt to quantify the addressable market by investigating the opportunities within key verticals such as aerospace, automotive, health care, and consumer. We conclude that these four markets alone (which comprise ~ 50% of the AM market today) represent sufficient opportunity to sustain 20-30% annual revenue growth, bolstered by the technology‚Äôs transition from prototyping to end use parts and expansion into metals."¬† Here's the chart: Credit SuisseCredit Suisse's massive 180-page report goes into painstaking detail into how 3D printing will change the world. But here are some highlights: Health care is already knee-deep in 3D printing. Mitchell and co. say more than 90% of all hearing-aid shells today are produced through the process.  As it turns out, dental applications probably contain the most potential within health care, thanks to the more than 14,000 dental labs in the U.S. The C.S. team envisions market penetration to improve to 18% from 12% in the sector by 2016.  Personalized hip and knee replacements could also see gains. The team projects a market of up to $1.8 billion, though they note that the niche has yet to totally catch fire.  And¬†GE has been producing a previously expensive part of ultrasound machines can be printed on 3D machines (they can also use it to make wind and gas turbine parts).¬† ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs really fundamentally changing the way we think about the company,‚Äù Mitchell and co. quote Mark Little, GE‚Äôs chief technology officer, as saying.¬† Projections for 3D printing's expansion into aerospace match those in health care ‚Äî¬†the team sees a 30% compound annual growth rate for each. Airplane engines will lead the way: "Capital expenditures at aircraft engine [manufacturers] for example are generally ~4% of sales, the majority of which is allocated to manufacturing equipment. With 2016E aircraft engine industry sales of ~$50bn, this implies an addressable market for printing systems for aircraft engines of ~$1.4bn in 2016. This represents over 6x the entire 3D market for aerospace today, which is not limited to only aircraft engines, and includes sales of materials, service, software, and parts." The most rapid expansion of 3D printing will come from personal use, the team argues:¬† "The consumer market is the fastest-growing portion of the 3D printing market, with expectations for 100%+ YoY growth in 2013. Makerbot [owned by Stratasys] describes its offering as intended for the 'pro-sumer' market (manufacturer's suggested retail price is $2,200-2,800), expecting many systems to be dual professional / personal use among small business owners or serious hobbyists. 3D Systems' 'Cube' (MSRP $1,200+) is marketed by DDD as a true 'consumer' printer." They also point out that Amazon has opened up a section of its site for 3D printing equipment and supplies, and that they're currently on sale in Microsoft stores. Finally, they note 3D printing has been endorsed by Elon Musk, and reference the following must-watch futuristic video to bolster their argument:  Mitchell and co. conclude that 3D Systems (DDD), Stratasys and ExOne Co. are the best stocks to play the field thanks to their presence in nearly all of these markets.
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiJim Chanos, founder and Managing Partner of Kynikos Associates, speaks at the 16th annual Sohn Investment Conference in New York on May 25, 2011. Jim Chanos isn't going to tell you exactly what he's researching at his world renowned short-selling firm, Kynikos Associates, but he'll give you an idea ó a small one ó of what he and his team are thinking about. He did that today on Bloomberg TV's "Market Makers" with Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle. Chanos says he's looking at large companies that are growing by making a lot of acquisitions.† "Some of them don't even have profits, they're having to do bigger and bigger deals," said Chanos, adding, "They're trying to buy their way into growth and it's fooling this generation of analysts." That's when Stephanie Ruhle brought up Apple, a company Kynikos uses as a hedge. Unlike some of the companies Kynikos shorts, Chanos pointed out that Apple actually researches and develops its own products. Large tech companies that get their new products through acquisitions, on the other hand, are essentially "capitalizing their R&amp;D," said Chanos. And, as Bloomberg reporter Corey Johnson said breaking in, "The knuckleheads that don't consider acquisitions a part of free cash flow think free cash flow still looks good." Chanos closed saying, "If you start to look at acquisitions as capitalized R&amp;D, suddenly these companies look a lot more expensive." Don't be a knucklehead. †
Getty ImagesGrover Norquist A kamikaze mission.¬† That's how the conservative editorial board of The Wall Street Journal described¬†the current budget strategy floated by a number of conservatives in Congress: tying provisions to defund the Affordable Care Act to a "must-pass" bill like the continuing resolution to keep the government open past Sept. 30 or the debt ceiling increase that may be needed by late October. "Kamikaze missions rarely turn out well, least of all for the pilots," the WSJ editorial board wrote.¬†One House GOP aide called it a "fantastical" plot with no real end game. The ongoing budget battles have exposed not only the bitter divide between factions of the Republican Party in Congress ‚Äî but also the wide gulf between influential conservative groups behind the scenes.¬† On one side of the coin are groups like Club for Growth and Heritage Action. On the other are the Grover Norquist-led Americans for Tax Reform, the American Action Forum, and editorial boards like the Journal's.¬† "We're happy to have Grover with us on 95% of the issues," Ed Fuelner, founder of the Heritage Foundation, said in an interview Monday night in New York.¬† On this one, Norquist is "wrong," Fuelner said. The differences between Norquist's ATR and hard-line groups like Heritage and Club for Growth boiled up last week when GOP leaders tried a creative scheme that didn't fly past the conservatives inside the House or outside of it.¬† House Majority Leader Eric Cantor proposed a continuing resolution to lock in 2013 spending levels for three months while forcing the Senate to vote on defunding Obamacare. Rank-and-file House members could say they voted to defund Obamacare. In the end, the law would remain intact, but Republicans could point to the Democratic-controlled Senate as the reason.¬† That didn't fly by Heritage and "the Club." "Partisan blame games don't result in good policy, and they don't move polls," Heritage Action communications director Dan Holler told Business Insider. "That should've been the lesson from 2012. You can blame the other guys all you want, but unless you're willing to stand up and show that you have an idea to move things forward, nobody's going to follow you." Heritage Action CEO Mike Needham called it a gimmick. Club for Growth President Chris Chocola wondered¬†if the news reports trickling out about the strategy were from The Onion. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), perhaps the Congressional face of the "defund Obamacare" movement (or fantasy, as many put it), blasted it as "procedural chicanery." APNorquist's support for Cantor's strategy reflects a recognition that many conservatives are resisting: Obamacare is going to be implemented. Norquist's ATR has endorsed the idea of delaying Obamacare's individual mandate for a year, but he recognizes that efforts to block overall implementation will fail. And he doesn't think sharing that view makes you a traitor or "complicit" in Obamacare.¬† "You've got to ask for things the other team can sign off on ‚Äî not because we're being terribly bipartisan, but because the other team has the Senate and the White House," Norquist told Business Insider in an interview.¬† The ultimate goal doesn't differ: a full repeal of Obamacare. But the messaging, Norquist said, has led to confusion.¬† "It's not where the conservative movement needs to be, because we miscommunicate to voters that somebody is not a good conservative because they have a different vision of how to get to the same place," Norquist said. ¬†"I think there's a big difference between saying, 'Don't vote for this tax increase,' vs. 'If you don't vote for this tax cut, you're a bad person.' Well, you know, there are a lot of different ways to cut taxes." "ATR endorsed the idea of having a vote on defunding. We're not in favor of saying, if that doesn't pass, you should go live in a cave, or something." The feeling is the same in the House, where many GOP aides grumble about the quest that Cruz has undertaken without having any real plan for passing something in his own Congressional chamber. According to National Review, aide to Rep. John Culberson (R-Texas) got into a heated argument with a Cruz staffer that ended with the former saying Cruz was "not dealing in reality." One House GOP aide complained to Business Insider that the Obamacare defunders, including Cruz, don't have a plan beyond expecting Obama to sign a rollback of his signature legislative achievement in a grand, Rose Garden ceremony. "Then what?" Norquist said. "We mock the president when he says he's going to bomb Syria and then says that everyone's going to behave. Well, what happens if they don't behave? What if the war keeps going? ... What's your next plan after that? Conservative groups giving advice to Congress need to say, we recommend you have this vote, and then have some other strategies set up." Norquist and other conservatives also worry that the crusade to dismantle Obamacare will undermine GOP leverage on spending ‚Äî particularly on spending cuts created by sequestration, which Republicans want to maintain and Democrats want to unwind. Holding the line on spending while chipping away at Obamacare ‚Äî an individual mandate delay, for example ‚Äî will strengthen the Republican position. That's a convincing argument, Norquist says, because of the other delays on which Obama has willingly signed off.¬† "Yeah, Grover gets it," one House GOP aide said. Will he and others get their way? The¬†Journal editorial is perhaps significant in that one of the editorial board has previously taken a hard line and one of its members is Stephen Moore, the founder of the Club for Growth. The end of the editorial contains a terse warning: We've often supported backbenchers who want to push GOP leaders in a better policy direction, most recently on the farm bill. But it's something else entirely to sabotage any plan with a chance of succeeding and pretend to have "leverage" that exists only in the world of townhall applause lines and fundraising letters. The best option now is for the GOP to unite behind a budget strategy that can hold 218 votes, keeping the sequester pressure of discretionary spending cuts on Democrats to come to the table on entitlements. The sequester is a rare policy victory the GOP has extracted from Mr. Obama, and it is squeezing liberal constituencies that depend on federal cash.
The Census Bureau has released its annual report on poverty, income, and health insurance. The chart below shows the state of American income last year based on race. "Among the race groups, Asian¬†households had the highest median¬†income in 2012 ($68,636). The¬†median income for non-Hispanic White households was $57,009, and¬†it was $33,321 for Black households.¬†For Hispanic¬†households the median income was¬†$39,005," according to the report (the levels were not statistically significant from the 2011 report). US Census Bureau
REUTERS/Mukesh GuptaIndia's inflation rate hit a six-month high of 6.1% in August. Food prices were up 18.2% on the year, and this was led by a mind-blowing 245% annual rise in onion prices. Food costs account for a significant portion of the Indian people's income, and onions are a critical ingredient in most every Indian meal. This explains why officials are wary of rising onion prices. Onion prices are at Rs. 70 ($1.10) per kg, though there were reports that prices had surged as high as Rs. 100 ($1.57) in certain parts of the country. While $1.10 might not seem like much, it's a hefty price tag in India. Here are some of the crazy things we've seen around India in the aftermath of soaring onion prices. Of course this is worrisome for India's new central bank governor, as rising inflation limits his ability to loosen monetary policy and help support economic growth which is at a 10-year low. 
FactoryPRYes, yes and yes. The Miami Heat's Dwyane Wade, well known for his creative style, is designing his own line of ties for online retailer, the Tie Bar. The collection will be comprised of 30 bow ties, 15 neckties, 15 pocket squares and more. †It should all launch online in November. Until then it's all surprises ó though we are excited to know there will be cuff links. The Tie Bar's CEO Anand Shah said that partnering with Wade was a "no brainer." Wade said he's "excited to step into the designers seat with them."† So how could this not be sick? If you don't know about the Tie Bar, here's the deal: Since 2004 it's been a digital destination for all things men's neck accessory. That doesn't just mean bow ties, but also pocket squares etc. The company's based in Chicago and all the ties cost $15. We'll be checking back in with this in November.
Contrary to popular belief, commas don't just signify pauses in a sentence. In fact, precise rules govern when to use this punctuation mark. When followed, they lay the groundwork for clear written communication. We've compiled a list of all of the times when you need the mighty comma. 1. Use a comma before any coordinating conjunction (and, but, for, or, nor, so, yet) that links two independent clauses. Example: "I went running, and I saw a duck." You may need to learn a few grammatical terms to understand this one. An independent clause is a unit of grammatical organization that includes both a subject and verb and can stand on its own as a sentence. In the previous example, "I went running" and "I saw a duck" are both independent clauses, and "and" is the coordinating conjunction that connects them. Consequently, we insert a comma. If we were to eliminate the second "I" from that example, the second clause would lack a subject, making it not a clause at all. In that case, it would no longer need a comma: "I went running and saw a duck." 2. Use a comma after a dependent clause that starts a sentence. Example: "When I went running, I saw a duck." A dependent clause is a grammatical unit that contains both subject and verb but cannot stand on its own, like "When I went running ..." Commas always follow these clauses at the start of a sentence. If a dependent clause ends the sentence, however, it no longer requires a comma. Only use a comma to separate a dependent clause at the end of a sentence for added emphasis, usually when negation occurs. 3. Use commas to offset appositives from the rest of the sentence. Appositives act as synonyms for a juxtaposed word or phrase. For example, "While running, I saw a mallard, a kind of duck." "A kind of duck" is the appositive, which gives more information about "a mallard." If the appositive occurs in the middle of the sentence, both sides of the phrase need a comma. As in, "A mallard, a kind of duck, attacked me." Don't let the length of an appositive scare you. As long as the phrase somehow gives more information about its predecessor, you usually need a comma. "A mallard, the kind of duck I saw when I went running, attacked me." There's one exception to this rule. Don't offset a phrase that gives necessary information to the sentence. Usually, commas surround a non-essential clause or phrase. For example, "The duck that attacked me scared my friend" doesn't require any commas. Even though the phrase "that attacked me" describes "the duck," it provides essential information to the sentence. Otherwise, no one would know why the duck scared your friend. Clauses that begin with "that" are usually essential to the sentence and do not require commas. 4. Use commas to separate items in a series.¬† For example, "I saw a duck, a magician, and a liquor store when I went running." That last comma, known as the serial comma, Oxford comma, or Harvard comma, causes serious controversy. Although many consider it unnecessary, others, including Business Insider, insist on its use to reduce ambiguity. There's an¬†Internet meme¬†that demonstrates its necessity perfectly. The sentence, "We invited the strippers, JFK, and Stalin," means the speaker sent three separate invitations: one to some strippers, one to JFK, and one to Stalin.¬†The version without the Oxford comma, however, takes on an entirely different meaning, potentially suggesting that only one invitation was sent ‚Äî to two strippers named JFK and Stalin. Witness: "We invited the strippers, JFK and Stalin." 5. Use a comma after introductory adverbs. "Finally, I went running." "Unsurprisingly, I saw a duck when I went running." Many adverbs end in "ly" and answer the question "how?" How did someone do something? How did something happen? Adverbs that don't end in "ly," such as "when" or "while," usually introduce a dependent clause, which rule number two in this post already covered. Also insert a comma when "however" starts a sentence, too. Phrases like "on the other hand" and "furthermore" also fall into this category. Starting a sentence with "however," however, is discouraged by many careful writers. A better method would be to use "however" within a sentence after the phrase you want to negate, as in the previous sentence. 6. Use a comma when attributing quotes. The rule for where the comma goes, however, depends on where attribution comes. If attribution comes before the quote, place the comma outside the quotations marks.¬†The runner said, "I saw a duck." If attribution comes after the quote, put the comma inside the quotation marks. "I saw a duck," said the runner. 7. Use a comma to separate each element in an address. Also use a comma after a city-state combination within a sentence. "I work at 257 Park Ave. South, New York, N.Y. 10010." "Cleveland, Ohio, is a great city."  8. Also use a comma to separate the elements in a full date (weekday, month and day, and year). Also separate a combination of those elements from the rest of the sentence with commas.¬† "March 15, 2013, was a strange day." Even if you add a weekday, keep the comma after "2013." "Friday, March 15, 2013, was a strange day."¬† "Friday, March 15, was a strange day." You don't need to add a comma when the sentence mentions only the month and year. "March 2013 was a strange month." 9. Use a comma when the first word of the sentence is freestanding "yes" or "no." "Yes, I saw a duck when I went running." "No, the duck didn't bite me." 10. Use a comma when directly addressing someone or something in a sentence. My editor often asks, "Christina, is that article up yet?" Another clever meme shows the problem with incorrect placement of this comma. "Stop clubbing baby seals" reads like an order to desist harming infant mammals of the seal variety. The version with a comma, however, instructs them to stop attending hip dance clubs. "Stop clubbing, baby seals." 11. Use a comma between two adjectives that modify the same noun. For example: "I saw the big, mean duck when I went running." Only coordinate adjectives require a comma between them. Two adjectives are coordinate if you can answer yes to both of these questions: 1. Does the sentence still make sense if you reverse the order of the words? 2. Does the sentence still make sense if you insert "and" between the words? Since "I saw the mean, big duck " and "I saw the big and mean duck" both sound fine, you need the comma.  Sentences with non-coordinate adjectives, however, don't require a comma. For example, "I lay under the powerful summer sun." "Powerful" describes "summer sun" as a whole phrase. This often occurs with adjunct nouns, a phrase where a noun acts as an adjective describing another noun ‚Äî like "chicken soup" or "dance club."  12. Use a comma to offset negation in a sentence. For example: "I saw a duck, not a baby seal, when I went running." In this case, you still need the comma if the negation occurs at the end of the sentence. "I saw a baby seal, not a duck." Also use commas when any distinct shift occurs in the sentence or thought process. "The cloud looked like an animal, perhaps a baby seal." 13. Use commas before every sequence of three numbers when writing a number larger than 999. (Two exceptions are writing years and house numbers.) For example, 10,000 or 1,304,687. That concludes today's lesson. Check your understanding of some other common grammatical mistakes here. 
We're looking for a creative, hardworking marketing manager with extremely strong writing, analytic, and customer service skills to join our growing team. The role will support user acquisition and promotion activities for Business Insider‚Äôs web site, events and subscription products. Business Insider is the fastest growing business news site with over 25 million monthly users. BI events (including our flagship conference, IGNITION) bring together the top senior executives and entrepreneurs in publishing and technology.¬† BI Intelligence, our subscription research service helps thousands of business leaders make smarter decisions with in-depth reports, charts, and data that are timely, extensive and easy to use. Are you someone who is passionate about the intersection of technology and media and will excel in this fast paced, startup environment? If this role is for you, here are some of the traits you possess: The role offers a unique chance to immerse in marketing, research and business journalism with a dynamic, entrepreneurial team. It is full-time and is based in our New York City office. The ideal candidate has at least 2 years of marketing experience. To apply, please email a resume and short cover letter to mktgjobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance.
REUTERS/ Jim YoungIn August 2010, former White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs lampooned the "professional left" for having unreasonable expectations. No deal, no pragmatic approach would be quite good enough to quench liberals' thirst for the progressive Obama administration they thought was owed to them. ‚ÄúThey will be satisfied when we have Canadian health care and we‚Äôve eliminated the Pentagon," Gibbs told The Hill. "That‚Äôs not reality.‚Äù Gibbs may be out of the White House, but the feeling of being burned by the progressive wing of the party might once again feel palpable this week.¬†On Sunday, White House favorite Larry Summers withdrew himself from the running for chairman of the Federal Reserve. The nomination process, he wrote to the president, would be too "acrimonious." That was a guarantee. The first hint of a possible Summers nomination drew so much ire that many have been left asking: Just what was Obama thinking here? The White House may have expected it from liberals, but the academic community also fell in line swiftly behind Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. That came down to monetary policy over politics. Last week, more than 200 big time economics professors¬†signed on to an open letter¬†calling on President Obama to nominate Yellen, who is seen as a sure hand and a steady continuation of Ben Bernanke's monetary policy positions. "Many of us are greatly impressed by Janet Yellen's qualifications for the position, and were surprised to hear that the White House didn't find them compelling," Michael Woodford, a Columbia University economist and cosigner of the open letter, told Business Insider. "Some were opposed to Summers because of past policy positions of his, or guesses about policies he would support now (which may or may not have been well-founded)." True or not, the narrative became that Larry Summers would be more "hawkish," meaning less likely to continue accommodative monetary policy. That's why markets rallied on the news that he withdrew his name. "The nomination process is always political even though the appointment spans presidencies," said Joyce Jacobsen,¬†economics professor at Wesleyan University.¬†We've only had two Fed chairmen since the presidency of George H.W. Bush, but you'd hardly call that time politically consistent. So while the chairman of the Federal Reserve is supposed to be an apolitical figure, the nomination requires Senate confirmation¬†‚Äî an ordeal that often borders on downright theatrical.¬† By favoring a controversial figure like Summers, the administration always knew it would be a fight. It's the past policy decisions over the 2009 stimulus and 90s-era deregulation that came to haunt Summers. In progressives' mind, Summers requested too small of a stimulus from Congress. It was a political decision, in their telling, and wasn't what was best for the economy at the time. Couple that with Summers' controversial comments at Harvard on women and the sciences, and you had a well-organized resistance movement right from the onset. "I do think the White House underestimated the depth of dislike of Larry Summers by a significant portion of his party," said Tony Fratto, a former White House and Treasury official under George W. Bush. "I think they were surprised at the ferocity of the anti-Summers campaign." Progressives, Fratto says, "blame Summers for putting this president in particular in a more centrist place then they felt this president ought to be." "They blame him and the Clintonites...for being a drag on what they saw as the more pure instincts of this president coming out of 2008," Fratto said. After Summers' name leaked and the opposition began to mount, the White House was left with few options. They couldn't really try to expedite the nomination process. If successful they'd leave Ben Bernanke in an awkward monetary policy position, sitting as a lame duck Fed Chair for five months. So, had things gone differently, the White House would have had to wait until the fall to announce Summers' nomination. But even then they were kidding themselves, Fratto says. The composition of the Senate Banking Committee meant Summers would surely lose the votes of Democratic Senators like Elizabeth Warren and Sherrod Brown, who have been so vocal about progressive economic issues. When the dust settled, 20 Democratic Senators wrote to President Obama that they wouldn't support Summers. Even curveballs like Senator Jon Tester, on the banking committee,¬†said he was a no. Before the anti-Summers campaign kicked into gear, "Some of the mythology that emerged was... Republicans prefer Summers to Yellen, and so they will supply the votes to get him confirmed," Fratto said. "You obviously have never spent any time working in Washington or in the Senate," Fratto added. "The idea that Republicans would rescue the president from his own party except for a very high price is just crazy." What would the high price for Summers have been? Obamacare or the debt ceiling, says Fratto. Two things the White House would never use as chess pieces. "Not for Larry Summers."¬†
The Business Insider office recently got into cold brew coffee and the simple recipe will help you make some of the best, most aromatic and caffeinated joe you've ever tasted.† Never heard of cold brew coffee? It's basically what you're getting out of your office coffee contraption, only the caffeine is weaponized and it doesn't taste like crap. It's also easier, cheaper, and remarkably tasty. So it's actually nothing like what you're getting out your office coffee contraption. The gist of our recipe is based off this awesome BoingBoing †post by Cory Doctorow from a few weeks back. After weeks of trial and error, we think we've perfected the recipe for fellow coffee novices.† We've also reached out to Noah Belanich, the co-founder of Joyride Coffee Distributors, a guy who is basically the Gus Fring of New York City cold brew coffee. †Those guys sell cold brew by the keg, and Noah was kind enough to offer a few more tips to help nail it.† So here's the recipe.†
ReutersSome jobs just get all the attention. Take event planner, for example: The idea of working alongside famous people and handling big money accounts may seem like an exciting job, but the reality is often a very different picture. Job search site CareerCast used survey data that "weighed stress, physical demands, and both the current and future employment outlook" across occupations and data from¬†the Bureau of Labor Statistics to create a list of the most overrated jobs¬†of 2013, released on Tuesday. The list also takes into account data from the company's Jobs Rated report, where a lower score signifies a higher rating,¬†which includes the competitiveness and¬†growth potential of¬†specific fields. Topping the list are¬†advertising account executive, surgeon, stockbroker, and public relations manager, which all require long, stressful hours. Many of these professions also made last year's list of the most overrated jobs, except economists and computer programmers, which are new this year. "People don't realize the baggage these jobs come with,"¬†Tony Lee, publisher at¬†CareerCast, tells Business Insider. "The perception is cool; the reality is a dog-eat-dog world." Consider surgeons. Although they make a median salary of $311,078, they deal with high stress levels daily and have a lot of pressure on their hands. "When you're a surgeon, your life is not your own," Lee says. "You cannot go anywhere without your phone. It's also very physical demanding because you stand on your feet all day." High turnover is also a common theme for many of the professions on CareerCast's most overrated list.
This afternoon, Boeing will put the new model of its Dreamliner jet in the air for the first time. The 787-9 is 20 feet longer than the current version (the 787-8), holds 40 more passengers, and can fly 300 nautical miles farther on a full tank of gas. A successful test flight would help Boeing get over the seemingly endless problems that have plagued the original Dreamliner.¬† Most seriously, the FAA issued a rare emergency order in January following two battery malfunctions, grounding the planes for several months. Since the order was lifted, the 787 has not encountered battery problems, but it continues to stumble. Monday, Norwegian Air Shuttle had to kick 70 passengers off a flight, after a hydraulic pump problem limited the weight the plane could carry, according to Reuters. But Boeing is determined to move past those issues (and possibly steal some thunder from Bombardier, which put its own new jet in the air for the first time on Monday). Good news is especially welcome, since Airbus began flight testing its Dreamliner competitor, the A350 XWB, in June. Boeing has already booked 388 orders for the 787-9. Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren of Airchive.com is in Everett for the maiden flight, and snapped these exclusive photos on Monday of the 787-9 going through its pre-flight taxi testing. Airchive kindly shared the photos with us: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Airchive.com Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Airchive.com You can see video of one of the two taxi tests at Airchive.com.
Herbalife's stocking is making new 52-week highs today. The stock was last trading up more than 3% at about $73 a share. The stock has been trading in a range of $70.67 to $73.71 during today's session.¬† D.A. Davidson analyst Tim Ramey thinks Herbalife will announce a big leveraged buyback after its audited financials are released in the next couple of weeks.¬† Bill Ackman of Pershing Square Capital probably hasn't liked seeing the stock go up against him day after day.¬† Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, said last December that he's short $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock. ¬†He¬†believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme"¬†that targets lower income individuals, especially from the Hispanic population.¬† The stock price has rocketed more than 66% since Ackman confirmed his short late last year. ¬† Ackman's long-time rival Carl Icahn and a number of other fund managers have publicly disagreed with his short thesis and have gone long the stock. Right after Ackman gave his presentation, Icahn amassed a 16% stake in the company. He believes Ackman will be the victim of the¬†"mother of all short squeezes."¬†¬† What's more is Ackman told CNBC at the end of July that he had not covered a single share of Herbalife.¬† Yahoo! Finance
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueFederal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke takes his seat to testify before a Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee hearing on "The Semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress" on Capitol Hill in Washington July 18, 2013.Tomorrow, Wall Street expects the Federal Reserve to announce the first reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under the quantitative easing program (QE3) it introduced in September 2012. Right now, the Fed is buying $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities each month. The consensus on the Street is that the Fed's FOMC monetary policymaking apparatus will elect to reduce that amount by $10 billion going forward. The FOMC says its decision to taper is contingent upon improvements in the health of the labor market, yet†the data have been disappointing in recent months. The U.S. economy added only 169,000 workers to nonfarm payrolls in August, below consensus estimates for 180,000. July payroll growth was revised down to 104,000 from 162,000. So, what's the rush to "taper" QE3? The Fed may be feeling opportunistic. "We maintain our longstanding view that, while no time is perfect, the best†opportunity this year for the Fed to initiate a cutback in its asset purchases will be†at the upcoming September 17-18 FOMC meeting," says Credit Suisse chief economist Neal Soss in a recent note to clients. Here's why, according to Soss: We would venture that the majority on the FOMC has a preference to commence the so called ìtaperî of the Committeeís large scale asset purchases (LSAPs) in September. The reason is the calendar. If FOMC policymakers donít begin tapering this month, the next opportunities are their October 29-30 and December 17-18 FOMC meetings. October is likely to be right in the middle of the debt ceiling fight. In general, people think these fights will end without tearing the fabric apart, but then again, nearly everyone expects a heightened degree of contention and disharmony. Also, President Obama may announce a nominee for Bernankeís successor in mid-to-late October. This would not be an ideal moment for the central bank to experiment with a potentially disruptive operational change. The next opportunity after that is the December FOMC meeting. With only minor exceptions, Ben Bernanke has been on a one-way easing street for over six years, beginning back in the summer of 2007. Does he really want his last holiday present to the nation and world economies to be a potentially negative shock? So, they probably have a predisposition to start now. Others on Wall Street agree. Drew Matus argues in a note that September and December are really the only two viable choices, because there is no press conference following the October meeting. Bernanke, he says, will likely want to be able to explain such a momentous policy shift with a press conference. Matus then offers three reasons why September is more likely than December: "When they sit down at the massive mahogany table in that marble building on Constitution Avenue," says Morgan Stanley chief U.S. economist Vincent Reinhart of the FOMC, "they will tell themselves that forwardñlooking indicators suggest ongoing momentum to activity, financial conditions remain accommodative, and markets are receptive to risktaking.†If not now, when?" BofA Merrill Lynch economists, on the other hand, maintain that the Fed will wait until December to announce the first reduction in QE3. Read their argument here ª
AP ImagesForget the flack Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss have gotten for their stance on Bitcoin. It's time to hear what they have to say. When the investors announced they would be creating a Bitcoin ETF in July, the Internet giggled. Now they're explain their thoughts on the currency at the Value Investing Congress. After the preamble ("we hope you will see it's the Internet of money by the end of this," they said), the Twins explained exactly what¬†Bitcoin is ‚Äî who created it and how transparent and track-able it is. But we know that's the easy stuff. Bitcoin gets intangible when you try to figure out exactly what it is. In this presentation, things really started getting interesting when the twins got through Bitcoin as a currency or commodity, and on to Bitcoin as a technology. "The technology promise is... perhaps the most impressive," they said. It's the part the gets Silicon Valley excited. Bitcoin has some major implications in industries like financial services. It's immune to price runs. It's immune to bail-ins ‚Äî you can store it on a zip drive or in your head ‚Äî and it's hard to appropriate. Think about a country like Argentina where the inflation rate is... questionable. Argentines want to preserve the value of their money, and sometimes they want to move it out of the country. With Bitcoin that's much easier. In fact downloading Bitcoin clients has spiked in the country as people want to exchange their pesos for a currency that isn't impacted by capital controls or inflation.¬† They argue that it could even be a hedge against the Fed. In short: There are a lot of possibilities here. What about remittances, they suggest. Or even better, a Bitcoin e-mail address that serves as a bank for people that are underbanked? What about micropayments ‚Äî "it's generally understood that sending under $2 over the Internet is impossible," said one of the Twins. Not with Bitcoin. You can donate a penny to the Salvation Army, or get behind a newspapers pay wall for just a day. Regulators are starting to talk to Bitcoin and set some ground rules, "over the next 6 to 12 months" the Twins estimate. Yes, this could stifle some growth and innovation in Bitcoin, but it helps that there's no centralized source for the coins. For now, they see their ETF as a legal way to get in the game.¬† So do you believe this is the Internet of money or what? ¬†
Harry How/GettyGlobalization has come with an increasingly interconnected system of capital markets. This has made way for government bonds denominated in foreign currencies. And those bonds have come with memorable nicknames. Korea offers "kimchi" bonds. Turkey offers "baklava" bonds. Japan offers "samurai" bonds. And Australia offers "kangaroo" bonds. One new foreign bond offering is attracting tons of attention for its bonds' nickname. Armenia. Why? Because, people are calling Armenia's new dollar-denominated bonds "Kardashian" bonds. And bond investors can thank Standard Bank's Tim Ash who coined it in a note to clients earlier this month. "Jim O'Neill gave the world BRICS, I can retire now having given the world the Kardashian "bottom" bond," said Ash according to the Wall Street Journal's Katie Martin. Martin has a post about it on WSJ.com. "Public finances are a lot stronger in Armenia than Serbia, but par with Georgia," Ash said today. "Political stability - stronger in Armenia these days than either Georgia or Serbia. Net-net, Armenia probably should price wide to Georgia (new issue premium/ lack of market support/knowledge) but inside Serbia." But what might've began as a joke nickname may actually have some significant parallels "[A]t present I would price these guys to yield around the 6.5-6.6% level for a 10Y," added Ash. "Interestingly, much might be made of the "Kardashian" angle, i.e. a strong Western diaspora in the US/France which might support such a new issue." The emerging markets have spent much of the year in turmoil. But surprisingly, frontier markets like Armenia have been remarkably resilient. "Frontier Market funds ($1.5bn inflows YTD) have decoupled from Emerging Markets ($2.1bn outflows YTD)," noted Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hartnett in a note to clients last month. "These so-called ìemerging markets of the futureî have enjoyed strong growth from low base effects, abundant natural and human resources, the availability of easy gains from market reforms and injections of technology into relatively low-wage economies," said Franklin Templeton's Mark Mobius in June. "Compared with more mature emerging markets, frontier markets are relatively under-researched, and we believe that this lack of familiarity could lead to undervaluation and pricing anomalies that we could seek to exploit through our extensive research resources." With interest rates low and money flowing into the frontier markets, these new "Kardashian" bonds might be the sexiest new bonds in the market.
REUTERS/Gary Cameron The NAHB housing market index (HMI) for September is out. The headline index which is a gauge of homebuilder confidence came in right in line with expectations at 58. August's number was marginally revised down to 58, from 59.  Weaker new home sales and mortgage purchase applications are expected to filter through to homebuilder confidence. "While builder confidence is holding at the highest level in nearly eight years, many are reporting some hesitancy on the part of buyers due to the sharp increase in interest rates," said NAHB Chairman Rick Judson in a press release. "Home buyers are adjusting to the fact that, while mortgage rates are still quite favorable on a historic basis, the record lows are probably a thing of the past." The sub-components of the HMI were mixed in September. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. Investors track this index because it is a leading indicator for housing starts. Though some like Paul Diggle at Capital Economics argue that NAHB has a "history of over-exuberance as a predictor of starts."
APThere is perhaps less than a month to go before Congress needs to raise the nation's debt ceiling. And with no clear strategy going forward, the freak out has begun.† Congressional leaders and members of the Obama administration are throwing out heated, partisan-based tough talk in both directions. Congress has to deal with both budget issues of averting a government shutdown by Sept. 30 and hiking the nation's borrowing limit by mid-October, and both don't appear to be close to resolution.† At the heart of the fight are Republican demands to "defund" and delay the Affordable Care Act. According to Politico, about 30 House Republicans have signaled that they won't vote for a bill that funds the government if it includes funding for Obamacare.† Republicans' strategy revolves around leadership convincing the rank-and-file members†that the debt ceiling is a fight that earns them more leverage than one over government funding. One prospect, according to Politico, is a vote soon on the debt ceiling ó so leadership can show the conservative caucus that it is "serious" about using the debt ceiling for leverage on Obamacare. Right now, rank-and-file members are skeptical that leadership is serious. And they think if they give in on government funding, leadership will also cave on the debt ceiling. The House bill to hike the debt ceiling would include "goodies" ó†construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, entitlement reform and principles for tax reform, to name a few.† The problem: There is no chance that kind of bill passes the Senate, and no chance that President Barack Obama would sign it into law. Realistically, that kind of bill doesn't get us anywhere closer to a debt-ceiling hike.  But it shift the onus away from House Speaker John Boehner and other House GOP leaders, and put it on Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Obama. And it would figure to maximize Republicans' leverage on other cuts. Meanwhile, the Obama administration has spent the past few days stepping up its warnings about the debt ceiling, and repeating the line that Obama will not negotiate over the debt ceiling. On Sunday, Gene Sperling, the director of the National Economic Council at the White House, said that businesses saw a consumer-confidence hit from the 2011 debt ceiling fight†that was†comparable to disastrous events like "Pearl Harbor or 9/11. On Monday, Obama quickly pivoted from remarks on the morning's Navy Yard massacre†to slam the GOP over the possibility of "self-inflicted wounds" on the continuing-resolution bill and debt ceiling debate.† And on Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew railed against Republicans during a speech before The Economic Club in Washington.† "We cannot afford for Congress to gamble with the full faith and credit of the United States of America. At the same time, we should never be put in a position where we have to pick which commitments our nation should meet," Lew said.  "How can the United States choose whether to send Social Security checks to seniors or pay benefits to our veterans?† How can the United States choose whether to provide children with food assistance or meet our obligations to Medicare providers?" In a research note Tuesday morning,†Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere put the odds of a Treasury debt default at just 5%. But he put the odds of a lesser "fiasco" ó a situation in which the Treasury could pay††some but not all government obligations ó at 55%.† "The key for us is cutting through the nasty background noise and determining whether the markets have to worry about a genuine budget crisis," Valliere wrote.† "We think the†answer is yes."
Jolie O'DellDick Costolo is going mobile.Twitter could have its IPO in November, Mark DeCambre and Garett Sloane at the New York Post report. Twitter announced that it filed a confidential IPO last Friday. However, it later came out that it had already submitted the paperwork months ago.† With that in mind, it wouldn't be surprising if Twitter were able to hit the markets before Thanksgiving.† Under the rules for a confidential IPO, Twitter will have to disclose financial information 21 days before its investor roadshow. If the IPO is in November, we should see its numbers in October.† Read more at the Post &gt;
Win McNamee/Getty Images As searing as the experience was, the most lasting image of the 2008 global financial crisis is somewhat debatable. For your consideration, we would like to submit the one above, taken Wednesday, Sept. 17 ó five years ago today ó by Getty photographer Win McNamee. It shows Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson walking back to the Treasury building via East Executive Avenue after meeting with President George W. Bush ó with a†look of mild terror washing across his face. That afternoon, Treasury announced it would sell $40 billion of debt†to shore up obligations. But it was not enough to prevent the Dow from losing 449 points, or for investors to actually pay to take a loss on short-term Treasuries rather than take a chance on notes with longer maturities. The day before, the U.S. had bailed out AIG to the tune of $85 billion.† We spoke with McNamee to ask what he remembered about the shot ó and bring you his other snaps from the series. Win McNamee/Getty"There was a great demand for photos of the main players, and most were not making themselves available, including Paulson," he says.†"We knew he had a meeting scheduled with the President, and that more than likely he would be walking from the Treasury to the White House." McNamee says he actually can't be sure whether Paulson's panicked expression was prompted by something he was hearing, or that he was simply noticing someone was watching him. Still, as powerful as the shot proved, it was also extremely difficult to get. Paulson was crossing a section of East Executive Avenue, the road-turned-walkway separating the White House's grounds from the Treasury, that's blocked off even to White House press. McNamee says he took the shot from about 75 yards away.†Win McNamee/Getty "He was moving very quickly...There's a window there, you're working with a very long glass." Win McNamee/Getty McNamee says he was struck by how tethered Paulson was to his mobile. "You have access to communications all over the place, and he can't be off the phone for five minutes, so I thought that was odd. You don't see these guys on cell phones very often." Given these seemingly frantic images, it's pretty incredible to read The Wall Street Journal ó which published McNamee's photo on its front page the next day ó invoke Alexander Hamilton to describe the power thrust into Paulson's hands that week: Since Alexander Hamilton first held the job 219 years ago, the position of Treasury secretary largely centered on advising the administration on economic and fiscal policy. In a few short months, Henry Paulson has rewritten that job description. Today he finds himself in a position of power unmatched by his predecessors. He decides whether Wall Street firms live or die, picking winners and losers with the power of the federal purse.† The next day, Paulson and the White House submitted their first plan for rescuing the banks, including a draft of what would become the centerpiece of the bailout, the troubled asset relief fund. We know what happened next.
YouTubeSeth Klarman's Baupost Group will be returning money to investors at year-end. As II Alpha reports, though the amount has yet to be determined, this would be only the second time the hedge fund has returned money in the firm's 31-year history. With the world of asset managers, as¬†we recently noted, increasingly become herd-like beta-chasers, it seems Klarman - just as¬†he noted earlier in the year¬†-¬†will return capital unless investment opportunities dramatically increased - and that hasn't happened.¬† Via II Alpha,¬† Seth Klarman‚Äôs Baupost Group has decided to return some money to investors at year-end, but it has not yet determined the amount, according to a person familiar with the firm‚Äôs plans. This would be only the second time Baupost returned money to investors in the Boston-based investment firm‚Äôs 31-year history. The previous time was in 2010, and Baupost subsequently raised money in early 2011. ... In a letter dated April 29, Klarman said¬†the goal is ‚Äúto better match our assets under management with the opportunity set we see for new investments.‚Äù¬†The decision was made, in part, after a series of discussions with clients on the firm‚Äôs quarterly webcasts with investors. The firm‚Äôs goal is to keep assets under management at $25 billion, according to the person familiar with Baupost. ...¬† Baupost‚Äôs performance is even more impressive given its penchant for holding large amounts of cash. It has averaged 33 percent of assets in cash, and its cash balance can reach as high as 50 percent. It is now in the mid-30 percent range, up slightly from 32 percent at year-end. ...¬† However, the¬†firm does not use leverage¬†to try to boost returns. ... ‚ÄúOur willingness to invest amidst falling markets is the best way we know to build positions at great prices, but this strategy, too, can cause short-term underperformance,‚Äù¬†Klarman explained in an investor letter earlier this year.¬† and¬†Klarman's previous thoughts: To wit: If the economy is so fragile that the government cannot allow failure, then we are indeed close to collapse And the rest of Klarman's sermon, serving as the perfect counter to the voodoo shamans operating their Keynesian religion in the Marriner Eccles building. From Seth Klarman of Baupost:¬† Is it possible that the average citizen understands our country's fiscal situation¬†better than many of our politicians or prominent economists? Most people seem to viscerally recognize that the absence of an immediate crisis does not mean we will not eventually face one.¬†They are¬†wary of believing promises by those who failed to predict previous crises in housing and in highly leveraged financial institutions. They¬†regard with skepticism those who don't accept that we have a debt problem, or insist that inflation will remain under control. (Indeed,¬†they know inflation is not well under control, for they know how far the purchasing power of a dollar has dropped when they go to the supermarket or service station.) They are pretty sure they are not getting reasonable value from the taxes they pay. When an economist tells them that growing the nation's debt over the past 12 years from $6 trillion to $16 trillion is not a problem, and that doubling it again will still not be a problem, this simply does not compute. They know the trajectory we are on. When politicians claim that this tax increase or that spending cut will generate trillions over the next decade,¬†they are properly skeptical over whether anyone can truly know what will happen next year, let alone a decade or more from now. They are wary of grand bargains that kick in years down the road, knowing¬†that the failure to make hard decisions is how we got into today's mess. They remember that one of the basic principles of economics is scarcity, which is a powerful force in their own lives.¬† They know that a society's wealth is not unlimited, and¬†that if the economy is so fragile that the government cannot allow failure, then we are indeed close to collapse.¬†For if you must rescue everything, then ultimately you will be able to rescue nothing.¬† They also know that the only reason paper money, backed not by anything tangible but only a promise, has any value at all is because it is scarce. With all the printing, the credibility of our entire trust-based monetary system will be increasingly called into question.¬† And when you tell the populace that¬†we can all enjoy a free lunch¬†of extremely low interest rates, massive Fed purchases of mounting treasury issuance, trillions of dollars of expansion in the Fed's balance sheet, and huge deficits far into the future,¬†they are highly skeptical not because they know precisely what will happen but because they are sure that no one else--even, or perhaps especially, the¬† policymakers‚Äîdoes either.
MicrosoftMicrosoft also tweeted out this chart.Microsoft just announced a $40 billion stock buyback, and a 22% dividend increase.¬† This news comes just days before Microsoft has its financial analysts meeting.¬† The stock buyback is a replacement for the previous buyback program which was set to expire at the end of September. The stock is up just 1.67% on the news.¬† This share buyback is just the latest in a string of moves from Microsoft.¬† First, the company announced a huge re-org. Then a few weeks later CEO Steve Ballmer retired. Then, shortly after, it bought Nokia.¬† This Thursday, Ballmer and other executives meet with financial analysts. It will be an interesting meeting since so much has happened at the company.¬† We don't think investors are going to be all that wowed by this buyback program, since its just replacing the company's previous $40 billion buyback plan. Analysts will probably push for a bigger buyback.
Tesla shares are down 1.8% in pre-market trading.¬† This comes on news that the California New Car Dealers Association wants California's Department of Motor Vehicles to investigate Tesla's advertising claims for its Model S car, reports Auto News.¬†  One of it's biggest grudges is with Tesla's leasing-plan, specifically "'$580 per month after gas savings' advertisement found on several of its internal web pages." They argue that Tesla takes "a novel, but equally-illegal, spin on" payment packing ‚Äî "a practice where an inflated monthly payment is agreed to by a consumer and ‚Äïpacked‚Äñ into that payment are one or more goods or services that the consumer did not request." In a letter directed to Jean Shiomoto, the acting director of the Department of Motor Vehicles they write:¬† "We write to ask the Department to investigate and remedy several egregious violations of advertising and consumer protection laws by a Department-licensed manufacturer and dealer of motor vehicles‚ÄîTesla Motors, Inc. (Tesla). "While California law does not affect Tesla‚Äôs ability to both manufacture and directly sell new vehicles to California consumers, Tesla must abide by the advertising rules that apply to all dealers. Instead, Tesla has engaged in a long-term advertising strategy to mislead consumers as to the affordability of its vehicles in violation of several state and federal laws. These laws were created to protect consumers and promote fair and open markets for the sale of all new vehicles. When one licensed entity violates these laws, it gains an unfair advantage over competing dealers; this is where the Department must step in to restore balance to the market by ensuring Tesla conforms to all applicable legal requirements." Bloomberg points out that powerful auto dealers lobby groups have been opposed to Tesla's decision to sell directly to customers. This is because typically, major automakers, sell through franchised dealers. Earlier this month Tesla lost its bid to sell directly to customers in Texas. Jalopnik reported on Texas' powerful car dealer protection laws, writing "but money talks and bullshit walks, and at the end of the day, Tesla didn't have the money and power to compete with the big boys." The complaint included this screen-grab from Tesla's site: Tesla Click here for the entire letter ¬ª
Flickr/Paul IsraelConsumer prices were up 0.1%¬† month-over-month (MoM) in August. This was slightly below expectations for a 0.2% rise. Core consumer prices (ex-food and energy) were also up 0.1%. Meanwhile, on the year, CPI was up 1.5%, marginally lower than expectations for 1.6%. Core CPI meanwhile was up 1.8% on the year in line with expectations. 
Five years after the financial crisis, America's leaders are standing by as the economy heads to the brink. Without a budget deal, the government is at risk of shutting down on October 1. "The most maddening aspect of the looming budget brawl is that key players in both parties actually seem to welcome a crisis because it might help them in the 2014 elections," wrote Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere this morning. "With the city still reeling from a mass shooting, President Obama went ahead with a bitterly partisan speech yesterday, blaming Tea Party Republicans for a potential crisis," continued Valliere. "He knows a radical image could hurt the GOP in the next election.¬† And Republicans have incited a hard-core base that wants to shut down the government over Obamacare -- now GOP lawmakers have to respect the base or face primary challenges from the far right." With the U.S. stock market near all-time highs, investors do not seem to worried about political turmoil. Maybe things will work themselves out. "They believe that ‚Äì as in the past ‚Äì the fiscal showdown will end with a midnight compromise that avoids both default and a government shutdown," said economist Nouriel Roubini. "But investors seem to underestimate how dysfunctional US national politics has become. With a majority of the Republican Party on a jihad against government spending, fiscal explosions this autumn cannot be ruled out." Valliere, one of the more savvy political analysts in D.C., is only getting increasingly concerned about trouble. "We think the chance of a government shutdown on Oct. 1 is about 25% -- up from 10% just a month ago," he said. "We think the chance of a Treasury debt default is about 5%.¬† And we think the chance of a Treasury fiasco in early November -- with some but not all government obligations fully funded -- is 55%.¬† Troops will get paid, grandma will get her Social Security check, bondholders will get paid, but uncertainty will reign on other obligations -- surely a headwind for the overall economy."

Jim Rogers has long been critical of Fed chairman Ben Bernanke and his quantitative easing program. With the chairman ready to step down and debate about his replacement heating up, Rogers still has some scathing words for him. The author of Street Smarts: Adventures on the Road and in the Markets sat down with Business Insider to talk about Bernanke's record, the direction of U.S. monetary policy, and the role of the Federal Reserve in the U.S. economy. Produced by Business Insider Video
REUTERS/Andrew KellyPolice stand guard outside the Brooklyn residence of Cathleen Alexis, mother of suspected Washington Navy Yard shooter Aaron Alexis, in New York, September 16, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS / Stephen LamDick Costolo, Chief Executive Officer of Twitter, speaks on stage during the TechCrunch Disrupt SF 2013 technology conference in San Francisco, California September 9, 2013. SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Around midnight on Christmas Eve of 2009, a handful of employees at Twitter received an unconventional holiday greeting from Dick Costolo, then the chief operating officer. "It was an email that said, ëWe have to move really, really fast. There's no time to rest because we have a massive opportunity in front of us," recalled Anamitra Banerji, who headed the team that built Twitter's first advertising product. "It was kind of crazy because we were all on break, but that attitude was exactly what we needed at Twitter." The company is now on the verge of fulfilling the opportunity Costolo foresaw as it prepares for the most highly anticipated initial public offering since Facebook's debut last May. The offering is expected to value Twitter at up to $15 billion and make its early investors, including Costolo, very wealthy indeed. Yet Twitter's quick transformation from an undisciplined, money-losing startup into a digital media powerhouse took every bit of whip-cracking that Costolo could muster, along with a rapid series of product and personnel decisions that proved effective even as they disappointed some of the service's early enthusiasts. Costolo was a comparative late-comer at Twitter, joining the company three years after it's 2006 launch, but the company increasingly bears his imprint as it hurtles towards the IPO: deliberate in decision-making but aggressive in execution, savvy in its public relations and yet laser-focused on financial results. Costolo has not flinched in pruning and reshaping his management team, while Twitter, the company, has been ruthless in cutting off the smaller companies that were once a part of its orbit. A one-time comic actor who cut his teeth in business at Andersen Consulting before starting several companies, Costolo may never be as closely associated with Twitter as Mark Zuckerberg is with Facebook, yet he is arguably just as important. "The founders consider Dick a co-founder, that's how deep the connection is," said Bijan Sabet, an investor at Spark Capital and a Twitter board member from 2008 to 2011. "He's not this hired gun to run the company. He understands building out the business but also the product, strategy, vision." Twitter declined to make Costolo available for comment, citing the pre-IPO quiet period. BIRTH OF THE PROMOTED TWEET When Twitter's then-CEO Evan Williams brought on Costolo, an old friend and colleague from Google Inc, as COO in September of 2009, the three-year old company was already under pressure. The microblogging service was gaining hip, young users at an unprecedented pace, and its trio of co-founders - Williams, Biz Stone and Jack Dorsey - had been splashed across magazine covers as the embodiment of San Francisco cool. Yet the whispers in Silicon Valley were growing louder: Twitter didn't have the technical chops to make the service reliable at huge scale, and it didn't have any way to make money. "Having been on the core original team of engineers, we didn't have the skills among us to build a world class service," said Alex Payne, an early Twitter engineer, noting that many of the team members came from smaller start-ups and non-profit organizations rather than established Web giants like Google. Williams viewed fixing the site's notorious technical problems as the top priority but was ambivalent about the business strategy. For months, people familiar with the situation say, Williams weighed options ranging from display advertising to licensing Twitter's data to becoming an e-commerce hub to offering paid "commercial" accounts to businesses. Costolo - who had sold Feedburner, an advertising-based blog publishing service he founded, to Google for $100 million - had no such doubts. By his second month on the job, he had helped persuade Williams to green-light engineering positions to build Twitter's first ad unit, which would become the "promoted tweet" - the cornerstone of Twitter's business today. "Dick's conversations with Ev were key," said Banerji, now an investor at Foundation Capital. "He had a fundamental belief that this was the future of Twitter monetization and said, 'You have to do it.'" Over four months in early 2010, Costolo, working closely with Banerji and Ashish Goel, a Stanford engineering professor who specialized in the science of auction algorithms, to refine the promoted tweet. It resembled an ordinary Twitter message in every way, except that advertisers could pay for it to appear at the top of users' Tweet streams and search results. Costolo threw his heft within the company behind the advertising strategy. In early 2010, as the ads team drew up a related product called "promoted trends," Costolo privately told them to make sure he was in the room when they pitched the product to Williams, so it would get pushed through. A central mechanism governing the promoted tweet was "resonance," a concept coined by Goel. Because Twitter users can re-circulate or reply to tweets, including paid advertisements, the company had the real-time ability to gauge which ads were most popular, and those ads could then be made more prominent. And because the ads appeared in the same format as other tweets, they were perfectly suited to mobile devices, which could not handily display traditional banner ads. Paid ads that are inserted into a stream of status updates have since become something of an industry standard for mobile advertising. Its adopters include Facebook, which has enjoyed a 60 percent rise in its stock price in recent months due to its newfound success in mobile. "The closest thing before this was the contextual advertising that Google was selling, but the problem was that it was clearly an ad," said Charlene Li, the founder of Altimeter Group, an online research and consulting firm. "Promoted tweets look just like every other tweet. The form factor, the way it is displayed in stream - that was a breakthrough." When Costolo unveiled the promoted tweet in April 2010, Twitter announced it as a trial for only five brands, including Starbucks Corp and Virgin America, and users almost never saw the ads. But by the summer of 2010, Costolo felt confident enough in his concept that he began seeking a deputy to ramp up the company's sales effort. For months, he courted Adam Bain, a rising star at News Corp, and at the same time began assiduously courting marketers, from corner suites on Madison Avenue to industry conferences on the French Riviera. Under Bain, the Twitter ad team set it sites on the most lucrative advertising market of all: television. Twitter attached itself to TV programmers and major brand marketers by positioning itself as an online peanut gallery where TV viewers could discuss what they were watching. "Hashtags," which help people find the conversations they're looking for on Twitter, soon grew ubiquitous on TV, appearing in Super Bowl commercials, at Nascar races and on the Oscars red carpet. "It wasn't easy for Twitter to explain to people why they should buy content on Twitter until they sold it as a companion to TV," Ian Schafer, the chief executive of Deep Focus, a digital advertising agency. "Now you're even seeing the networks selling Twitter's inventory for them. That's magic." Twitter has steadily refined its targeting capabilities and can now send promoted tweets to people based on geographic location and interests. This month, the company paid more than $300 million to acquire MoPub, which will enable it to target mobile users based on websites they have visited on their desktop computers. As the promoted Tweet became a reliable revenue engine -generating a substantial chunk of the estimated $580 million in ad sales the company is expected to earn this year - Twitter began to evolve the service beyond its 140-character text messaging roots. Tweets today can embed pictures, videos, page previews and are expected to eventually have more interactive features, including those for online transactions and deals. FOCUSED AND RUTHLESS While Costolo has been widely credited with bringing management stability to a company that had struggled to find the right leadership formula among its three founders, he hasn't hesitated in making changes in the executive suite. "Jack always said he ëedited' his team, and Dick looked at it the same way," said a former employee. "He wanted to choose the top people around him, but he was ruthless with replacing his top people." Bain and Ali Rowghani, Twitter's influential chief operating officer, have emerged as Costolo's key deputies. A string of recent high-profile hires includes former TicketMaster CEO Nathan Hubbard as head of commerce; Geoff Reiss, former Professional Bowlers Association CEO, as head of sports partnerships; and Morgan Stanley executive Cynthia Gaylor as head of corporate development. Meanwhile, once-powerful executives including product guru Satya Patel, engineering vice president Mike Abbott and head of growth Othman Laraki have left the company, with each departure stoking chatter about Twitter's unusual rate of employee turnover. Rank-and-file employees described a chief executive who will pause from his workday to laugh with them at YouTube clips but who will also nudge them to put in long hours. At a conference last fall, Costolo told the audience he had sought out a new office for Twitter in central San Francisco partly because it would allow employees who lived in the city to go home for dinner with their families and still come back to work at night. Despite his on-stage charisma, several employees describe a CEO who can seem aloof. "He's always very cordial," said one former employee. "But try to get into a deeper conversation with him, and he's thinking about how much time he has to do that, because his schedule is tight and he has a lot to do. He's all business." Costolo's single-minded focus on Twitter's business goals has not been welcomed by everyone. It alienated many early Twitter enthusiasts who were interested in the political, social and technical potential of a unique new service that could fairly claim to express the sentiment of the world in real time. Twitter has slowly shut off third-party access to its data, preferring to keep the information for its own business purposes. It has cut off many developers that want to build new features that would interact with the Twitter platform. Its status as the most aggressive of all the global Internet companies in defending free speech and protecting its users from government spying is also in question. After years of essentially ignoring foreign governments that wanted it to comply with local laws, it announced last year that it had developed the technical capability to block Tweets by country, and it has recently begun to use it in countries including Germany and Brazil. Twitter is currently banned in China, where the country's own Twitter-like service, Sina Corp's Weibo, has 500 million registered users. "The most obvious effect of the IPO will be that it will push Twitter to go more international," said Jillian York, the director for international freedom of expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "I don't think there's much evidence that their position on free speech has softened in the U.S, but internationally, yes. I think they've absolutely run into the complexities of opening offices in other countries, potentially even made some promises that they couldn't keep." Yet Costolo has clearly kept his biggest promise: turning Twitter into a major media business. And in that regard, the IPO may be just the beginning. (Editing by Jonathan Weber and Ken Wills)
DEFINITELY bookmark this. Ed Conway has tweeted a neat table from the Bank of England which shows which economic indicators actually correspond nicely to global growth. Stuff like PMI data is very useful for identifying actual global GDP growth. Air freight and Suez Canal data is also fairly useful. The infamous "Baltic Dry Index" (which measures the price of shipping goods by freight) is garbage. Bank of Englane
Friendfinder(Reuters) - FriendFinder Networks, which publishes the adult magazine Penthouse, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on Tuesday with the aim of cutting its debt load as the company struggled to make certain loan payments, a court filing showed. The holding company, which also houses internet sites such as adultfriendfinder.com, listed out estimated liabilities of $500 million to $1 billion and assets less than $10 million, according to a court filing. FriendFinder has not turned in a net profit at least since 2008, Thomson Reuters data shows. Total revenue for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2013 was $293.70 million, a filing showed. "Despite continuing member interest and high volume traffic, the debtors did not make certain payments to the holders of existing first lien notes and cash pay second lien notes which constituted a default under their respective indentures," FriendFinder said in the filing. FriendFinder said it agreed with certain holders of its senior debt to restructure its balance sheet and has commenced Chapter 11 proceedings to implement its recapitalization plan. In 2010 the owner of Penthouse magazine offered to buy rival Playboy Enterprises Inc for $210 million. The deal later fell through. The case is FriendFinder Networks Inc, Case No. 13-12405, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware. (Reporting by Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore; Editing by Mark Potter and Louise Heavens)
REUTERS / Tony GentileThe capsized cruise liner Costa Concordia lies on its side during the "parbuckling" operation next to Giglio Island. September 16, 2013.GIGLIO, Italy (Reuters) - Salvage crews on the Italian island of Giglio raised the Costa Concordia cruise liner early on Tuesday, completing one of the most difficult and expensive wreck recovery projects ever performed. In a 19-hour operation which ended at 4.00 a.m. (0200 GMT), the 114,500 ship was pulled upright by a series of huge jacks and cables and left resting in 30 metres of water on underwater platforms drilled into the rocky sea bed. The success of the operation was announced in a brief statement by the head of Italy's Civil Protection Authority Franco Gabrielli and dozens of locals, who have lived with the wreck for over a year, came out to cheer the salvage crews. "I think the whole team is proud of what they achieved. A lot of people said it couldn't be done," said Nick Sloane, the South African engineer coordinating the operation. "I feel good, it's time for a beer," he said, heading into a portside cafe which had to be blocked off by police to stop reporters and well-wishers from following him inside. The Concordia, a 290-metre-long (950-foot-long) liner carrying more than 4,000 passengers and crew, capsized and sank, killing 32 people on January 13, 2012, after it came too close to shore and jagged rocks tore a hole in its side. As first light broke, the marks of its long period on the rocks were visible. Brown mud stains scarred the hull which was gashed and dented after being crushed under its own weight. As part of a salvage project estimated to cost more than 600 million euros ($801.15 million), the vessel will remain in place for some months while it is stabilised and refloated before being towed away to be broken up for scrap. The so-called "parbuckling" operation, in which the hulk was painstakingly rotated upright, took longer than the 10-12 hours estimated but engineers said it had gone exceptionally smoothly. "PERFECT OPERATION" "The rotation happened the way we thought it would happen and the way we hoped it would happen," said Franco Porcellacchia, leader of Costa Cruise's technical team. "It was a perfect operation, I would say." In contrast to the accident, a catalogue of mishap and misjudgement over which the Concordia's captain Francesco Schettino faces multiple charges, the salvage was a tightly coordinated engineering feat. The Concordia salvage is expected to be the most expensive maritime wreck recovery ever, accounting for more than half of an overall insurance loss of more than $1.1 billion. A multinational team of 500 salvage engineers and divers was on Giglio for most of the past year, stabilising the wreck and preparing for the lifting operation, which had never been attempted on such a large vessel in such conditions. In painstaking work, the Concordia was pulled up inch by inch until it was raised high enough for water tanks welded to one side to start to pull it down by the force of gravity. A series of platforms, drilled into the rock and 16,000 tonnes of grouting piled up to create an artificial sea bed held the ship in place once it was upright. However the work will not be complete until the vessel is towed away from the island, probably by next spring. "We have to do a really good survey. There's a lot of damage on the starboard side and once we assess the damage then we will know where we are for the refloat," Sloane said. Oil booms surround the vessel to intercept waste water and oil trapped in the ship, but no significant environmental damage could be seen in the first hours of the operation. ($1 = 0.7489 euros) (Additional reporting by Eleanor Biles, Hanna Rantala, Cristiano Corvino and Antonio Denti; Editing by Elizabeth Piper)
The Blaze via BuzzfeedGlenn BeckThe Federal Reserve is celebrating its 100th birthday trapped in a political bunker. At few points since the Fed's founding in 1913 has it taken such sustained fire. It's taking fire from the left, because its policies favor Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and the other financial corporations that are most responsible for the 2008 financial meltdown and the Great Recession. But it is also taking fire from the right. Conservative or Tea Party Republicans have a different kind of criticism. They reject the notion that the Fed should even have the power to regulate the money supply and "debase" the dollar. They believe in hard money and a return to the gold standard. These Republicans have taken a page from the book of conservative orthodoxies of the late 19th century. Conservatives are again fervently pushing gold as a means to protect the wealth and power of Wall Street financiers and the corporate elite. Conservatives are demanding hard money as part of the policy mix that enriches the top 1 percent. Now, as in the Gilded Age, the United States is a nation of savage inequality. Hard money has often been linked to the conservative cause. But it has been more than 100 years since gold fever has so afflicted American politics. The Federal Reserve Act of 1913 loosened the strings that bound U.S. currency to gold. Other ties were cut under President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933 and 1944. In 1971, President Richard M. Nixon severed the last tie between the dollar and the precious metal. In the years after 1913, the need for a flexible and regulated money supply was widely accepted across the political spectrum. By mid-century, only a small band of right-wing ideologues clung firmly to the gold standard. In a 1990 paper, Milton Friedman, the 20th century's most influential conservative economist, aptly described such holdouts as "monetary monomaniacs." But that was then. Today gold is king of conservative economic thinking. Radio and TV personality Glenn Beck hawks gold coins as a business, and sells the gold standard as America's salvation. President Ronald Reagan's budget director, David Stockman, has written a 700-page jeremiad lamenting the departure from gold as the root of America's "great deformation." Financial magnate Steve Forbes has turned Forbes magazine into a tool of gold advocacy. And the conservative pundit William Kristol has now joined the chorus. Meanwhile, Representatives Paul Broun (R-Ga.), Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) and the congressional Tea Party Caucus are pushing to "audit the Fed" as the first step toward repeal of the Federal Reserve Act and restoring the gold standard. In the Senate, Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.) is gaining support for a commission to study a return to a gold-backed currency. Republicans have also passed state laws in South Carolina and Utah, endorsing the use of gold as currency. What explains this gold mania? The argument for gold is a tortured one. Supposedly it will save the country from the ravages of inflation. But inflation remains at historic lows, leaving many observers to note the dangers of a Japan-style deflation. Supposedly, gold will provide an anchor of stability in a rough economic sea. But, like any other commodity, gold is subject to speculative bubbles. Over the last five years gold prices have been tossed high and low, more like froth in the wind than a sturdy anchor. Supposedly, "ending the Fed" will return us to the firm ground of prosperity of the last gold standard era from 1873 to 1914. But claims that the old gold standard made for a more stable economy have no basis in the historical record. Those years witnessed the terrible depressions of the 1870s and 1890s, and some of the most severe financials busts and economic storms in U.S. history. What the historical record does show is that the politics of gold and hard money bitterly divided the country and contributed to unprecedented levels of economic inequality. This experience helps make sense of the gold fever gripping conservatives today. Then, as now, hard money was the preferred policy of the corporate 1 percent. Before the Civil War, state-chartered private banks issued paper bank notes. But these notes were notoriously unreliable. They were easy to counterfeit and often worth less than their face value. When issuing banks went belly-up, the holders of their notes were stuck with useless paper. Small wonder that working people favored hard coin. During the Civil War the Union government printed paper dollars. They were known as "greenbacks" ‚Äî for the color of the ink printed on the reverse side. The Treasury Department issued this paper or fiat money to pay soldiers and purchase supplies. Greenbacks would gain a wide acceptance ‚Äî at least in the North ‚Äî as the patriotic money that helped save the Union. In the following years Congress took steps to put the U.S. currency on the gold standard. To replace greenbacks, silver coin and other currency, Congress favored gold-backed bank notes. These notes were issued by federally chartered private banks ‚Äî most of which were clustered in the Northeast. This move toward gold-based currency provoked a "battle of the standards." Gold had strong support among the wealthy, including banking executives and conservative Republicans and Democrats mainly from Northeastern districts. But many workers and farmers equated hard money with hard times. This perception grew stronger the further one lived from the financial centers of New York and Philadelphia. By the 1870s and ‚Äò80s, anti-monopolist leagues, the farmers' Grange and the Knights of Labor fought back against the gold standard. Many of their members supported the Greenback Labor Party that stood for labor rights and greenback dollars. This "battle of the standards" came to a head during the depression of the 1890s. A coalition of farm and labor groups had formed the Populist Party. Among other reforms, the Populists demanded an expansion of the money supply by minting silver and printing greenbacks. William Jennings Bryan, a young former congressman from Nebraska, took up the cause of soft money at the 1896 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. Bryan, a powerful orator, was never a Populist ‚Äî but he favored many of their reforms. He captured his party's presidential nomination after he had convention delegates leaping on to their chairs with a speech decrying the crucifixion of humanity "on a cross of gold." Millions of hard-pressed farmers and workers passionately supported Bryan. Their experience with the gold standard helps explain why. Hard money meant a general deflation of prices in relation to the dollar. Each year from 1875 to 1896, farm prices fell 3 percent. Georgia farmers saw the price of a pound of cotton fall from 10 cents to 5 cents. The price of Illinois wheat dropped even further. Corn prices fell so low that Nebraska farmers decided to burn it for fuel rather than spend money and time shipping it to market to sell it. At the same time crop prices fell, the cost of mortgages and loans soared. Farmers needed credit for machinery and other supplies. But an unregulated credit market meant that in some regions loans were either sky high or not available. If farmers could get a loan or a mortgage, hard money made it more expensive to pay off. When the real value of the dollar rose, the real value of their debts rose with it. Farmers had to sell a lot more wheat or corn to meet those debts. Scarce credit combined with scarce dollars. Because the Eastern banks had a monopoly on issuing bank notes, farmers in the West and South often lacked access to currency. The lack of dollars in rural America became particularly acute after the growing season, when there was insufficient currency to move the harvest to market. Farmers were not alone when it came to the burdens of hard money. During the long economic depressions of the 1870s and 1890s, workers and manufacturers felt the weight of the same deflationary price cycle. They asked why anyone would invest in an iron mill, for example, when the price per ton of iron stagnated or fell. The gold standard alone could not explain the extent of farm poverty, or the depth of industrial crises. But many Americans understood that gold produced winners and losers. Gold made losers of farmers and other working people selling goods at deflated prices. It made losers of people who paid mortgages and owed debts. And it made losers of those who lacked access to credit and currency. But gold was good for those who controlled the currency, held gold or issued loans. It was good for the banking corporations, Wall Street financiers and other creditors. As a result, the gold standard shifted resources from the poor to the rich, and from the Midwest, West and South to the financial centers of the Northeast. For millions of Americans, gold symbolized the power of wealth over the rest of the country. Along with corporate subsidies, regressive taxes and suppression of labor rights, the gold standard tilted the economy in favor of the top 1 percent, and opened a chasm between the rich and poor the likes of which the United States had never seen. In the 1870s, anti-monopolists described the gold standard as a "relic of barbarism." This was 50 years before the economist John Maynard Keynes said the same thing. What they meant was that the corporate elites who made such a fetish of gold relied on superstition and myth. For the anti-monopolists, the gold standard was relic of a pre-modern age, unsuitable for a dynamic and expanding economy. Gold supplies, they noted, were limited by the random luck of the mining industry ‚Äî and the even more random schemes of hoarders and speculators. A modern economy, the anti-monopolists argued, required a more reliable currency. It also needed a more flexible money supply aligned to the growing needs of industry, agriculture and trade. This reliability and flexibility could only be assured by the powerful backing of the national government. During the depression of the 1890s, the Populists were able to push their arguments into the center of national politics. They demanded a more flexible and reliable national currency ‚Äî whether paper or silver, or a combination of the two ‚Äî as a means to aid distressed farmers, stimulate commerce and create a more equitable and prosperous country. This demand for soft money found a voice in Bryan's 1896 presidential campaign. Conservatives from business, politics and academia rallied to the gold standard. They were known as gold bugs because of the militant faith that they placed on this precious metal as the key to preserve their wealth, power and way of life. For Republican industrialist Mark Hanna, the political kingmaker behind President William McKinley, the danger lay in the "communistic spirit" of soft money. For Harvard economist Francis A. Walker, paper money would lead to "effeminacy" ‚Äî weakening the control fathers and husbands had over their wives and children. For the journalist William Allen White, Bryan's attack on the gold standard amounted to "riot, destruction and carnage." Bryan lost the 1896 election to McKinley. The Klondike gold strike that same year temporarily relieved the pressure of deflation. But the financial panic of 1907 unleashed renewed demands for monetary reform. Under President Woodrow Wilson, this led to the Federal Reserve Act of 1913 providing for financial regulation and a more flexible money supply. Today, all modern economies have paper or fiat money backed by the power of government. And the possibility that the U.S. will revert to a gold-backed currency is little to none. The gold standard is a relic of history. Yet, the cries of the "monetary monomaniacs" grow louder. Paul, Bachmann, Forbes, Beck and other conservatives now warn that it is either gold or the abyss. They do so because today's gold bugs share the same goals as their conservative ancestors. They, too, understand that hard money serves power and wealth. Conservatives have put the Fed in their crosshairs. They are demanding hard money because it tilts the economic table in the direction of the haves and away from the have-nots. It favors banking corporations and Wall Street financiers. It squeezes homeowners paying mortgages and students with loans. And hard money is used as a justification for cuts in education, healthcare and other needs. The Federal Reserve will be celebrating its 100th birthday with few friends and many enemies. It gained many of these enemies with its deregulatory policies that fueled speculation, enriched banking corporations and contributed to the financial meltdown. And it continues to make enemies with policies that favor Wall Street over Main Street. But gold will not fix what is wrong with the Fed. Quite the opposite. Hard money is part of the conservative policy mix that has opened a chasm between the rich and poor the likes of which has not been seen since soon after the passage of the Federal Reserve Act a hundred years ago.
REUTERS/ Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen, vice chair of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System With Larry Summers dropping out of the Fed race, it now appears clear that Janet Yellen is the frontrunner to succeed Ben Bernanke. According to The WSJ, the White House is not inclined to start fresh with new names, and since Yellen was the #2, Summers' departure makes her the #1. But it's not a done deal until it's over. POLITICO's Ben White ó who deserves credit for identifying Summers as the favorite before just about any other reporter ó says in today's Morning Money that while Yellen is probably the frontrunner, one can't discount the possibility of someone like Roger Ferguson, also a former Fed vice-chair, and the CEO of TIAA-Creff. White cites one "well-connected" source who offers the following argument for Obama to pick Ferguson: ìHe handled the Fedís response to 9-11 adroitly and is a calm and analytical policy wonk. He knows the President and Valerie Jarrett well, but also gets along fine with Republicans on the Hill. And if he is the pick the President could let it be known that he wonít reward Elizabeth Warren for sabotaging the Summers pick by giving the appointment to Warrenís pal Yellen.î This idea that The White House might not appoint Yellen over frustration with how the Summers nomination went down has been reported elsewhere. Immediately after Summers withdrew, David Wessel at The WSJ reported: One leading candidate is Janet Yellen, the Fed's current vice chairwoman, who has garnered substantial support among Democrats in Congress and among economists. But the public lobbying on her behalf appears to have annoyed the president, say administration insiders, and may lead him to look elsewhere. Bottom line: Yellen is now the favorite according to reports. But if she doesn't get it, it may be because the White House is angry at the way her supporters torpedoed his #1 pick.
via AFPHere's the latest survey of economic sentiment from Germany's prestigious ZEW institute: The ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany has increased by 7.6 points in September 2013. The indicator now stands at a level of 49.6 points (historical average: 23.8 points).¬† "The financial market experts hold the view that the German economy is still gaining momentum. In particular, the experts‚Äô economic optimism has increased due to the improved economic outlook for the Eurozone ‚Äì although recently released economic data for Germany have fallen short of expectations", says ZEW President Prof. Dr. Clemens Fuest. The assessment of the current economic situation for Germany has also improved in September. The respective indicator has increased by 12.3 points and now stands at the 30.6 points-mark.¬† Economic expectations for the Eurozone have increased considerably in September. The respective indicator has improved by 14.6 points to 58.6 points. The indicator for the current economic situation in the Eurozone has increased by 14.4 to a level of minus 59.7 points.
What's next for the US stock market? Sink your teeth into this one-pager from Morgan Stanley strategist Adam Parker. It has everything you need to get a grasp on what's going on right here. Morgan Stanley
Reuters/Chris KeaneOne of the biggest economic questions right now involves the extent to which rising interest rates are impeding the housing market. We'll find out later when the NAHB releases its latest monthly sentiment number for homebuilders, which tends to be a solid historical guide to the state of that industry. From Calculated Risk: ¬†At 10:00 AM, The September NAHB homebuilder survey. The consensus is for a reading of 59, the same as in August. Any number above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor. Also at 8:30 AM today, we get August CPI, which is expected to be tame.
Flickr/eoringelThe exuberance over the departure of Larry Summers from the race to succeed Ben Bernanke didn't last that long. In early Monday action, stocks all around the world went gangbusters on the departure of the supposed "hawkish" Fed candidate. By the end of Monday, things were already cooling a bit. And now they're cooling further. Stocks fell in Asia (Nikkei down 0.6%, China -2%) and are lower in Europe (Italy -0.66%, Germany -0.13%, France -0.18%), and US futures are a hair lower. Gold is a bit higher on the morning. The big news now is the US Fed meeting, which wraps up tomorrow, with high expectations of a "taper."
