"China's growth has become too reliant on an unsustainable surge in credit. Failure to change course and accelerate reforms increases the likelihood of an accident or shock that could trigger an adverse 'financial-real‚Äô feedback loop," said the Fund in its latest report on G20 imbalances. "While China has the resources and capacity to maintain stability even in the face of an adverse shock, the margin of safety is narrowing.‚Äù The country has relied on loan growth to keep the economy firing on all cylinders but the law of diminishing returns has set in, with the each yuan of extra debt yielding just 0.20 yuan of economic growth, compared with 0.85 five years ago. Credit of all types has risen from $9 trillion to $23 trillion in five years, pushing the total to 200pc of GDP, much higher than in emerging market peers. There is growing concern that China is reverting to its bad old ways despite reform rhetoric, cranking up loans once again and pouring money into the giant state enterprises - known for chronic inefficiency - to keep growth alive for another cycle after two sharp slowdowns in the past 18 months. Premier Li Keqianq said last week that the country would try to ensure solid growth to smooth the way for reforms expected at the 3rd Plenum of the Communist Party in December. But vested interests within the party appear to be fighting back against real economic change. China's investment rate is the world‚Äôs highest at almost 50pc of GDP, an effect largely caused by the structure of the state behemoths that gobble up credit. This has led to massive over-capacity and wastage. "Existing distortions direct the flow of credit toward local governments and state-owned enterprises rather to households, perpetuating high investment, misallocation of resources, and low private consumption. A broad package of reforms is needed," said the IMF. This is not just an internal Chinese issue. Low consumption is the chief cause of China's current account surplus, which has deflationary trade effects on the global system. China's surplus has narrowed sharply from 10pc of GDP to just over 2pc since 2008 but the IMF expects it to start rising again unless the underlying structure is changed, and if Beijing continues to hold down the currency. The Chinese will soon be so large that a rise in the surplus back to 4pc - as the IMF fears - may be more than the global economy can endure.
APA fourth Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee plans to oppose Larry Summers' potential nomination to chair the Federal Reserve Board, something that could be devastating to his candidacy.¬† Sen. Jon Tester's (D-Mont.) office told Reuters that Tester plans to oppose Summers, who is widely considered the front-runner to be tapped by President Barack Obama in the coming weeks. His office didn't immediately respond to a request seeking confirmation.¬† President Obama is thought to prefer Summers over Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen, who is the preferred candidate of many Democrats and many on the left.¬† The Senate Banking Committee must approve Summers' potential nomination before it goes to the Senate for full confirmation, something that looks increasingly unlikely. The Wall Street Journal reported last week that Democratic Sens.¬†Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), and Jeff Merkley (Ore.) are expected to oppose Summers in committee. Democrats hold a two-vote majority on the Banking Committee. If four Democrats vote against Summers, at least four Republicans will have to vote in favor for his nomination to get out of committee.¬†That is unlikely, considering that no Republican on the committee besides Mike Johanns (R-Neb.) has expressed even cautious support of Summers. Business Insider's Josh Barro reached out to other Democratic members of the Banking Committee last week, and besides Chairman Tim Johnson (S.D.), whom the Journal reports is supportive, only Sen. Chuck Schumer (N.Y.) was warm to the possibility of Summers as Fed Chair.¬† A breakdown: In July, about one-third of Senate Democrats signed on to a letter circulated by Brown, urging Obama to appoint Yellen to the position.
nmp management via YouTubeFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 80% Eighty percent Of Respondents In New Survey Are Exposed To Financial Scams (FINRA)  Over 40% of people surveyed for the Financial Fraud and Fraud Susceptibility United States report said they thought annual returns of 110% were "appealing". The survey also found that more than 80% of respondents had been solicited to take part in a fraudulent offer. And 11% had lost "a significant amount of money after engaging with an offer." "When it comes to financial fraud, America is a nation at risk. Fraudsters are very effective at reaching and enticing vulnerable populations into turning over their money, and far too few Americans are able to detect likely fraudulent sales pitches," said FINRA Foundation President Gerri Walsh in a press release.  BofA's Retail Investor Clients Just Staged A Huge Bond Market Exit (Bank of America) As we get closer to the Fed tapering its monthly $85 billion bond buying program, investors are flocking to stocks over bonds. In the week ending September 11, investors sent $14.3 billion into stock-oriented mutual funds while pulling $3.5 billion out of bond funds. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Clients Can Have Stock Options Issued To Their Roths (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors can help their clients by having individuals at private firms have stock options issued directly to their Roth Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs), writes Steven Abernathy of New York-based Abernathy Group II Family Office in a new WSJ column. Assets are put into a Roth IRA after-tax.¬† "The IRS doesn't recognize options gifted from a private company as income until they're exercised. Once the options are exercised it becomes a capital gain. If they're never exercised, you've basically never been given anything," Abernathy explains. If a company issues 10,000 options to a Roth, that are exercisable at $10 a share and expire in five years a client could stand to benefit.¬† "If those options were issued to a Roth, that's where the magic happens. If after five years the stock is worth more than $10, and in our case we said it's worth $100, you now have $900,000 in your Roth. That money is tax-free because the appreciation happened inside the Roth. So when you withdraw it there is no tax on that money and it does not impact your adjusted gross income."  Investors Should Ask Their Advisors These Key Questions On Their Bond Holdings (Business Insider) Investors are antsy about their bond exposure in an environment where interest rates are expected to rise. But before abandoning their bond holdings altogether, it is important for investors to ask their advisors a few questions about the place bonds have in their portfolios.¬† 1. Why does my portfolio need fixed income investments? Do I need it to diversify from stocks (because bonds typically have low correlation to equities) or is it to preserve capital? 2. How will higher interest rates impact my holdings? 3. Will exposure to foreign bonds help? What risks would those bring? 4. Does it make sense for me to hold only cash? 5. Should I switch from active to passive? One Firm Relies On 'Osmosis Training' (Investment News) AdviceOne LLC relies on "osmosis training" when it comes to new advisors, according to Investment News. That is to say the training isn't focused around stocks or bonds and the company tends not to hire people with over six months' experience in the industry. Instead those employed by the firm take on different roles over the years and participate in a thousand client meetings with the advisors before they can me a client alone. "No one fails in this industry for a lack of product knowledge; we focus on relationship building," Michael Grossman president of AdviceOne told Investment News. "Watching an adviser at work is the best training."
via Sotheby's Hedge fund mogul John Read Taylor turned heads in 2010 when he paid $4.5 million above ask for a swanky Upper East Side co-op ‚Äî a purchase that appears to have been funded with a $20 million loan from his firm. Now, after gut renovating the apartment and living in it for a mere six months, the financier is putting the pad on the market for $25 million. Top Manhattan broker Roger Erickson of Sotheby‚Äôs International Realty listed the co-op at 2 East 88th Street last week for a whopping $6,203 per square foot, StreetEasy shows. Taylor, the chairman of Manhattan-based hedge fund FX Concepts, purchased the 4,030-square-foot apartment in June 2010 for $22 million ‚Äî a fair shot more than the unit‚Äôs then $17.5 million asking price. The apartment was only on the market for 12 days before it went into contract. But Taylor didn‚Äôt bear the financial blow on his own, according to sources and documents. The board of FX Concepts‚Äô parent company, International Foreign Exchange Concepts Holdings, took out a $20 million loan in June 2010, which was then distributed to Taylor, internal company documents provided to¬†The Real Deal¬†show. The loan was for the purchase of Taylor‚Äôs personal apartment, a former FX Concepts employee told¬†TRD. Indeed, minutes from a May 2010 meeting indicated that FX executives discussed taking out a $20 million loan to ‚Äúfinance an apartment for John.‚Äù The source, who requested anonymity, didn‚Äôt know why Taylor purchased the unit for so much more than the asking price. But the firm has pushed Taylor to sell the apartment for some time because of the hedge fund‚Äôs debt load, the source said. Taylor, who declined to comment, only recently moved into the co-op on the corner of Fifth Avenue after completing a two-and-a-half year renovation on the full-floor, three-bedroom, four-bathroom abode. The apartment also includes double living rooms with a fireplace, a formal dining room and a chef‚Äôs kitchen. The pre-war co-op building opposite the Guggenheim Museum was designed by architect Roger Ferris and has Central Park views. Erickson confirmed that Taylor was moving but declined to comment further on his business. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs an absolutely stunning renovation,‚Äù Erickson said of the apartment. ‚ÄúAnd the views are really great.‚Äù
The new cover of DC political magazine National Journal is pretty direct about how it feels regarding Larry Summers, who many think will be the new Federal Reserve chair come January (despite White House denials¬†that he's the frontrunner). Photo via Matt Stoller. Twitter/Matthew Stoller
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA model presents a creation from the Ralph Lauren Spring/Summer 2014 collection during New York Fashion Week, September 12, 2013.The Dow Jones Industrial Average just ended its strongest week since January. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Men's Wearhouse founder George Zimmer was abruptly fired in June for disagreeing with his board's management strategy.† Now, there is some vindication for Zimmer, who is famous for appearing in the retailer's "you're going to like the way you look" ads.† Men's Wearhouse profits are down 28% this quarter, while sales are down 2.3%. The brand blamed the slowdown, in part, on superstitious brides' aversion to getting married in the year 2013.† "Virtually every facet of the Menís Wearhouse business flagged, from suit sales to tuxedo rentals and alterations," writes Kyle Stock at Bloomberg Businessweek.† Since Zimmer left the company, Men's Wearhouse has floundered.  Shares have tumbled 10%, suggesting that investors felt better about the company when he was there.† Customers furiously protested when he left the company. And the company's first ad sans Zimmer was labeled a disaster.† Zimmer's main disagreement with the board involved wanting to take the company private, meaning that he has some consolation now, according to Stock.† "If he is interested in buying back the suit empire he built up from a tiny Texas outpost four decades ago, the proposition just became about 10% cheaper," Stock writes.†
Getty ImagesImagine you're a trader at SAC Capital and you're watching the headlines about your firm. You might be considering your options. The truth is, you might have them, and you might not. This morning, Lawrence Delevingne at CNBC reported that three SAC Capital traders went over to hedge fund Millennium Partners. It's the kind of horse trading we haven't seen since the insider trading related legal troubles at SAC really heated up this year. And we may not see a lot more. A lot of traders are staying loyal to SAC. They're taking advantage of higher pay and hoping that legal problems that could truly debilitate the firm won't materialize for a few years. Other traders have no choice. Since Wall Street doesn't really know the extent of the government's case against the firm, the fear that there are more names to be named lingers. That especially casts a shadow over traders that worked in sectors the government is investigating ‚Äî health care and technology, media and telecoms. Traders that aren't in those sectors could exit if they want to. Alexey Chentsov, one of the SAC traders that went to Millennium, was a quant portfolio manager. Not a concern to Preet Bahrara and his posse.
We use these heuristics if we have neither resources nor time to compare all available information before making a choice. In other words, heuristics ease the cognitive load of making a decision.  In general, heuristics can be helpful because they allow a quick and efficient problem-solving technique, but sometimes they result in systematic erroneous beliefs and cognitive biases. Often, people fail to answer the following question because they exclude relevant information when they consider the probability: Tversky &amp; Kahneman¬†(1974)¬†were the first to suggest that people rely on the¬†representativeness heuristics¬†in answering such questions. Representativeness heurstic means that probabilities are evaluated by the degree to which¬†X is representative of¬†Y (i.e., how much X¬†resembles Y). The representative heuristic is just one type of heurstic¬†wherein one relies on past experiences and mental concepts of what something should look like¬†when making a decision¬†(p. 1124): People tend to consider only the most prominent cues or representativeness (mental concepts), but the point is that these cues can be misleading. The authors highlight that there are six¬†aspects related to¬†probability¬†that people often¬†ignore whe they judge¬†probabilities: 1. Insensitivity to prior probability of outcomes People should consider the prior probability or base-rate frequency of the outcomes. For example, the fact that there are many more farmers than librarians in the population should enter into people's estimate of the probability that Steve is a librarian rather than a farmer. More specifically, since he looks like a librarian, and that there are so few of them in the the population, it is much more likely that he is a librarian. In this way, people make predictions on the basis of base-rate frequencies (how many x's and how many y's). 2. Insensitivity to sample size People assess the likelihood of a sample result by the similarity to the general population. For example, people deem the average height in a random sample of ten men to be 180 centimeters because this is the average height in the ¬†population of men. This tendency has been found in samples of 1000, 100, and 10 men. In all cases, people tend to view the men as representative of the general population. However, the probability that ten men reflect the average height in a population is low because of the limited sample size. Thus, the fundament of statistics is not a part of people's intuitions, and as a result, they fail to make accurate predictions about probability. 3. Misconceptions of chance¬† Consider this example¬†(p. 1125): "In considering tosses of a coin for heads or tails, for example, people regard the sequence H-T-H-T-T-H to be more likely than the sequence H-H-H-T-T-T, which does not appear random, and also more likely than the sequence H-H-H-H-T-H, which does not represent the fairness of the coin." A well-known consequence of this belief is the¬†gambler's fallacy¬†(p. 1125): ¬†"After observing a long run of red on the roulette wheel. For example, most people erroneously believe that black is now due, presumably because the occurrence of black will result in a more representative sequence than the occurrence of an additional red." Again, people only consider what they judge to be the "fairness of the coin". The authors¬†(Tversky &amp; Kahneman,¬†1974)¬†further state that often chance is viewed as a self-correcting process in which a deviation in one direction induces a deviation in the opposite direction to restore equilibrium. This is a false belief as deviations are not corrected by chance, they are just diluted. People fail to make accurate predictions accordingly. 4. Insensitivity to predictability Consider the following example¬†(p. 1126): ¬†"Suppose one is given a description of a company and is asked to predict its future profit. If the description of the company is very favorable, a very high profit will appear most representative of that description; if the description is mediocre, a mediocre performance will appear most representative." This example illustrates that one does not consider the reliability and accuracy of the descriptions since s/he only considers whether they are favorable or not. This may result in wrong predictions about future values such as profit, or the result of a football game for that matter. 5. The illusion of validity The illusion of validity occurs when people are too confident in their probability calculations. The consistency of patterns has been found to increase one's confidence in predicting the outputs. Consider this example¬†(p. 1126): ¬†"People express more confidence in predicting the final grade-point average of a student whose first-year record consists entirely of B's than in predicting the gradepoint average of a student whose firstyear record includes many A's and C's." This confidence is rarely warranted because when such inputs are correlated it may, in fact, decrease accuracy (p. 1126): ¬†"(...) A prediction based on several such inputs can achieve higher accuracy when they are independent of each other than when they are redundant or correlated." 6. Misconceptions of regression¬† The authors¬†(Tversky &amp; Kahneman,¬†1974)¬†propose that regressions toward the mean is encountered in many instances throughout life such as the height of fathers and sons, the intelligence of husbands and wives, and the performance of individuals on consecutive examinations. Despite the fact that regression toward the mean so often occurs, people rarely recognize it. The authors further state that people do not expect it in many contexts where it is bound to occur and that they invent spurious causal explanations for it whenever it occurs. Consider this example (p. 1126): ¬†Suppose a large group of children has been examined on two equivalent versions of an aptitude test. If one selects ten children from among those who did best on one of the two versions, he will usually find their performance on the second version to be somewhat disappointing. Conversely, if one selects ten children from among those who did worst on one version, they will be found, on the average, to do somewhat better on the other version.¬† More?¬†Check out¬†Actor-Observer Bias: Why We See Others Differently
Looking to get a headstart on the day's most important financial and economic stories?† If so, you've probably seen the daily "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" posts on Business Insider. Now, this easy-to-read, early morning digest of the 10 most important stories that you need to know before the market opens is available as a daily newsletter delivered straight to your inbox, M-F. Signing up is quick and easy.† Use the form below to enter your information then click the "Sign Up" button.
REUTERS/ Chip EastMo Grimeh, a Managing Director who has worked at Lehman Brothers for 10 years, walks out of the building and briefly speaks to journalists, in New York, September 14, 2008.Bloomberg Businessweek is out with a new issue examining the financial crisis five years on. Of course, one of the more harrowing moments¬†was when Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. If it was surreal for us, it was even more so for¬†Mo Grimeh, the former head of emerging markets at Lehman (and current head of global/markets Americas at Standard Chartered). Here's how it went down. From Bloomberg Businessweek: Sometime around Sunday, 4¬†o‚Äôclock or 5¬†o‚Äôclock, we started getting e-mails saying the deal is dead: no¬†Barclays. We‚Äôre gonna file. And that‚Äôs where the panic reached a peak. If the bank was going to file for bankruptcy, we wouldn‚Äôt be able to enter the building on Monday morning. That‚Äôs really the reason everybody headed back to 745 Seventh Ave.: to collect whatever personal items they might have. The trading floor was packed, but people were not working. Some were crying. Some were drinking beer. Some were doing shots of tequila. Most of them were smoking. There was total chaos. I just saw a lot of people packing boxes, taking pictures of their families, clients‚Äô business cards. The girls were just packing boxes and boxes of shoes. I discovered that most females tend to have multiple pairs of shoes under their desks. I had no idea until that day. With almost $700 billion in assets, Lehman's filing was the largest ever in U.S. history. Read another Lehman horror story at Bloomberg Businessweek¬†¬ª
BloombergDavid KostinThere are a lot of unanswered question regarding what's next for the Federal Reserve. Who will become the next Fed Chairman when Ben Bernanke's term end in January? When will the Fed start raising interest rates? When and how will the Fed begin to taper its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of Treasury and mortgage bonds? The answers to these questions could have varying implications for the economy. But Wall Street's top stock market strategists think that all of this uncertainty surrounding the Fed is just not a big deal. "The US equity market has been insensitive to yield curve shifts since mid-July, suggesting it has reached an equilibrium around anticipated tapering of QE," said Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. The yield curve shift he's refering to is the difference between long-term interest rates and short-term interest rates. Short-term interest rates have remained near-zero while long-term interest rates have been climbing for much of this year. Here's JP Morgan's Tom Lee regarding the next Fed Chair: ...Investors see negative catalysts in coming weeks. The perspectives varied on which was seen as the most important, but the nomination of a new Fed Chairman was most cited. Since 1950, there have only been six Fed Chairman ó longest tenure, William Martin, Jr. 1951-1970; shortest, G. William Miller, 1 year 5 months from 1978-1979. Most investors are familiar with Janet Yellen (the current Vice Chairwoman of the Fed) as a potential candidate and seem less comfortable with Larry Summers (most likely because he surfaced more recently as a catalyst). But the lack of familiarity does not mean this is a negative for markets longer term ó it simply means uncertainty short term. And this is why we are less troubled by some of these noted issues ó they may be holding back decision making (by investors) but unless these change the fundamental trajectory of GDP growth, it will likely not have a lingering impact in our view. Goldman Sachs' David Kostin acknowledges there are definitely risks to the downside in the near term. But he also notes there is plenty of good news to offset all of this talk about the Fed. Three important upcoming policy events for equitiesThe FOMC QE tapering decision, nomination of an FOMC chair, and US debt limit expansion are known risks. We expect a ìdovish taperî of $10 bn in Treasury buying alongside strengthened forward guidance. The debt limit debate should be less disruptive than 2011 but a potential tail event. Good news on growth should overcome policy riskWe forecast a steady build to 3%+ real GDP growth from 2014 ñ 2016. A pick-up in private consumption and less fiscal drag drive stronger US growth. We also expect Fed commentary to support easy policy and mute any tightening in financial conditions from the expected QE taper. The waning fiscal drag is a story that doesn't seem to get much attention, especially considering the fact that the U.S. economy has managed to grow respectably in the face of tax hikes and sequestration. Here's Kostin: The headwind from fiscal drag should also moderate from 1.7% of GDP to about 0.5% of GDP as we move through 2014. That improvement is driven by less impact from taxes and sequestration in 2014 vs. 2013. As a result, we expect federal spending growth to improve to -5.2% in 2014 from -5.7% in 2013 and ease to just -2.5% in 2015. Notably, we expect state and municipal spending to be positive the next three years for the first time since 2009. Federal, state and local government spending accounts for 19% of GDP, making it an important, if perhaps less exciting, element of our growth outlook. Goldman Sachs It seems like a sure thing that the economy should pick up when you consider the chart above. But if the economy doesn't deliver, we may be faced with a spike in volatility. Here's Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hartnett: Significant monetary stimulus, the end of fiscal austerity, a booming housing market, a cheap dollar, record corporate cash balances...if the US economy does not significantly accelerate in coming quarters, it never will. We assume it will, and favor assets (e.g. equities), sectors (e.g. banks) and markets (e.g. Europe) that have lagged in the ìHigh Liquidity-Low Growthî world of recent years. Asset price will not do as well in the next 5 years, no matter what the ìnouveau bullsî say. Central banks will be less generous, corporations less selfish. And when excess liquidity is removed it will get ìCRASHyî. The dollar and (temporarily) volatility will be the last assets to surge as Deleveraging ends and an era of Normalization begins. The Fed's FOMC meeting will conclude at 2:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday.
The world of banking has changed dramatically, if not radically, in the five years since September 15th 2008, the day Lehman Brothers went bust. American and European banks used to dominate the list of the world's biggest banks (see chart 1); the Chinese have since scaled the charts. The balance-sheets of Europe's behemoths have got quite a bit smaller (chart 2); consolidation has made America's giants bigger than ever. Western banks are generating much lower returns on equity than they did in the years before the crisis (chart 3), in part because the industry is being forced to fund itself with higher levels of equity than in the past (chart 4). So cost-cutting is much more important than it was: compensation ratios at investment banks have fallen (chart 5). But those who want a complete reshaping of finance can still argue that change has not gone far enough: more people work in finance in London in 2013 than did in December 2007 (chart 6). Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The world of banking has changed dramatically, if not radically, in the five years since September 15th 2008, the day Lehman Brothers went bust. American and European banks used to dominate the list of the world's biggest banks (see chart 1); the Chinese have since scaled the charts. The balance-sheets of Europe's behemoths have got quite a bit smaller (chart 2); consolidation has made America's giants bigger than ever. Western banks are generating much lower returns on equity than they did in the years before the crisis (chart 3), in part because the industry is being forced to fund itself with higher levels of equity than in the past (chart 4). So cost-cutting is much more important than it was: compensation ratios at investment banks have fallen (chart 5). But those who want a complete reshaping of finance can still argue that change has not gone far enough: more people work in finance in London in 2013 than did in December 2007 (chart 6). Click here to subscribe to The Economist 

It has, in fact, been steadily improving over the past years, and that trend has only accelerated of late. Housing is widely perceived as a key ingredient to a healthy economy, and so the revival in the housing market has been heralded as a positive step for an American system that has been sluggish at best. Similar trends in the United Kingdom and parts of the EU are greeted as positives as well. But is it? Housing is a key aspect of economic activity in most countries, but that doesn‚Äôt mean that we should welcome a return to housing as a perceived pillar of national strength. And we should be very wary of any return to an ethos that sees either home ownership or housing prices as a barometer of individual and collective success. Those attitudes very nearly imploded the modern financial system, and they could imperil it again. Homes are places where you live. They are not ‚Äî and should never have been ‚Äî investment vehicles. Yes, homes may gain in value and augment one‚Äôs net worth, but the reason to own a home is that it can be a cost-effective way to obtain a place to live. The minute they are seen as investments, that reality gets perverted, with dangerous consequences. There‚Äôs no doubt that the economics of the housing market have been steadily improving. Foreclosures have dropped in half since their peak, from over 1 million in 2010, to a predicted 490,000 this year. Housing starts are up nationally, from a low of less than 500,000 in 2009 to close to 900,000 this year, and prices are up more than 10 percent over the past 12 months. These national trends are neither evenly distributed nor certain to continue. The Northeast, for instance, has been weaker of late than the rest of the country. The recent spike in interest rates, triggered by the imminent Federal Reserve decision to curtail some of their aggressive bond buying, may dent the momentum as well. Given that housing has direct impact on GDP, it certainly matters whether it is doing well or badly. Not just construction but millions of retail and industrial jobs are keyed to the housing market, ranging from Home Depot salespeople to Caterpillar engineers. But the notion that housing should be a leading indicator of economic health is unwise, and ultimately destructive. What was most damaging about the housing boom and bubble of the 1990s and 2000s was that millions of middle-class families bought into the notion that homes should be the repository of their net worth and future wealth. Decisions about buying shifted away from pure calculus of need and acceptable costs and instead were increasingly based on the likelihood (or not) that their homes would increase in value. It‚Äôs an easy path from that belief to outright speculation. The idea that homes are a primary investment is not only what drives real estate bubbles but also drives real estate crashes. China today is in the grips of a real estate challenge because middle-class Chinese have nowhere to invest and augment their net worth other than real estate, given that the stock market is widely seen as gamed, there is only a small bond market and they can‚Äôt invest outside the country. But Americans have multiple avenues to invest for the future; real estate may be part of that mix, but it should not be the anchor. Why? To begin with, real estate is not liquid. It is a place to live (or work). Its primary utility is to provide shelter, and quality of life. Most people finance all or part of that need with mortgages (credit) from banks. Today, with down payment requirements on the rise, many families will also use a considerable portion of their liquid net worth. That may make eminent sense, especially if they are living in an area that has good schools and decent access to jobs but does not have housing stock that can be rented. That is a reason to buy a home. Buying, however, comes with substantial costs and constraints. Money that is used for a down payment can‚Äôt be shifted easily to other investments; it is locked up in the house. Mortgage debt that is fixed can‚Äôt be adjusted when rates go down, even if fixed rates provide some protection when rates rise. Buying a home may be a necessity, but in multiple ways, it is a highly compromised and risky investment. A positive outcome to emerge from the past five years would be to dispel the notion of a home as primarily an investment, let alone a good one. It would also be to uncouple the housing market from the national perception of a thriving economy. Buying a home may be the right decision, but it should not be a goal intimately tethered to a sense of success. Once, perhaps, owning a home was indeed a symbol of freedom, autonomy and being in charge of one‚Äôs own economic destiny. Today, with financing and costs and lack of liquidity, owning a home can be the opposite of all of those. So before we go back to the future and herald the return of the housing market, let‚Äôs hope that we don‚Äôt actually return to the housing market we experienced at the end of the 20th and the beginning of the 21st century. A home is a marvel, and a need. Buying a house or apartment can be a good investment, and the right way to use both credit and cash. But the housing market is an adjunct to a thriving economy, and housing is a cost that families must bear to live adequately or to live well. If it goes up in value, that‚Äôs a plus, but it should never be the driver of the decision. As the economy has rebounded, we haven‚Äôt yet returned to the bubble-era ethos. Let‚Äôs keep it that way.
YouTubeThis one comes straight from you ó our gentlemen readers. It has come to our attention that while some of you out there would love to dress fresh to death at all times, you believe that achieving that goal is beyond your means. It's not. Affordable men's fashion is everywhere, and with a few key pieces, you can make your wardrobe look crisp and tidy. Business Insider reached out to some of our favorite men's fashion bloggers and retailers to get their opinion on where to get a stylish wardrobe without breaking the bank. Think about it: They love clothes, but a brother still needs money to eat. We've organized this list by item, and with each item we've included a list of awesome retailers ó including some you've probably never heard of ó that carry what you need, in a reasonable price range. Special thanks to Sabir Peele of Men's Style Pro, who sent us an especially awesome list of stores. Follow him on Instagram here.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe words "taper" and "tapering" have exploded in news stories this summer as the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note has risen.If you read financial news or are connected to the markets in any way, shape, or form, you've undoubtedly heard of the "taper" ñ the yet-to-be-announced first reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases the Federal Reserve makes under the quantitative easing program it introduced in September 2012. All summer, the Wall Street consensus has been that the Fed will announce this first tapering at the conclusion of its September 17-18 FOMC policy meeting next week. Right now, the Fed is buying $45 billion of U.S. Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities every month ñ $85 billion in total. For a while, Wall Street has expected the Fed to reduce that total by $15 billion at its September meeting. In the past few weeks, though, the economic data ñ which the Fed claims guides its decision over whether or not to taper ñ has been coming in weaker than expected, casting some doubt on the idea of a reduction in QE. So, Wall Street has adjusted its forecasts accordingly, and is now calling for "taper-lite" ñ that is, a reduction in bond purchases of only $10 billion per month, bringing the total to $75 billion instead of the previously-expected $70 billion. In addition, many Wall Street economists expect the Fed to announce what they call a "dovish taper" next week. This term refers to the idea that because a tapering announcement could roil stock and bond markets, the Fed will seek to offset the impact of the news with more market-friendly forward guidance on the future path of the Fed funds rate, which is currently pinned near zero. The Fed's current forward guidance suggests that it won't raise rates until the unemployment rate has fallen below 6.5% (it currently stands at 7.3%). As Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius suggests, the Fed could†"simply lower the 6.5% unemployment threshold," or "they could make the unemployment threshold depend on inflation and/or labor force participation; thus, inflation below 2% or a further decline in participation would imply a threshold of less than 6.5%." In other words, a "dovish taper" involves the Fed promising to keep rates lower for longer alongside a reduction in bond purchases. Voil‡: the taper-lite dovish taper.
The U.S. installed 832 megawatts-worth of photovoltaic capacity in Q2 2013, according to the latest data from GTM Research. That's 362% more than Q2 2010, when the U.S. installed just 180 megawatts. Here's the chart: GTM Research The boom in California has been so forceful that the state's two principal utilities have stopped accepting applications looking to take advantage of the California Solar Initiative rebate program.¬† Meanwhile, the average price also keeps coming down, and now stands at about $3, versus $5 two years ago (though the range remains relatively wide): GTM Research As Bloomberg's Justin Doom reported this week, solar panels are the new granite countertops.
Reuters/China DailyThere is a lot of chatter surrounding the Shanghai Free Trade Experiment Zone that is set to open on September 27. The zone is being set up to allow for renminbi convertibility, tax-free trade environment, and fewer restrictions on foreign direct investment. While specifics on the Shanghai free trade zone aren't clear yet, Stephen Green at Standard Chartered points out these key characteristics of the zone: The zone is 29 sq kms and spans Shanghai Pudong ó including the Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, the Yangshan port, the Pudong Airport area and the Waigaoqiao Logistics Bonded Zone. The zone will be overseen by the State Council. Shanghai's Vice Mayor Ai Baojun was named head of the zone, his background in the steel industry has Green thinking that the zone could focus more on industry and trade, over finances. But these zones won't be the major driver of the reform that China needs, according to Green. "Many other cities may well set up zones over time, and a patchwork of zones with liberal business regulation, more open investment rules, and freer Chinese yuan (CNY) convertibility would definitely be a good thing. "However, we are yet to be convinced that such zones will be the primary driver of reform in China. Their expansion will take time, their scale will be small compared to the broader economy, and it is unlikely that the zones will have a big impact on activity outside of them. Moreover, it is worth bearing in mind that the PBoC has a clear plan to open up the capital account, for example, for the whole country in the next 5-10 years (cross- border lending, for instance, is rapidly being expanded) and that Premier Li has made simplifying and eliminating regulation countrywide one of the priorities of his administration." Of course opening up the capital account brings the risk of capital outflows, one of the major reason's China has been slow to liberalize.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonInterest rates have been maintained at an artificially low level for some time now. But talk of the Fed tapering its bond buying program has everyone worried about the rise in interest rates.¬† Rising interest rates usually cause bond prices to fall because the interest rates on older bonds are lower than the new market rate, and vice-versa. We saw the yield on the 10-year surge from 1.6% on May 2, to 3% last week. But everything we hear from various talking heads about the implications of rising rates for an investors portfolio can be confusing. So here are a few key questions that investors should ask their advisors about bond exposure in a rising rate environment. It is important to sit down with your advisor and reconsider not just your strategies but your financial goals and see the role bond holdings play. It is important for both to stay flexible. As with any other aspect of your portfolio construction you and your advisor need to determine this in the context of your risk tolerance and age as well.
In the week ended September 11, 2013, investors poured $14.3 billion into mutual funds oriented toward stocks while yanking $3.5 billion out of bond funds. "Bottom line: it's stocks over bonds as tapering approaches," says BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett. Hartnett and his team are the ones who coined the term "Great Rotation," the idea that the hundreds of billions of dollars that have flowed out of equity funds and into bond funds in recent years will reverse course ñ flowing out of bonds and back into stocks again ñ as investors finally overcome fears of another stock market crash and start placing bets on a resurgent American economy. BAML has had the most success in selling the Great Rotation idea to its retail investor client base ñ those investors who aren't big hedge funds and institutions. All year, these clients have been rotating out of bonds and into stocks. This past week, however, BofA's retail clients staged the biggest weekly move out of bonds since the big sell-off that has gripped the bond market this year began. "BofAML private client flow data confirm aversion to bonds with outsized $3.6bn redemption in past week," says Hartnett. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flows, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows  Equities: $14.3bn inflows ($12bn via ETFs) (largest in 2 months) Bonds: $3.5bn outflows (7 straight weeks) Precious metals: 4 straight weeks of inflows (albeit small $0.1bn) Equity Flows EM: $2.6bn inflows = largest in 7 months (all via ETFs); note that inflows driven primarily by Global EM funds and LatAm funds (Brazil) Europe: 11 straight weeks of inflows ($2.2bn) US: $5.9bn inflows (first inflows in 5 weeks) Japan: $1.1bn inflows (largest in 4 months) Fixed Income Flows 64 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt ($1.9bn) Modest inflows ($0.7bn) to HY bonds 22 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS ($0.5bn) 16 straight weeks of outflows from EM debt ($1.1bn) 16 straight weeks of outflows from Munis ($2.0bn) 5 straight weeks of outflows from IG bonds ($1.2bn) BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global
Lawrence Summers: SIEPR: March 7, 2008: My message this morning is not going to be a cheery one. I believe that we are facing the most serious combination of macroeconomic and financial stresses that the United States has faced in at least a generation--and, possibly, much longer than that. I want to do several things this morning: ¬†The right policy presumption is that the US economy will be judged to currently be in recession‚Ä¶ [with] quite remarkable dislocations that we are current seeing in housing and credit markets‚Ä¶. It is a matter of arithmetic to calculate the number of mortgages that will be on homes with negative equity with a 25% decline in housing prices‚Ä¶. 15 million such mortgages worth 30% of all the mortgages in the United States with a combined value of over $3 trillion dollars‚Ä¶. Current estimates of mortgage losses are $400 billion dollars‚Ä¶ [and] there is every reason to believe that those estimates are substantially optimistic‚Ä¶. Borrowers who, as recently as six months ago, were regarded as bullet-proof are finding it difficult to borrow at almost any price‚Ä¶. Many of the nation‚Äôs major financial institutions now are forced to pay more than 2 percentage points above the US Treasury rate in order to borrow for even five years‚Ä¶ institutions that, as recently as nine months ago, were borrowing at spreads of 30 or 40 basis points‚Ä¶. We are in unusual territory with respect to recession. We are in nearly unprecedented territory with respect to financial strength‚Ä¶. First is the traditional Keynesian vicious cycle: People spend less; therefore, other people and firms have less income, hey, therefore, spend less, leading to less income, and the cycle goes on. That is the mechanism that has been dominant in economists‚Äô thinking about recessions historically. A second mechanism is probably more serious‚Ä¶ the liquidation vicious cycle‚Ä¶. Economics hinges heavily‚Ä¶ on the idea that supply curves slope upwards‚Ä¶. But‚Ä¶ [if] a security‚Ä¶ is bought on margin when its price goes down there are margin calls which force liquidations‚Ä¶ a falling price is‚Ä¶ a de-stabilizing mechanism. This process is multiplied many times over when the falling prices of financial assets lead to reductions in the level of capital in banks‚Ä¶ [and] to a situation where even if they wish to maintain a constant leverage ratio--and in a more threatened environment, they wish to maintain a lower leverage ratio--they are forced to sell the assets that have gone down and to sell any other assets that are liquid and available. The third vicious cycle‚Ä¶ is‚Ä¶ the credit accelerator‚Ä¶ that comes from the interaction of these [first] two‚Ä¶. A deteriorating economy leads to deteriorating asset prices and declining credit quality, which leads to reduced lending which leads to a deteriorating economy and so forth. All three of these mechanisms are now operating strongly‚Ä¶. It is a grave mistake to believe in the self-equilibrating properties of the economy or markets in the face of large shocks‚Ä¶. With respect to small shocks‚Ä¶ there is tremendous resilience in market economies‚Ä¶. But‚Ä¶ markets balance fear and greed. And when fear takes over, the capacity for self-stabilization is not one that can be relied on. The very measures that should have been pursued to prevent financial crisis are often counter-productive once financial crisis comes. Put simply, the problem in the United States eighteen months ago was too much greed and too little fear. The problem today is too much fear and too little opportunistic buying. If the priority was to restrain imprudent lending eighteen months ago, the priority going forward has to be to try to stimulate and push the economy forward. Third, confidence is essential and confidence depends on a perception of transparency and a perception of credibility. Confidence will not return in any environment where there is an expectation that heavy, but unknown, shoes will drop soon‚Ä¶. Denial as policy in support of confidence is counter-productive. What, then, should be done?‚Ä¶ First, the traditional tools of macroeconomic policy‚Ä¶. It may well be necessary, and planning should begin now, to enact further fiscal stimulus measures. If this proves necessary, high priority should be attached to supporting heavily strapped state and local governments so as to be able to maintain their level of spending. Monetary policy faces complex challenges‚Ä¶. We have already engineered negative real interest rates. There is probably further to go. But in a world with excess capacity--and in a world where the constraint on the provision of credit is not that borrowers cannot afford it but that suppliers are reluctant to provide it because of the losses they have recently suffered--we should not exaggerate the potential benefit of further reductions in interest rates, appropriate as they are. Macroeconomic policy‚Ä¶ can address the Keynesian vicious cycle and perhaps‚Ä¶ mitigate the credit accelerator‚Ä¶. But it cannot and will not, in and of itself, address the positive feedback coming from cascading liquidation. The second area where we need more aggressive policy is with respect to the housing and mortgage markets‚Ä¶. The key determinant of foreclosures is the behavior of house prices and the decline in the value of house prices, rather than the income and cash flow circumstances of the borrowers. The essential policy dilemma is this: Foreclosures are enormously costly‚Ä¶ on the order of 40% of the mortgage being foreclosed‚Ä¶. We expect that there will be on the order of 15 million houses with negative equity‚Ä¶. Many people with negative equity will continue to pay their mortgages on a regular basis in order to avoid foreclosure‚Ä¶. The policy challenge is to find ways to target foreclosures without inducing potential non-payment‚Ä¶. I have concluded that [we need] a modest set of changes in the bankruptcy law‚Ä¶ [it is] ironic and probably inappropriate that our bankruptcy law is currently contrived so that a wealthy person with a second house receives more protection from his creditors on the second house than a less-wealthy person with only a principal residence receives from his creditors‚Ä¶. I am sure that it would be desirable to provide substantial funding to state and local governments to permit them to purchase foreclosed homes, convert them into rental housing so as to save potentially distressed neighborhoods and so as to allow them to experiment and see whether there are schemes in which they can provide financial support or guarantee authority to enable reductions in the level of foreclosure. I believe careful study should be given to a number of proposals that are now out there for repurchasing mortgages, writing down their value, and passing the benefit on to homeowners to see if they can be carried out in a way that is financially responsible and will be productive, rather than counterproductive‚Ä¶. Regulatory policy. Regulation has not been a success over the last decade in this sphere. It is, to me, less obvious than to many others that the right general conclusion is that this is a warrant for more regulation rather than for less. The institutions that have behaved the most imprudently‚Ä¶ are the most heavily regulated‚Ä¶. But the question of overall financial regulation is a question for tomorrow. The question for today is what to do about the financial institutions that are currently under such stress‚Ä¶. History has demonstrated again and again‚Ä¶ that policies that have as their premise seeking to maintain asset values by avoiding market-to-market in order that institutions will in an accounting sense have more capital and, therefore, lend more vigorously, are policies that are usually overwhelmed by history‚Ä¶. Far better to promote transparency to engage in capital forbearance explicitly, if that is judged to be the right policy so as to encourage lending--as it may well be--and to place urgent emphasis on insisting on the raising of the new capital that is the only mechanism through which this liquidation vicious cycle can ultimately be controlled‚Ä¶. Three final thoughts: The fiscal stakes here are not small. Past financial crises have, in the end, been resolved at costs of several percents of GNP‚Ä¶. I hope that that will never prove necessary with respect to this crisis. I believe it is more likely not to be necessary if policy moves forward aggressively. I have talked‚Ä¶ of these issues as an abstraction. As a Recession. As a Cyclical Down-Turn. As Declining Asset Values. Make no mistake: there will be millions of people who have never heard of a CDO or a CLO and who think triple A refers to the American Automobile Association whose lives will be very much affected by the wisdom with which macroeconomic financial policy is made‚Ä¶ the difference between staying in a home and the humiliation of a bailiff removing one‚Äôs kids from one‚Äôs home‚Ä¶ the difference between having a job and not having a job, between being able to afford to borrow and not being able to afford to borrow. The stakes are not small. Finally, I would suggest to you the stakes are not small for our country‚Ä¶. We are in a difficult period‚Ä¶ when errors of hubris going back 10 or 15 years have cost us very substantial goodwill in the world‚Ä¶. Much of our strength derives from the strength, resilience, and vigor of our economy which, in turn, depends on the successful and effective functioning of our financial markets. With that in doubt, it is critical that there be a bias towards aggressive and effective action. The right policy presumption is that the US economy will be judged to currently be in recession‚Ä¶ [with] quite remarkable dislocations that we are current seeing in housing and credit markets‚Ä¶. It is a matter of arithmetic to calculate the number of mortgages that will be on homes with negative equity with a 25% decline in housing prices‚Ä¶. 15 million such mortgages worth 30% of all the mortgages in the United States with a combined value of over $3 trillion dollars‚Ä¶. Current estimates of mortgage losses are $400 billion dollars‚Ä¶ [and] there is every reason to believe that those estimates are substantially optimistic‚Ä¶. Borrowers who, as recently as six months ago, were regarded as bullet-proof are finding it difficult to borrow at almost any price‚Ä¶. Many of the nation‚Äôs major financial institutions now are forced to pay more than 2 percentage points above the US Treasury rate in order to borrow for even five years‚Ä¶ institutions that, as recently as nine months ago, were borrowing at spreads of 30 or 40 basis points‚Ä¶. We are in unusual territory with respect to recession. We are in nearly unprecedented territory with respect to financial strength‚Ä¶. First is the traditional Keynesian vicious cycle: People spend less; therefore, other people and firms have less income, hey, therefore, spend less, leading to less income, and the cycle goes on. That is the mechanism that has been dominant in economists‚Äô thinking about recessions historically. A second mechanism is probably more serious‚Ä¶ the liquidation vicious cycle‚Ä¶. Economics hinges heavily‚Ä¶ on the idea that supply curves slope upwards‚Ä¶. But‚Ä¶ [if] a security‚Ä¶ is bought on margin when its price goes down there are margin calls which force liquidations‚Ä¶ a falling price is‚Ä¶ a de-stabilizing mechanism. This process is multiplied many times over when the falling prices of financial assets lead to reductions in the level of capital in banks‚Ä¶ [and] to a situation where even if they wish to maintain a constant leverage ratio--and in a more threatened environment, they wish to maintain a lower leverage ratio--they are forced to sell the assets that have gone down and to sell any other assets that are liquid and available. The third vicious cycle‚Ä¶ is‚Ä¶ the credit accelerator‚Ä¶ that comes from the interaction of these [first] two‚Ä¶. A deteriorating economy leads to deteriorating asset prices and declining credit quality, which leads to reduced lending which leads to a deteriorating economy and so forth. All three of these mechanisms are now operating strongly‚Ä¶. It is a grave mistake to believe in the self-equilibrating properties of the economy or markets in the face of large shocks‚Ä¶. With respect to small shocks‚Ä¶ there is tremendous resilience in market economies‚Ä¶. But‚Ä¶ markets balance fear and greed. And when fear takes over, the capacity for self-stabilization is not one that can be relied on. The very measures that should have been pursued to prevent financial crisis are often counter-productive once financial crisis comes. Put simply, the problem in the United States eighteen months ago was too much greed and too little fear. The problem today is too much fear and too little opportunistic buying. If the priority was to restrain imprudent lending eighteen months ago, the priority going forward has to be to try to stimulate and push the economy forward. Third, confidence is essential and confidence depends on a perception of transparency and a perception of credibility. Confidence will not return in any environment where there is an expectation that heavy, but unknown, shoes will drop soon‚Ä¶. Denial as policy in support of confidence is counter-productive. What, then, should be done?‚Ä¶ First, the traditional tools of macroeconomic policy‚Ä¶. It may well be necessary, and planning should begin now, to enact further fiscal stimulus measures. If this proves necessary, high priority should be attached to supporting heavily strapped state and local governments so as to be able to maintain their level of spending. Monetary policy faces complex challenges‚Ä¶. We have already engineered negative real interest rates. There is probably further to go. But in a world with excess capacity--and in a world where the constraint on the provision of credit is not that borrowers cannot afford it but that suppliers are reluctant to provide it because of the losses they have recently suffered--we should not exaggerate the potential benefit of further reductions in interest rates, appropriate as they are. Macroeconomic policy‚Ä¶ can address the Keynesian vicious cycle and perhaps‚Ä¶ mitigate the credit accelerator‚Ä¶. But it cannot and will not, in and of itself, address the positive feedback coming from cascading liquidation. The second area where we need more aggressive policy is with respect to the housing and mortgage markets‚Ä¶. The key determinant of foreclosures is the behavior of house prices and the decline in the value of house prices, rather than the income and cash flow circumstances of the borrowers. The essential policy dilemma is this: Foreclosures are enormously costly‚Ä¶ on the order of 40% of the mortgage being foreclosed‚Ä¶. We expect that there will be on the order of 15 million houses with negative equity‚Ä¶. Many people with negative equity will continue to pay their mortgages on a regular basis in order to avoid foreclosure‚Ä¶. The policy challenge is to find ways to target foreclosures without inducing potential non-payment‚Ä¶. I have concluded that [we need] a modest set of changes in the bankruptcy law‚Ä¶ [it is] ironic and probably inappropriate that our bankruptcy law is currently contrived so that a wealthy person with a second house receives more protection from his creditors on the second house than a less-wealthy person with only a principal residence receives from his creditors‚Ä¶. I am sure that it would be desirable to provide substantial funding to state and local governments to permit them to purchase foreclosed homes, convert them into rental housing so as to save potentially distressed neighborhoods and so as to allow them to experiment and see whether there are schemes in which they can provide financial support or guarantee authority to enable reductions in the level of foreclosure. I believe careful study should be given to a number of proposals that are now out there for repurchasing mortgages, writing down their value, and passing the benefit on to homeowners to see if they can be carried out in a way that is financially responsible and will be productive, rather than counterproductive‚Ä¶. Regulatory policy. Regulation has not been a success over the last decade in this sphere. It is, to me, less obvious than to many others that the right general conclusion is that this is a warrant for more regulation rather than for less. The institutions that have behaved the most imprudently‚Ä¶ are the most heavily regulated‚Ä¶. But the question of overall financial regulation is a question for tomorrow. The question for today is what to do about the financial institutions that are currently under such stress‚Ä¶. History has demonstrated again and again‚Ä¶ that policies that have as their premise seeking to maintain asset values by avoiding market-to-market in order that institutions will in an accounting sense have more capital and, therefore, lend more vigorously, are policies that are usually overwhelmed by history‚Ä¶. Far better to promote transparency to engage in capital forbearance explicitly, if that is judged to be the right policy so as to encourage lending--as it may well be--and to place urgent emphasis on insisting on the raising of the new capital that is the only mechanism through which this liquidation vicious cycle can ultimately be controlled‚Ä¶. Three final thoughts: The fiscal stakes here are not small. Past financial crises have, in the end, been resolved at costs of several percents of GNP‚Ä¶. I hope that that will never prove necessary with respect to this crisis. I believe it is more likely not to be necessary if policy moves forward aggressively. I have talked‚Ä¶ of these issues as an abstraction. As a Recession. As a Cyclical Down-Turn. As Declining Asset Values. Make no mistake: there will be millions of people who have never heard of a CDO or a CLO and who think triple A refers to the American Automobile Association whose lives will be very much affected by the wisdom with which macroeconomic financial policy is made‚Ä¶ the difference between staying in a home and the humiliation of a bailiff removing one‚Äôs kids from one‚Äôs home‚Ä¶ the difference between having a job and not having a job, between being able to afford to borrow and not being able to afford to borrow. The stakes are not small. Finally, I would suggest to you the stakes are not small for our country‚Ä¶. We are in a difficult period‚Ä¶ when errors of hubris going back 10 or 15 years have cost us very substantial goodwill in the world‚Ä¶. Much of our strength derives from the strength, resilience, and vigor of our economy which, in turn, depends on the successful and effective functioning of our financial markets. With that in doubt, it is critical that there be a bias towards aggressive and effective action.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderTyler and Cameron Winklevoss are most famous for controversial role in Facebook's founding story. The pair won a lawsuit against Facebook after stating that Mark Zuckerberg stole the idea for the social network. The lawsuit ended in a settlement which made the twins rich. They were given $20 million in cash and $45 million in Facebook stock, according to The Wall Street Journal. That stock is now worth about $200 million. WSJ's Christopher Ross interviewed Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss about what their days are like now that they're running an investment firm and helping startups get off the ground. The profile is brief, but it lists some unusual facts about the twins. Here are three that stood out:
The U.S. Census Bureau has a ton of fantastic data visualizations, and one that is completely striking is the Bureau's look at median income by county. The national median income is $51,914. However, there's a huge range. Some counties are remarkably poor and others are remarkably wealthy. What was particularly interesting was using this tool to isolate some of the most super-wealthy regions of the United States. Since rising income inequality is such a profound issue, finding the counties that benefitted the most from it is an interesting task.† The result was striking, and goes to explain a long way why the folks in Washington D.C. don't seem to care about this issue ó mostly, because they seem to have no concept of it. In this map, the green-shaded counties are the only counties in America with median household income above $100,000 U.S. Census Bureau Of the six counties in the United States with median income greater than $100,000, of course four of them are in the D.C. metro area.† That's the Beltway Bubble for you in a nutshell.†
The wordplay-loving editors at The New York Post graced today's cover with this little quip about Twitter's IPO filing. New York Post
Average daily turnover is a mind-numbing $5.3 trillion. ¬†In three days foreign exchange turnover is sufficient to cover world trade in a year. The BIS conducts the survey every three years. ¬†The last survey in 2010 found daily turnover was about $4 trillion. The US dollar's turnover alone is larger than that now. ¬†In 2007, the average daily turnover was $3.3 trillion. ¬†In six years then, the turnover has increased by 60%. ¬†Some observers are concerned that the post-crisis regulatory environment was going to curtail financial activity. ¬† Evidence must be sought elsewhere, outside of foreign exchange, the largest of the capital markets.¬† Despite cries that the dollar is being replaced by the euro or Chinese yuan, the BIS data shows nothing of the kind. ¬†The dollar is by far and way the most actively traded currency and is on one side of 87% of foreign exchange trades. ¬†The euro and yen have kept their status as #2 and #3. ¬† ¬† Of particular note is the rise of the Mexican peso and Chinese yuan into the top ten most actively traded currencies. ¬†It is the first time. ¬† A rising tide lifts all boats, so to speak. ¬† Increased turnover means that it is not a zero-sum exercise. ¬†That is, the increased turnover of the peso and yuan does not mean a diminished role for the major currencies.¬†
The Lehman Brothers sign that hung above the now-defunct investment bank's European headquarters in Canary Wharf is hitting the auction block again. On September 17th, two days after the fifth anniversary of the demise of Lehman, the sign will be auctioned off in London by Christie's. † It's unclear who the current owner is because they wish to remain anonymous. †They did pay a lot for the sign during the first auction, though.† Back in 2010, the metal sign sold for†£42,050 (or $66,439). †It was estimated to bring in only†£2,000 - £3,000 (or $3,100 to $4,500).† Now someone else will get a chance to have a piece of Lehman memorabilia in their home or office.† AP Images
So how much are Twitter's privately held shares currently trading for? As high as $30 and as low as $16, insiders say. The New York Times noted that Twitter's own employees were taken by surprise at yesterday's news the company was going public. It also reported what price per share Twitter was trading at in private "secondary" markets that only insiders have access to: Firsthand Tech Value Fund has bought more than one million Twitter shares on the secondary market, acquiring them at an average cost of $17 a share, which the portfolio manager Kevin Landis said valued Twitter at around $9 billion. It most recently bought shares earlier this year for about $16.50 a share. Michael Pachter, an analyst at WedBush Securities, said Twitter is now valued at $15 billion to $16 billion based on buying in the private market. ìOver the last couple of months, shares in the secondary market have risen to between $20 and $30. Thatís what the private market values it right now, not that investors have any information, but thatís what they are willing to pay.î Goldman Sachs is leading the underwriting,† JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley will also likely have a role. Business Insider noted yesterday that a $20 billion valuation of the shares would put Twitter at about 17 times revenues ó which seems steep but puts it right where Facebook and LinkedIn are trading.
APMichigan head coach Brady Hoke reacts on the sideline after a Michigan miscue in the fourth quarter of an NCAA college football game with Notre Dame, in Ann Arbor, Mich., Saturday, Sept. 7, 2013.LATEST: The¬†preliminary results from the University of Michigan's September consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index dropped to 76.8 from August's 82.1 reading. Economists predicted a tick down to 82.0. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 91.8 from 95.2, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 67.2 from 73.7. Inflation expectations one year ahead rose to 3.2% from 3.0%, while inflation expectations five years ahead edged up to 3.0% from 2.9%. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
Even though Friday the 13th is considered to be an unlucky day, it's not a bad day historically for the market.¬† Markets guru¬†Art Cashin,¬†UBS¬†Financial Services' director of floor operations at the NYSE, writes in his morning newsletter¬†Cashin's Comments that there's usually a "mild upside bias" on this day. ¬†He notes that the market is up 50 to 60% of the time. ¬† Bespoke Investment Group has a table showing the market stats from previous Friday the 13ths:¬† Bespoke Invest FT's markets editor Chris Adams has more stats:¬† Friday the 13th: 52.1% of the time the S&amp;P 500 goes up for the day, but on Fridays it is 54.5%, and on Friday the 13th average is 56.25% ¬† Over the past 144 Friday the 13th days, market has been up 81 times, averaging 0.6603% gain, the best being a 3.34% gain on Oct 13, 2000.
REUTERS/ Jason ReedA new Wall Street Journal/NBC poll shows that 44% of Americans don't believe that Congress should raise the debt ceiling ‚Äî a troubling sign that suggests a large chunk of Americans don't understand the consequences that would come from that decision. Almost no one says that the U.S. shouldn't raise the debt ceiling, from House Speaker John Boehner to President Barack Obama. Boehner and other Republicans want to use the mid-October deadline to extract some concessions from the administration ‚Äî a delay in implementation of the Affordable Care Act, or more long-term spending cuts. Obama and Democrats want a "clean hike," and he says that he won't negotiate over the debt limit like he did in 2011. Hitting the debt ceiling isn't a realistic option ‚Äî save for a small caucus of Republicans who think that "prioritizing" payments is an option. But really, Boehner is just looking for the White House to blink ‚Äî and trying to get a deal that satisfies enough of his conservative base. He has promised a "whale of a fight" ‚Äî but first, Republicans need to figure out their strategy for passing a bill to avert a government shutdown by Sept. 30. Economists agree that failure to raise the debt ceiling would be a catastrophe, and cost of even a temporary delay are estimated at a whopping $20 billion. The debt-ceiling fight in 2011 cost the U.S. a downgrade in its credit rating. But Friday's poll suggests that public ignorance over the issue could be a boon for Republicans in any negotiations. Only 22% think that Congress should raise the debt ceiling, and opponents outnumber supporters by a 2-to-1 margin.¬† If the 2011 negotiations are any indication, public awareness could grow as the debt ceiling gains more attention and as the consequences become clearer. In a June 2011 NBC/WSJ poll, Americans opposed raising the debt ceiling by a 39-28 margin. A month later, Americans supported it by a 38-31 margin.
A gentlemen's agreement between hedge fund titans Steve Cohen and Izzy Englander not to poach employees from each other appears to be over. At least three investment professionals have left Cohen's embattled Stamford, Conn.-based SAC Capital Advisors for Englander's multistrategy shop Millennium Partners in Manhattan in recent months, according to people familiar with the situation. Alexey Chentsov joined Millennium this month as a portfolio manager focused on quantitative investments in foreign exchange and fixed income. Chentsov was a quantitative analyst at SAC from February 2004 to April of this year. And Santiago Falconi, an analyst at SAC with the firm since March 2006, also left recently to be a portfolio manager at Millennium; he will join in January. Both men will work for Andres Anker, a portfolio manager at SAC who left in June for Millennium after nearly 10 years under Cohen, according to people with knowledge of the firm. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, and Carly Westerman, a spokeswoman for Millennium, declined to comment. Chentsov, Falconi and Anker did not respond to requests. The moves aren't a major change to either firm but underscore the upheaval SAC faces since running into trouble with regulators. The U.S. government filed a criminal fraud charge in July against SAC for allegedly fostering a culture on insider trading. The firm has contested that and related charges. Millennium has more than 1,300 employees and 140 specialized trading teams managing $18.5 billion in assets. And SAC runs almost $14 billion as of July 1 using about 1,000 employees, including 125 long-short equity portfolio management teams plus an undisclosed number of quantitatively oriented PMs. The Millennium International Fund is up 7.13 percent through July, according to a person familiar with the returns. SAC has gained more than 11 percent through August. SAC's assets under management will likely fall to between $9 billion and $10 billion--mostly Cohen's own money--by early 2014 as investor redemptions are processed. SAC recently moved to retain investment staff, increasing base pay to a minimum of $300,000 in 2014‚Äîup from $200,000 in 2013--and adding an incentive bonus of 3 percent for work this year, according to a recent CNBC report. Several departures preceded those pay increases. In August, SAC cut one unit, Parameter Capital Management, run by portfolio managers Glenn Shapiro and Anil Stevens. Stevens is leaving to launch his own fund, according to Reuters. The move was planned before the Securities and Exchange Commission filed charges against SAC. Many investors have redeemed their money from SAC in the last year. Accordingly, SAC cut about a dozen people on its marketing and investor relations staff in August. Those departures included Chris Rae, a director who had been with the firm since 2008. Rae did not respond to a request for comment. Headhunters say it makes sense for SAC employees to consider leaving the firm. "It would be clearly sensible for anyone at SAC to be exploring other options right now and to be putting their candidacy in early for 2014 hires," said Bob Olman, founder of hedge fund-focused recruiting firm Alpha Search Advisory Partners.
Flickr / DaniJaceBofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett ñ the one who coined the term "Great Rotation" ñ takes a gloomy view of the future in his latest note to clients: The Next 5 Years: Curb Your Enthusiasm  Significant monetary stimulus, the end of fiscal austerity, a booming housing market, a cheap dollar, record corporate cash balances...if the US economy does not significantly accelerate in coming quarters, it never will. We assume it will, and favor assets (e.g. equities), sectors (e.g. banks) and markets (e.g. Europe) that have lagged in the ìHigh Liquidity-Low Growthî world of recent years.  Asset price will not do as well in the next 5 years, no matter what the ìnouveau bullsî say. Central banks will be less generous, corporations less selfish. And when excess liquidity is removed it will get ìCRASHyî. The dollar and (temporarily) volatility will be the last assets to surge as Deleveraging ends and an era of Normalization begins. In short, don't expect stocks to go on an awesome tear over the next few years as they have in the past few years, beware of a market crash, and watch developments in the U.S. economy closely.
Groupon founder, and former CEO, Andrew Mason had an interesting reaction to Twitter's confidential IPO.¬† Confidential S1s? But what could be wrong with releasing 100s of pages of new financial and strategic co. info to the Internet while gagged? How is the SEC going figure out proper accounting treatment without the help of Techcrunch guest bloggers? Groupon's IPO was a messy process. The company was shredded by the press, often called a "Ponzi scheme." It used a controversial accounting metric called ACSOI, which tracked profitability if you didn't include marketing costs. This was a preposterous metric since Groupon was all about marketing costs.¬†The SEC forced it to redraft its S1, which is the IPO filing.  While Groupon was being attacked, Groupon had to be abide by the SEC's quiet period rules, so Mason couldn't explain the company's decisions. However, he¬†sent out an email to employees that became public and he was investigated by the SEC for that.¬† Twitter will avoid a lot of the hype, and insults, by doing a confidential IPO. Its S1 won't be out until 21 days before the company hits the road to sell its stock to investors.¬†
Advance August retail sales data are out. Total sales rose only 0.2% in August, below consensus expectations for a 0.5% gain. However, July sales growth was revised up to 0.4% from 0.2%. Sales excluding automobiles rose 0.1%, below estimates for a 0.3% advance. July sales growth excluding autos was revised up to 0.6% from 0.5%. Excluding autos and gas, sales rose 0.1%. Economists predicted a 0.3% gain. July sales growth excluding autos and gas was revised up to 0.6% from 0.4%. The retail sales control group, which goes into the calculation of GDP, rose 0.2%, below expectations for a 0.3% advance. In July, the control group rose 0.5%. Click here to refresh for the latest ¬ª
The White House denies this morning a report in the Japanese newspaper Nikkei overnight that President Obama will nominate former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers for Federal Reserve chairman next week. *White House: Reports In Japanese Press That Obama Is Set To Name Larry Summers as Fed Chairman Are Wrong Last night, a report in Nikkei saying Obama planned to nominate Summers as early as next week¬†moved markets, causing weakness in bonds and gold on the prospect that Summers would take a more hawkish stance toward monetary policy as Fed chair than Yellen would.
REUTERS/Toru Hanai From Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus, here are the top topics this morning: Good Morning!¬† There was a Huge rally in the $ and Yields overnight on headlines Summers to be nominated next week ‚Äì both have mostly reversed as traders man their desks (This is well expected by the markets at this point) ‚Äì US futures are mixed, with NDX outperforming again despite AAPL being marked lower.¬†¬† EU markets are mostly weaker, with only the DAX near unchanged in very light trading (Yom Kippur begins at Sundown), as headlines spark selling in Italian Banks (LCH Clearnet changes) ‚Äì In Asia the Nikkei was up small in heavy volume, as the Yen fell against the Dollar on Summers chatter.¬† EM Asia retreated however on Summers tapering concerns ‚Äì with Indonesia off 1%, Sensex off 25bp, and Malaysia mostly flat.¬†¬† To be honest, just shows that Summers is well expected as Nikkei headlines hit well before these markets closed.¬† US Yields are flat, retreating off the initial Summers spike ‚Äì and the DXY, while well off overnight peaks, is elevated, providing a headwind to commodities.¬†¬† Gold continues it‚Äôs weakness as we head into Summers Nomination and FOMC next week, snapping under the 50dma causing technical selling ‚Äì and the Gold Miners are all marked lower again on the metal‚Äôs collapse and continued angst in South Africa.¬† The Crude Complex is under pressure, but Brent well outperforming WTI (Dollar move) as Syrian headlines showing mixed progress.¬† While Friday the 13th is considered an unlucky day in Western superstition, Bespoke notes since the Bull Market began in March 2009, On Friday the 13th the S&amp;P 500 has averaged a gain of 0.01% with gains in only three out of seven occurrences.¬† For the sake of comparison, the average change of the S&amp;P 500 for all days during this bull market has been a gain of 0.09 with positive returns 56.3% of the time. For more on what's going on, see 10 things you need to know before the opening bell.
The big news overnight is that the Japanese newspaper Nikkei said that Obama will name Larry Summers Fed Chair (according to its sources) and that the announcement could be as early as next week. Remarkably, the report moved markets. From Potomac Research Group: LARRY SUMMERS, MARKET MOVER:¬† Every breathless media report on the Fed Chairmanship apparently will move the markets.¬† A report overnight from the Nikkei business daily asserted that Larry Summers will be nominated soon (our friends at Nikkei apparently have overlooked the enormous challenges to his nomination that would arise in the Senate).¬† Amazingly, this report has rallied the dollar, based on a view that Summers would be less dovish than Janet Yellen.¬† Good grief . . . Here's the overnight chart of gold. Gold
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Bloomberg TVKatie Jacobs Stanton, head of international at Twitter.Twitter filed for its IPO using a new confidential process, so few people are privvy to the company's exact financial performance yet. But word travels fast, and according to a note this morning from Sun Trust analyst Robert Peck, a sharp Wall Street analyst who has made good calls on both LinkedIn and Facebook, the scuttlebutt is the following. The early Twitter IPO "price talk" is $20 billion. This would be 17-times Twitter's projected 2014 revenue of $1.2 billion. We don't have precise information yet on Twitter's financials over the past few years, but the company's growth rate is said to be about 100% per year. So the projection of $1.2 billion of revenue in 2014 would be up from, say, $600 million this year. (We'll know more when we see the filings). A multiple of 17-times 2014 revenue, meanwhile, compares to 2013 revenue multiples of 15-times for Facebook and 19-times for LinkedIn. So this price would be in the ballpark of where similar companies are trading. (The Twitter multiple is a "forward year" multiple, so Wall Street analysts should eventually use 2014 revenue projections for Facebook and LinkedIn for comparison. But at first glance the initial price chatter doesn't seem preposterous. It also doesn't seem cheap. But they're not going to give Twitter away...) One thing that Twitter has going for it, especially relative to Facebook, is that it's going public much earlier in its growth curve. Facebook already had $4 billion in revenue when it went public, and its revenue growth was decelerating rapidly. Wall Street hates deceleration, which is why it was hard to understand why investors were willing to pay so much for Facebook's IPO. Twitter's revenue growth, meanwhile, should still be accelerating, or at least holding at near a triple-digit rate, when the company goes public. And Wall Street goes bananas about growth like that.
The great age of refinancing your mortgage at insanely-low rates is coming to an end. And people know it. Via SoberLook, here's a chart of Google Searches for the term "Mortgage Refinance." SoberLook
Kris Wilson on FlickrHeads up. The most important economic datapoint of the week is coming out today. It's retail sales for August. Here's a preview from Nomura: Retail sales: Vehicle sales increased to its highest level in six years in August and seasonally adjusted gasoline prices also rose. These indicators point to an increase of 0.5% in headline retail sales in August (Consensus: 0.5%).¬† Excluding autos, we expect retail sales to increase by 0.4% (Consensus: 0.3%). Consumer confidence held up in August supporting our expectation that control retail sales (sales excluding gasoline stations, autos, and building materials) rose by 0.3% (Consensus: 0.3%).¬† Meanwhile, this should also be interesting. University of Michigan consumer sentiment: This index of consumer sentiment decreased in August as more households reported income declines than increases for the first time in five months and consumers reduced their expected pace of economic growth. Consensus expects the sentiment index to decline slightly to 82.0 in the preliminary September report from 82.1 in August.
Wikipedia user Emoke DÈnes For the last couple of weeks, it looked as if the good ol' days might be back for gold. It had surged back to $1400, and there was just the right level of Syria-related angst and economic uncertainty to help it stay buoyed. But Syria is less of a concern than it was two weeks ago, and there's more chatter about synchronized global growth (U.S., Europe, China all moving in the right direction at the right time). So gold is falling again. In a few sentences, Nomura's Tyler Broda makes the case that the gold rally is over, and that it will be an ugly 2014. Goldís rally in the summer has occurred into rising real yields, suggesting that there is potential for some snapback. However, in our view, gold has now made most of its move, for now. We continue to be bearish on gold for 2014. Our strategists and economists expect real interest rates to increase and market conditions to improve. Persisting gold supply and slumping central bank demand add to the less than constructive fundamental conditions. Meanwhile, gold is tanking again today ª
One of the more interesting things during the recent recovery is that it has occurred almost entirely without aid from government employment. † The USA lost 8.6 million jobs during the financial crisis (from peak to trough) and has recovered about 6.7 million of those jobs. †The private sector has recovered 7.4 million of those jobs all on its own. †But whatís interesting is that the government has actually shed 700,000 jobs since the 2008 peak. Now, the reason this is unusual is because this almost never happens during a recovery. †For instance, if we look at recoveries in the last 30 years you see a distinct trend in government employment. †One of the largest automatic stabilizers in the economy is the government workforce. †When private jobs decline and recession occurs the government tends to just plug along. †But not this time around. †The government has been a big detractor from employment growth during this recovery. Of course, the government has also run consistent trillion dollar deficits during this recovery so itís not like this has been austerity, but for all the people discussing how bad the job market is, well, hereís one of your primary reasons relative to past recoveries. †If the government had done what it normally does and employed more people during the recovery then the unemployment rate would be a lot lower, weíd be above our all-time highs in non-farm payrolls and thereíd be a lot less talk about Food Stamps and how miserable the recovery has been. Orcam
From Goldman Sachs, a useful reminder of what's driving the stock market this year. Mostly rising PE multiples, not actually better earnings. Goldman Sachs
Gold is really getting whooped these days. It was recently around $1400 again, and all the gold bulls thought the good ol' days were back. But it got shellacked yesterday, and it's lower again too. It was down even more earlier in the day ‚Äî perhaps on the report that Obama will nominate Larry Summers to Fed Chair as soon as late next week and the perception that Summers is more hawkish than Yellen. Still it's lower than yesterday, and headed down. Kitco
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque Japanese newspaper Nikkei says that Obama is going to nominate Larry Summers to be the Fed chair, and that it could happen as soon as next week. The article is here, although behind a paywall. Says Reuters: The newspaper, quoting unnamed sources, said in its original Japanese version that Obama was "in the final stages" and moving toward naming Summers. The English-language version said the president "is set to" name Summers as early as late next week. At this point, there will be no surprise at all if Summers gets the nod, given the endless stories about how he's the favorite. Also the timing of "late next week" sounds plausible, as that would mean right after the two-day Fed meeting, when the "tapering" is expected to be announced.
