Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke's term at the head of the U.S. central bank is up in January, and the search is on at the White House to find his replacement. Though he will be remembered as a soft-spoken, unimposing, professorial figure, the Fed head has definitely had his moments. Bernanke took over the helm of the Fed in 2006. Only two years into his term, he presided over the worst financial crisis and ensuing recession in 80 years, and was forced to rely on experimental monetary policies that had never been tried before in an attempt to bring the American economy back to life. Luckily, Bernanke was relatively well-equipped to handle the situation, and in recent years has taken extraordinary action to stabilize markets and the economy. Here are 16 times when Ben Bernanke was a total badass. flickr/Karin Beil YouTube/CBS 60 Minutes YouTube/CBS 60 Minutes Dealbreaker REUTERS/Jim Young Paul Krugman REUTERS/Joe Pavel/Federal Reserve Board/Handout Time REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque The Atlantic Foursquare/William D. St. Louis Fed REUTERS/Price Chambers  REUTERS/Jason Reed REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke addresses a news conference following the Fed's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington September 18, 2013. The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it would continue buying bonds at an $85 billion monthly pace for now, expressing concerns that a sharp rise in borrowing costs in recent months could weigh on the economy.
AP It's happening again. The clock is ticking amid yet another fiscal showdown between President Obama and Congress, which is making noises about shutting down the government, or not raising the debt ceiling unless some concession is made. The most famous of these showdowns came in the summer of 2011, when the Tea Party-infused GOP took the debt ceiling fight down to the wire, only to relent once Obama and the Democrats agreed to automatic future spending cuts (which we now call the sequester). This time we're getting a fiscal two-step: At the end of September, the government will shut down unless a "Continuing Resolution" is passed. A little bit after that the U.S. will hit the debt ceiling. Not only do we have two "events" in rapid succession, but there's a twist: Texas Senator Ted Cruz and a band of fellow travelers are promising to block the continuing resolution (in other words shut down the government) unless somehow the Congress passes (and Obama signs) a bill that would defund Obamacare. Now if you think there's any chance that Obama will sign a bill to defund his signature program, on the eve of it going into effect, you're probably living on another planet. But on the other hand, Republicans in the age of Obama are not known for being compromisy. It's smash-nose politics all the way down. Except, oddly, the Republican party is pissed off at Ted Cruz. See, Cruz has been making life kind of miserable for a lot of House Republicans all summer by holding rallies, and pressuring them to vote to defund Obamacare. Essentially he's being an interloper from the Senate, getting in the House's business. Eventually, this week they did successfully hold a vote that would keep the government funded at current levels of spending, with the exception of Obamacare. But after that it all went downhill for Cruz and the GOP because now the bill has no chance to pass in the Senate. House Republicans (and also conservative pundits) are flipping out at Cruz because they see only bad options from here. Either conservatives surrender on the issue, or there's a government shutdown. And it's this government shutdown possibility that has everyone freaking the hell out. Charles Krauthammer declared that the Republican party will end up as "sushi" if this fight to defund Obamacare ends up shutting down the government. The conservative WSJ editorial page calls this a "kamikaze" mission that will play right into Obama's hands. None of the arguments we've seen actually say that a government shutdown would be bad for the country (although it would depress government spending) ... all the arguments are about how bad a shutdown would be for the GOP and how it would be good for Obama. And this gets to the nut of why Republicans are so upset. For the first time since the Tea Party had its big win in 2010, a wing of the party is actually engaging in a fight that puts the party at risk. In the 2011 debt ceiling fight, the GOP was essentially free-rolling (meaning playing risk-free). They could threaten to not raise the debt ceiling knowing that Obama could not afford to actually let that happen. And they knew that the public didn't understand what the debt ceiling was (the public still doesn't), which is why polls show the public not in favor of raising the debt ceiling, even though the consequences of not raising it would be quite severe (far more than a government shutdown, which can be done in an orderly manner, and which doesn't put the service of U.S. debt at risk). Obama can afford to let a government shutdown happen (at least for a few days). The GOP would have to live with what it wrought, and the public would understand exactly what was going on. Threatening to shut down the government over Obamacare is not free-rolling. It's a threat with real consequences. It's a principled threat. That's why your Krauthammers and your WSJs and your Jonah Goldbergs (who says Cruz is engaged in a "long con") are screaming bloody murder. Unlike the debt ceiling battlers, Cruz is putting principles over his party. And that has people apoplectic. Even the CEO of conservative outside group Heritage Action agrees that the anger here is that Cruz is doing something that might hurt the GOP. Michael Needham Ezra Klein makes the correct point at Wonkblog that it's John Boehner who is being more irresponsible than Cruz, because Boehner actually is promising a fight over the debt ceiling (which will come up later) and with the debt ceiling you have the threat of a default and financial calamity. Defenders of the Boehner/debt ceiling approach say that such a fight isn't bad for the country because ultimately the debt ceiling will get raised somehow. But this is crap. First of all, it's logically inconsistent to threaten to not raise the debt ceiling (unless some demands are met) and then argue that such a threat is harmless because ultimately you're going to not follow through with it. Either you're making the threat or not. And if you're making the threat, then you're threatening for the U.S. to not pay some of its bills. But furthermore, just the debt ceiling fight itself has consequences. Summer 2011 showed a collapse in consumer confidence (red line) and what might be characterized as a crash in the stock market (blue line). FRED Bottom line: There are two possible battles for a fiscal fight. One hurts America, but leaves the Republican party looking okay. That's fighting over the debt ceiling, which most people don't grasp. The other causes a brief government shutdown, while making the GOP look terrible on an issue that people grasp. Cruz is launching his fight on the one that makes the party look bad, and that's why conservatives are flipping out at him. It's too much to ask that Washington not have these dumb fights. But if you're going to have one, it should be the one that doesn't pose major systemic risk to the system. Cruz is fighting the right one.
AP It's happening again. The clock is ticking amid yet another fiscal showdown between President Obama and Congress, which is making noises about shutting down the government, or not raising the debt ceiling unless some concession is made. The most famous of these showdowns came in the summer of 2011, when the Tea Party-infused GOP took the debt ceiling fight down to the wire, only to relent once Obama and the Democrats agreed to automatic future spending cuts (which we now call the sequester). This time we're getting a fiscal two-step: At the end of September, the government will shut down unless a "Continuing Resolution" is passed. A little bit after that the U.S. will hit the debt ceiling. Not only do we have two "events" in rapid succession, but there's a twist: Texas Senator Ted Cruz and a band of fellow travelers are promising to block the continuing resolution (in other words shut down the government) unless somehow the Congress passes (and Obama signs) a bill that would defund Obamacare. Now if you think there's any chance that Obama will sign a bill to defund his signature program, on the eve of it going into effect, you're probably living on another planet. But on the other hand, Republicans in the age of Obama are not known for being compromisy. It's smash-nose politics all the way down. Except, oddly, the Republican party is pissed off at Ted Cruz. See, Cruz has been making life kind of miserable for a lot of House Republicans all summer by holding rallies, and pressuring them to vote to defund Obamacare. Essentially he's being an interloper from the Senate, getting in the House's business. Eventually, this week they did successfully hold a vote that would keep the government funded at current levels of spending, with the exception of Obamacare. But after that it all went downhill for Cruz and the GOP because now the bill has no chance to pass in the Senate. House Republicans (and also conservative pundits) are flipping out at Cruz because they see only bad options from here. Either conservatives surrender on the issue, or there's a government shutdown. And it's this government shutdown possibility that has everyone freaking the hell out. Charles Krauthammer declared that the Republican party will end up as "sushi" if this fight to defund Obamacare ends up shutting down the government. The conservative WSJ editorial page calls this a "kamikaze" mission that will play right into Obama's hands. None of the arguments we've seen actually say that a government shutdown would be bad for the country (although it would depress government spending) ... all the arguments are about how bad a shutdown would be for the GOP and how it would be good for Obama. And this gets to the nut of why Republicans are so upset. For the first time since the Tea Party had its big win in 2010, a wing of the party is actually engaging in a fight that puts the party at risk. In the 2011 debt ceiling fight, the GOP was essentially free-rolling (meaning playing risk-free). They could threaten to not raise the debt ceiling knowing that Obama could not afford to actually let that happen. And they knew that the public didn't understand what the debt ceiling was (the public still doesn't), which is why polls show the public not in favor of raising the debt ceiling, even though the consequences of not raising it would be quite severe (far more than a government shutdown, which can be done in an orderly manner, and which doesn't put the service of U.S. debt at risk). Obama can afford to let a government shutdown happen (at least for a few days). The GOP would have to live with what it wrought, and the public would understand exactly what was going on. Threatening to shut down the government over Obamacare is not free-rolling. It's a threat with real consequences. It's a principled threat. That's why your Krauthammers and your WSJs and your Jonah Goldbergs (who says Cruz is engaged in a "long con") are screaming bloody murder. Unlike the debt ceiling battlers, Cruz is putting principles over his party. And that has people apoplectic. Even the CEO of conservative outside group Heritage Action agrees that the anger here is that Cruz is doing something that might hurt the GOP. Michael Needham Ezra Klein makes the correct point at Wonkblog that it's John Boehner who is being more irresponsible than Cruz, because Boehner actually is promising a fight over the debt ceiling (which will come up later) and with the debt ceiling you have the threat of a default and financial calamity. Defenders of the Boehner/debt ceiling approach say that such a fight isn't bad for the country because ultimately the debt ceiling will get raised somehow. But this is crap. First of all, it's logically inconsistent to threaten to not raise the debt ceiling (unless some demands are met) and then argue that such a threat is harmless because ultimately you're going to not follow through with it. Either you're making the threat or not. And if you're making the threat, then you're threatening for the U.S. to not pay some of its bills. But furthermore, just the debt ceiling fight itself has consequences. Summer 2011 showed a collapse in consumer confidence (red line) and what might be characterized as a crash in the stock market (blue line). FRED Bottom line: There are two possible battles for a fiscal fight. One hurts America, but leaves the Republican party looking okay. That's fighting over the debt ceiling, which most people don't grasp. The other causes a brief government shutdown, while making the GOP look terrible on an issue that people grasp. Cruz is launching his fight on the one that makes the party look bad, and that's why conservatives are flipping out at him. It's too much to ask that Washington not have these dumb fights. But if you're going to have one, it should be the one that doesn't pose major systemic risk to the system. Cruz is fighting the right one.
Thousands of personal finance books on shelves today promise to teach you to spend less, save more, invest better, retire earlier, get out of debt faster, and solve just about every financial conundrum in between. But perhaps none said it better than a book published in 1937. Napoleon Hill, a Great Depression-era author and former advisor to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, interviewed "more than five hundred of the most successful men this country has ever known" to figure out the key to their good fortune. He wrapped all of his insights in a 200-page package and published "Think and Grow Rich," which went on to become one of the best-selling books of all time. Don't expect to find any stock-picking or gambling advice in it. Despite Hill interviewing some of the most iconic businessmen of his day, none of his findings involved any particularly hard-to-attain skills. His entire premise is helping people overcome the psychological barriers that keep them from wealth.  "Wishing will not bring riches," Hill writes. "But desiring riches with a state of mind that becomes an obsession, then planning definite ways and means to acquire riches, and backing those plans with persistence which does not recognize failure, will bring riches." In one passage, he sums up six steps to turning a desire for wealth into "its financial equivalent": First. Fix in your mind the exact amount of money you desire. It is not sufficient merely to say “I want plenty of money." Be definite as to the amount. (There is a psychological reason for definite- ness which will be described in a subsequent chapter). Second. Determine exactly what you intend to give in return for the money you desire. (There is no such reality as “something for nothing.") Third. Establish a definite date when you intend to possess the money you desire.  Fourth. Create a definite plan for carrying out your desire, and begin at once, whether you are ready or not, to put this plan into action. Fifth. Write out a clear, concise statement of the amount of money you intend to acquire, name the time limit for its acquisition, state what you intend to give in return for the money, and describe clearly the plan through which you intend to accumulate it. Sixth. Read your written statement aloud, twice daily, once just before retiring at night, and once after arising in the morning. AS YOU READ, SEE AND FEEL AND BELIEVE YOURSELF ALREADY IN POSSESSION OF THE MONEY.  It seems basic, but if you actually compare this to just about any personal finance guide out there, you'll find exactly the same simple steps. They just come with a lot more bells and whistles.  If anything, Hill's book is a reminder that one of the only ways to achieve true wealth is to understand that more often than not our emotions and our mindset are what keep us from succeeding, and that it's our job to come up with a plan to overcome them. "When riches take the place of poverty, the change is usually brought about through well conceived and carefully executed plans," he wrote. "Poverty needs no plan. It needs no one to aid it, because it is bold and ruthless. Riches are shy and timid. They have to be 'attracted.'" This post was originally written by Mandi Woodruff.
A famously depressing chart is the "Labor's Share" of GDP, which shows how much of our total income is going to laborers instead of capital-holders. It's been on a pretty steady downtrend over the last several decades. FRED There are all kinds of theories to explain what's going on, including the decline of unionization and changing technologies, which give more power to owners of capital, and less to people who do actual work. But a new paper unveiled at the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity conference (via Matt Yglesias) says it all basically boils down to one thing: increased overseas competition for manufacturers. So in other words, the explosion of Chinese labor is what's driving down the wages, employment, and bargaining power of their U.S. counterparts. From Brookings: Delving into the data, the authors explore four additional explanations for the decline: From the paper itself, this chart tells the story. The more an industry faces competition from imports, the greater the decline in payrolls. Michael Elsby, Bart Hobijn, and Aysegul Sahin 
One of the most distressing elements of the Fed (Federal Reserve) decision this week is the introduction of a new and embellished notion that the Fed is delaying its reduction of stimulus, or tapering, which is otherwise known as a pathway to some policy neutrality, until the deficit, debt-limit, sequester political fight is resolved. That is a newer element in the Fed's rhetoric. We saw references to it in the Bernanke press conference, and we have since seen additional references.     Think about what this means. It means that the Fed has added a political element into its decision-making process. Fed policy used to be clearly based on economic indicators like the rate of inflation, inflation expectations, market anticipation of inflation, and how inflation was priced into market-based asset prices and other measures.     The other element in Fed policy making has to do with the rate of real growth. That element includes the status of employment, unemployment, the employment participation rate, the employment of part-time workers vs. full time workers, and the labor-related elements that reflect the recovery of the economy. In fact, the Fed set forth policy targets and thus created this notion of targeted “forward guidance." The Fed has said repeatedly that it is targeting an unemployment rate goal of 6.5% and declining, and has reaffirmed that goal. And the Fed has targeted an inflation rate of 2%. It has said and reaffirmed that it would permit inflation to be 2.5% before it would trigger action. That is what the Fed said over and over again for a prolonged period of time.     For the last several years, Fed commentary, minutes, discussions, rhetoric from speakers, and paper presentations did not emphasize that Fed policy would be modified to deal with political impasses. Some of the impasses for which policy modifications were not emphasized included the failure of Congress and the president to agree on debt limits, debt ceilings, sequesters, the defunding of Obamacare, and other machinations. Those antagonistic antics come out of a different quarter of Washington, not the Eccles Building that houses the Fed.     The introduction of politics into Fed decision making creates a new and immeasurable uncertainty. Therefore it creates an uncertainty premium. Remember, uncertainty premia add to volatility in both directions, as we saw in the market explosion following the Fed's surprise announcement and as we saw yesterday. We cannot forecast the degree to which these forces will work to increase volatility in either direction. We got a dose of the negative side on Friday just as we got a dose of the positive side following the Fed’s surprise. Was the Friday selloff due to St. Louis Fed president Jim Bullard’s indicating that the Fed might change its tone very soon and taper at the next meeting? There is no way to know.  Was it due to the congressional impasse?  No way to know.  Maybe it was due to both.     By introducing the notion that Fed policy making has been delayed because of political impasses, the Fed has added another wobbly leg of uncertain length to an already unstable stool. The former legs on which Fed policy was based included an expectations component and other more measurable functions. We knew what they were made of, more or less, and we could measure them. But there is no way to measure the predictability of a politically deadlocked impasse and a structurally flawed political decision-making system.     What has the Fed wrought by not tapering a small amount – say, $10 billion or $15 billion a month? By deferring that decision and mentioning the political impasse risk, the Fed may have has enabled an undisciplined Congress, giving it more leeway to misbehave. Has the Fed removed a pressure, a curb that it could otherwise apply as an independent central bank? Instead it has allowed politics to enter the central bank decision-making process in an even deeper way than politics have already done.     What does all of this mean for policy making? We do not know. The Fed does not know. The markets are only now developing an expectation that the expected tapering will come later but not that much later. Markets assume it will be gradual but are not sure of that, either. When to taper and how much to taper has again become unpredictable. Since Bernanke's press conference, we have seen a range of estimates: some suggest that tapering will commence at the October meeting, others expect it to be initiated at the December meeting, and still others hazard that there will be no tapering until the end of 2014. All are only guesses; no one knows.  How does a market agent make a decision under these conditions?  It is difficult.  Thus risk premia rise and the Fed defeats its own goal of shrinking them.     Now add to this uncertainty the deficit fight. The peaking of the deficit in the US was at an annual run rate of $1.4 trillion. That's right; $1,400 billion of net new federally backed Treasury securities were being created at an annualized rate. The latest budgetary indications from the Congressional Budget Office have led analysts to derive an estimate suggesting that a great deal of that "fiscal drag" is now behind us. It would appear that the annual run rate of the federal deficit is now approximately $400 billion instead of $1,400 billion. That is a huge change.     As of today, the Fed is positioned to continue its asset purchases at a rate that exceeds, on an annualized basis, the entire creation of net new federal debt securities for the US. In other words, the US central bank is buying more than 100% of the net debt instruments created by the US Treasury. Not only are they absorbing the entire deficit, they are also absorbing holdings from other institutions both within and outside the US. The rest of the world sells federal securities to the Fed, a bidder that has unlimited ability to pay for them.     Current Fed policy is very bullish in the short term for market instruments and for those assets that are attached to them, but it is a policy that is very dangerous in the long term. Everyone in the Fed and all market agents know it cannot continue forever.     Here we have arrived at the crossroads of a great debate. The short term is very bullish and driven by policy. That policy now factors in a political sensitivity introduced by the Federal Open Market Committee and the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Long-term, it is an unsustainable policy. We know it cannot continue forever.     We know that when it ends, the wind-down becomes a game of musical chairs. We know the management of that transition will be very difficult. We also know that markets will anticipate the change. They will act before the policy change is announced. And in so doing, they may make the policy change more difficult.  That is what happened in June, July and August.  By waiting to taper, we believe that the Fed has made the next round more volatile.     The Fed is now engaged in a game of musical chairs unlike any other it has conducted in the past. In musical chairs, the music stops, and someone does not get a seat. The Fed is trying to manipulate the game by slightly adjusting the volume of the music. At their last meeting, they maintained the volume after suggesting that they were going to turn it down a notch. When they do turn it down a notch, even in a small way, markets are likely to be very volatile. If on the other hand they do not turn it down a notch, markets are likely to be very volatile. The Fed’s failure to deliver a very small tapering at this last meeting has raised volatility and the market's response to any change in the volume, however small.     We have again raised a cash reserve. We are still buying longer-term tax-free bonds. They remain cheap. All this Fed activity has raised risk premia, and that means the economy will recover more slowly. Had the Fed tapered a small amount in keeping with the expectation that the Fed itself created, risk premia would likely have fallen instead.     That is my opinion (though we cannot test it, since the Fed did not initiate tapering), and it is being applied by this portfolio management firm. Even a $5 billion taper would have sufficed. No taper, however, was a mistake when the Fed is sitting on $2 trillion of excess reserves and the amount is rising monthly.
REUTERS/ Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen, vice chair of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System. Things are looking good for Janet Yellen. According to WSJ, the Fed vice chair just canceled a planned Oct. 1 speech at the NY Economic Club. No reason was given but obviously if she expects to be nominated for Fed chair between now and then, she'll be busy with other stuff. Calculated Risk surmises that she'll be nominated as soon as Monday.
From Calculated Risk, a look at every state's unemployment rate, and how those rates compare to the state's worst level during the recession. CalculatedRisk
It used to be the first million. Now, you only turn heads when you hit a billion. Warren Buffett, the iconic chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, is worth $53.5 billion. He wasn't always. But Buffett started early. When the "Sage of Omaha" was in high school, he spent $25 on a pinball machine that he put in a barbershop. With an eye for a good investment, Buffett ended up selling the pinball machine for $1,200, according to this infographic compiled by eBay Deals. He bought his first stock at age 11 and started at the Wharton School of Business at University of Pennsylvania at age 17. Related: Life Advice From 18 of the Wealthiest People in History (Interactive Graphic) Meanwhile, Elon Musk, the inventor behind Tesla Motors, was born in South Africa and taught himself to program computers as a kid. He had programmed and sold a video game by the time he was 12. Take a flip through the interactive infographic below to see the early career highlights of other now multi-billionaires getting to their first billion. To access the five billionaire slides, first click on the blue text "Click to Enlarge and Interact (+)" and from there you can move through the graphic. via eBay Deals
This may seem counterintuitive, but Deutsche Bank’s researches argue that "moderately" higher rates may actually improve lending. This certainly contradicts the traditional school of thought followed by the Fed, who seemingly became spooked by the recent rate spike. In fact loan growth was beginning to slow even as rates touched historical lows. As the chart below shows the 10yr treasury yield of under 1.5% (weekly average) was reached around the time the rate of growth in US lending had peaked. With a steeper yield curve lending becomes more profitable for banks and return on capital starts to make sense for certain credits that could not be underwritten at lower rates. Is it possible that letting rates rise instead of continuing with the “pedal to the metal” stimulus approach, will actually benefit credit growth? DB: - … moderately higher rates are allowing lenders to ease credit standards for borrowers. In point of fact, last month’s Fed Senior Loan Officer Survey (SLOS) showed an easing of standards across all four major lending categories (i.e., commercial/industrial, consumer, residential and commercial real estate loans). To the extent that higher interest rates allow banks to earn a higher return on their investment—it is notable that most of the rise in rates has been due to a steepening of the curve—then higher yields can actually galvanize lending. In other words, extremely low rates will not stimulate the economy much if banks are only lending to their most creditworthy customers. Consequently, higher rates should correspond to more credit provisioning, which all else being equal should be supportive to real GDP growth. With the supply and demand for credit increasing, we view this as a potentially very powerful tailwind to the economy over the next year or so. The fact that credit is more available, albeit at a higher price, is more stimulative to the economy than when the price of credit was cheaper but unavailable. SoberLook 
You can’t go a day reading financial market news without hearing about the Fed and the “taper”.   The story is generally pretty simple – the Fed is helping to steer stock prices via QE.  And that idea is generally supported by vague charts showing a correlation between the Fed’s balance sheet and the S&amp;P 500.  More recently, this became a story about how the Fed caused a bond market panic.  But earlier this year when discussions about the “taper” began, we started to see markets react oddly.  The bond market sold off as the year progressed and the stock market just continued to shoot higher.  This doesn’t mesh with the conspiracy theories about the Fed and stock prices.  After all, if the rise in bond yields were due  entirely to the “taper” then wouldn’t the same negative behavioral dynamics be impacting stock prices to some degree?  But we haven’t seen any impact of the “taper” on equities.  In fact, equities just continued to surge higher through all this discussion of the taper. So what is the explanation?  How come bond yields have risen while stock prices have risen?  Well, in my opinion, this is just another case of the fear trade losing out.  The market is really an expectations game.  If most people expect the economy and stock market to perform mediocre and it does slightly better than mediocre then you get a year like 2013 where stocks melt higher as things look better than expected.  The rise in yields is also completely in-line with this thinking.  That is, bond traders who expected yields of 1.6% to sustain themselves in an environment with 2% inflation have been wrong. I think some people have a tendency to try too hard to attach every little move in the market to some specific policy.  And the Fed and the “taper” is always an easy explanation that makes sense.  But when you look at the performance of stocks and bonds in 2013 this story starts to look a lot less convincing. FRED
