APSenator Rand Paul took over the Senate floor for nearly 13 hours Wednesday with an old-fashioned talk-till-you-drop¬†filibuster, railing against the Obama administration's drone policy and holding up a vote on John Brennan's confirmation as CIA director.¬† "I will speak until I can no longer speak," Paul began at 11:47 a.m. Wednesday.¬† He didn't end until 12:39 a.m. Thursday, when he closed his marathon speech to thunderous applause. ‚ÄúI would go for another 12 hours to try to break Strom Thurmond‚Äôs record, but I‚Äôve discovered that there are some limits to filibustering and I‚Äôm going to have to go take care of one of those in a few minutes here,‚Äù¬†Paul quipped. Although Paul's filibuster was technically against Brennan's nomination, his remarks focused primarily on civil liberties issues, offering a scathing critique of the Obama's administration's use of unmanned drones, and refusal to rule out military strikes against American citizens on U.S. soil.¬† ‚ÄúWhen I asked the president, can you kill an American on American soil, it should have been an easy answer. It‚Äôs an easy question. It should have been a resounding an unequivocal, ‚ÄòNo,'" Paul said. "The president‚Äôs response? He hasn‚Äôt killed anyone yet. We‚Äôre supposed to be comforted by that."¬† Later, Paul warned¬†about the ambiguity over who could be targeted by drones, suggesting that they could have been used against Vietnam War protesters in the 1960s.¬† "Are you going to just drop a hellfire missile on Jane Fonda?" Paul asked. "Are you going to drop a missile on Kent State?" Over the course of the day, Paul's filibuster became a hotspot for up-and-coming Republicans, with a parade of conservative Senators ‚Äî including Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), and Tim Scott (R-S.C.) ‚Äì taking the floor to support Paul and relieve him of the podium.¬† "You're standing here like a modern-day 'Mr. Smith Goes To Washington,'" Cruz told Paul admiringly as he began his first question of the day. "You must surely be making Jimmy Stewart smile." CSPANIn subsequent appearances, Cruz honored the Alamo, recited Shakespeare, and twice cheered up the fading Kentucky Senator with supportive tweets from the outside world (electronic devices are not allowed on the floor).¬† "You da man. That would be 'd-a-m-a-n,'" Cruz said, reading off one of the tweets. Not to be out done, Rubio made two trips to the Senate floor, advising Paul to "drink water" and quoting liberally from¬†¬†rappers Wiz Khalifa and¬†Jay-Z¬†and¬†"The Godfather." Though other Senators could take the podium to ask questions, Paul was not allowed to leave the floor during the filibuster.¬†Around the dinner hour, he started to show signs of fading, and interrupted his speech to take bites of a candy bar.¬† "I'm already getting tired, I don't know how long I'll be able to do this," he warned. But additional Republican Senators came to Paul's aide as the night wore on.¬†All told,¬†13 Republican Senators, and Oregon Democrat Sen. Ron Wyden, had joined the filibuster by the time Paul yielded the floor shortly before 1 a.m.¬† C-SPANSenate Republican Minority Leader Mitch McConnell capped off the night in hour 12, when he took the floor to announce that he plans to oppose Brennan's confirmation.¬† ‚ÄúThis is a controversial nominee," McConnell said. "Should cloture be invoked, I intend to oppose the nomination and congratulate my colleague from Kentucky for this extraordinary effort." Although Paul repeatedly admitted that his efforts are unlikely to stop Brennan's confirmation, his filibuster was nonetheless historic. Extended talking filibusters are relatively rare in the modern Senate, and Paul was the first Senator to mount one in more than two years.¬†
upload.wikimedia.orgThe Bank of Japan's monetary policy statement is out. And as expected, nothing has changed. The BOJ is keeping interest rates unchanged. Also, it's keeping its asset-purchase fund at ¬•76 trillion. "Japan's economy has stopped weakening," they wrote. Experts don't expect much action until the uber-dovish Haruhiko Kuroda takes the helm at the Bank. Meanwhile, Japan's stock market is still up with the Nikkei north of 12,000.
Several emerging markets remain highly vulnerable to a large weather event turning into a natural disaster, according to a new report by the risk analysis company Maplecroft. And given that NASA predicts a future of increasingly extreme weather events, countries better get on it. Maplecroft's 2013 Risk Atlas atlas ranks 197 countries on their physical and economic exposure to 12 different natural hazards (e.g. flooding, tropical cyclones, earthquakes), as well as their resilience to the socio-economic impacts of a destructive natural event. The countries with high (but not extreme) resilience risk ‚Äî i.e. those in which a natural hazard can quickly become a costly natural disaster ‚Äî include several emerging markets in Asia: Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam, and China. The analysis notes that China and the Philippines (followed by India and Indonesia) "have the most globally significant concentrations of economic assets exposed to major natural hazards."Maplecroft"These countries are not only exposed to multiple devastating hazards, but lack resilience to the impacts and show a poor capacity to bounce back, which could undermine economic growth; disrupt business operations and supply chains," according to the analysis. To demonstrate the impact of resilience, Maplecroft compares the effects of Hurricane Sandy hitting America's east coast and Typhoon Bopha hitting the Philippines. Despite Sandy's strength and size, only 110 people died because the U.S. has a well developed infrastructure and communications networks in addition to sophisticated response protocols. Typhoon Bopha, on the other hand, resulted in more than 1,000 deaths even though fewer people were exposed to the storm‚Äôs path. Furthermore, the U.S. federal government was able to authorize $51 billion in disaster relief despite Congress being in a deficit showdown. So even though 2012 was the least deadly year for natural disasters in the last decade ‚Äî less than 10,000 people died worldwide ‚Äî the analysis recommends that governments, communities, and businesses actively invest in disaster risk reduction as emerging markets become increasingly integral to the global economy. ‚ÄúWith the increasing global economic importance of these nations and their interconnectivity to global markets, a major event in one these financial centers increases the risk of economic contagion,‚Äù Helen Hodge, Head of Maps and Indices at Maplecroft, said in a statement. ‚ÄúIn particular, a limited resilience capacity to ‚Äòbounce-back‚Äô from disasters will amplify this risk and prolong economic down-time.‚Äù
By:¬† John Browne Wednesday, March 6, 2013 In his Congressional testimony last week in Washington, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke took time to downplay the significance of the few dissenting voices on the Fed's Open Market Committee (FOMC). Those statements, combined with an even more dovish statement by Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen earlier this week, clearly reaffirm the Fed's indefinite commitment to $85 billion of monthly quantitative easing. (It is surprising that those figures failed to invoke the attention drawn by the $85 billion in annual cuts detailed in the "sequester"). But the stock markets have gotten the message loud and clear and are setting records on a daily basis. The apparent triumphs of the Federal Reserve in pumping up stock and real estate prices, without triggering a sell-off in the dollar or easily visible inflation, have not been lost by observers around the world. ¬†¬†¬† Many have dubbed the last decade or so to be an era of easy money. As it turns out, that characterization may have been premature. Based on the new crop of central bankers who are primed to take control of the world's financial system, the age of truly easy money may be just getting started. ¬†¬†¬† Many expect that when Bernanke's term expires in January 2014, he will be succeeded by the dovish Yellen. But that's just the beginning. In short order, a host of serial money printers will take up the reins at the world's most important central banks. ¬†¬† In January of this year Canadian banker Mark Carney, a committed Keynesian, was selected to replace Mervyn King as the Governor of the Bank of England in July 2013. Despite a native population of some 63 million people to draw from, the UK's so-called Conservative government has now, for the first time in its history, selected a foreigner to run the Bank. At a salary of some $1,200,000 a year, he will be earning more than that of the heads of the Fed and the ECB combined. Undoubtedly Carney can command such a salary because he can be relied upon to create synthetic Sterling along the lines of Bernanke. Already he is talking of increasing the UK's two percent upper inflation limit. ¬†¬† In a further effort to distort the value of money, the Deputy Director of the Bank of England, Paul Tucker, spoke recently of his idea to engineer negative interest rates. All this is to hold reality at bay.¬†¬† Plagued by over a decade of economic stagnation, Japan has recently elected Shinzo Abe as prime minister, who has virtually promised the most expansionist monetary policy in the developed world. Shinzo made good on his campaign promises by selecting Mr. Haruhiko Kuroda as the next Governor of the Bank of Japan. He is yet another major Keynesian monetary expansionist in the Bernanke mold. The likelihood of extraordinary policy moves in Japan increased with the subsequent nomination of Kikuo Iwata for deputy governor. This week Mr. Iwata told legislators that he favors revisions to Japanese law that would require the Bank of Japan to achieve inflation targets set by the government, or face revocation of its charter. With a national debt already accounting for more than 200 percent of GDP, Japan is prepared to go into uncharted territory. ¬† ¬†¬† At the ECB, the well-known Keynesian monetary expansionist and creator of limitless synthetic euros, Mario Draghi, remains firmly ensconced in office. Indeed, he appears to be overcoming German-inspired austerity measures in the Eurozone. Further, the so-called 'Troika' of the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the ECB, appears to be retreating from its initial Germanic demands for economic austerity and stronger banks. ¬†¬†¬† In retrospect, events of the past few months illustrate a serious spread of Bernanke's policies across the entire developed world. I believe that we are headed for a period of massive asset booms, followed by a debt and bank collapse of unprecedented ferocity. John Browne is a Senior Economic Consultant to Euro Pacific Capital. Opinions expressed are those of the writer, and may or may not reflect those held by Euro Pacific Capital, or its CEO, Peter Schiff. Subscribe to Euro Pacific's Weekly Digest: Receive all commentaries by Peter Schiff, John Browne, and other Euro Pacific commentators delivered to your inbox every Monday!¬† Order today a copy of Peter Schiff's book The Real Crash: America's Coming Bankruptcy - How to Save Yourself and Your Country and¬†save yourself 35%! This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License. Please feel free to repost with proper attribution and all links included. Read more posts on Euro Pacific Capital ¬ª
All the sordid and spellbinding rackets working their hoodoo on the financial scene have obscured a whole other dimension of the fiasco that America finds itself in, namely the way we have arranged the logistics of everyday life on our landscape: the tragedy of suburbia. I call it a tragedy because it represents a sequence of extremely unfortunate choices made by our society over several generations, and history will not forgive the excuses we make for ourselves, nor will it shed a tear for the tribulations we will induce for ourselves by living this way. History may, however, draw attention to our remarkable lack of a sense of consequence in transforming this lovely, beckoning New World continent into a wilderness of free parking. In any case, we‚Äôre stuck with what we‚Äôve done and the question naturally arises: what will we do now? When you show a photo to any random audience of Americans of some ghastly boulevard of strip malls and big box stores, with the many layers of incoherent signage, and ask them what‚Äôs wrong with the picture, they always say ‚Äúeveryplace is the same as every other place‚Ä¶ it‚Äôs all the same!‚Äù That is their chief complaint and it is off the mark. They don‚Äôt get it, really. There are many places and things in the built-by-humans world that are characterized by uniformity or sameness. To the casual observer, the ancient hill towns of Tuscany look virtually identical from 500 meters distance. Montepulciano and Pienza might be as hard to tell apart for the average American tourist as a WalMart in Hackensack from a WalMart in Oxnard. But you will hear very few complaints from tourists about the sameness of the design scheme in the Italian villages: the red tile rooftops on every building, the narrow, twisting streets, the stuccoed masonry walls, the casement windows with their functional shutters, etc. Few American tourists return from Paris grousing that the boulevards were monotonous and gave them a headache. This is because the sameness observed in these foreign places is a uniformity of excellence. The problem in America is different: not just that it‚Äôs all the same, but the same miserably low quality. The parking lots are all equally dispiriting, whether in New Jersey or Santa Cruz. The tract housing subdivisions are all equally inauthentic and lacking in conviction. The big box stores are all equally pernicious. The public realm all over the USA is uniformly degraded (or non-existent). Often these characteristics are summed up as ‚Äúugliness, but it‚Äôs actually worse than that. The built environment is as immersive for people as water is for fish, and the immersive ‚Äúugliness‚Äù of most places around the USA is entropy made visible. It indicates not simple carelessness but a vivid drive toward destruction, decay and death: the stage-set of a literal death trip, of a society determined to commit suicide. Far from being a mere matter of esthetics, suburbia represents a compound economic catastrophe, ecological debacle, political nightmare, and spiritual crisis ‚Äî for a nation of people conditioned to spend their lives in places not worth caring about. Suburbia is also largely behind our current state of political paralysis because it represents a gigantic legacy of sunk costs, investments that have transformed themselves into liabilities. The unwillingness to acknowledge that transition makes it impossible for us to construct a coherent consensus about what is happening and what we might do about it. We ought to know, for instance, that we face a daunting predicament over our oil supply. It‚Äôs no longer cheap. Alas, our drive-in Utopia was designed to run on cheap oil. Hence the clear implication is that suburbia has rather poor prospects going forward. I would actually go further and state categorically that it is a living arrangement with no future. It is in the nature of sunk costs to provoke in people a psychology of previous investment. Having sunk much of our accumulated collective wealth (our capital) in this living arrangement with no future, we are afraid to let go of it, or even reform it substantially. Instead, The Fear of facing our gigantic losses prompts a retreat into denial and wishful thinking. The higher the price of oil goes, the more the economy contracts, the more frightened people get ‚Äî and the more determined to seek solace in magical rescue remedies. Thus, the recent cavalcade of nonsense and propaganda telling the public that shale oil and ‚Äúdrill, baby, drill‚Äù will soon turn America into ‚Äúthe next Saudi Arabia,‚Äù that we are about to become ‚Äúenergy independent,‚Äù that we have ‚Äúa hundred years of shale gas.‚Äù These dishonest memes may be floated by mendacious PR spin doctors in the pay of oil and gas companies, but they wouldn‚Äôt be effective if the public itself wasn‚Äôt so desperate to hear the ‚Äúgood news‚Äù that we can continue living exactly the way we do. The mainstream media falls for it, too, not because they are necessarily paid stooges of the energy companies, but because The Fear affects them as well.¬† The Fear, of course, especially affects American homeowners, most of whose homes exist in suburbia, and who have already been battered by five years of lost equity, lost incomes, calls from collection agents, the scary visitations of re-po men, and all the other now-familiar manifestations of everyday financial terror. Now, it is coming to be understood that there is an additional deeper relationship between the end of cheap oil and the workings of banking and capital. As energy ‚Äúinputs‚Äù to an industrial economy decline, the ability to generate wealth declines too ‚Äî and contrary to conventional ‚Äúwisdom,‚Äù it is not offset by ‚Äúefficiencies,‚Äù high-tech or otherwise. In fact, the decline of true capital accumulation in the USA since the 1970s was offset only by the hypertrophic unnatural enlargement of the financial sector from about 5 percent of the economy to 40 percent today. The sector transformed its original mission of managing and deploying accumulated wealth for purposeful enterprise (a.k.a. investment) to sets of rackets designed to game financial mechanisms (markets, interests rates) in order to get something for nothing. It amounted to a sort of national economic self-vandalism. Much of that putative ‚Äúactivity‚Äù was mere churn-for-fee hanky-panky, the wash-rinse-and-repeat cycles of institutional money managers creaming off profits from the pointless movements of money in and out of accounts. Perhaps even more of the financial sector growth was the ‚Äúinnovation‚Äù of new swindles and frauds, the biggest and most blatant being the housing bubble, a massive ‚Äúcontrol fraud‚Äù in which suburban houses were used to collateralize deliberately mispriced bonds (debt obligations) on the grand scale in order for giant firms to collect insurance on their failure, in addition to other fees and profits garnered for manufacturing and selling the damn things. Much of that story remains shrouded in mystery because no prosecutions were mounted against the gigantic banks involved, there was no effort to pursue the truth or justice, and the statute of limitations clock is rapidly ticking down. What we can say about it is that the rule of law obviously got lost in shuffle, and that the continued absence of the rule of law in banking is a profound threat to civilized life. Computerization was certainly an enabler of these monumental shenanigans, and it produced one startling diminishing return: the inability of banks and governments to accurately report numbers on their balance sheets ‚Äî hugely ironic given the phenomenal math abilities of computers. We find ourselves now in the unfortunate situation where accounting fraud has become the basic operating system of banking and government ‚Äî not a very salutary prospect for managing civilized human affairs ‚Äî while much of the nation‚Äôs business has been reduced to a sorry matrix of rackets. More to the point perhaps is that the diminished accumulation of real wealth due to decreasing inputs of the master energy resource ‚Äî cheap oil ‚Äî has impaired the ability of interest to be repaid on the grand scale. There was a correlation between abundant cheap oil and the creation of abundant credit. That relationship is now broken and there are more paper (or computer) claims against wealth than there is wealth, which is no longer growing, to pay back the debt. Hence, the interventions of governments and central banks to offset this ruinous new dynamic and artificially prop up the price of assets, i.e. collateral subject to liquidation at bargain prices by insolvent debtors. The unintended consequences of this monkey business beats a path straight to currency wars, inflation, loss of legitimacy, political uproar, and knock-on effects easily more disastrous. The breakdown of debt repayment has in turn crippled the crucial and fundamental operations of compound interest in banking, while the dishonest work-arounds by central banks and governments in the form of interest rate manipulations and bailouts have obscured the truth of what is happening: a general failure of capital formation. The bottom line is that our future will be defined as much by capital scarcity as by energy scarcity. They synergize each other‚Äôs failures. Politically, all this mischief has manifested as a campaign to sustain the unsustainable, to keep all the rackets running at all costs, including most particularly the suburban way of life. It is unlikely that we will succeed at that ‚Äî though it does account for the desperation running through the national zeitgeist these days. Rather, the mandates of reality will compel us to comprehensively reform and re-order all the activities of civilized life, and I think how this will occur can be stated plainly and categorically. In Part II: The Essential Elements for A Sustainable Future we lay out the reforms that will be most needed in restructuring our way of life to fit the constraints of the natural world we live in. The good news is, it can be done - and done in a way we have great odds of enjoying more than our current blindly gluttonous modality of living.¬† What you can count on is that we will return to the traditional mode of assembling human habitats, that is, integral,¬†walkable, urban places on the variable scale of village-town-city with work, commerce, housing, and culture woven tightly together in the recognizable form of a real civic organism, not a simulacrum or a cartoon of one ‚Äî places that add up to more than the sum of their parts, places worthy of our affection that we can call ‚Äúhome‚Äù without irony or regret. Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access).
Interestingly, the conversation started before Bitcoin prices went bananas earlier this week. During dinner on Sunday night, Bitcoins were worth about $35 apiece. By the time the conference ended this morning, they had hit $49. That meant that one of the folks who extolled the virtues of Bitcoin to me at dinner on Sunday had booked an electronic profit of 40% on his Bitcoins in three days. Not bad! According to this chart below, though, the value of Bitcoins has now crashed all the way back to $34, so the profit was shortlived. It was presumably nice while it lasted, however. And the price is still much higher than it was a year ago. And many multiples higher than it was two years ago. Bitcoin ChartsBitcoin prices. Click for larger. One of the things that's most fascinating about Bitcoin, I have leaned, is that it entrances fanatical conspiracy theorists, clear-eyed pragmatists, and diehard skeptics alike. The fanatical conspiracy theorists love it because, at least theoretically, Bitcoin represents a "store of value" that is out of reach of the meddling hands of evil currency-debasing central banks and deficit-spending governments--and because it allows them to transact anonymously. The clear-eyed pragmatists love Bitcoin for a similar reason: Over a long time horizon, the value of paper-based currency gets inexorably destroyed. ($0.04 in 1913 bought as much as $1.00 does today). So the world really does need a good store of value. And if Bitcoin's promise is fulfilled, it might be one. The diehard skeptics, meanwhile, think that Bitcoin is just a clever Ponzi scheme and that, eventually, the value of Bitcoins will crash, leaving a bunch of suckers holding the bag. And no one knows for sure who invented Bitcoin. And people have stolen Bitcoins (sort of). So there are elements of fear and intrigue, as well. Anyway, if you're feeling adventurous, you can speculate in Bitcoins or buy things with Bitcoins. Or you can just denounce them. And in case you're new to Bitcoin (I was), here's what Wikipedia has to say about it: Bitcoin (sign: BTC) is a decentralized digital currency based on an open-source, peer-to-peer internet protocol. It was introduced by a pseudonymous developer named Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009.[8][1] Internationally, bitcoins can be exchanged by personal computer directly through a wallet file or a website without an intermediate financial institution.[9] In trade, one bitcoin is subdivided into 100-million smaller units called satoshis.[4] There is a hard limit of 21-million bitcoins in total, which are released at a scheduled rate until the year 2140.[10] Unlike most currencies, bitcoin does not rely on a central issuer, like a central bank or government. Instead, bitcoin relies solely on its software and the peer-to-peer network it builds. To manage funds, it uses a transaction log distributed across its peer-to-peer computer network to record transactions, verify them and prevent double spending. The verification process awards effective bitcoin nodes or "bitcoin miners" with a limited release of bitcoins and transaction fees (if any). This process requires intense computing power, electricity and significant investment as it solves SHA256 hashes through bruteforce to verify transactions and add them to the network's transaction log. Bitcoin is the most widely used alternative currency:[11][3] As of March 2013, the monetary base of bitcoin is valued at over 400 million US dollars.[12][13] Much, much more info and background over on Wikipedia &gt;
Jeff Gundlach, the legendary investment manager at DoubleLine Funds, hosted another one of his very popular public webcasts last night. His presentation ó titled "The Big Easy" ó focused on the distortions that are created by central bank balance sheet expansion.† Gundlach is particularly concerned about what he called "circular financing schemes."† This is when the government issues debt and the central bank buys it. While these efforts may limit economic volatility in the near-term, it never eliminates the risk.† Ultimately, you end up with much larger imbalances later. Here's a rough transcription of the Gundlach's explanation from last night's call: "This is what I call Gundlach's Rule of Investment Risk.† If you run things and you try to get them very smooth, without ever any downside, you're trying essentially to eliminate the frequency of problems.† I believe the frequency of problems times the severity of problems when they occur equals a constant.† Frequency times severity equals a constant.† That is Gundlach's Rule of Investment Risk.† When you try unnaturally to push into the future problems, and quantitative easing is designed to do that, you end up increasing the severity of the problem." In summary: If you think of this in terms of economic recessions, then you can have two scenarios: 1) frequent, yet shallow recessions or 2) infrequent, yet deeper recessions. For now, Gundlach believes the Federal Reserve "will keep [easy monetary policy] going for not months, but years." However, he is worried about what will happen further down the road. "It wont show up until something tails out, which the Fed doesn't think is going to happen," said Gundlach referring to the economic calamity that is being put off.† "I find that to be very disturbing.† I think that running a circular financing scheme cannot work over the long term.† If it does, we've solved all the world's financial problems, but i just don't think that's the going to be the case." Gundlach offered his "Rule of Investment Risk" while presenting the chart below. DoubleLine Funds
jrandallc via FlickrMany analysts agree that home prices have bottomed out. According to the latest data from Fiserv Case-Shiller, National home prices are expected to rise 3.3 percent in the next five years. Of course, there will be many cities that see home prices lag behind the rest of the country. We drew on the Fiserv Case-Shiller data to identify the 15 worst housing markets in the U.S. The bottom 15 cities are ranked by the projected annualized change in home prices between Q3 2012 and Q3 2017. We also included the median home price, median household income, unemployment rate, and the change in home prices since their peak, to offer a broader view of the local economy and housing market. Note: The median family income and home price is for Q3 2012. Unemployment data is as of December 2012, and population data for the metros is for 2011.
As the global risk-on rally continues, stock markets continue to pass new milestones. On Tuesday, it was the Dow Jones Industrial Average hitting an all-time high. Today, it's Japan's Nikkei, which just exploded through 12,000.¬† According to Kyodo News, this is the first time it has happened since September 29, 2008. Later, the Bank of Japan will announce its monetary policy decision. No one's expecting any change in interest rates. Nikkei.com
">APBoth the Bank of England and the European Central Bank will be announcing interest rate policy early tomorrow. We'll also get the latest trade report from the U.S.  Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
After a deal with Meredith Corporation to sell Time Inc. fell apart, Time Warner has decided to spin off the unit and its iconic magazines (Time, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money) into an independent, publicly traded company.† Time Inc. also owns magazines like People, InStyle, and Entertainment Weekly. Along with that announcement came the news that the company's CEO, Laura Lang, has decided to depart. Newsweek obtained a copy of the memo she sent to staff: Todayís news that Time Warner plans to spin off Time Inc. is something that everyone is just beginning to digest. While there are many questions that can only be answered in time, one thing is already clear: the hard work we have done over the past year in maintaining our core business while at the same time becoming more digitally focused has positioned the company well. Time Inc. has incredible talent and great brands that will continue to lead our industry. The planned spin-off has also made me reflect on what is the best path for me and the company going forward. After considerable thought, I have decided that taking the company through a transition to the public markets is not where my passion lies. Jeff has been extremely supportive and I am committed to working together with him on recruiting the right person to lead Time Inc. at the spin. I want to thank all of you for your support over the past year. You welcomed me warmly and jumped in enthusiastically as we charted a course. I look forward to working with you as we continue to make progress. LL
REUTERS/Chip EastHedge fund manager John Paulson's flagship Advantage Fund lost 3.4 percent in February and is down 2.5 percent year-to-date (Ytd), according to Bloomberg. The Paulson Advantage Plus was down 4.7 percent last month, and 3.5 percent Ytd. His gold fund has lost 26 percent since the start of the year, and 18 percent in February. More on that here.  The Paulson Credit Fund, however, was up 1.3 percent in February, and up 4.3 percent Ytd. The Paulson International Fund was up 0.5 percent in February, and 7.2 percent Ytd. And the Paulson Recovery Fund was up 1.6 percent last month, and 5.8 percent year-to-date.
Twitter / @suttonnickThe FT is reporting that British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will give Mark Carney, the central banker set to take over as the head of the Bank of England in June, more flexibility with monetary policy than the BoE currently has. That means changing the remit of the Bank of England. The British government has come under fire for its policies of fiscal austerity lately as the economy continues to worsen. According to the FT report, instead of reviewing fiscal policy, Osborne will stick to "fiscal conservatism and monetary activism." FT correspondents Chris Giles and George Parker have the scoop: Treasury officials are discussing proposals to change the remit of the bank to coincide with the arrival of Mr. Carney as the governor in July, reflecting frustration at what was seen as previous BoE intransigence. ... In the Budget, the chancellor renews the inflation-targeting remit of the BoE and this gives Mr Osborne an opportunity ‚Äì already sanctioned by Sir Mervyn King, the outgoing governor of the BoE ‚Äì to review the 2 per cent inflation target and the bank‚Äôs operations. Options include giving the Monetary Policy Committee greater time to bring inflation back to the 2 per cent target, giving the BoE a Federal Reserve-style dual mandate to target both employment and inflation, and even targeting cash spending in the economy rather than inflation. Changing the central bank's remit has been a topic of discussion lately ‚Äì ever since the announcement that Mark Carney, who has a strong track record with experimental monetary policy as head of the Bank of Canada, was set to take over the BoE. Given the state of the British economy, the debate over both fiscal and monetary policy is hot right now. It looks like the British government is hoping new monetary policy can shoulder the burden of reviving economic activity. Click here to read the full FT report &gt;
westvillagebob / FlickrThe real star of today's Federal Reserve Beige Book report was the shale oil and gas activity reported by the Cleveland Fed (h/t Matt Phillips).† Shale development is cited seven times as an unimpeachable strong growth sector of the U.S. economy. This shouldn't come as a surprise ó we've reported again and again how unconventional oil and gas development has spurred job growth and buoyed housing markets.† This only adds to evidence that the boom is real: "Contacts have attributed some growth to rising demand from sectors related to autos, housing, Marcellus shale, and other energy production."† "In areas with Marcellus shale gas, several banks have described customers paying down loans with royalty money and avoiding further debt by paying cash. Beyond the gas fields, energy projects are attracting substantial investment interest and loan opportunities for larger banks." "Shale gas activity expanded at a robust pace." "Vacancies were found primarily in the shale gas and motor vehicle industries and in professional business services." "[Auto] dealers in the eastern part of the District are apprehensive about losing technicians to the shale gas industry, which may put upward pressure on wages."<U+2028><U+2028> "Conventional oil and natural gas production was steady during the past couple of months, with little change expected during the next quarter. In contrast, shale gas activity expanded at a robust pace... "Shale gas producers expanded payrolls, while employment at conventional oil and gas firms was flat.<U+2028>"
Dean Kaufman/Bloomberg PursuitsSome home designs are inspired by an era or piece of art. The new issue of Bloomberg Pursuits takes a look inside a 7,000-square-foot penthouse in lower Manhattan that was inspired by math. The unconventional space, with sloping walls, hidden lofts, and a 40-foot steel column, was designed by architect David Hotson. Bloomberg Pursuits' Justin Davidson explains how the design was conceived: To help Hotson along, his mathematically minded client sent him his dissertation, about an algorithm capable of discerning the structure underpinning complex sequences of symbols: a Bach partita, a human genome, a sonnet. It turns out that if you feed in enough data, a computer can deduce the principles of counterpoint, heredity and Elizabethan verse. Hotson similarly used raw computing power¬†‚Äî and a 3-D laser scan of the unfinished space¬†‚Äî to render a design that previous generations could hardly have visualized, let alone built. The best part of the house, by far, sounds like the 4-story stainless steel slide that lets riders out near the dining room table. It was installed in two separate pieces, before there were walls or floors. The one question Bloomberg doesn't answer¬†‚Äî who is the mystery owner of the funhouse? If you have a guess, let us know in the comments. Check out Bloomberg Pursuits' interview with Hotson: ¬†
Italian newspaper La Stampa reports that David Rossi, head of communications for Monte dei Paschi, has jumped to his death. According to the report, Rossi was fell from the window of his office into the courtyard of Rocca Salimbeni, where Monte dei Paschi is headquartered. Monte dei Paschi has been¬†dragged down in a derivatives scandal¬†that has taken the Italian political scene by storm recently. La Stampa says Rossi had been raided in the ongoing investigation but was not under investigation himself. Monte dei Paschi ‚Äì the world's oldest bank and one of Italy's biggest ‚Äì had engaged in shady derivatives deals with¬†Deutsche Bank¬†to cover up hundreds of millions of euros in losses, then employed some creative accounting to hide the trades from shareholders and the public. Below is a picture of the courtyard: flickr / fairlybuoyant
Dru! / FlickrAnother all-time high for the Dow. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,296, +42.4 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,541, +1.6 pts, +0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,222, -1.7 pts, -0.0 percent And now the top stories:
WikimediaThis just in from Bloomberg, Blackstone says that it's looking at Dell's books and may enter the deal to the the company private. Blackstone still has time because Dell is still within its go shop period. That's the window of time a public company has to find better offers than the original offer on the table. It usually lasts about one or two months. Right now Dell (with the help of Microsoft and Silver Lake) is going private at $24.4 billion, or $13.65 a share, but some shareholders have said that the company is more valuable. Maybe Blackstone will satisfy them.
Sergio Lora / FlickrCrain's Chicago Business columnist Greg Hinz has a mega feature out this week offering proof that, well-publicized problems aside, Chicago is going through an unprecedented economic boom.¬† Chicago now is outperforming the surrounding area by almost any measure‚Äîjobs, income, retail sales and residential property values, to name a few‚Äîdespite the loss of 200,000 people in the 2010 census.  The city is so hot that this expanded downtown is adding residents faster than any other urban core in America, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. Here are a few key pieces of evidence he notes: Hinz does not dismiss the myriad challenges the city still faces ‚Äî the violence, the school system, rising pension costs to name a few.¬† But many residents have never had it so good.¬† ‚ÄúWhere people live is the most important driver‚Äù of economic development, [Chicago Fed vice president] Bill Testa says. ‚ÄúCompanies are following the talent.‚Äù And right now, for the good of Chicago, if not always the entire region, that leads downtown. Read the full story at Crain's &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Aiming For Mediocre Returns Is The Best Investment Strategy (Abnormal Returns)¬† Aiming for mediocre returns is a better investment strategy than pursuing high returns with an active strategy.¬† This is according to Tadas Viskanta of the Abnormal Returns blog. When you factor in fees and costs, pursuing active returns end up being far less profitable than a strategy that aims for more mediocre returns. According to Barry Ritholz of The Big Picture, "We know that 80 percent or so of mutual fund managers underperform their benchmarks each year. We have seen Morningstar studies that show of the remaining 20 percent, factor in fees, and that number drops to 1 percent." Instead, Viskanta recommends an investment strategy that is "low impact, tax-aware" and "focused on low costs, index funds, broad diversification, portfolio rebalancing." NYSE Margin Debt Is Generating A Huge Sell Signal (Bank Of America) The margin debt at the New York Stock Exchange is rising steadily, following a pattern similar to that of early 2010. The last time this happened, the S&amp;P 500 "corrected by 16% in two months," according to a note by BoFA Merrill Lynch technical analyst Mary Ann Bartels. Take a look at this chart that correlates the S&amp;P 500 and NYSE margin debt: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, NYSE, Bloomberg ¬† REITs Are Generating Double Digit Returns (Wall Street Journal) Stock real estate funds have been performing well for about five years now, but real estate investment trusts, or REITs, are doing even better. Instead of buying buildings or land, REITs buy mortgage-backed securities. And in the past year they've become a more popular investment. The $1.1 billion iShares Mortgage REIT Capped (REM) exchange-traded fund, which is already up more than 12 percent in 2013, saw net inflows of more than $700 million in that last year. "Despite their run, REITs remain attractive to income investors," said Matt Reiner, chief investment officer at Capital Investment Advisors. "But we warn our clients that funds using stock REITs are very different animals than those buying mortgages. "Compared to Treasuries, mortgage REITs are paying much better yields‚Äîand we don't see that trend reversing soon." Visible Risk Is Back, And It's A Good Thing (Advisor Perspectives) Visible risk has reentered the market, said Astor Asset Management's¬†Rob Stein in a note. And since visible risk is, by nature, quantifiable, it is much better than the alternative‚Äî"complete uncertainty," he said. Going forward, now that visible risk is back, markets will react in a rational, "real" manner. "When faced with uncertainty, markets become volatile and follow irrational patterns," he said, "With visible risk, on the other hand, it is far easier to calculate the potential downside and invest accordingly." More Investors Want To Add Collectibles To Their Investment Portfolios (Investment News) The number of high net worth investors who own art and other collectible are on the rise. According to a survey by Barclays, 49 percent of investors with investible assets of $1.5 million or more owned fine art in 2012, up 8 percentage points from 2007.¬† Clients often want to include assets like art or collectibles as a part of their investment strategy, but it isn't a very good idea to do so.¬†Such assets are illiquid, and it's hard to tell exactly how much they are worth.
Business InsiderJeff Gundlach, the brains behind DoubleLine Funds, has been right about most things lately. He has been spot on about Apple, Japan, natural gas, and interest rates among other things. And he's probably right about the value of a college educations. In his presentation last night, he reiterated his point that the college education system is a broken model.¬† In four charts, he showed how tuition costs are exploding higher and delinquencies are surging. And not only have wages not increased commensurate with inflation, wages have actually been falling. "What have all these soaring tuition costs got you?" asked Gundlach rhetorically.
flickr/kanakaAre higher taxes (in the form of the expiration of the Payroll Tax Holiday) hurting the consumer? It's one of the most important questions in the economy. A new survey from Discover ‚Äî its US Spending Monitor for February ‚Äî suggests that consumer activity and outlook continues to improve. Here's the release/data we got via email. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Economic Outlook Personal Finances ¬†Spending Intentions
CNN screengrabLet's talk about Lloyd Blankfein's hair for a minute. The topic came up in Bloomberg's parties reporter Amanda Gordon's latest piece and we were quite amused, to say the least.¬† First, his beard is apparently really, really soft. He's been sporting facial hair ever since the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Anyway, his beard is so soft, that you can rub your cheeks against it.¬† Lloyd C. Blankfein nuzzled his beard against the cheeks of two ladies last night, Dina Powell,¬†Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)‚Äôs head of corporate engagement, and Liz Robbins, a Democratic lobbyist. ‚ÄúI was proving to women everywhere that it‚Äôs really soft, not coarse,‚Äù said Blankfein, 58, chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets. Second, Blankfein, who doesn't have much hair on his head these days, used to have a head of curly hair. He also insists he wasn't fat despite what you may have been told.¬† ‚ÄúIn college, he was fat with big curly hair, and he was very funny,‚Äù Cashin said. ‚ÄúI was not fat. I did have curly hair,‚Äù Blankfein said. We would like to invite him to share those photos with us.¬†
The Dow hit an all-time high yesterday.† The S&amp;P 500, however, has a few more points to go before it hits its all-time high of 1,565. Macro Risk Advisors put together this table comparing the S&amp;P 500 all time high from 2007 to now. It also looks at other assets like housing and measures of risk for the same periods. Gold is up 114 percent, home prices are down 24.4 percent. Macro Risk Advisors
GettyCNBC's David Faber reports that billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn is amassing a huge position in Dell. ¬† According to CNBC, citing unnamed trading sources, Icahn is said to have as much as a 100 million share position, or about a 6% stake. He's expected to file a 13D form, CNBC reported. He is likely to oppose the Dell deal, according to CNBC. He has also spoken to Dell's special committee urging them to pursue a leveraged recap and pay a special dividend, CNBC reported citing their unnamed sources.¬† The stock was last trading up about 1%.
Allen Questrom, the former CEO of JCPenney, shredded current CEO Ron Johnson for what he has done to the struggling department store chain¬†in an interview with CNBC's Scott Wapner today. Questrom is a legend in the retail world. His career included jobs running JCPenney, Neiman Marcus, and Barneys. He totally disapproves of what's happening at JCPenney and he let the world know it in colorful language. "I think it's absolutely crazy that this has gone on as long as it is," said Questrom.  He wants the board to make a move. "The board has got to take some action. They can't be delusional like I think Ron is on this whole transaction," he said. "The sooner they act, the better. There's thousands of people who work for this company and this has been going on long enough." Questrom slammed Johnson's credibility, too. Sales numbers have plummeted every quarter since the new CEO took over and began transforming the company. In fact, Q4 of FY2012 may have been one the of the worst retail quarters ever. "Ron is not a reliable source," he said. "You can't say you're going to make your numbers for the year and then drop a billion dollars and four billion dollars later in sales.¬†So if they think it's going to all of a sudden turn around, there's no way they can have any reliable information because Ron is not a source for that." So, should Johnson be fired? Questrom said that JCPenney "can't continue with the same leadership" if it wants to turn things around. "Is there a chance that it can turn around?" asked Questrom. "Yeah, if you like to bet on a one-in-a-hundred shot or one-in-a-thousand." Watch CNBC's full interview with Questrom below: 
AP Photo/Pablo Martinez MonsivaisThe Federal Reserve's latest Beige Book report, which provides anecdotal data on economic conditions around the United States, paints a mixed picture. One of the things that came up a few times in the report was the Affordable Care Act. In the release, the Fed noted: "Many District contacts commented on the expired payroll tax holiday and the Affordable Care Act as having restrained sales growth...Employers in several Districts cited the unknown effects of the Affordable Care Act as reasons for planned layoffs and reluctance to hire more staff." Below is an excerpt from the Richmond Fed's section of the Beige Book: Labor market activity was little changed since our last report. Hiring remained flat across most sectors, although there were some exceptions. Employers across the District continued to cite the Affordable Care Act and its unknown impacts as reasons for planned layoffs and reluctance to hire more staff. Here is another excerpt from the Dallas Fed's section: Reports from staffing firms were mixed. One contact noted sharp declines in demand for services across the board, while another reported stellar demand that broke direct-hiring records. Outlooks were cautious. Some contacts noted concern that client companies are hiring the absolute minimum to get by due to uncertainty about the Affordable Care Act. On the other hand, it's good news for some health care businesses, according to the San Francisco Fed's section of the Beige Book: Demand for most business and consumer services gained. Contacts pointed to solid sales of various technology services and greater demand for financial and accounting services. Food service providers reported strong sales on net. Activity in the District's tourism and travel sector advanced, with solid growth of visitor counts and occupancy rates reported in Hawaii; however, more modest gains were reported in Las Vegas and Southern California. Current demand for health-care services remained relatively weak, but contacts projected rising demand as additional components of the Affordable Care Act are implemented. Bottom line: the Affordable Care Act does seem to be having an effect on business plans in certain areas around the country. At least, that's what respondents are telling the Fed.
Warner Bros.When DreamWorks Animation released "Rise of the Guardians" last year, the studio took a gamble on a $145 million film about holiday mascots. The film performed poorly opening weekend, grossing $23.8 million¬†‚Äî short of its $60 million expectations ‚Äî and¬†the company's stock dropped five percent.  When fourth quarter earnings were reported at the end of last month, "Guardians" took an $87 million write-down, DreamWorks reported losses of $83 million, and¬†350 employees were¬†laid off. The result shows how much studios have riding on the success or failure of one film. "They [DreamWorks Animation] spend as if every movie they produce is a new 'Shrek,' but it's unreasonable to spend as if you are making big, big tentpoles when you really aren't," Vasily Karasyov, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group,¬†told TheWrap.¬†"They¬†need to cut production and releasing costs to make it less risky." DreamWorks Animation's recent misstep brings other plus-sized studio budgets under scrutiny.¬† Last year, Disney's $250 million "John Carter" bombed opening weekend, grossing $30.2 million. If it weren't for "The Avengers," which went on to become the highest-earning movie of the year with more than $1.5 billion worldwide, Disney would have been in trouble. Movies didn't always cost this much to make. James Cameron broke the mold with "Titanic," which cost $200 million to produce in 1997. It wouldn't be until 2003 that we'd see another big $200 million project with "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines."¬† Since then, there's been a rise in the number of films produced each year with multi-million-dollar budgets.  Granted, the majority of them are sequels, hoping to piggyback off the success of a previous installment, but more recently the films are new fodder inspired by games and fairy tales,¬†which doesn't always result in big box-office magic:¬†"Battleship," "Prince of Persia," and "Jack the Giant Slayer" are examples. marvel.com"Avengers" and "The Dark Knight Rises" led the push of big budget films in 2012. In 2009 there were five films with budgets at or above $200 million ("2012," "Terminator Salvation," "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen," "Avatar," and "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince"). In 2010, six films including two animated pictures cost upwards of $200 million ("Tangled," "Toy Story 3," "Alice in Wonderland," "Iron Man 2," "Robin Hood," and "Prince of Persia"). By 2012, eight films had budgets of $200 million or more. Here's a look at some of the biggest film budgets of the past three years and the differences in how they fared opening weekend:BoxOfficeMojo / Kirsten Acuna, Business Insider As you can see, sometimes the risk pays off. "The Avengers" and "The Dark Knight Rises" grossed more than $2.5 billion combined. So far this year, seven films are estimated to have larger-than-life budgets: Kirsten Acuna / Business Insider Only two in the above list are sequels ‚Äî "The Hobbit" and "Iron Man 3".¬† "Man of Steel" is expected to be another hit coming off of director Christopher Nolan's success with the "Batman" franchise. Disney is hoping "Oz the Great and Powerful" will ride the success of "Alice in Wonderland" in 2011. However, "G.I. Joe: Retaliation" and "The Lone Ranger," were both delayed until this year.  Paramount has "Star Trek: Into Darkness" to fall back on this summer. However, if both "Oz" and "The Lone Ranger" don't fare well in theaters, Disney¬†could be facing similar situations to DreamWorks later this year.
Real estate firm Knight Frank is out with its annual Wealth Report, which is jam-packed with data on how the world's wealthiest people spend money on real estate. The report includes a section on the global cities that matter the most to high-net-worth individuals, defined as people with $30 million or more in net assets. It's based on four criteria: economic activity, political power, quality of life, and knowledge and influence. New York takes the top spot overall, while Zurich has the highest quality of life and Washington DC ranked highest in terms of political power. Knight Frank
John L Scott Real EstateMich Matthews, a former Chief Marketing Officer at Microsoft, is selling her sick 4 bedroom waterfront home in Washington for $9.3 million, says the WSJ. The coolest thing about this property, aside from the waterfront obviously, is that it has a pool house. Not a pool house where you keep pool things and house guests. It's a separate house with a pool inside of it. It even has a dryer with a special bathing suit spinner in it so that everything is drier, faster. The main house is pretty big too, at 10,040 square feet. Larry Williams of John L. Scott Real Estate has the listing.
The Federal Reserve Beige Book is out. The report says the economy grew at a "modest to moderate" pace in February. Most districts reported growth in consumer spending, although retail sales slowed in several districts. Auto sales in most districts were "strong or solid." Markets aren't really reacting to the release. Below is the key section on consumer spending: Consumer spending expanded in most Districts, but several Districts reported mixed or lower activity among non-auto retailers. Sales strengthened in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, and retail sales were higher than a year ago in the Boston, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts. San Francisco reported modest growth in sales, Dallas noted flat to slightly higher sales activity, and New York said retail sales were strong in January but slowed in February primarily due to weather. The Chicago District said consumer spending increased at a slower rate, while Cleveland and Atlanta noted mixed sales activity. Kansas City said retail sales decreased since the previous survey period and were expected to remain flat in the months ahead. Many District contacts commented on the expired payroll tax holiday and the Affordable Care Act as having restrained sales growth. Many Districts noted rising gasoline prices and fiscal policy as having a negative effect on consumer sales, and contacts in the Boston, New York, and Minneapolis Districts said severe weather depressed sales somewhat. Contacts in several Districts reported a shift in sales activity from local malls to the Internet and indicated deep discounting among retailers was becoming increasingly common. San Francisco noted somewhat soft sales for traditional retail grocers, whose competition has increased from discount and online retailers. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt; Below is the full text from the release. ------------------------------------ Most Districts reported expansion in consumer spending, although retail sales slowed in several Districts. Automobile sales were strong or solid most Districts, and tourism strengthened in a number of Districts. The demand for services was generally positive across Districts, most notably for technology and logistics firms. Transportation services activity was mixed among Districts, although the majority of contacts were optimistic about future activity. Manufacturing modestly improved in most regions, with several Districts reporting strong demand from the auto, food, and residential construction industries. Residential real estate markets strengthened in nearly all Districts and home prices rose amid falling inventories across much of the country. Commercial real estate activity was mixed or improved slightly in most Districts, and financing for commercial development remained widely available. Overall loan demand was stable or slightly higher across nearly all Districts, and several bankers noted stiff competition for qualified borrowers. Agricultural conditions varied across the country, with some areas continuing to suffer from drought while others reported considerable precipitation and improved soil moisture levels. Districts reporting on energy activity indicated modest expansions in crude oil and natural gas exploration, while mining activity slowed. Price pressures remained modest, with the exception of increases in prices for certain raw materials and slightly higher retail prices in several Districts. Even with some input costs rising, most District contacts did not plan to increase selling prices. The majority of Districts reported modest improvements in labor market conditions, although hiring plans were limited in several Districts. Wage pressures were mostly limited, but some contacts reported upward pressure for skilled positions in certain industries due to worker shortages. Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending expanded in most Districts, but several Districts reported mixed or lower activity among non-auto retailers. Sales strengthened in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, and retail sales were higher than a year ago in the Boston, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts. San Francisco reported modest growth in sales, Dallas noted flat to slightly higher sales activity, and New York said retail sales were strong in January but slowed in February primarily due to weather. The Chicago District said consumer spending increased at a slower rate, while Cleveland and Atlanta noted mixed sales activity. Kansas City said retail sales decreased since the previous survey period and were expected to remain flat in the months ahead. Many District contacts commented on the expired payroll tax holiday and the Affordable Care Act as having restrained sales growth. Many Districts noted rising gasoline prices and fiscal policy as having a negative effect on consumer sales, and contacts in the Boston, New York, and Minneapolis Districts said severe weather depressed sales somewhat. Contacts in several Districts reported a shift in sales activity from local malls to the Internet and indicated deep discounting among retailers was becoming increasingly common. San Francisco noted somewhat soft sales for traditional retail grocers, whose competition has increased from discount and online retailers. Most Districts reporting on auto sales noted solid or strong increases in sales, with the exception of mixed activity in the St. Louis District and a seasonal slowdown in the Dallas District. Cleveland auto dealers credited milder-than-normal weather and pent-up demand for the robust sales growth. New automobile sales remained solid in the San Francisco District, driven by demand to replace older vehicles and low financing rates. Chicago and Minneapolis contacts reported an increase in activity for auto service departments due to inclement weather. Auto dealers in the Philadelphia District attributed the strong sales in New Jersey to the continued effect of Hurricane Sandy. The New York District reported wholesale and retail auto credit conditions as positive, with one contact noting increasingly aggressive lenders. Most Districts' contacts were cautiously optimistic about future auto sales. Tourism remained solid or advanced further in most Districts, spurred by increased snowfall during the winter ski season. Travel was reported as robust in the New York District, particularly in Manhattan, as well as at hotels in the outer boroughs that are still occupied by displaced residents, utility workers, insurance adjusters, and others due to Hurricane Sandy. A ski resort in Minnesota reported that lift ticket sales and lodging were well ahead of last year, although not close to historical records. Boston and Atlanta noted a strong increase in international visitors, especially from Europe. Philadelphia said tourist activity was solid in the Poconos' ski resorts, but some revenues were lost when schools cancelled winter break to make up for missed days during Hurricane Sandy. Contacts in the Richmond District mentioned increased activity along the outer banks of North Carolina, and San Francisco reported solid growth of visitor counts and occupancy rates in Hawaii. Nonfinancial ServicesNonfinancial services activity continued to grow at a modest pace since the previous Beige Book. St. Louis and San Francisco reported strong demand for technology, logistics, marketing and legal services. Logistics services were also an area of growth in the Philadelphia District, but growth was modest due to firms' concerns about possible federal spending cuts. High-tech services increased in the Kansas City District, but growth was lackluster in the Boston District due in part to weak demand from Europe and Japan. Staffing services firms in the Boston and New York Districts saw improved conditions, but activity was mixed in the Dallas District. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Kansas City services contacts continued to be optimistic about growth in the coming months and in the second half of 2013. Transportation services activity was mixed. Shipping volume in the Cleveland District met or exceeded expectations, with increases driven by the energy sector, rerouting of container traffic, and residual effects from Hurricane Sandy. Transportation activity also increased in the Atlanta District, and port contacts continued to invest in infrastructure and equipment improvements. Kansas City transportation services activity was flat compared to the previous survey period. Dallas reported weakened transportation demand, with decreases in intermodal cargo, air cargo, and coal shipments, but contacts noted that petroleum and petroleum-product shipments increased during the survey period. Trucking firms in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts had trouble finding experienced drivers, and a Cleveland contact said there may be a driver shortage in the summer. Expectations for future transportation activity were generally positive in most Districts. ManufacturingManufacturing conditions improved in nearly all Districts, but the increases were generally modest. Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis and San Francisco reported some increases in factory activity, but the majority noted that the pace of recovery was slow. Conditions were mixed in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts, and manufacturing activity in the Kansas City District weakened. Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts cited concerns over government regulation and fiscal uncertainty as a reason for slow growth. Auto production increased in the Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts, and a Minneapolis contact noted that production increased faster than expected, spurring plans to renovate their plant. Philadelphia and Dallas reported that food manufacturing activity also exceeded expectations during the current period. Manufacturing related to residential construction was a source of strength for many Districts, including wood product manufacturing in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts; household goods manufacturing in the Chicago District; cement manufacturing in the Dallas District; and general housing construction product manufacturing in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Boston Districts. Primary and fabricated metal manufacturers in the Philadelphia District experienced a slowdown in activity, and a structural steel manufacturer in the Minneapolis District planned to close. Durable manufacturing was weak in the Kansas City District, but non-durables‚Äìespecially chemical manufacturing‚Äìimproved. Expectations for future factory activity were generally more optimistic compared with the previous survey. Contacts in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expected activity to improve over the next few months across a wide variety of industries. Real Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity continued to strengthen in most Districts, although the pace of growth varied. Contacts in the Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted strong growth in home sales, while New York and Chicago reported slight improvements. A realtor in the Richmond District indicated that low interest rates continued to motivate home buyers, and potential buyers in the Philadelphia District expressed greater confidence, including entry-level purchasers who had been increasingly opting to rent since mid-summer. Contacts in the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts said sales were higher than a year ago. Home construction increased in most Districts, with the exception of the Kansas City District where it was reported as unchanged. Several Districts noted ongoing strength in multifamily construction, although contacts in the Atlanta and Cleveland Districts mentioned continued financing difficulties for builders. Home prices edged higher in the majority of Districts, with lower inventories generally cited as the primary cause. Richmond and Atlanta Realtors observed multiple offers on many homes. Philadelphia real estate contacts continued to report low-end home prices as firm or rising slightly, while high-end home prices were still falling. Inventories declined in nearly all Districts, with Realtors in several Districts concerned about the impact on future sales volume. Overall commercial real estate conditions were mixed or slightly improved in most Districts. Commercial real estate activity grew modestly in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and St. Louis Districts, and activity in the San Francisco District expanded. Boston and New York reported mixed activity, while the Kansas City and Dallas Districts noted few changes. Although some modest growth was reported in the Chicago District, the level of activity remained weak, and commercial contractors in the Cleveland District noted a slowing in activity, particularly for defense-related projects. Office vacancy rates declined across most of the New York District, and industrial vacancy rates in upstate New York posted their lowest levels in three years. Richmond contacts described the supply of Class A office space as tight, which they attributed to the absence of new construction. Commercial development and leasing activity increased in the San Francisco Bay and Seattle markets, fueled by sustained growth in the technology sector. Commercial construction improved by varying degrees in the Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Respondents in the Boston District expressed concerns about overbuilding in Boston's apartment market and office sector, while Philadelphia contacts noted an increase in energy-related projects and repair work resulting from Hurricane Sandy. Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago reported high demand for manufacturing space, with some Chicago manufacturers leasing temporary space to accommodate increased demand. Credit for commercial development and transactions was widely available, although Boston noted a large decline in loan demand and contacts in the Cleveland District said financing difficulties continued. Banking and FinanceLoan demand was steady or increased across all the Districts that reported. Residential real estate loan demand was strong in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta and Chicago Districts, mainly driven by refinances due to continued low interest rates. Demand for commercial real estate loans was also strong in the Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City Districts. Auto lending increased in the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts, and Philadelphia and Dallas cited growth in energy-related loan demand. San Francisco continued to report a slowdown in venture capital and private equity activity, but contacts noted an increase in the number of private technology companies moving toward an IPO. Asset quality improved at banks in the Philadelphia, Kansas City and San Francisco Districts. Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta and San Francisco lenders reported high competition for qualified borrowers. Borrowing standards were reported to have been loosened in some Districts. Atlanta contacts noted additional loan capacity, but continued to be cautious with loan activity. Cleveland bankers considered cost cutting measures, including layoffs, due to shrinking net interest margins. New York contacts indicated a decrease in loan spreads for all loan categories, particularly residential mortgages, and bankers in the Chicago District said that very few mortgage originations were being kept on their balance sheets and that interest rate swaps were being utilized to hedge against a potential rise in interest rates. Bankers were generally optimistic about future activity in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts for the near term, but Atlanta bankers expected activity to ease toward the middle of the year. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions across the country varied with weather patterns. Persistent drought contributed to poor crop and pasture conditions in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts while recent precipitation improved soil moisture levels in the Atlanta and Chicago Districts. Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported that elevated crop prices supported stronger farm incomes. Kansas City and Dallas indicated that drought-related herd reductions pushed cattle supplies to historical lows, and Chicago, Kansas City and Dallas reported weaker agricultural export activity. Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco noted additional farmland value gains due to robust demand from both farmers and nonfarm investors. Chicago reported that congestion issues in barge traffic eased on the Mississippi River. Energy activity remained mixed with modest expansions in crude oil and natural gas exploration but slower mining activity. Drilling activity for crude oil and natural gas expanded further in the Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts and was steady in the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Future drilling activity was expected to rise in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, and Atlanta noted capital spending at Gulf of Mexico ports was expected to increase export capacity for oil refineries. In contrast, coal production fell in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts, and was expected to decline further with a shift in demand toward low-priced natural gas and stricter environmental regulations. Minneapolis reported a slowdown in metal mining activity, and some facilities planned to further reduce production later in the year. Ethanol production declined in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts but edged up in the Chicago District. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor market conditions generally improved, although several Districts reported restrained hiring. Many Districts reported a rise in temporary employees, while staffing contacts in the Boston District noted an increase in the placement of permanent and temporary-to- permanent workers. Auto dealers in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts mentioned plans to hire more workers, and Dallas noted robust hiring activity for experienced corporate, energy, and intellectual property lawyers. Positions in the manufacturing industry increased in the New York, Richmond, and Chicago Districts, although several Chicago manufacturers expressed plans to either invest in more productive capital or adjust the hours of existing employees prior to hiring new workers. St. Louis noted weakness in healthcare services and information technology positions, and Cleveland reported reduced hiring plans from commercial builders and coal operators. Employers in several Districts cited the unknown effects of the Affordable Care Actas reasons for planned layoffs and reluctance to hire more staff. Wage pressures were minimal in most Districts, but contacts reported some upward pressure for several skilled positions as a result of higher demand. Some Districts indicated a shortage of skilled workers such as engineers, truck drivers, software developers, and technical jobs, and Atlanta noted a lack of compliance specialists due to heavier regulations in the healthcare industry. The majority of Districts reported that price pressures remained modest, but some input costs continued to rise. Cleveland and San Francisco noted an increase in prices for petroleum- based products such as gasoline, fertilizer and certain plastics, and contacts in the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts commented on increased transportation and fuel costs. Builders in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts cited an increase in construction material costs, particularly for lumber, drywall, and steel. Retail prices were steady or slightly rising in most Districts, although Richmond noted some slowing since the last report. Chicago retailers reported modest wholesale price increases for a number of products, with larger increases for meat, fresh produce, and leather. Retail grocers in the San Francisco District reported relatively stable prices overall, but weather-related factors boosted fresh produce prices. Increased food costs pushed up restaurant menu prices in the Kansas City District, and restaurant owners expect these costs to remain elevated. Atlanta service industry contacts noted that stronger sales were likely to put upward pressure on prices over the next year. Plans to increase selling prices were limited among most District contacts. Return to top Retail and TourismRetailers contacted in this round report overall fiscal year 2012 sales increases mostly ranging from 1 percent to 3 percent from 2011, with one source reporting a 7 percent year-over-year rise; these firms completed their 2012 fiscal years either at the end of December or in February. For January 2013, comparable-store sales ranged from a 1 percent decrease to a 6 percent increase from January 2012. Demand continues to be strong for clothing, home furnishings, and furniture, although a few contacts cite some softening in February which they attribute to consumer uncertainty regarding job creation, budget deficits, and the possible sequestration, as well as weather-related issues that depressed store traffic in certain areas. One contact notes that their customers often use tax refunds to finance durable good purchases, and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 enacted on January 2, 2013 has caused some people to delay filing their returns. Respondents suggest it will be easier to discern underlying sales trends in another month or two. However, they continue to predict a low-growth economy and a somewhat wary consumer in 2013. Wholesale prices are reportedly holding steady. As noted in the previous report, the tourism industry posted record highs in 2012 for hotel occupancy rates and revenues. Expectations for 2013 are that hotel occupancy will be flat or down about 1 percent compared to 2012, but that room revenues will be up about 6 percent. International travel is expected to increase by about 9 percent over 2012, fueled by continuing strong traffic from Europe and increased travel from Australia and South America, particularly from Argentina and Brazil. Increases in gas prices do not yet seem to be affecting regional travelers. Restaurants continue to have less robust results than hotels, with the average table check down compared to levels in 2009 to 2011. Manufacturing and Related ServicesManufacturing firms in the First District continue to paint a picture of a slow recovery. Of the 12 firms responding this round, six report higher sales in the fourth quarter versus the same period a year earlier, two report flat sales and four report lower sales. In contrast to the mixed sales picture, 10 of the 12 firms say that their outlook for 2013 is positive. Part of the disconnect reflects the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which accounts for two of the firms reporting both negative growth in the fourth quarter and positive expected growth in 2013. One firm in particular reports that sales were down by more than one-third in the fourth quarter but that orders are up almost 20 percent. Even some of our own contacts appear to be puzzled at the combination of poor sales results and optimism about growth for 2013; for example, one says his firm--at which January sales were down 6 percent year-on-year--wrote in planned sales growth of 4 percent to 8 percent in the second half "without any specific reason" except that "everyone expects sales to strengthen." A contact in the home improvement goods industry notes that sales were strong in the fourth quarter but cautions that tool sales lag increases in housing starts by 6 to 9 months so it is too soon to tell if the increase is seasonal or cyclical. A contact that supplies material for filtration says the global picture is difficult to pin down because Chinese New Year and the seasonal Christmas shutdowns in Europe made year-on-year comparison particularly difficult in recent months. Finally, several respondents expressed uncertainty regarding China, with one saying that some of his Chinese customers reported dramatic reductions in sales, inconsistent with government statistics. Employment growth seems to be following sales and not the outlook. Only four of our contacts report increased hiring in the fourth quarter or planned increases in hiring in 2013 and four report the opposite. A contact in the industrial distribution business says that sales growth was negative for much of the second half of last year but they held off staff reductions until now. Three contacts cite difficulty finding the right workers in everything from welding to life sciences. Investment appeared similar to employment, with four firms reporting higher investment or higher planned investment. A manufacturer of fitness equipment says they are curtailing their investment plans because of slower expected growth in sales. Software and Information Technology ServicesNew England software and information technology services contacts generally report lackluster activity through February. Several contacts cite weaker-than-expected demand and delays in executing large license agreements, driven in part by economic uncertainty, particularly in Europe and Japan. By contrast, two contacts--whose firms have experienced robust growth since 2010--expanded accounts with a number of global insurance companies, bringing revenues in the fourth quarter to record highs. Many contacts continue to slow the pace at which they are hiring. Indeed, one contact shed approximately 150 jobs in the fourth quarter and has since instituted a "soft hiring freeze"; two other contacts now plan to maintain their current headcount through the end of 2013, following increases of over 5 percent in 2012. Selling prices and capital and technology spending have gone largely unchanged. The outlook among New England software and IT contacts is generally consistent with that of three months ago, with most expecting more robust growth in the second half of 2013. Staffing ServicesFirst District staffing contacts report that business continues to strengthen. Labor market activity since January is characterized as "improved" or "encouraging", with all but one contact registering a year- over-year increase in billable hours. The continued growth reportedly reflects increases in labor demand in the IT, industrial, and business services sectors partially offset by a softening of demand for office and clerical assistants and manufacturing personnel. The number of permanent and temporary-to-permanent placements continues to grow, with one contact reporting that permanent placements in their professional business, which includes IT and engineering, are up nearly 30 percent relative to a year ago. Labor supply has gone largely unchanged since May 2012. Contacts continue to have difficulty finding candidates with high-end skill sets such as mechanical and electrical engineers, software developers, and IT personnel; one respondent says this shortage of qualified labor is putting upward pressure on pay rates. Looking forward, staffing contacts are generally more upbeat than they were three months ago, with most expecting steady or accelerated growth in the second quarter. Commercial Real EstateContacts across the First District offer somewhat mixed reports concerning recent activity and the outlook, but note that fundamentals are largely unchanged since the last report. Leasing interest picked up slightly in Hartford in recent weeks but has not resulted in an increase in completed lease deals nor in significant absorption. In Boston, leasing inquiries remain steady. One Boston contact notes that tenants express little urgency to sign deals while another says that absorption increased slightly in recent weeks. In Providence, leasing activity picked up from last time and Class A downtown office vacancies fell to just under 9 percent from roughly 15 percent a year earlier. A Portland contact reports that leasing activity is stable and office rents unchanged since the last report, notwithstanding some newly announced plant closings in the region that will result in layoffs. Investment sales reportedly picked up in both Hartford and Providence as some investors were priced out of primary markets such as Boston. Across the region, multifamily structures remain the favored investment class, but high quality office and industrial structures are also seeing healthy demand. More properties are coming up for sale in response to rising prices. Some contacts are concerned that the high sales prices for premier properties in Boston are increasingly out of line with fundamentals. A regional lender notes a significant decline in loan demand for commercial properties since December and cites as possible reasons a temporary decline in the bank's marketing efforts together with a general climate of economic uncertainty. Respondents raise concerns about overbuilding in Boston's apartment market and possibly also in its office sector. While current office construction in Boston is pre-leased rather than speculative, one contact notes that the intended tenants will nonetheless generate significant vacancies at their current locations in other parts of the city. The outlook is largely unchanged in Portland and Boston, calling for a continuation of slow growth. Upside risks to absorption are cited for both Hartford and Providence, while contacts in both Boston and Hartford note downside macroeconomic risks as a threat to commercial real estate markets. Residential Real EstateAcross New England, strong year-over-year sales growth continued in December in both single- family home and condominium markets. Initial sales figures for January suggest similarly robust year- over-year growth. According to contacts, low interest rates, affordable prices and improving economic conditions are all helping to spur buyer activity. Some contacts note, however, that a small increase in interest rates might actually spur potential homebuyers to purchase more quickly. Overall, realtors say they are confident in the strength of buyer demand, but worry that declining inventory could damp sales growth. In Greater Boston, realtors report that multiple bids on properties have become increasingly common as inventory falls. Declining inventory levels are putting upward pressure on prices in much of the region although the median sale price in New Hampshire slipped notwithstanding fewer listings. In the next several months, contacts anticipate continued year-over-year growth in sales and most express confidence that home values will continue to appreciate. Some contacts, however, say the strength of the improvements could be easily undermined if the economic recovery slows. Inventory levels are expected to rise in a few months with the onset of warmer weather, although several contacts worry about whether the supply will adequately sustain buyer interest. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales were strong in January but mixed in early February. Contacts in upstate New York report that sales, as well as traffic, were strong in January but slowed somewhat during the first half of February, in part, because of bad weather in the early part of the month. Moreover, contacts report that the mix of sales activity has continued to shift from actual mall sales to Internet sales. One retail contact notes that deep discounting is becoming increasingly common Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were exceptionally strong in January, running 20-30 percent ahead of a year earlier, and have shown continued strength in early February--a marked contrast from December, when sales were sluggish. Used vehicle sales have remained flat recently. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are reported to be in good shape, and one contact notes that lenders have become more aggressive.¬† Tourism activity has generally been robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report that business was relatively brisk in January, with revenues up 10-15 percent from a year earlier, driven largely by substantially higher occupancy rates but also boosted by a 5 percent increase in room rates. Hotels in the outer boroughs have seen even more dramatic increases, upwards of 40 percent; much of this surge in activity is attributed to Sandy, as hotel rooms are being occupied by displaced residents, utility workers, insurance adjusters, and others who are helping with rebuilding and restoration. ¬†Broadway theaters report that attendance and revenues have been running below comparable 2012 levels in January and early December--mainly reflecting a 20-30 percent reduction in the number of shows. Finally, consumer confidence in the region was mixed in January. The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence rebounding strongly in January, after slipping to a more than one-year low in December; however, Siena College's survey of New York State residents shows confidence slipping to a 5-month low in January, with declines spread evenly between upstate and the New York City area. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have shown signs of improvement in recent weeks. A major appraisal firm reports that New York City's co-op and condo market has remained surprisingly active in early 2013, following an exceptionally strong fourth quarter. Apartment sales are up strongly from a year ago, and tight inventories are starting to nudge up prices across the board. One contact notes that year-end inventory levels were the lowest he has seen in more than 12 years. The apartment rental market, however, has leveled off; after rising at a roughly 5-10 percent rate in 2012, rents on apartments in both Manhattan and the outer boroughs are estimated to be running just 1-2 percent ahead of a year ago in early 2013. An expert on northern New Jersey's housing market reports a pickup in activity and an improvement in the general tone of the market, describing the current season as the best since 2007. Residential builders are reported to be increasingly optimistic--they anticipate a substantially better year than 2012 and are investing more heavily in new projects. Single-family construction is seen as picking up, as multi-family construction retains momentum. While there remains a large overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties, many of these are expected to be snapped up by investors. Realtors in the Buffalo area report continued favorable conditions in the housing market: prices have risen steadily at a moderate pace, inventory levels are fairly low, and sales activity has been steady. Commercial real estate markets across the District were mixed but generally firmer since the last report. Office vacancy rates declined across most of the District, though rents in most areas continued to run below year-ago levels. Manhattan's office market was particularly robust, with vacancy rates continuing to decline and asking rents up 4 percent from a year ago. In northern New Jersey and in the Buffalo, Albany and Syracuse metro areas, vacancy rates have declined since the start of the year, but rents continue to run 1-3 percent below early 2012 levels. ¬†However, office markets in Westchester and Fairfield counties have been increasingly slack, with vacancy rates climbing to new highs and rents slipping roughly 4 percent over the past year. Market conditions in metro Rochester have been essentially flat. Industrial markets have shown some signs of firming. In northern New Jersey, Long Island, Westchester and Fairfield counties, industrial vacancy rates have been steady since the beginning of the year, while rents are running 2-4 percent ahead of comparable 2012 levels. Industrial vacancy rates across upstate New York have continued to decline, reaching their lowest levels in three years, while rents have also drifted down. Other Business ActivityNon-manufacturing contacts report little change in business conditions overall, though they have grown increasingly optimistic about prospects for 2013. Contacts in the manufacturing sector report a pickup in activity since the start of the year and are increasingly optimistic about the near- term outlook. ¬†A trucking industry analyst reports that truck tonnage (shipments) strengthened substantially in both December and January, after adjusting for seasonal variation. ¬†In general, business contacts note some increase in input price pressures but relatively few say they are increasing their own selling prices. There are scattered signs of improvement in the job market thus far in 2013. A growing number of manufacturing contacts report that they are increasing staffing levels and are increasingly inclined to do so in the near future as well. A major employment agency reports that demand for full-time workers has improved slowly but steadily; while potential employers note that strong job candidates are increasingly hard to find, most continue to hold the line on salaries. The market for temps (contract workers) is described as very strong, particularly for one-day assignments. Financial DevelopmentsSmall- to medium-sized banks report steady demand for consumer loans but increased demand for all other categories of loans; demand for refinancing was unchanged. Bankers report that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly in residential mortgages, where 40 percent of bankers indicate lower spreads and none indicates higher spreads. Most also indicate a decrease in the average deposit rate. Finally, banks report decreased delinquency rates on commercial and industrial loans and especially on commercial mortgages but indicate no change for residential mortgages and consumer loans. Return to top The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those views expressed in the last Beige Book. Ongoing uncertainty over fiscal issues has postponed many business decisions. Contacts reported a fundamental optimism in the economy and described new signs of emerging growth; however, the ongoing uncertainty over fiscal issues has been blamed for continued weak consumer confidence and reluctance of businesses to make needed investments in plant, equipment, and labor. Manufacturing¬†Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported that orders and shipments dipped slightly. Some of the current weakness was attributed to greater volatility in production swings associated with overall slow growth, a high level of uncertainty, and a reluctance to build inventories. As one contact said, "Who can plan?" Makers of food products, lumber and wood products, industrial machinery, electronic equipment, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book. Lower activity was reported by the makers of primary metals and fabricated metal products. Contacts have attributed some growth to rising demand from sectors related to autos, housing, Marcellus shale, and other energy production. Third District manufacturers expressed slightly more optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months and their optimism emerged more broadly across all sectors since the last Beige Book. Firms have also further raised their overall expectations of future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers reported a faster pace of sales in January than during the recent holiday period and cited continued gains in February for moderate growth overall. The stronger sales were evident throughout the region and across a variety of malls and outlet centers, regardless of the level of the stores' quality. Contacts cited a return of cold weather and heavy promotions as prompting double-digit apparel sales of winter wear. Three other factors cited as contributing to the stronger growth were that sales may have borrowed from the soft ending to the holiday season, gift cards were more prevalent, and the comparison period one year ago had weak sales. Reports on leasing activity noted that retail tenants are more confident and taking longer lease terms, leading to net positive absorption, greater occupancy rates, and more landlord pricing power. Auto dealers started the year as they finished last year--with a moderate pace of sales, continuing a run of steady growth that began a full year earlier. Sales in New Jersey are still stronger, a likely remnant of Hurricane Sandy's impact. While the outlook among dealers remained positive, dealers continued to maintain lean inventories and lean staffing levels. They report that more hiring will occur if the recovery is sustained after more of the fiscal uncertainties are resolved. Finance¬†¬†Overall, loan volumes have continued to grow at a slight pace across Third District financial firms since the previous Beige Book. Most loan categories have grown little or not at all, with somewhat more activity generated for small business lending and home mortgages, especially refinancings. Consumer lending is relatively flat. In areas with Marcellus shale gas, several banks have described customers paying down loans with royalty money and avoiding further debt by paying cash. Beyond the gas fields, energy projects are attracting substantial investment interest and loan opportunities for larger banks. The majority of bank indicates little change in credit standards and slow, steady gains in quality; however, a small, but growing number expressed concern about competitors' standards. Financial institutions are generally optimistic about future growth, although most expect mergers and acquisitions to reduce the number of small community banks over the next few years. Real Estate and Construction¬†¬†Homebuilders reported contract activity at or near plan for January with a pickup in traffic for February. Year-over-year growth rates were strong off of low levels and builders attributed part of their growth to capturing greater market share. Prospects have greater confidence and are more prepared to buy, including entry-level purchasers that had been increasingly opting to rent since mid-summer. Residential brokers reported moderate year-over-year sales growth in January for a second consecutive year; mild weather helped this year, although January 2012 was also noted for its extremely warm temperatures and lack of snow. As with new home construction, existing home sales are growing from a low base. Builders and brokers are optimistic for sustained growth through 2013. According to one broker, "Better times are coming." Nonresidential real estate contacts reported continued modest growth in overall leasing activity and continued slight growth in construction. Contacts report that construction and repair work have grown, prospect activity has gained momentum and resolve, and money has been flowing more freely for investments. Current activity and prospects are emerging from recently quiet sectors, including some land development projects and retail, in particular, large warehouse facilities for national retailers. Activity is heating up in energy-related projects, with some repair work resulting from Hurricane Sandy. Contacts were decidedly more upbeat about future prospects, stating that the trends "feel sustainable." Services¬†¬†Third District service-sector firms have maintained a modest pace of growth since the last Beige Book, according to contacts in various sectors. Tourist activity has shifted to the Poconos' ski resorts, which are enjoying generous snowfalls and accommodating temperatures that already promise an extended season. However, contacts blame Hurricane Sandy for creating yet another economic casualty--the Poconos' peak ski week. Many school districts in New Jersey and New York canceled their winter break during the week of Presidents' Day to make up school days lost to the superstorm--causing many families to skip their traditional family ski vacation in the Poconos. Atlantic City casino revenues continued to struggle through January, prompting a recently-opened casino to file for bankruptcy protection while it continues to operate. In other sectors, work orders for temporary help have grown busier and busier since the start of the year at an area staffing firm; a logistics firm reported strong overall growth. A large consumer-oriented firm cited a good start to the current year. Firms with defense-related work and entities dependent on federal money for operations, including higher education, expressed a wait-and-see attitude to the most recent fiscal uncertainty. Overall, service-sector firms expressed confidence in their expectations for growth in the near future. Prices and WagesOverall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the previous Beige Book. Cost factors among manufacturing firms moderated a little, while the prices they received fell slightly. Tight auto inventories maintain a price environment that slightly favors auto dealers over their customers. Homebuilders continued to note higher prices for lumber, drywall, and other manufactured inputs. Some slight wage pressure is appearing for contractors, which may be related to increasing construction activity, but may also be due to repair crews being drawn to the Jersey Shore by short-term, higher wage contracts. Real estate contacts continued to report that low-end house prices are firm or rising slightly, while high-end home prices are still falling in most markets. Contacts from most sectors continued to report that wages rose only a little, if at all. Health insurance costs are mixed, ranging from very high increases to no change. Return to top Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements picked up slightly since the beginning of the year. Vacancies were found primarily in the shale gas and motor vehicle industries and in professional business services. Wage pressures were contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in construction materials and some petroleum-based products. Manufacturing¬†Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and production were steady or up slightly during the past six weeks. Companies seeing increases were largely suppliers to the energy, residential construction, and transportation industries. Defense contractors cited concerns about the potential downside effects of sequestration. Compared to a year ago, production activity was mixed. Steel producers and service centers described shipping volume as slightly higher since the start of 2013 relative to the previous quarter. Many manufacturing contacts are somewhat more optimistic about near-term growth prospects than they were late in the fourth quarter. Auto production at District plants increased along seasonal trends during January on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, production was moderately lower, especially for domestic makers. Inventories are aligned with demand. Steel producers reported that capacity utilization rose slightly during the past few weeks; other factory contacts said that rates were within or slightly below their normal range. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Most outlays are for technology that will be used to enhance productivity. Raw material prices were flat or trended lower, except for increases in some petroleum-based products. Finished goods prices held steady. On balance, manufacturing payrolls were little changed. Wage pressures are contained, although rising health insurance premiums remain a challenge. Real Estate¬†Home builders reported that the upturn in sales of new single-family homes continued into January, and that sales were significantly higher than a year-ago. Contracts were found mainly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multifamily housing remains strong, particularly in urban areas, and the turnover rate for apartments has been trending lower. While builders expressed confidence that the improvement in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months, they still see the appraisal process and the availability of financing as headwinds to more robust growth. List prices of new homes are increasing, which was attributed to shrinking inventories and rising construction costs. Builders have cut back on discounting. Nonresidential contractors experienced some slowing in business activity, when compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Margins are still tight and inquiries were down slightly. Builders noted that stress on government budgets is choking the supply of projects, especially defense-related. One contractor stated that uncertainty has eased somewhat and the number of potential clients is growing. But transforming proposals into signed contracts remains challenging, which is due in part to difficulty in obtaining financing. Project work is found mainly in manufacturing, distribution, and large multifamily developments. Our contacts are cautious about near-term activity and expect slow to moderate growth, mainly from private- sector clients. Residential and nonresidential builders reported substantially higher prices for lumber (plywood and softwood), drywall, and to a lesser extent, concrete. General contractors are concerned about subcontractors raising their rates by the second half of this year. The potential increase was attributed to a dwindling number of subcontracting businesses and stronger demand. Residential builders are expanding payrolls at a modest pace, mainly field personnel, while nonresidential builders have stopped hiring due to uncertainty about future demand. Consumer Spending¬†Many retailers we spoke with reported that January sales fell below year-ago levels. Higher taxes were cited as a potential contributing factor. Nonetheless, some of these contacts described January results as good or strong. We heard one report that high-end and lower-cost brands were doing better than products aimed at middle-income consumers. Increased volume was seen in apparel and firearms. Most of our contacts anticipate that transactions in the upcoming months will be above year-ago levels, in the low to mid-single digits. However, there is concern about the impact of rising gasoline prices on spending by lower-income households. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Inventories rose slightly, but they were described as manageable. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores. Sales of new motor vehicles grew at a robust pace during January when compared to the same time period a year ago. Dealers credited milder-than-normal January weather and pent- up demand for the sales boost. Purchases of smaller, fuel-efficient cars, crossovers, and compact SUVs are doing well. New-vehicle inventories were higher than most dealers would like. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects during the next few months. Some commented that the upcoming regional auto shows typically have a positive impact on consumers' willingness to buy. Sales of used vehicles rose moderately during January. Leasing continued to trend higher, which should help to replenish the used-vehicle inventory. We heard two reports about further easing in financing new vehicles. A few dealers are considering increasing their sales staff if volume continues at the current pace. Dealers in the eastern part of the District are apprehensive about losing technicians to the shale gas industry, which may put upward pressure on wages. BankingDemand for business credit was little changed across sectors and product categories since our last report. A few large banks noted a slowdown in loan applications during January, while community bankers saw a rise in demand for commercial real estate loans. Reports on consumer credit also indicated little change in demand. Credit card balances were coming down, while activity in home-equity products and auto lending picked up. The residential mortgage market was characterized as strong; however, some of our contacts cited a decline in the number of applicants from a year ago. Delinquency rates held steady or declined across consumer and commercial loan categories. Aggregate core deposits grew, but there was a slight drop-off in business and public-sector deposits. Bankers remain very concerned about shrinking net interest margins. In response, they are considering broad-based cost-control initiatives, which include layoffs. EnergyCoal production declined across the District relative to 2012 levels, with the largest decreases seen in northern West Virginia and eastern Kentucky. The downward trend in production is expected to continue in the near term. Falling prices for metallurgical coal leveled off, while steam-coal prices were mixed. Conventional oil and natural gas production was steady during the past couple of months, with little change expected during the next quarter. In contrast, shale gas activity expanded at a robust pace. Well-head prices have stabilized. Capital spending in the conventional oil and gas industry is expected to remain low until drilling picks up in late spring or summer. One contact said that he will drill fewer wells this year due to credit restrictions. Coal producers have cut back on capital expenditures. Production equipment and material prices were flat across most categories. Shale gas producers expanded payrolls, while employment at conventional oil and gas firms was flat. We heard several reports of layoffs by coal operators. Many of our contacts pointed to rising health insurance premiums as a concern. Freight Transportation¬†For the most part, our contacts reported that shipping volume met or exceeded projections made late in 2012. Higher volume was attributed to stronger demand from the energy sector, rerouting of container traffic, and some residual effects of Hurricane Sandy. Freight executives were fairly positive in their outlook for 2013, but they were uncertain whether the boost in activity seen during a traditionally slow part of the shipping season is sustainable. Diesel fuel prices rose, which some carriers passed through via surcharges. Costs associated with equipment and maintenance items were stable. Reports on capital spending were mixed. Some freight haulers have increased budgets significantly for new equipment this year. Others are postponing equipment replacement until they are certain that the economy is on solid footing. Hiring is primarily for replacement. Wage pressures are surfacing due to difficulty in finding and keeping qualified drivers. There were a few reports about a potential driver shortage during the summer. Return to top Manufacturing¬†Fifth District manufacturing activity showed some signs of strengthening. A producer of lumber products reported that the month of January was the best in more than five years, and a furniture manufacturer said that there was a firmer tone at his company as measured by product quotation requests. A manufacturer of polyester film told us that overall demand had increased, but he could not yet raise prices and margins continued to be squeezed. He noted that customers were not making long-term commitments and they continued to worry the sustainability of the positive economic trend. A textile manufacturer noted that uncertainty around his government-related contracts could lead to layoffs, although his non-government business was strong. According to our latest survey, raw materials prices grew at a slightly slower pace, while finished goods prices were little changed. Ports¬†District port administrators reported strong container traffic in recent weeks. Exports of agricultural and chemical products coming from the Gulf states and the Midwest rose, and port administrators expected a general pick-up in activity in March. Automobile imports slowed in January and February after finishing 2012 on a high note. Exports have led imports so far this year, although exports of equipment for construction and agriculture slowed as last year's capital restocking abated. The Chinese New Year on February 10 resulted in only a few port of call cancellations because of plant and port shutdowns in China. After months of extensions, concerns about dockworker contract negotiations generally lessened since early February, although contracts have not yet been finalized. Retail¬†Retail sales strengthened in recent weeks. Survey respondents in food sales, pharmaceuticals, and home and garden centers reported higher revenues in February. A building supply wholesaler commented, "Things are on the mend." Sales of automobiles and light trucks remained strong, even as the pace slowed slightly from last year's robust levels, according to dealerships in several locations. An auto dealer in West Virginia described sales as "plugging along." Growth in retail prices slowed since our last report. Services¬†Activity in the service sector grew at a slower pace in this reporting period. Survey respondents at law firms, marketing firms, and nursing homes reported slower growth. In addition, executives we contacted at freight trucking firms reported little change in new demand in January and February, with increased business attributed to gaining a larger market share. Financial services firms also noted little change, although a broker at a Virginia firm remarked that his clients were feeling a bit more optimistic. Prices in the sector rose slightly faster. Tourist activity picked up, however, according to a contact on the outer banks of North Carolina, with a strong Presidents' Day weekend and solid advance reservations for the summer. Further inland, a hotel and conference center manager noted stronger convention bookings. In West Virginia, winter weather helped boost activity at a mountain resort. Rates were generally flat. Finance¬†Lending activity increased marginally since our last report. Most bankers reported a slight uptick in demand for commercial and residential mortgages. Refinancing constituted a significant portion of this demand, primarily due to low interest rates. Officials from both a large commercial bank and a small community bank noted that the demand for refinancing also was driven by five year balloon payments coming due. In contrast, a North Carolina banker reported a slowdown in refinancing due to an increase in interest rates. Commercial loans rose modestly, although demand remained weak. Several bankers in West Virginia noted that there has been a reluctance to invest due to uncertainty about federal policies. A contact noted, "the best customers are not borrowing and are very liquid." However, other District bankers were cautiously optimistic about the future and growth in their loan portfolios. In addition, lenders noted minor improvement in credit quality and delinquency rates. On the consumer side, demand for loans remained flat. Bankers remarked that competition was increasingly aggressive. Real Estate¬†Residential real estate activity generally grew at a moderate pace since our last report. A contact in North Carolina stated that the housing recovery "is real, although modest at this point." He cited firming sales of new and existing single-family homes, falling inventories, and recovering resale prices as signs of improvement. A Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area said that continuing low interest rates coupled with decreasing inventory had created a very competitive market, which often led to multiple offers. Similarly, a Realtor in the metro-Richmond area indicated that low interest rates continued to motivate home buyers, and that many areas around Richmond had less than two months of supply. In Charleston, South Carolina, a Realtor told us that the housing market had regained some stability and that in 2012, for the first time in five years, more than 10,000 homes were sold. In contrast, a contact in the Charlotte area mentioned that people were adding rooms to their homes, rather than buying and moving. He noted that in the past, homeowners chose renovation projects based on the expected effect on the market price. Now, he said, they build for themselves and stay put. In Maryland, a source reported slow recovery in the housing sector with fewer days on the market and added that housing prices had stabilized. Commercial real estate and construction markets improved somewhat since our last report. A developer in the Carolinas said that leasing activity continued at a reasonably healthy pace, while a Richmond Realtor stated that tenants were trying to hedge based on the economy. He noted that companies didn't want to commit to more than a five-year lease with the right to cancel at three years. Most contacts continued to describe the supply of Class A office space as tight, which they attributed to the absence of new construction. Several Realtors reported that rental rates had firmed in the market with property owners keeping rents firm and minimizing concessions. A source in Charleston, South Carolina cited heightened industrial sales due to attractive lending rates. He indicated that vacancy rates had declined and that a couple of build-to-suit projects had positive absorption. Agriculture and Natural Resources¬†The agricultural sector remained strong, while energy production declined slightly. Results of our most recent agricultural survey indicated that farmland values were above both the previous quarter and year-ago levels. In addition, most contacts noted that 2012 was one of the best years that farmers have ever had; they indicated that higher commodity prices had resulted in stronger cash positions. Several forestry contacts reported a pickup in lumber prices due to the uptick in the housing sector. Although conventional oil and natural gas production fell slightly since our last report, the rig count held steady in West Virginia. Coal production continued to fall, due to declining prices for natural gas and stricter environmental regulations. A manufacturer of equipment used in the coal extraction process pointed out that while the environment in the coal mining industry had been challenging, there is tremendous growth potential for coal producers in the global market, particularly in sales to China, India, and Germany. Another source stated that coal exports were up and that a coal operator who had never sold overseas before had thirty percent of sales in export markets for this year. Labor Markets¬†Labor market activity was little changed since our last report. Hiring remained flat across most sectors, although there were some exceptions. Employers across the District continued to cite the Affordable Care Act and its unknown impacts as reasons for planned layoffs and reluctance to hire more staff. In contrast, expansion by a software developer in North Carolina will bring new jobs, and contacts in the service and manufacturing sectors reported a demand for engineers and skilled labor, although they also expressed some difficulty in finding such workers. An agent from Maryland reported increased demand for temp workers, particularly in the manufacturing sector. According to our latest survey, average retail wages rose quickly and average wages at non-retail services firms picked up moderately in recent weeks; hiring, however, was still soft. In the manufacturing sector, employment strengthened over the last month, while wage growth remained modest. ¬†Return to top Overall, retailers cited mild sales growth at the beginning of the year. The District's tourism industry remained a bright spot with both domestic and international visitors contributing to its growth. Homebuilders and brokers noted home sales and prices were above year-ago levels for new and existing homes, while commercial real estate markets continued to witness slow but steady improvements in overall activity. Manufacturers reported increases in new orders and production. Reports from bankers suggested that loan demand remained constant, largely because of refinance activity. Hiring in District labor markets expanded at a modest pace and prices generally remained flat compared with late last year. Consumer Spending and Tourism¬†District merchants noted a slight negative effect on consumer spending from the resumption of the full Social Security tax. Reports also indicated that expectations of higher healthcare costs and gasoline prices have contributed to a modest decline in consumer confidence. However, reports showed that sales were up on a year-over-year basis at chain stores. Discounts continued to bolster consumer activity, and auto dealers continued to cite strong sales growth. Hospitality contacts characterized travel and tourism activity as strong in January and early February. Hotel occupancy rates exceeded expectations and advanced bookings were above the year-earlier pace. International visitors provided a boost to the industry, with European visitors setting record-level activity in recent months. Domestic travel and tourism also remained healthy, despite concerns about rising gas prices. Occupancy rates have been projected to continue increasing with expectations of little cost pressure. Contacts remain optimistic and anticipate persistent growth for the next three to six months. Real Estate and ConstructionAccording to District brokers, sales growth moderated somewhat on a year-over-year basis but the majority reported that sales were ahead of year earlier levels. Existing home inventories continued to contract and several brokers reported that this was constraining sales. Many noted that properties were receiving multiple offers, particularly at the low-end of the market. Home prices were reported to be ahead of the year earlier level and spring home sales are expected to exceed the year earlier level, as well. The optimism District homebuilders expressed in our last report continued. Builders reported that recent new home sales and construction activity were ahead of year earlier levels. The majority of builders continued to note that new home inventories were below the year-ago level. More builders than in our last report indicated that new home prices were above the year earlier level. Access to construction financing remained mostly tight but several brokers and builders stated that they were successful in obtaining financing. The outlook for construction activity and new home sales over the next several months was positive. Contacts cited improvements in District commercial real estate markets but the recovery continued to unfold slowly. Multifamily projects dominated reports, although it was also noted that manufacturers were expanding their facilities. Commercial contractors reported that construction improved modestly from late last year. Commercial brokers indicated that demand improved as well. Rents stabilized by most accounts and tenants were seeking longer lease deals. Investors still have a strong interest in core markets, though there has been some indication that some have started to turn to secondary markets in the region. Manufacturing and Transportation¬†Reports from businesses indicated that manufacturing in the region improved in January and early February. Contacts cited the highest activity level since last September. All components of the Southeast Purchasing Managers' Index experienced increases with new orders, production, and employment reflecting particular strength. The number of purchasing managers that expect production to be higher in the next three to six months increased compared with the end of last year. District rail companies reported lower total carloads from a year earlier, but slight increases in intermodal traffic. Petroleum products and metallic ores were cited as strong, while grain, farm products, and iron and steel scrap were down notably. A District port contact noted strong increases in overall tonnage as well as auto and machinery units compared with a year earlier. This volume was boosted in part by growth in bulk and wheeled cargo, and year-over-year increases in container traffic were described as notable. Several District port contacts continued to report significant investment in infrastructure and equipment improvements. Banking and Finance¬†Bankers reported that mortgage loan demand was good, but continued to be largely driven by refinancing. However, some bankers expect the refinance market to ease up by mid-year as regulatory changes related to reselling mortgages on the secondary market becomes more stringent. Many indicated the willingness to lend, but some noted that competitors were offering loans at terms perceived as risky in the long run. Institutions were noted as having the capacity to handle increased loan volumes, but some continued to be conservative. Auto loan activity remained strong. Employment and Prices¬†Since the last report, employment growth for the District has been moderate. High-end retailers reported increased sales that have translated into mild increases in staffing levels. Real estate contacts said they have yet to experience gains that would warrant increasing their staffing levels significantly. Similarly, community bankers noted increased optimism on the real estate front, but are restricting employment levels because of uncertainty related to upcoming regulatory change. On balance, firms providing accounting and consulting services to healthcare providers reported much-increased demand because of regulatory changes, resulting in shortages of compliance specialists. Inflation expectations among business contacts have been little changed over the past six months. However, costs relating to tax policy, regulation, and healthcare remained sources of uncertainty going into 2013. Firms responding to our Business Inflation Expectations survey reported that unit costs were up 1.7 percent in February over the past year, roughly unchanged from their assessment late last year. Looking forward, business expectations for inflation have been relatively stable. On average, firms expected unit costs to rise 1.9 percent over the next 12 months. Compared with the end of last year, service industry contacts noted that stronger sales were likely to put upward pressure on prices over the next year. Manufacturers indicated that they expect to improve margins in 2013, as sales improve and materials costs moderate somewhat. Natural Resources and Agriculture¬†As domestically produced oil has become increasingly available, Gulf Coast refiners reported declining dependence on imported crude for processing, and more refined product being exported. There was some concern that oil and petroleum product export capacity at Gulf of Mexico ports was becoming strained; however, contacts noted that planned investments at these ports were likely to increase export capacity going forward. Recent rains improved drought conditions in Alabama and Georgia, while Florida saw dry conditions expand over most of the state. Prices for corn, soybeans, beef, broilers, and eggs were higher than year-ago levels while the price for cotton was down. Contacts continued to report that groups with no agriculture experience were looking to buy farmland as they seek better investment returns. Return to top Consumer spendingConsumer spending increased at a slower rate in January and February. Retailers pointed to the negative impacts on household budgets from rising gas prices and the end of the payroll tax holiday as explanations for the slower pace of retail sales. Sales of clothing, furniture, and health and personal care items were weaker. However, gift card redemptions boosted sales of electronics, appliances, music, and sporting goods. Grocery stores also reported a slight increase in sales, while restaurant sales were flat. Auto sales were steady for much of the reporting period before increasing slightly over the last few weeks. Car and truck sales both improved, with all-wheel vehicles registering the largest gains. Severe winter weather conditions also led to an increase in service department activity. Looking ahead, retailers expressed concern that potential fiscal policy tightening would continue to have a negative impact on consumer sentiment and retail sales throughout the remainder of the first quarter. Business spendingGrowth in business spending slowed in January and February. Inventory investment declined, and spending on equipment and structures was again limited. Several manufacturers noted that they plan to make capital expenditures this year only as necessary, delaying investments because of heightened uncertainty surrounding fiscal policy. Those non- manufacturing contacts that reported increased capital expenditures were primarily spending on additional vehicles and information technology. Labor market conditions were little changed. Hiring continued to increase slowly. Contacts indicated that there is still strong demand for talent in skilled professional and manufacturing jobs. However, several manufacturing contacts expressed plans to either invest in more productive capital equipment or adjust the hours of existing employees before hiring new workers this year. In addition, a staffing firm noted that demand for temporary employees had improved--largely based on an increase in demand from the manufacturing sector--but remained weaker in the District than for the rest of the nation. Construction/real estateConstruction and real estate activity was again mixed in January and February. Demand for residential construction continued to increase slowly, buoyed by ongoing strength in multifamily construction. A contact noted that some builders are in the early stages of looking for new land to develop. Even so, many builders and lenders remain very cautious to re- enter the single-family market. Conditions in the residential real estate market improved slightly, with home prices edging higher and the inventory of unsold homes declining. Home sales reportedly picked up in wealthier communities, but sales continued to lag in low and moderate- income communities. Although there was some modest growth in nonresidential construction, the level of activity remains weak. Notably, while some new projects are slated to break ground, growth in commercial and office space is expected to remain below trend for some time. However, contacts did note that construction of private-practice facilities close to affiliated hospitals is an area of strength in this segment. Commercial real estate leasing activity was generally unchanged--rents held steady, while vacancy rates continued to come down slowly. In contrast, some manufacturers were reportedly leasing temporary space in order to accommodate increased demand. ManufacturingGrowth in manufacturing production picked up in January and February. The auto industry remained a source of strength, with light vehicle sales expected to increase throughout the year. Specialty metal manufacturers reported increases in new orders and order backlogs; but many expressed concern about the increased volatility of their customers' orders, citing heightened uncertainty over the regulatory and fiscal environment. Inventories at steel service centers were noted to be below desirable levels. A steel producer stated that the steel market is currently moving sideways, but sees signs that activity will pick up later in the year. Manufacturers of household goods also reported a pick-up in demand as the housing market continued to improve. However, a manufacturer of building materials noted that demand had slowed some for their product since the end of last year. Demand for heavy equipment also weakened, with lower coal prices contributing to less mining activity. Furthermore, contacts indicated that heavy equipment dealers were working through an excess inventory of construction equipment. The recent weakness is expected to be temporary, with demand projected to rebound in the second half of the year. Banking/financeCredit conditions continued to ease over the reporting period. Credit spreads and financial market volatility remained low and asset quality continued to improve. While underlying risk free rates have risen since the last reporting period, competition among lenders and investor willingness to accept more risk prevented an increase in private borrowing rates. Banking contacts reported moderate growth in business and consumer loan demand, with pricing relatively unchanged but some loosening of loan standards. Residential real estate lending, in particular, continued to benefit from historically low interest rates. Contacts noted banks are keeping few very mortgage originations on their balance sheet and relying on interest rate swaps to hedge against a potential rise in interest rates. Prices/costsCost pressures were moderately higher in January and February. Contacts noted some upward pressure on raw materials prices, particularly for lumber, drywall, steel, aluminum, and copper. Several also cited rising energy and transportation costs, pointing to higher gasoline and natural gas prices. Retailers reported modest wholesale price increases for a number of products and larger price increases for meat, fresh produce, and leather. Pass-through to downstream prices, however, was limited. Wage pressures remained moderate. Costs for healthcare and other benefits continued to increase; some contacts noted that they were passing along the higher costs to employees. More generally, higher compensation costs were not being passed on to customers. AgricultureSnow and rain continued to boost topsoil moisture levels, although depleted subsurface moisture remained a concern for farmers. Between engineering work on the Mississippi River, higher water levels, and low export demand for grain, congestion eased for barge activity. Corn and soybean stocks at grain elevators were even tighter than last year, as many farmers continued to store a share of their crops on hand in anticipation of higher profits closer to harvest this year. Input costs for planting have not changed substantially over the winter. Corn, wheat, milk, hog, and cattle prices dipped during the reporting period, while soybean prices moved a little higher. The prices for corn and soybeans in February become the benchmarks for potential compensation from crop revenue insurance plans; these prices were high enough to guarantee that insured crop operations will cover their production costs this year. Lower feed costs aided the cash flows of livestock operations. Lower corn prices also led to higher ethanol production. Return to top Consumer SpendingContacts reported that retail sales in the past three months were up, on average, relative to the same period last year. Fifty percent of contacts noted increases in sales, while 25 percent noted decreases and the rest saw no changes. Sixty-three percent of retailers reported that sales levels met their expectations, and the remaining retailers reported that sales fell short of expectations. About 69 percent of retailers noted that their inventories were at desired levels, while the remaining contacts reported that their inventory levels were too high. The sales outlook over the next three months was positive: 63 percent of retailers expect sales to increase over 2012 levels, while 19 percent expect sales to decrease. Reports from car dealers about sales in the past three months were mixed. Twenty-eight percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 36 percent saw decreases and 36 percent saw no changes. Thirty-six percent of car dealers reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car sales, and 36 percent of car dealers reported the opposite. Sixty percent of contacts reported increased sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles. About 62 percent of respondents reported that their inventories were too high, while 8 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the next three months was optimistic: 54 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase over 2012 levels and none of the survey respondents expect sales to decrease. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers and expand operations in the Eighth District, while fewer manufacturers reported plans to lay off workers or reduce operations. Firms in steel, automobile, appliance, furniture, automobile parts, plastics, wood products, lumber, beverage, and machinery manufacturing industries announced plans to hire new employees and expand operations in the near future. ¬†In ¬†contrast, ¬†firms ¬†that ¬†manufacture ¬†solar ¬†equipment, ¬†medical ¬†devices, ¬†food, ¬†and ¬†electric components announced plans to lay off workers. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in logistics and transportation, marketing, casinos, education, and legal services announced new hiring or expansion plans in the District. In contrast, firms in healthcare services and information services announced plans to reduce employment. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, January 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 19 percent in Louisville, 23 percent in Little Rock, 11 percent in Memphis, and 23 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction also increased in most of the District. Compared with the same period in 2012, January 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased 19 percent in Louisville, 9 percent in Memphis, and 44 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 1 percent in Little Rock over the same period. Commercial and industrial real estate markets improved modestly throughout most of the District. Contacts in Louisville reported that office asking rents increased during the fourth quarter of 2012, while contacts in Little Rock noted that office vacancy rates decreased. A contact in St. Louis reported strong office leasing and industrial sales activity. A contact in Memphis reported stable commercial real estate conditions. Commercial and industrial construction activity continued to strengthen throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast Mississippi noted that commercial construction and renovation activity increased in the fourth quarter of 2012. Contacts in St. Louis noted a few commercial construction projects underway and plans for a speculative industrial building project. Contacts in Louisville reported several ongoing commercial construction projects in Bowling Green. Banking and FinanceA survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks found little change in overall lending activity during the fourth quarter of 2012. During this period, credit standards and demand for commercial and industrial loans remained largely unchanged. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans ranged from basically unchanged to eased somewhat, while demand ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. ¬†Credit standards for prime residential mortgage loans remained generally unchanged, while demand ranged from moderately weaker to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards and demand for consumer loans remained largely unchanged. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAnnual crop production in the District's states declined for most crops in 2012. The District's states produced less corn, cotton, soybeans, and wheat in 2012 compared with 2011; in contrast, the District's states produced more rice and sorghum. The effect of the decline in production on farm incomes was partially offset by higher prices in the District's states for corn, rice, sorghum, and soybeans. January coal production in the District's states (excluding eastern Kentucky) was down 3.6 percent relative to a year ago. Prices, Wages, and EmploymentSixty-one percent of contacts indicated that price levels over the past three months have stayed the same, while 25 percent indicated that prices have increased relative to the same period last year. Similarly, half of contacts noted that non-labor costs over the past three months have stayed the same, while 48 percent of contacts noted that non-labor costs have increased. Forty-three percent of contacts, in turn, noted that wages over the past three months have stayed the same, while 57 percent noted that wages have increased relative to the same period last year. Meanwhile, 54 percent of contacts reported that employment levels have remained the same over the past three months, while 35 percent reported that employment levels have increased, compared with the same period last year. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending posted modest gains. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer increased 3 percent in January compared with a year ago. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar chain reported 2 percent sales gains during January and early February compared with last year. A Minneapolis area mall manager noted that traffic was slower in January due to the cold weather, but winter apparel and jewelry sales have been strong. Store owners at a South Dakota mall noted that recent business appears to be doing well. An increase in inclement winter weather boosted business at auto body repair shops. Improved snow cover spurred winter tourism activity since the last report. Snowmobiling and cross country skiing picked up over the past few weeks in northwestern Wisconsin, according to an official; the last weekend in February brought up to 30,000 people to the region for the American Birkebeiner cross country ski race. A Minnesota ski resort reported that lift ticket sales and lodging were "well ahead of last year, but not breaking any records." Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity increased at a robust pace since the last report. A real estate forecasting firm expects 600,000 square feet of industrial construction in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area in 2013 compared with 200,000 square feet in 2012. Some of that construction is speculative. Residential construction increased rapidly from a year ago. The value of January residential building permits in Billings, Mont., more than doubled from last year, and the value of January permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., was up over 400 percent from a year ago, mainly due to apartment construction. In the Minneapolis- St. Paul area, January residential permits were up almost 70 percent compared with January 2012. Commercial real estate markets continued to strengthen. A major commercial real estate firm forecast that Minneapolis-St. Paul area office vacancy rates will drop to 15.5 percent by the end of 2013 compared with 17.6 percent at the end of 2012. The same firm forecast industrial vacancy rates to drop to 7.6 percent from 8.5 percent. Residential real estate market activity increased at a strong pace. Home sales in January were up 11 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 32 percent, and median sale prices rose 14 percent. A Minnesota Realtor commented, "Tight housing market with more buyers looking than sellers selling." In the Sioux Falls area, January home sales were up 88 percent, inventory was down 21 percent and the median sale price increased 4 percent relative to a year earlier. Sales of vacation homes in northern Wisconsin posted strong gains in January.¬† ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased at a modest pace since the last report. Several financial planners noted an increase in business due to clients gaining employment. Some architects noted an increase in bidding activity. A freight trucking company noted a recent slight uptick in traffic primarily due to increased e-commerce traffic. However, mortgage refinancing brokers reported a decrease in activity.¬† ManufacturingDistrict manufacturers saw modest growth since the last report. A January survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. The rate of increase was slower in Minnesota from the previous month, due mostly to weaker nondurable goods production. A vehicle plant in North Dakota saw faster-than-expected production increases, and it plans to renovate its facilities. Another vehicle maker in Minnesota also reported increased sales, but weakened its outlook for the coming year slightly. However, a structural steel producer in Montana is closing. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector was mixed, while mining slowed. Oil and gas exploration increased in North Dakota and decreased in Montana since the last report, while production remained at historically high levels. Developers are considering building a large oilfield waste facility in western North Dakota. A Minnesota electricity producer recently closed one coal-fired plant and converted another to natural gas to meet expected future pollution control rules; the utility has also built more wind turbines in North Dakota. Tight corn supplies put pressure on ethanol producers; two plants in Minnesota and one in North Dakota have idled in the last year. Two potential new fracking sandmines were proposed in southeastern Minnesota. Minnesota iron ore production in 2012 exceeded levels from the previous year. However, production at the end of the year came in lower than earlier months, and some facilities are planning to slow production in 2013.¬† AgricultureAgricultural producers in the District remained in mostly strong condition. Despite the drought, the USDA reported that 2012 corn production broke records in Minnesota and North Dakota. South Dakota corn and soybean production were down from the previous year, but came in higher than earlier estimates. The Minnesota sugar beet and North Dakota soybean crops were the highest on record. Prices received by farmers in January increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn, soybeans, cattle, milk, eggs and poultry; prices for hogs, turkey and dry beans were below their year-earlier levels. Employment, Wages and PricesLabor markets tightened modestly since the last report. Representatives from two technology companies in Minnesota described the labor market for high-tech workers as "at full employment" with fewer qualified applicants applying for open positions. A trucking broker recently announced plans to expand in Minnesota and add 500 more staff over the next several years. A regional airline announced plans to relocate its headquarters to Minnesota, which will bring a few hundred jobs to the state. In North Dakota, an insurance company recently announced that it expects to create 200 new jobs. In contrast, a home mortgage operation in Minnesota will close this spring, affecting over 200 employees. A medical device company recently announced plans to lay off a substantial number of workers in Minnesota. In Montana, the closure of two food distribution warehouses will lead to over 100 job losses. Overall wage increases remained moderate. According to a survey of business activity in the Fargo, N.D., area, 72 percent of respondents expect a slight to moderate increase in compensation, while 20 percent expect no change in compensation. Labor unrest was noted in Minnesota, where a union representing 6,000 janitors and security officers was poised to strike at the end of February in response to a lack of progress on contract negations. Prices were generally stable with some exceptions noted. Mid-February Minnesota gasoline prices were up almost 80 cents per gallon compared to mid-January. Contacts noted that some freight shipping costs recently increased. Return to top Consumer Spending¬†Overall, consumer spending was weaker in late January and February, but sales were expected to improve over the next three months. Retail sales decreased since the last survey period, and retailers expected flat growth during the next three months. Store owners noted that low priced items and clothing sold well during the survey period, but sales of high end items remained slow. Auto sales were unchanged compared to the last survey period but continued to be higher than a year ago. Inventories increased, but dealers were satisfied with the overall levels. Automobile sales expectations improved for the near term. Hotel occupancy rates and tourist activity were unchanged and neither expected a change in activity in the coming months. Restaurant sales were also flat. Sales growth in the future was expected to increase moderately, but was constrained by higher food costs. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity¬†District manufacturing activity weakened since the last survey period. Production activity declined at most durable goods manufacturers, but some improvements were seen in the non-durable goods sector, especially by chemical producers. Employment and new orders for exports fell compared to the previous survey period. Factory managers continued to be moderately optimistic about future activity. Production, new orders, and shipments were all expected to grow over the next few months. Manufacturers also reported that they expected employment levels to increase, but contacts continued to be concerned about tax and regulatory policies. High-tech service firms reported an increase in activity and expected strong growth during the next three months. Some contacts reported difficulty finding skilled engineers and developers. Transportation services activity was flat compared to the previous survey period and a year ago. Expectations for future transportation activity and sales were very strong, and contacts reported difficulty finding qualified workers, especially over-the-road drivers. Real Estate and Construction¬†Residential real estate showed brisk improvement since the last survey period, but commercial real estate activity was flat. Strong residential real estate sales continued to push prices higher and to decrease the stock of residential inventory. Real estate contacts noted that mid- to low- priced homes continued to be the strongest sellers, and that the high-end market remained slow. Expectations for future housing activity were high due to traditional increases during the spring and summer months. Contacts also cited continued low borrowing rates and improved overall confidence in the economy as reasons for optimism. Sales at construction supply firms were flat, but respondents indicated that future activity is expected to be robust. New home starts were unchanged during the survey period, but are expected to increase over the next three months. Commercial real estate sales, prices, rents and vacancy rates were all unchanged since the last survey period. However, new construction was much improved compared to a year ago and contacts expected new construction to continue to improve in the coming months. Banking¬†Bankers generally reported steady or modest loan demand, improving loan quality, and little change in total deposits in the recent survey period. Most bankers described their overall loan demand as the same as in the last survey, with a few bankers reporting moderately stronger demand. Respondents, on average, reported stable demand for commercial and industrial loans, residential real estate loans, and consumer installment loans, with some strengthening in demand for commercial real estate loans. Interest rates on commercial and industrial loans continued to show moderate declines. Most bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and they also expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain about the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all loan categories and respondents reported total deposits as experiencing little change since last month. Agriculture¬†Agricultural growing conditions deteriorated further with persistent drought. Most of the winter wheat crop was in fair to poor condition with low soil moisture. While still higher than year-ago levels, crop prices edged down since the last survey period with softer export demand and slower ethanol production. Fed cattle prices held relatively steady, though feeder cattle prices rose as continued herd liquidations trimmed already low cow inventories. Robust demand from both farmers and nonfarm investors pushed farmland values to new highs, particularly for irrigated land due to water scarcity stemming from drought. District bankers reported collateral requirements held steady and ample funds were available for farm loans at historically low interest rates. EnergyIn the energy sector, activity in the district improved slightly during the survey period and contacts expected further moderate improvement in the coming months. The number of active drilling rigs for both oil and natural gas were flat during the beginning of 2013, but began to edge higher in February. Energy contacts expected oil prices to remain at current levels during the next three months as a result of balanced supply and demand conditions. Natural gas prices were expected to decrease slightly over the next three months due to weaker demand in the spring and healthy supplies in storage. Wyoming coal output continued to fall during January, which some contacts attributed to more demand shifting to natural gas, with gas prices remaining low. Wages and Prices¬†Wage pressures continued to be weak during the survey period, but there was some upward pressure on prices. Firms continued to report changes in health care policy and fiscal uncertainty as reasons for delayed hiring. However, contacts in high-tech services, transportation services and auto dealerships noted they wished to hire, but are unable to find qualified skilled labor. Organizations that serve low- and moderate-income households also noted some improvement in job availability. Prices for raw materials at manufacturing firms continued to move higher, and more manufacturers plan to pass these costs through to finished goods prices over the next six months. Builders and construction supply firms both responded that input prices for construction have increased and that prices are expected to continue to rise over the next three months. Retail prices have also increased recently and retailers expect to raise prices further during the coming months. Increased food costs have pushed restaurant menu prices up recently and restaurant owners expect these costs to remain elevated. Transportation services contacts also reported an increase in input costs both in the current period and over the near term. Return to top Prices¬†Most responding firms noted stable prices, although some transportation service contacts said costs were up due to higher fuel prices. High tech contacts noted downward pressure on prices, particularly for memory devices. Oil prices increased since the last report. The price of WTI averaged over $95 per barrel over the past six weeks. Natural gas prices remained depressed, while gasoline and diesel prices increased. Labor Market¬†Employment held steady or increased at most firms. Accounting firms said the pace of hiring picked up temporarily as firms entered the busy tax season, but that long-term hiring remained moderate. Legal firms said employment increased, and some noted robust hiring activity for experienced corporate, energy and intellectual property lawyers. One respondent in the staffing industry noted a tight market for skilled workers. Wage pressures remained mostly subdued, although a few firms noted slight upward pressure on compensation for skilled workers. Manufacturing¬† ¬†Construction-related manufacturers' reports were mixed. Lumber producers noted slow seasonal demand, while sales of cement and related products continued to increase due to solid residential building activity. Outlooks were generally more optimistic than the last report. Demand for fabricated metals rose sharply over the reporting period due to an increase in new private projects. Overall, primary metals producers noted slow seasonal demand, but one contact said they had recently been awarded a large project which would keep them busy for the next three months. High tech manufacturers said sales were flat to slightly down. Contacts reported that demand for mobile devices softened and sales of personal computers remained weak, but sales of tablets and ultrabooks were growing. The outlook is for sales to remain flat over the next several months but then to pick up slightly during the second half of the year. Demand for paper products was stable during the reporting period, but contacts continued to be cautious in their outlooks due to uncertainty regarding fiscal issues. Demand for food products was better than expected, and the outlook was positive among food contacts. Reports from transportation manufacturing contacts were mixed. Sales of recreational vehicles declined, partly as a result of seasonal trends, and outlooks remained uncertain. Demand for aviation equipment increased because of new work from one large project, but the outlook was somewhat cautious because of uncertainties regarding fiscal issues. Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemical production was up compared with last year across most product categories. Contacts said refinery operating rates declined and margins increased during the reporting period, partly due to normal seasonal patterns. Retail Sales¬† ¬†Retail sales were flat to up slightly since the last report. According to two national retailers, Texas continued to outperform the nation, albeit by a small margin. Inventories were at desired levels. Outlooks were optimistic, with contacts expecting steady improvement through the first quarter and low- to mid-single digit increases in 2013 over 2012. Automobile dealers noted a seasonal slowdown in sales, but demand is up slightly year-over-year. Inventories were at adequate levels, although dealerships have started to build up inventories for the spring selling season. Contacts were optimistic in their outlooks; they expect demand to pick-up in the first quarter and 2013 to be a good year. Nonfinancial Services¬† ¬†Reports from staffing firms were mixed. One contact noted sharp declines in demand for services across the board, while another reported stellar demand that broke direct- hiring records. Outlooks were cautious. Some contacts noted concern that client companies are hiring the absolute minimum to get by due to uncertainty about the Affordable Care Act. Demand for accounting services picked up since the last report, driven by audit and tax activity. Contacts expect demand to remain strong for the next few months. Legal firms reported flat to modest growth in demand with strength coming from real estate and energy-related services and weakness coming from a lack of litigation work. Outlooks were mostly optimistic. Several transportation service firms said demand weakened since the last report, but overall outlooks were improved. Intermodal cargo and air cargo volumes edged down since the last report, but contacts said they were level or above those from a year ago. Railroad contacts said cargo volumes were down, with coal continuing to be a weak spot. Petroleum shipments were up strongly, however and increases in volumes of lumber and wood remained healthy. Shipping companies said small- parcel cargo volumes grew strongly, propelled by retail trade. Airline contacts noted passenger demand was flat to slightly up. One contact said business travelers remained price sensitive and continued to buy advance- purchase discount fares. Outlooks were mixed. Construction and Real Estate¬†Contacts in the single-family housing sector said new and existing home demand remained strong since the last report. Realtors noted that extremely low inventories were leading to price increases. Apartment demand growth continues to ease from last year, but contacts remain optimistic, expecting occupancies to remain high despite new construction. Demand for commercial space remained moderate since the last report. Contacts said real estate investment activity continues to improve, and most remain optimistic in their outlooks. Financial Services¬†Financial institutions reported mixed loan demand. Larger institutions noted flat loan demand, while community banks reported moderate loan growth. Consumer lending activity increased modestly, while real estate loan demand was limited. Energy activity in the Eagle Ford shale continued to drive lending activity in San Antonio, Houston and the surrounding areas. Loan pricing remained very competitive. Loan quality continued to improve, and borrowers were paying off their loans ahead of schedule. Deposits and deposit rates were flat to slightly down. Outlooks were unchanged, but there is some optimism among contacts that loan demand will increase slightly in the near term. Energy¬† ¬†Activity remained at high levels, and respondents at energy-related service firms noted that the number of active drilling rigs seems to have bottomed out. Margins for services particularly pressure pumping remained tight, but contacts reported slight easing in pricing pressures. Contacts said expectations for average drilling activity in 2013 are being revised up, with most of the improvement expected to occur in the second half of the year. Agriculture¬†The drought was the main concern over the reporting period. Feed costs remained high and cattle supplies were tight because of the drought, while beef prices and demand both declined seasonally. Cotton prices rallied since the last report, and cotton exports were up slightly. In contrast, corn and grain sorghum prices declined modestly over the reporting period. Grain exports were lower than expected. Return to top Wages and PricesPrice increases were limited for most items. Modest upward price pressure was reported for petroleum-related products such as gasoline, fertilizer, and plastics, and some technology products containing precious metal or rare earth components. Reports indicated that prices of some construction materials, including wood products, wallboard, drywall, and steel rebar edged up further, while roofing, cement, and aluminum prices dropped back slightly. Retail grocers reported relatively stable pricing overall, but weather-related factors boosted fresh produce prices in some regions. Hotel room rates increased in Las Vegas and Hawaii. Prices for professional services, such as legal and financial, were stable. Contacts reported that wage gains were quite modest for most types of workers. Prolonged weakness in labor market conditions has restrained hiring plans, and ready worker availability in most sectors and regions has held down increases in wages and compensation. Some upward pressure was reported for workers in sectors and geographic areas with relatively low unemployment rates, including hospitality workers in popular tourist destinations. A shortage of trained engineers continues to prompt vigorous employer competition and significant compensation gains for this group across a number of industries. In a few areas experiencing large increases in construction activity, wages of construction labor have risen noticeably. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales grew modestly on balance. The recent pace of sales and the near-term sales outlook were reported as fragile by retailers selling to consumers at the lower end of the income distribution. New automobile sales remained solid, driven by demand to replace older vehicles and low financing rates. Sales remained somewhat soft for traditional retail grocers, who experienced intensifying competition from discount and online retailers. Demand for higher-end clothing has been stable. Contacts also reported expansion in the user base for Internet and digital media products through increased sales of devices and enhanced features on a number of existing platforms. Demand for most business and consumer services gained. Contacts pointed to solid sales of various technology services and greater demand for financial and accounting services. Food service providers reported strong sales on net. Activity in the District's tourism and travel sector advanced, with solid growth of visitor counts and occupancy rates reported in Hawaii; however, more modest gains were reported in Las Vegas and Southern California. Current demand for health-care services remained relatively weak, but contacts projected rising demand as additional components of the Affordable Care Act are implemented. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity appeared to tick up during the reporting period of January through late-February. Production activity for commercial aircraft and parts expanded, although contacts projected weaker demand for defense aircraft. Longer-term bookings for electronic components appeared to increase. Pharmaceutical goods producers experienced modest gains. Contacts indicated high levels of demand for a clean alternative to diesel fuel that is under development. Wood product manufacturers reported that demand grew further, fueled in large part by rebounds in residential construction activity. Demand for steel products used primarily in infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects grew somewhat. While overall steel capacity utilization remained at a historically low level, capacity utilization was stronger in the automotive steel products subsector. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesProduction activity and sales were strong for agricultural producers, and extraction activity of natural resources used for energy production expanded on net. Demand for most crop and livestock products grew further, and high grain prices contributed to elevated land prices. Agricultural producers faced higher petroleum-based fuel costs but lower natural gas costs. Natural gas inventories declined a bit. In some slower-growing regions, demand for new gas and electric hookups remains tepid. In parts of the District, warmer-than-average weather conditions led to reductions in overall energy usage. Raw materials were adequately available, although water availability beyond 2013 was a concern in some regions due to a dry winter. Real Estate and ConstructionDemand for housing strengthened, and commercial real estate activity expanded, driven by pockets of strength in several locales. Home sales climbed further in most regional markets, and continuing low inventory levels supported stable or increasing prices. Construction of multifamily residential projects continued to expand. ¬†Commercial real estate development and leasing activity increased, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle markets, fueled by sustained growth in the technology sector. Commercial rental rates increased in various parts of the District. Financial InstitutionsContacts from financial institutions reported that loan demand was up somewhat, and overall credit availability has either improved or remained unchanged from the last quarter of 2012. Contacts expect loan demand to increase more rapidly after federal spending uncertainty is alleviated. Banking contacts continued to highlight ample liquidity and generally stiff competition among lenders to provide credit to well-qualified business loan applicants, with community banks facing increasing competition for small business and auto lending. Contacts reported increases in privately held technology companies poised for public offerings; despite the positive outlook, recent initial public offering, venture capital, and private equity activity was relatively slow in the District's Internet and digital media subsectors. Reports indicated that credit quality for both business and consumer loans has continued to improve slowly. ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up ‚Äì we are minutes away from the release of the Federal Reserve Beige Book report on economic conditions around the United States, due out at 2 PM ET. This particular Beige Book could be interesting. The last one was released on January 16, before the effects of the payroll tax cut expiry at the beginning of January would have shown up in the data. Furthermore, gas prices have risen since then, representing another headwind facing the consumer. The other big wildcard is the sequester (spending cuts went into effect on Friday) and whether businesses are adjusting hiring and investment plans because of it. The Kansas City Fed's latest reading on manufacturing activity in its district, for example, indicated a sharp slowdown attributed to sequestration. We will have the full report LIVE at 2 PM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
The economic reports released last week covering the time period of January and February 2013 for orders of equipment by businesses and manufacturing activity point to strengthening business demand (new orders surged). This may not be surprising, given that corporate profits have risen to record highs and companies are sitting on lots of cash.† On the other hand, the economic data released on consumer spending was weak (2% annual growth adjusted for inflation) and reflected no acceleration over the past year, and earnings reports from big retailers (such as Wal-mart and Target) reflected lackluster consumer demand.* This may be not be any new news to some, given the well-known weak income growth and hiring in the United States keeping a lid on consumer spending power and the added drain this year from higher payroll taxes and gasoline prices. *All company names noted herein are for educational purposes only, not a recommendation, an indication of trading intent, or a solicitation of their products or services. LPL Financial does not provide research on individual equities. While on the subject of the last weekís data, we do not dismiss Fridayís reading of the consumer sentiment index from the University of Michigan, which showed a modest bump up in February 2013 from January 2013ís reading, but the index remains significantly below the highs of last year and is well below the pre-crisis levels seen in 2007.† Sentiment surveys purport to measure how confident consumers are feeling; however, the real pulse of confidence can be measured directly by borrowing. Borrowing against the future to spend today is a sign of confidenceóperhaps sometimes misplaced, but confidence nonetheless. While business borrowing has surged back near previous highs, consumersí demand for credit has flatlined†[Figure 1].†  In the fourth quarter of 2012, outstanding consumer debt rose a slight 0.3% to total $11.34 trillion, according to the latest report from the Federal Reserve (Fed). But, to put in context, total debt is still way below its peak of $12.68 trillion in the third quarter of 2008 and, most importantly, has barely budged in the past couple of years. In general,†consumer borrowing of all types including housing debt has been stagnant,†reflecting a cautious consumer. While in each of the past four years, consumer discretionary sector stocks outperformed the more business-spending oriented industrial sector stocks by a wide margin, they have started to lose their leadership. In the fourth quarter of 2012 and so far this year, the industrial sector has outpaced the consumer discretionary sector as business spending began to revive in the fourth quarter and gain momentum so far this year. Callout: We believe consumer-driven stocks will likely continue to lag this year, despite typical strong performance in March.† LPL Financial The next fiscal impasse is the expiration of the continuing resolution funding the government on March 27. If unavoided, this may be worse for consumers than the more recent fiscal failure to compromise over the spending cuts known as the sequester that started on Friday, March 1, 2013.† As we noted in our State of the Union preview a few weeks ago, a government shutdown may hit consumers since tax refunds may take much longer than usual if IRS workers are furloughed as the seasonal peak for tax filings arrives. In 2012, the average tax refund check was nearly $3,000, and refunds totaled hundreds of billions, according to the IRS.†This drag on spending power could be felt since consumers have lacked the confidence to fund spending with borrowing, as noted above. It is worth noting that the deadline is not actually March 27, because the House is in recess beginning on Thursday the 21st of March, and the Senate is only in session until the next day. Assuming Congress sticks to its schedule, this leaves only about two weeks to avoid a government shutdown and the potential consequences. Callout: A government shutdown might hit consumers since tax refunds might take much longer than usual if IRS workers are furloughed A stall in the strength of consumer-driven stocks may help to keep the stock market in a range around the current levels. Though the Dow Jones Industrial Average may soon hit an all-time high, we see this as just part of an up-and-down range-bound pattern for stocks this year, echoing what we have seen in each of the past couple of years when a new Dow milestone was reached in February†[Figure 3]. LPL Financial IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES† The opinions voiced in this material are for general information only and are not intended to provide specific advice or recommendations for any individual. To determine which investment(s) may be appropriate for you, consult your financial advisor prior to investing. All performance reference is historical and is no guarantee of future results. All indices are unmanaged and cannot be invested into directly. The economic forecasts set forth in the presentation may not develop as predicted and there can be no guarantee that strategies promoted will be successful. Stock investing involves risk, including the risk of loss. Investments in specialized industry sectors have additional risk such as credit, regulatory, operational, business, economic and political risk which should carefully be considered before investing. Consumer Discretionary: Companies that tend to be the most sensitive to economic cycles. Its manufacturing segment includes automotive, household durable goods, textiles and apparel, and leisure equipment. The service segment includes hotels, restaurants and other leisure facilities, media production and services, consumer retailing and services and education services. Industrials: Companies whose businesses manufacture and distribute capital goods, including aerospace and defense, construction, engineering and building products, electrical equipment and industrial machinery. Also, companies that provide commercial services and supplies, including printing, employment, environmental and office services, or provide transportation services, including airlines, couriers, marine, road and rail, and transportation infrastructure. Index Definitions †Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA): The Dow Jones Industrial Average Index is comprised of U.S.-listed stocks of companies that produce other (non-transportation and non-utility) goods and services. The Dow Jones Industrial Averages are maintained by editors of The Wall Street Journal. While the stock selection process is somewhat subjective, a stock typically is added only if the company has an excellent reputation, demonstrates sustained growth, is of interest to a large number of investors and accurately represents the market sectors covered by the average.† The Dow Jones averages are unique in that they are price weighted; therefore their component weightings are affected only by changes in the stocksí prices. The Standard &amp; Poorís 500 Index is a capitalization-weighted index of 500 stocks designed to measure performance of the broad domestic economy through changes in the aggregate market value of 500 stocks representing all major industries. The Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index (MCSI) is a survey of consumer confidence conducted by the University of Michigan. The MCSI uses telephone surveys to gather information on consumer expectations regarding the overall economy.
Stephen Chernin / Getty ImagesHere is a guaranteed way to get paid well if you work on Wall Street. Find a best friend at a competing bank or hedge fund and take opposite sides of the same large bet. In one year‚Äôs time one of you will have a huge profit and get paid well. The other person will have lost and perhaps be fired. The sum of both your profits will be zero, but the sum of what you get paid will be positive. Split the pay. This scheme is one of the more fanciful ways to exploit Wall Street‚Äôs compensation structure that pays absurdly well in the good years and just okay in the bad years. Losing money never means having to give anything back. That asymmetry in pay (money for profits, flat for losses) is the engine behind many of Wall Street‚Äôs mistakes. It rewards short-term gains without regard to long-term consequences. The results? The¬†over-reliance on excessive leverage,¬†banks that are loaded with opaque financial products, and¬†trading models that are flawed. Regulation is largely toothless if banks and their employees have the financial incentive to be reckless. How does Wall Street pay its employees? At the end of each year traders are paid a base salary and a bonus. The bonus, which fluctuates wildly, is usually a percentage of a trader‚Äôs profit. Some companies even pay a contractual amount, often between ten and fifteen percent. The average bonus of all employees is about three hundred thousand dollars but payments of $1 to $15 million are common. If traders lose they still get their base, often around two hundred thousand dollars. If their loss is great enough, they are fired. They never have to return money. The incentives are clear. If you make a bunch of money you get personally wealthy. If you lose then you just go home and look for a new job. Losing lots of money is hardly the career ender that outsiders imagine. If traders lose big then they will get fired, but they will now have experience. If one loses really big then one has almost a badge of honor. One could not be allowed to lose $1 billion unless one was really important. Wall Street is littered with traders who have ‚Äúblown up‚Äù at multiple establishments or funds. There are enough to fill up a town about the size of, well, Westhampton. Here is a more conventional blueprint to personal wealth via Wall Street. Join a business that has an established track record. Start small, building up a few solid years of making decent profits. Do this for six or seven years. It‚Äôs called ‚Äúmilking the franchise.‚Äù Soon you will have respect and, most of all, expanded limits on what you can trade. Wait for a year when everyone is bullish. Then swing big. Really big. Don‚Äôt take judicious risk; take the most risk the firm will allow you. Follow the momentum, piling into trades others are doing. If you win, since you followed the herd, Wall Street will be flush with cash and you will get paid well, tens of millions well. If you lose you may get fired, but since everyone lost they will understand. This strategy is certainly not in the long-term interest of the firm, but it‚Äôs the smartest strategy to benefit the trader. The closest other field of employment to Wall Street in compensation is professional sports. They also pay large yearly contracts meant to encourage employees to increase their performances. Sometimes those employees fail miserably, hurting their team. Banks are not sports teams though. They are institutions that occupy a special place in the economy and are given special status, and as such, have an obligation to ensure their long-term health. The only harm if the Yankees overpay for a pitcher (and they always do) is distraught Yankees fans. If banks lose, especially ones with $2 trillion in assets, we all lose. The incentives at these banks should consequently be structured to discourage, not encourage, short-term speculation and risk taking, with the primary goal of guaranteeing the bank‚Äôs solvency. Rather than pay employees based on how much they made the prior 365 days, pay should be based on their entire careers, with the bulk of compensation coming in a form that can be taken away with future losses. Independent hedge funds can pay however they want. It is up to the investors to decide how they want to compensate their money manager and few funds are large enough to be ‚Äútoo big to fail.‚Äù Here is a third scheme. Sell insurance on a rare event, something with a payoff around one in a hundred. Sell lots of it and convince regulators that it‚Äôs a one in a thousand event so you can account for the premium as a profit. You now have a steady revenue stream, which will pay your company well. What if it‚Äôs actually a far more common event, something like one in ten? You will lose huge eventually. Your company, if it did enough of this trade, will go bankrupt. You however will have had three to four good years and can walk away. Far fetched? This is exactly what happened from 2002 until 2008. The one in a hundred event was US housing prices dropping 30% or more. Who did this: Bear-Stearns, AIG, Lehman Bothers, Merrill Lynch, and others. The insurance they sold: Buying and structuring esoteric mortgage bonds. How did it work? If housing prices rose or stayed flat or fell slightly, the bonds paid a small premium, about a quarter of a percent. If however, housing fell dramatically, then the bonds plummeted. From 2003 to 2007 housing prices rose. Wall Street took in record profits as the bonds paid. Bonuses paid to traders and executives were also records, with senior traders and managers receiving bonuses between $3 million and $10 million in 2006. In the middle of 2007 things turned. The housing market did collapse over 30%, triggering huge drops in the bonds. Who lost? Well the banks did, many going broke and requiring a government bailout. The traders and managers who did these trades did well personally. Many were fired, but with enough money to never work again, having collected compensation of roughly $15 million over that period. Many were later rehired, by hedge funds, to buy the securities at cheap prices after the banks disgorged them. Were they doing anything illegal? Hard to say. They were doing what Wall Street incentivised them to do. This also leads to misconceptions about most employees on Wall Street. Few actually abuse the system, contrary to their personal self-interest. Still there is a minority who do, stigmatizing the industry. It often works out wonderfully for them and awfully for the rest. In 2000 a young PhD in mathematics approached me about a job before eventually landing at a European bank in research. In 2004 he started proprietary trading, where traders bet with the bank‚Äôs money. Pay was 15% of the profits. In 2005 he bought obscure and high-yielding corporate bonds, which generated profits of $40 million. He took home $6 million. In 2006 he made $80 million and took home $12 million. In 2007 the world turned and the group was disbanded as losses mounted. He was dismissed, and his trades eventually lost the firm close to $300 million. What was his PhD thesis about? Game theory, or using math to find the optimal solution to complex systems. Late last year he sent me an email. ‚ÄúChris, why are you still working?‚Äù
HeinzWarren Buffet's $28 billion deal to buy Heinz will be very good indeed for the company's current CEO. SEC filings reveal that William Johnson could walk away from the buyout, and the company, with more than $200 million. Even by the inflated standards of CEO exit packages, that's quite a sum. According to The Wall Street Journal, it would be among the 10 largest in history. There have been only six other packages worth more than $200 million.¬† By way of comparison, former Tyco CEO Edward Breen recently received around $150 million for helping rebuild the company after a series of scandals.¬† Should he decide to leave, Johnson is due $56 million in "bonuses and other awards" related to the completion of the deal and $56 million in deferred compensation. He'd also have shares worth $99.7 million¬† for a grand total of¬†$212.7 million. Johnson may agree to stay, but 3G Capital, Buffet's partner in the deal, replaced the CEO at Burger King after a 2010 deal to buy out the company. He's also 64, making this a pretty appealing time to retire.¬† Heinz has performed well under Johnson, but giant exit packages have been known to backfire. Recently, departing Novartis chairman Daniel Vasella was offered $78 million as part of a non-compete exit agreement. The outrage over the package was so great that the company had to withdraw it. It also helped rally support behind a Swiss bill that gives shareholders greater say over executive pay.¬†
In a new report, ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan reiterates his thesis that the U.S. economy is in a recession. Among his many points was this one about how consecutive quarters of negative earnings growth coincide with recessions.¬† From his report: This is a bar chart of S&amp;P 500 operating earnings growth going back a quarter of a century on a consistent basis, as we understand from S&amp;P. Others can choose their own definitions of operating earnings, but this is the data from S&amp;P. In this chart, the height of the red bar indicates the number of consecutive quarters of negative earnings growth. It is interesting that, historically, there have never been two or more quarters of negative earnings growth outside of a recessionary context. On this chart, showing the complete history of the data, the only times we see two or more quarters of negative growth are in 1990-91, 2000-01, 2007-09 and, incidentally, in 2012. This data is not susceptible to the kind of revisions one sees with government data. The point is that this type of earnings recession is not surprising when nominal GDP growth falls below 3.7%. So, even though the level of corporate profits is high, this evidence is also consistent with recession. In short, earnings recessions seem to coincide with economic recessions. Economic Cycle Research Institute
Fox Business Network ran this ad in the Wall Street Journal yesterday attacking its rival CNBC over its guest policy.† A couple of weeks ago, Politico's†Dylan Byers wrote about how CNBC has a super strict guest booking policy. CNBC's rule is that guests cannot appear on a competing network (Bloomberg TV or Fox Business) before coming on their air. Some guests have had CNBC cancel their appearances because they were on another network, according to Politico. † Fox Business appears to be using CNBC's strict policy as a way to attack its rival. †So far, Fox Business has taken out this ad claiming CNBC is a bully in the Journal and it has†also been running commercials slamming CNBC on CNBC's airwaves. Check out the photo from ValueWalk's Paul Shea†of the WSJ ad.†† Photo courtesy of ValueWalk's Paul Shea
Flickr/herry lawfordAs recently as last November, the Hong Kong government¬†was fretting¬†(paywall) about a crisis-level shortage of private school places, as the territory continued filling up with expat bankers and hedge fund managers. But some of these financiers are now heading home. As Bloomberg reports, Asian hedge funds based in Hong Kong¬†are losing staff¬†while their clients yank money out of China in response to¬†that country‚Äôs slowdown¬†and reinvest in the¬†revitalized US markets. Meanwhile, the same newswire also reports that Hong Kong offices of global investment banks are no longer paying premiums for senior staff, but instead offering¬†smaller salary and bonus packages¬†than they do in New York.¬†According to Bloomberg, top Hong Kong bankers have experienced falls in their compensation of as much as 60% since 2010. None of this looks good for the Hong Kong economy. Though their high spending is rivalled or even exceeded by wealthy mainland Chinese tourists, expat bankers and hedge fund managers keep the territory‚Äôs high-end restaurants and bars afloat, as well as its¬†bubbly property market. The amount of disposable income Western bankers became highly apparent in 2009 when a restaurant in the financial district started selling a HK$3,100 (US$400)¬†baked potato¬†topped with caviar. Still, early signs are Hong Kong‚Äôs real estate prices¬†are falling. And last summer, another strong signal wealthy financiers were bracing for smaller bonuses emerged‚Äîsecond-hand luxury cars were spotted¬†sitting idle on forecourts, waiting in vain for buyers from the US or Europe who now may never arrive.
Earlier we noted that Bitcoins are up nearly 40 percent since Monday. The chart below shows the surge. bitcoincharts.com We reached out to ConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas, who wrote about the Bitcoin market recently in a note to clients, for his thoughts on why the virtual currency has gone so wild this week. Colas says it looks like Bitcoins may finally be about to go mainstream: My thought was that [the move this week] was a result of the CoinLab announcement of becoming Mt Goxís partner in the US and Canada. Along with that comes the involvement of Silicon Valley Bank. Thatís a big thing potentially, because now weíre talking about a real US bank with all the AML and KYC regulations that will make Bitcoin much more relevant for legitimate transactions. (AML refers to anti-money laundering and KYC refers to "know-your-customer.") "That, combined with the currencyís limited growth (by design)," Colas tells us, "is the recipe for this kind of ramp." The Mt. Gox-CoinLab partnership was announced Thursday and the full press release is included below. ---------------------------------- Mt. Gox &amp; Coinlab Announce Strategic Partnership to Bolster American Presence, Celebrate $1/2 Billion per Year in Annualized Trades TOKYO, JAPAN - February 28, 2013 Dear customers, Mt. Gox, the owner of the worldís dominant Bitcoin exchange, announced today that they have selected CoinLab as their exclusive partner in the United States and Canada. As of March 29, all US and Canadian customers currently transacting with Mt.Gox will transact through CoinLab, Inc. "This move will bring local product delivery, liquidity and customer service to a huge group of Bitcoin fanatics," said CEO of CoinLab, Peter Vessenes. "We're excited by, and awed at the responsibility we have caring for our over 100,000 new customers and over a half-billion dollars in annualized trade volume." Mt.Gox will continue to provide back-end exchange clearing services, and transition over handling of customer accounts, deposits, withdrawals, and other functions to CoinLab's US-based team. "This should be a huge win for everyone -- faster deposit and withdrawal times, easier-to-reach customer service, and better access for United States financial markets, market makers and liquidity providers" said Mark Karpeles, Managing Director of Mt.Gox. CoinLabs plans for the customer base? "Service, Service, Service. Oh, and also, Liquidity, Liquidity, Liquidity," said Vessenes. "Also, we're planning on launching some pro trading tools; we have some samples up for comment and review ahead of launch at http://coinlab.com/liquidity." Mt. Gox is the world's largest Bitcoin exchange, providing at least 80% of global bitcoin trading volume. It resides in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan. CoinLab is the world's first US Venture-backed Bitcoin Company; it was funded in April 2012 by a group of progressive investors, including Tim Draper, Roger Ver, and Geoff Entress. RegardsMt.Gox Co. Ltd Team. Mt.Gox Contact press@mtgox.comCoinlab Contact Peter J. Vessenes, 855-LAB-COIN, peter@coinlab.com
statigr.am In today's 24/7 news cycle, ¬†business media has turned into a never-ending carousel of one so-called investment guru after the next.¬† In her book, "Pound Foolish: Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry," Helaine Olen cites a Univ. of California study that found anytime a stock was mentioned by name on CNBC, its price immediately increased ‚Äì‚Äì whether the news was positive or negative.¬† This is not a trend we should be thrilled about.¬† For starters, if a guy sitting in front of a half dozen cameras on national TV is touting stock advice, one thing is for sure: You're not the only one listening. The minute a tip comes out of their mouths, it's old news that has been heard by thousands if not millions of other investors and, consequently, has already lost whatever minor edge it may have given you.¬† "Although individual investors are net buyers of attention-grabbing stocks‚Äîstocks that are in the news or that¬†experience abnormal one-day returns or trading volumes‚Äîthese stocks subsequently do not¬†perform as well as the stocks that the same investors decided to sell," the SEC reported in its study¬†"Behavioral Patterns and Pitfalls of U.S. Investors.¬† Your best bet?¬† Treat talking market gurus like the ad-selling entertainers they are meant to be, and take their advice with a huge dose of salt. Maintain a properly¬†diversified¬†portfolio (ex: a mix of¬†stocks, bonds, cash, and real estate that should be recalibrated according to your risk tolerance as you age)¬†that will weather whatever storm may come, and you'll be all the better for it.¬†
Investment bankers in NYC saw an 8 percent increase in their bonuses†this year, but they're still not getting paid like they used to before the financial crisis. That has a lot of bankers on the Street frustrated. But, as Bloomberg reports, it's important to count your blessings, one of them being that pay cuts in New York City aren't nearly as bad as they are in China. From Bloomberg: Compensation for managing directors at global financial firms in China, including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) and Deutsche Bank AG (DBK), has fallen as much as 60 percent since 2010 to the lowest level in a decade, according to five senior bankers with knowledge of employee pay who asked not to be identified because they arenít authorized to discuss the matter. China managing directors now earn less than their counterparts in the U.S., and their pay is on par with those in Europe and the U.K., where lower bonus pools last year meant a 15 percent cut in compensation. A decline in fees resulting from a dearth of deals has erased the so-called China premium enjoyed by bankers focusing on the country, the people said. Bloomberg goes on to report that salaries are the lowest they've been since 2003. Your average managing director in Hong Kong or Beijing, on the other hand, is still probably making between $900,000 and $1.3 million. This is interesting beyond figuring out where individual bankers should pick their next job, because it's ultimately about where banks are doing business. Banks put their compensation money where the deals are, and it looks like they're saying that those deals are not in China. From Bloomberg: ìThe very big ticket items of the past -- mega public- sector IPOs, vast restructurings -- appear to be behind us,î Ken Courtis, founder of Tokyo-based advisory firm Next Capital Partners Co. and former Asia vice chairman at Goldman Sachs wrote in an e-mail. ìIn investment banking, salaries and bonuses are related to the volume business, and itís a revenue game.î The lesson here is simple: Follow the deals.
Yesterday we noted how the parabolic rise in Bitcoins lately looks a lot like the gold bull market on a chart. The virtual currency has taken a wild upward turn in just the last 48 hours. On Monday, Bitcoins were trading around $35. Today, they're up to $49. That's a 40 percent advance. The chart below shows the surge (click to enlarge): bitcoincharts.com This is actually part of a larger surge in the currency since January. The three-month chart below shows that just two months ago, Bitcoins were trading below $15: bitcoincharts.com Nick Colas, Chief Market Strategist at ConvergEx Group, told us that the surge this week may be related to a key step the virtual currency just took toward going mainstream. Click here for details on our conversation with Colas &gt; (HT: @binarybits)
Yepoka Yeebo / Business InsiderThere has been a surge in divorces in China. But they're not being driven by unhappy marriages. Chinese couples are getting divorced to take advantage of loopholes that will let them sell properties tax free, under certain conditions, according to the Shanghai Daily. This comes after the government published an online notice on Friday stating that homeowners who sell their homes will be taxed 20 percent on the profit they make. Properties that were purchased as a couple's only home five years ago are not subject to the tax when resold. To take advantage of this, couples are getting divorced and taking one property each, this then allows them to sell one of the homes tax-free. The Shanghai Daily said wedding registrars confirmed that "the dramatic surge was triggered by the central government's property curbs announcement last week". They also said couples were remarrying as soon as the sales were completed. The registration center in Zhabei District saw a record 53 divorces on Tuesday. It also saw 250 people applying for proof that they are single, up from the typical 60 - 70.The Changning District said its divorce rate was up 30 percent on Monday and the registration in the Yangpu District reported twice the normal number of divorces. What's more? While some couples 'faked' unhappiness, some were up front about getting divorced to take advantage of the loophole. But this isn't the first time we've seen such headlines however. Back in 2011, Chinese couples were splitting up to avoid the ban on a third mortgage. For now it seems as though China's plan has backfired with sales picking up and prices increasing. 
WikimediaHere's the deal: Summer internships on Wall Street are harder to get than ever right now. Banks are still figuring out their post-financial crisis business model, and that means they're are still trying to figure out how many employees they can really support. For that reason, getting hired after your internship is even harder than ever as well. So if you're lucky enough to have an internship this summer, you had better kill it. Fortunately, Wall Street veteran Andy Kessler, the author of "Wall Street Meat," released a really useful e-book called¬†"How To Kick Ass On Wall Street"¬†explaining how you can do that. Kessler, a former analyst, investment banker, venture capitalist and hedge fund manager, has detailed his own top ten steps for kicking ass on Wall Street. We won't tell you what they all are (we can't steal all of his thunder), BUT we can impart some of the wisdom we got from the book.
Oil markets have so far shrugged off the death of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. Energy analyst Stephen Schork says we should consider the larger damage Chavez did to his people by depriving them of vast oil revenues. Production has been in decline for nearly a decade, he writes,¬†ever since Chavez purged Petr√≥leos de Venezuela (PdVSA) of talent and replaced it with "political stooges."  It went from¬†3.0 million barrels per day (MMb/d) of production to as low as 0.6 MMb/d, he say.¬† Production has yet to recover, but it may never do so: ...production has averaged around 0.5 MM/d below pre-strike levels ever since‚Ä¶ and that‚Äôs being generous.  In return, PdVSA has left around $100 billion on the table (gross).¬† The situation with Venezuelan oil production has now deteriorated to the point where PdVSA stopped publishing official output statistics two years ago.  "Here‚Äôs hoping Maduro can do better," wrote Schork about the new president.¬† "But we doubt he will."
Courtesy of CNNEarlier today we revisited former Texas Congressman Ron Paul's precious metal-heavy portfolio.† Paul is one of the most famous advocates of gold as an investment, so we took a look at how his 64 percent precious metal portfolio was handling the recent crash in the price of gold. We took a look at the three major mining stocks that the Wall Street Journal described as the largest of Paul's holdings. Here's what has happened to them in the past six months: Looking at the twenty-one publicly listed mining companies in the Ron Paul portfolio, †the average return on investment was a dismal ñ22.62% over the past six months. Given that the Wall Street Journal reported that Paul's portfolio was worth between $2.44 million and $5.46 million ó and that 64 percent of his assets were in these precious metal stocks ó a very loose estimate is that Ron Paul has lost between $353,204 and $790,366 over the past six months, based on the average loss of his mining holdings. The moral of the story: don't just be in gold related assets.
WeiboChinese netizens have become obsessed with a Weibo account that appears to show the absurdly fabulous life of a young woman in Shenzhen, which we first read about on ChinaSmack. "King" Zhang Jiale's luxury lifestyle has sparked strong criticism in a country where the new found wealth of elder generations is widely seen to have created a younger generation that is overly materialistic. But is it really so bad?
China Photos/Getty ImagesJanuary factory orders data are out. Orders contracted 2 percent in January, better than the 2.2 percent drop expected by economists. Excluding transportation, orders rose 1.3 percent. December's 1.8 percent growth figure was revised down to 1.3 percent. Below is a summary of the data, taken from the release: New orders for manufactured goods in January, down two of the last three months, decreased $9.6 billion or 2.0 percent to $472.9 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. This followed a 1.3 percent December increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 1.3 percent. Shipments, down two consecutive months, decreased $1.0 billion or 0.2 percent to $481.8 billion. This followed a slight December decrease. Unfilled orders, down following four consecutive monthly increases, decreased $2.0 billion or 0.2 percent to $988.9 billion. This followed a 0.7 percent December increase. The unfilled orders-to-shipments ratio was 6.27, up from 6.15 in December. Inventories, up two consecutive months, increased $3.2 billion or 0.5 percent to $618.4 billion. This followed a slight December increase. The inventories-to-shipments ratio was 1.28, up from 1.27 in December. Click here for the full release &gt;
PBSEarlier Niall Ferguson said that Paul Krugman may have been "traumatized" as a child, because in Ferguson's view, Krugman resorts to insults. Krugman's response? That Ferguson's response is pathetic. Here's what Krugman emails to Business Insider: † What a pathetic response. Notice that he is doing precisely what I never do, and making it about the person as opposed to his ideas. All I have ever done to him is point out that he seems to not know what he is talking about, and that he has been repeatedly wrong. I would never stoop to speculating about his childhood! If he can't handle professional criticism -- which is all that I have ever offered -- he should go find another profession. For Ferguson's original slam on Krugman, see here &gt;
We've noted that margin debt at the NYSE has been rising steadily as stocks have advanced in recent months. Like the stock market, total margin is close to all-time highs. BofA Merrill Lynch technical analyst Mary Ann Bartels writes in a note to clients that cash balances in those margin accounts have fallen to such a low level that they are now generating a sell signal not seen in three years. Here is Bartels: Net Free Credits from the NYSE Margin Debt data shown in the chart below is essentially a measure of cash levels in margin accounts. Current levels have fallen to levels that have generated a tactical sell signal based on a 2-standard deviation Z-Score reading. The last time a sell signal was generated was on April 2010 and the S&amp;P 500 subsequently corrected by 16% in two months. Net free credits for January were at a negative $77.2 million or cash balances are negative and the Z-Score indicates the cash draw down has been excessive. So a contrarian sell signal is given. Cash balances are plotted as black bars on the bottom graph in the chart below (click to enlarge). BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, NYSE, Bloomberg
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffStruggling retailer JCPenney's stock hit a new 52-week low today.† The stock was last trading down more than 3% early in the session at $14.51 a share. Yesterday, JCPenney's stock tanked more than 10% after board member Steven Roth's Vornado Realty, the second largest shareholder,†dumped 10 million JCP shares.†The stock closed at $14.96 yesterday. This is terrible news for billionaire hedge fund activist investor Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management.† Roth was seen as an Ackman ally in the JCPenney investment. †They were also both named to the retailer's board at the same time.† Ackman is the largest holder in JCPenney. † His Pershing Square owned a 18.11% stake, or 39,075,771 shares during the fourth quarter of 2012, according the latest†13F filing.† Pershing Square first snapped up a stake in third quarter of 2010 ending on September 30, according to a 13F regulatory filing. Ackman, who has been a supporter of JCPenney's CEO Ron Johnson, has taken a bath on the stock so far. †
CNBCYesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at an all-time high. But the celebrations on the New York Stock Exchange were tempered by some concerns raised by traders. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, points out one such concern in his note this morning: In the spirit of complaining about the vintage of the celebratory champagne, traders grumbled a bit about the "missing pieces" of the "new high breakout". The most frequently cited "missing piece" was volume.† With the continued presumption of mountains of nervous money sitting on the sideline, why didn't the "breakout" turn into a cattle stampede? Volume was mediocre and dropped markedly after the European markets closed.† Was the rally and breakout fed and fueled by our friends from across the pond or even on the other side of the globe?† Was there a speck of a flight to safety in the joyous breakout? Low volume, as Doug Short describes it, "doesn't offer strong confirmation." This is just one of many reasons why some experts worry that the market doesn't have a leg to stand on.
Paul Krugman has been charging hard of late at people he believes espouse particularly dangerous economic recipes. It's elicited some equal and opposite responses. † Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reached out to author and global thinker Niall Ferguson, who had this to say about the New York Times columnist and Princeton Nobel laureate (emphasis ours): In my view Paul Krugman has done fundamental damage to the quality of public discourse on economics. He can be forgiven for being wrong, as he frequently is--though he never admits it. He can be forgiven for relentlessly and monotonously politicizing every issue. What is unforgivable is the total absence of civility that characterizes his writing. His inability to debate a question without insulting his opponent suggests some kind of deep insecurity perhaps the result of a childhood trauma. It is a pity that a once talented scholar should demean himself in this way. UPDATE: Krugman has responded to Ferguson, here. Here's the full footage of Eisen's report from earlier:
A new Citi chart shows what the next stage of super power development is going to look like. It involves drastically curbing your oil and gas demand ó basically, China is about to overtake the U.S. as world's largest importer.† We've documented this before. But the chart, from †Eric Lee, throws it into relief. Citi And here's Lee's take.† China looks to have overtaken the US to become the world's largest net importer of crude and petroleum products. US net oil imports have been plummeting even as China's rises, falling from a peak of over 13-m b/d in October 2006 to under 6-m b/d in December 2012.  Meanwhile, since China flipped from a net exporter to a net importer of oil in 1993, its net oil imports have risen steadily to 6.3-m b/d in January 2013, just under last May's peak. It's amazing to think China was once a net†exporter.  But who knows, in another five years they could be back to being one again...
Where to start? First, a summary: early last week, word ìleakedî that, according to an internal company report (a bit suspicious, but weíll get to that later), 2012 was a less-than productive year for those in Plano, with employees watching a shocking (and seemingly impossible) 5 million Youtube videos in one month. Immediately after that revelation, cameÖthe call; everyone knows what Iím talking about.† That infamous call RJ and his team had discussing (apologizing for?) JCPís ugly disaster of a Q4 (2012) with losses totaling $552M , stocks immediately plunging 15% in after-hours trading, and business press pontificating that ìTO BE CLEAR: JC Penney May Have Just Had The Worst Quarter In Retail History.î †And now a major shareholder appears to be cashing out. In short, all seems lost. Now look, itís clear Johnsonís taking most the heat, but itís not entirely his fault.† After all, heís just pulling plays from his storied professional playbook (having been a rockstar, first at Target, then Apple), but, in some ways, this is Bill Ackmanís fault, too. After all, Johnsonís just doing whatís always worked for him ñ targeting aspirational and upper middle class consumers, ìre-inventingî retail (never mind heís really re-inventing the fastest way to lose cash and customers), and playing more style than substance. Ackman† (and the now reluctant board) shouldíve known, RJía not a turnaround guy ñ but instead more an ìinnovativeî marketing guy, one who focuses on more on sexy initiatives and press-friendly stunts, rather than the messy (but incredibly necessary) work of turnarounds. † So, with that in mind, here's a bit of advice to the beleaguered company.† A quick note: while I work in restructuring, turnaround, and performance improvement, I am not, to be clear, working the JC Penney case; ergo, these observations come from, well, less a 10,000 foot overview than a 40,000 foot one.† So, with all humility, here are a few suggestions on how to turn this mess around.† Or at least stem the cash bleed. #1 Close stores now, before itís too late: Now, Iím not writing anything any sentient being doesnít already know ñ but the department store ìindustryî is shrinking ñ and has been for more than a decade - leading most retailers to focus on smaller, more profitable, stores, a strategy buttressed by an easily-navigated, customer-targeted online presence. So, given those reasonable trends, whatís the first thing Ron Johnson did upon seizing the reigns of JCP? †Attempt a ìretail revolutionî by cutting coupons, nixing sales, and, well, ignoring JCPís Internet presence, all in an attempt to ìrevolutionize retail.î† Sure, JCPís press releases screaming ìcome check out our new look!î were irresistibly sexy, but missed the retail mark.† By a profitable mile. Beyond the near impossiblity of single-handedly ìtrainingî the retail consumer to shop a specific way (thatís for another post), it is necessary to face facts: JCP is currently operating too many stores, and as such, has within its corporate hands an easily-executed way to shore up cash (since itís clear cash is a major concern in regards to this this multi-billion dollar farce ñ er, experiment). Sure, itís not sexy, but it IS essential (and a commonly-utilized wrench used in the restructuring toolbox) if a company is to increase liquidity and buffer coffers.† To further this point: think about it; JCP currently boasts approximately 1,100 †locations (compared with the far-more-profitable (and bigger) Macyís number of 841), suggesting an ill-informed focus that, to this point, has emphasized BIG HEADLINES (really, the store-within-a-store concept could work, but on a limited basis at first) rather than an actual value-add to JCPís consumers, employees, and shareholders.† Ridding the balance sheet of these costly, underperforming store locations offers redemption while, in turn, funding whatever (please, carefully-thought-out) initiatives that could, eventually, stabilize JCP. In short, JCP must cut the brick-and-mortar and follow Macyís in maximizing online customer reach and interaction. #2 Start thinking about this as a turnaround ñ not a fresh coat of paint: Sigh. Iíve been writing this for literally nearly 2 years: JCP is not a growth story, but instead one of restructuring and turnaround in a collapsing and changing industry.† This means not only shoring up cash to fund future operations (see above), but understanding who is ñ and from whence comes ñ your customer. In short, JCP must ditch the sexy ads, aspirational marketing, and racy product and return to your roots.† Because, at its heart, thatís often what turnaround means: a return to the core of a companyís strengths with a twist to maximize production and profit.† In short, not a complete overhaul, but instead a retrenching and re-centering focused on maximizing a companyís advantages and assets. In short, JCP must drop Martha Stewart.† And should in turn lose the numbers of Duro Olowu, Georgina Chapman, and Joe Fresh. In fact, in retrenching, itís important the company remembers: JCP is not Target ñ never has been and never will be.† And thatís not necessarily a bad thing.† There has traditionally existed a loyal customer base for JCP specifically and the department store ìgenreî generally; and while this customer base has been, ostensibly, shrinking in recent years, that doesnít mean itís necessary (or good business) to completely reject its needs and wants in order to maintain revenue while pursuing growth. Instead of jumping into dozens of new product waters and store innovations and commercial stunts, JCP should be (2 years too late) market testing (duh!) the aforementioned changes while firmly and securely integrating them into provable concepts already working. #3 The great Youtube debacle, aka start treating employees as knowledgeable recourses, with respect, instead of as the enemy: Look, with all due respect to those involved, that story about JCP employees watching excessive amounts of Youtube videos at JCPís Plano office? Seems suspicious to me.† Superficially unbelievable.† Perhaps even false. Think about it: a few days before a historic and notoriously bad earnings calls, JCP COO Ken Hannah ìsuddenlyî releases the shocking (!) news that not all has been well in Plano ñ that prior to their termination, a significant majority of 1,600 JCP employees who-are-no-more lounged about, watching literally dozens of videos/day, all while residents of the C-suite were slaving away on retailís next great revolution. Hereís the problem with this story: either 1) Itís true, in which case, thereís a significant cultural issue at JCP, which seems suspicious, given that this SUDDENLY started happening within the past 10 months; 2) Itís, if not a blatant lie, certainly an exaggeration ìplantedî in the media mere days before that earnings call in an effort to make management appear far more aggressive and successful than otherwise thought; 3) Itís a last-ditch effort for management to explain and justify away Q4ís dismal earnings. Who knows? Regardless of the rhyme or reason behind this story, however, it speaks to a larger issue when thinking about JCPís seemingly doomed turnaround: it makes no sense, and often does more harm than good, to arrogantly waltz into a new and unstable situation, assuming a superior knowledge in how best to run a business ñ better than the majority of employees already there, those who have been living and breathing this company sometimes for decades. Instead, itís best to think about turnarounds and employees this way: thereís not much technically new ìoutsideî management can teach a company about itís own business, but there is a way to best guide the retail ship through this latest storm to fresh, more profitable shores, by working WITH the business and its people, not against it/them, to offer a ìfreshî perspective on an already- volatile situation. In short, instead of seeing enemies in employees, itís beneficial to think of them as fantastic analytic and diagnostic resources who know a significant and helpful amount about their company and industry and will be incredible tools in structuring a turnaround. So there we go.† Not allís lost in the land of JCP ñ a turnaround can, and most likely will, take place (after all, donít forget this is a multi-billion dollar, 100+ year old retailer).† But it wonít be ensconced in sexy, brightly-colored capris, suggestive advertising, or a ìretail revolution.î† Look, instead, for the calloused hands of those experienced in the difficult, yet extremely valuable, art of the turnaround to one-day take the helm, once those involved in this boondoggle finally decide theyíve had enough.† And are ready for a turnaround, not retail, ìrevolution.î Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with ACM Partners, a boutique financial advisory firm providing due diligence, performance improvement, restructuring and turnaround services.† She can be reached at 312-505-0700 or at†margaret@acm-partners.com.
Bloomberg TV screencapThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>† †Last week, we laid out the most important advice anyone ever gave us. It also got me thinking about the most important thing anybody ever†said†to me. It was my dad. I was in fifth grade and had just gotten my first pair of glasses; they were Coke-bottle thick and tinted yellow (hey, it was the ë70s). I had fought getting them, moving to the first row in class to better see the blackboard and making my sister take the eye exam before me, so I could try to memorize the letters. I remember my father asking me why I was upset. After I told him that I wanted to be pretty, I remember his response even better: ìSallie, you†are†pretty. And look at Gloria Steinem. She wears glasses, sheís a knock-out, and sheís changing the world.î Hereís what I took away: My father gave me his approval, in a way I could understand. He thought a woman could make a difference. (Worth noting, in the ë70s, in South Carolina.) This woman who was changing the world, and shaking things up, had his approval. In doing this, he pointed me toward a role model. Hereís the important point. There is research showing that the most important relationship in determining a womanís success is the workplace is the one with her father. Over to you, Dadís.......
Former Texas Congressman Ron Paul is known for his full-throated endorsement of gold as money. And he's put his money where his mouth is by investing in a lot of it. Last year during the presidential election, The Wall Street Journal reported¬†on Paul's financial disclosure.  The Congressman's portfolio was¬†heavily weighted with precious metals.¬†Last year we learned¬†that a shocking¬†64 percent¬†of Paul's $2.4 to $5.5 million portfolio is tied up in precious metals like gold and silver.¬† At the time, people were gushing at how smart of a move that was in that market.¬† But today, gold is getting massacred ‚Äî it's been said to be in¬†a "death cross,"¬†the market rally means¬†prices are sliding, and¬†sellers are getting desperate¬†‚Äî and¬†Paul's investments seem to be tanking too.¬† Via Google Finance, here's what has happened to three of Paul's largest holdings ‚Äî Barrick Gold, Goldcorp and Newmont Mining ‚Äî in the past 6 months. Losses of over 20% on each: Google Finance Paul has investments in¬†23 other miners¬†‚Äî many of them small Canadian risky "juniors" ‚Äî so it's doubtful he's doing much better with the rest of the portfolio.¬† Of course we don't know for sure that he hasn't -- since leaving politics -- taken his money out of gold and put it all in Google. But that seems unlikely. (h/t) Peter Eller
Citigroup's trio of Apple analysts have a very negative note for investors this morning. They say demand for Apple's two main product categories ‚Äî the iPhone and the iPad ‚Äî has "softened." They cut their estimates for iPhone unit sales this quarter. For the current March quarter, they are estimating 34 million units sold, down from the previous estimate of 35 million units. For the June quarter they are calling for 25 million units sold, which is well below the consensus of 32 million units. For the next two quarters Citi is at 59 million units versus 69 million for the Street. As for the iPad, they say, "10‚Äù tablet sales are in decline in mature markets (sales of 10‚Äù iPad in US &amp; Japan declined 10.2% y/y in 4Q12), indicative of product maturation." They say the iPad Mini is likely eating into sales of the bigger iPad, but sales of the iPad Mini are expected to flatten. They have cut their iPad estimate for this quarter to 18 million units, which is below the consensus of 19 million from the Street. As for the low-cost iPhone that a lot of people are anticipating, the Citi analysts say they "find limited evidence" of that kind of iPhone right now. Business Insider commenter, and prolific tweeter Sammy The Walrus IV summed up the Citi note best on Twitter saying, "Citi basically thinks demand for Apple products has reached a peak. Incremental products will be a snooze. No new product categories."
Bloodhound SSC, Originated by Curventa and SiemensWe just got the ADP jobs report. It came in better than expected. But frequently ADP doesn't line up well with Non-Farm Payrolls, and the number is discounted. This time may be an exception. From NOMURA: Itís another busy day on the data front today with employment and manufacturing data out of the US in addition to the Fedís Beige Book. Our economists note that in February ADP realigns its data series with the BLS data benchmark, which makes its February private employment report a good signal for what to expect from Fridayís employment report. In line with their forecast for BLS nonfarm payrolls, they expect ADP to announce net 175k private sector jobs were added in February. Given the sharp decline in durable goods orders in January, they further expect factory orders to have declined by 2.3%. For more on the report, see here &gt;
Camenzind EvolutionThe ADP jobs report is out, and it's a beat. 198K new jobs was ahead of the Bloomberg consensus of 172K. Also there was a strong upward revision to last month. It went from 192 to 215K. ¬†This is a report that attempts to capture the private sector side of the official non-farm payrolls report. The full report can be found here. ¬† ---------- The first big datapoint of JOBS WEEK is today. We get the ADP jobs report at 8:15 AM ET. Analyst expect a reading of 172K, down from 190K last month. Remember, this only captures private sector payrolls. We'll have the number here LIVE.
Getty Images / Christopher PolkGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The Dow just hit an all-time high. So we thought we'd go over to the Newseum to check out how the news is being covered on front pages around the country. Most of the newspapers don't have anything on it. USA Today does have it as a big splash. Newseum Newseum Newseum
More grim news. Fourth-quarter drop in eurozone GDP confirmed as worst since 2009, contraction of 0.6% qoq - see chart twitter.com/gareth_gore/st‚Ä¶
AP ImagesWilliam Cohan's Vanity Fair profile of billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square, comes out today. In the extensive piece about the hedge fund war over Herbalife, we learn why Ackman is no longer friends with hedge fund hot-shot David Einhorn, the CEO of Greenlight Capital. Cohan writes: Einhorn and Ackman were once good friends. They met on a subway platform in 1998 after they both had attended an industry luncheon. †In March 2010, when the two appeared together on CNBC, Einhorn said of Ackman, "Bill's a phenomenal investor... His returns are absolutely extraordinary. It shows there are a lot of different ways to go about things. He's a fabulous investor."† Without missing a beat, Ackman replied, "David is my marketing adviser."† The relationship soured, however, around the time the Indago Girls were making their Herbalife pitch to both men. "David and I had what you might call a falling-out," Ackman admits. It happened in June 2011, when Ackman was quoted in†The New York Times revealing that Einhorn, a Milwaukee-area native, had wanted to buy the Milwaukee Brewers in 2004 but lost out to Mark Attanasio, another financial heavyweight. At that moment, Einhorn was trying to buy a piece of the New York Mets, and, Ackman says, Einhorn feared if the Mets knew of his previous interest in the Brewers they would conclude he was just another rich hedge-fund guy looking to buy a new toy, as opposed to being a serious Mets fan. Ackman says he was just trying to show that his friend had a lifelong†interest in baseball. There was some back-and-forth on e-mail between the two men, and that was that. "David and I are friendly, but it's like we were boyfriend and boyfriend, and then one day we were just friends, and now we're just friendly," Ackman says. "I have enormous respect for him. But as a result of that, I stopped calling him and he stopped calling me, so that's why I didn't talk to him" about Herbalife. (Einhorn declined to discuss Herbalife or his relationship with Ackman, but lavishly praised Dan Loeb.) Now that's just kind of sad.†
The government's mishandling of Argentina's economy has hit new highs recently with the implementation of price controls on food. It is a notoriously ineffective policy that tends to create shortages and spawns black markets. International Affairs Review: - President Cristina Fern·ndez de Kirchner's temporary price freeze on food products marks the most recent instance of her gross mishandling of Argentina's economy. The price freeze applies to all major food retailers, which account for over 70% of the market. Historically, these types of economic policies have never produced positive results. Most often, food importers stop importing because they would lose money by selling their food at the prices ordered by the government. Customers of large retailers who stand in line hoping to buy at the frozen price will then find the shelves barren. This scarcity of goods will spawn a black market, where food will be sold at actual market prices. While some law enforcement officials may tolerate these black markets, other will try to dismantle them, only to discover more tenacious entrepreneurs setting up shop the next corner over. Unfortunately, the temporary price freeze is only part of an alarming trend towards financial mismanagement, which includes the expropriation of major foreign investments. Last yearís nationalization of Repsol YPF has infuriated Spain, one of Argentinaís largest foreign investors. Kirchnerís presidency has also been marred by accusations of†falsifying CPI statistics (which provoked a strong rebuke from the IMF), a weakening of central bank independence, use of the nationís currency reserves for political payoffs, and the threat of default on its debt - again. To most outsiders it would appear that Argentina is repeating many of the mistakes that resulted in its economic crisis of the early 2000s. In a classic case of "wag the dog", Argentina's government is trying to focus the population on external issues. Argentine officials are now taking an aggressive stance with respect to self-determination in the Falkland Islands. Knowing that the upcoming referendum will likely result in a status quo, Argentina's government declared the vote to be "illegal". Tensions with the UK are likely to escalate further. To make matters worse, fears of Argentina's technical default†on its restructured dollar bonds (see discussion) are on the rise once again. That's in spite of recent hopes that Argentina may attempt to settle with the "holdouts" (see WSJ story). As a reflection of this uncertainty, the unofficial currency market is now pricing dollars at a 54% premium to the government's tightly controlled exchange rate. Another troubling development is the relentless deterioration of Argentina's foreign reserves. Rumors persist that the government has moved dollars into "unofficial" accounts. JPMorgan: - ... gross international reserves have fallen US$1.6 billion ytd, driven by a US$1.2 billion ytd fall of Treasury deposits at BCRA. What is odd about this is that the decline of the Treasuryís cash position of the past two weeks cannot be related to any scheduled external debt payment. Some have speculated that the goal is to prevent official dollar accounts from being frozen by US courts if the legal case against the bond holdouts results in an unfavorable ruling for Argentina. SoberLook Whatever the reason, no one expects these reserves to stabilize. That's because the largest single source of hard currency for Argentina is the export of soy and soy products. And this year's soy harvest is projected to be weaker than originally expected, putting additional pressure on foreign reserves. WSJ: - Hot, dry weather from early January through mid-February reduced soy yields across much of the central region of Argentina's agricultural heartland. Exports of soybeans and related products are the South American nation's single largest source of foreign currency and a key contributor to the Central Bank of Argentina's international reserves.  President Cristina Kirchner has tapped those reserves to pay foreign creditors since 2010, and her budget this year earmarks several billion dollars of reserves to fund public works projects. As conditions deteriorate, Kirchner's government will resort to more extreme measures in order to hold on to power. And largely because of government's actions, Argentina, with its significant natural resources, a relatively large middle class, and a fairly developed industrial base is unlikely to participate in the economic stabilization seen in Brazil (see discussion) and elsewhere in emerging markets.
Flickr via wackelijmroosterThe next three days will help us paint a clearer picture of what's happening with the labor market. On Friday, of course, we get the Non-Farm Payrolls Report ("The Jobs Report"). Analysts expect about 165K new jobs. Tomorrow we get initial claims data. And today we get the (in?)famous ADP jobs report, which attempts to provide insight onto the private side of the NFP report. The consensus is for 173K new private sector jobs, according to Calculated Risk. Check back at these pages at 8:15 AM ET for the number.
Pier Luigi Bersani ó the leader of Italy's liberal party (the PD) ó is speaking this morning. He's attempting to form a government. Of the main candidates in the latest election, he's the most likely to be successful, and become the next PM. He has a good first priority. #Italy's Bersani says he'd cut bureaucracy and size of parliament, reduce the IMU property tax. First priority: get out of "austerity cage." Yesterday Bloomberg reported that EU Commissioner Olli Rehn said it may be appropriate to loosen some deficit targets.
The Dow Jones just hit a new all-time high. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 is right in the vicinity of two previous peaks, in 2000 and 2007. FRED So how's the market changed over this time? This great chart from Goldman Sachs looks how the market cap weighting of various sectors within the index has changed over the years. Back during the tech bubble, tech composed 32 percent of the index. During the last peak it was finance at the top. Now tech is at the top again. Goldman Sachs Meanwhile, BTIG's Dan Greenhaus makes some other quantitative observations about the difference between now and 2007. †So with the Dow making a new closing high, weíve been fielding numerous calls from journalists regarding its importance or significance. Ignoring those conversations, it did get us thinking about the differences between then and now. Then, the S&amp;Pís forward PE was roughly 15.5x whereas today, itís about 13.2x. As the tables below illustrate, financials were (of course) a much larger percentage of the market when compared to today with the weighting loss dispersed among the other sectors (the sector is still down 49.7% from its high). The 10 year averaged more than 4.50% in October 2007 while today its 1.90% and the CPI, which was more than 4% at the end of 2007, is currently less than 2.0%.
Bill Emmott/Girlfriend In A ComaA day before election day two weeks ago, Italian authorities halted a screening of a documentary by the former editor of The Economist about the country's society-wide crisis. The film, "Girlfriend In A Coma" ó a play on the Smiths' song speaking to Emmott's formerly intimate relationship with the country ó had already been viewed in other parts of the country and hailed by the Italian press, but a screening in advance of the polls was deemed to threaten the country's election laws.† Emmott of course†blasted†the decision, and the FT's Fernando Giugliano†called†the ban "an act of intellectual cowardice."† The elections themselves produced two major surprises: comedian and activist Beppe Grillo's party gained as much as 30 percent in some regions.†And former prime minister's Silvio Berlusconi's party also made strong gains. But the technical outcome was more disaster: a deadlocked parliament whose majority leader, Pier Luigi Bersani, is struggling to put together a ruling coalition. We wanted to see what all the fuss in the film was about. After seeing it, you'll better understand why Italian voters are so upset. (Via @pawelmorski) To check out the film in its entirety, go here.
The gold industry frequently uses fear to sell its goods (fear of hyperinflation, etc.). But fear of outright communism is a new one. From an ad we saw on FinViz.com: FinViz
After the Dow hit a record high yesterday, the good vibes in global markets continue. Gains are being seen in most places, including U.S. futures. The big winner of the day: Japan. Again. As is becoming commonplace there, the Nikkei rallied over two percent, hitting yet another high on its bull run. Nikkei
