It's tough at the topBeing the world's†most valuable publicly traded company†has its fair share of challenges. In fiscal 2013, Apple raked in a whopping $37 billion in net income. You can bet numerous companies are doing everything they can to get a slice of this pie. Even a small sliver of that could move mountains for tech behemoths like Amazon,†Microsoft, and†Google. Apple's gross profit margins of 35%-plus are the envy of the industry, and these companies are fighting to get in on the cash. As Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has†said, "Your margin is my opportunity." Strategic attacks to nab Apple's market share come in many forms. Some of these attacks are more overt than others. In fact, some -- like this this ad from Amazon -- are blatantly obvious.  It's a smart move by Amazon. No lies. Just truth. The facts speak for themselves. Not only is the tablet lighter, but its display easily trumps the iPad Air. After comparing the new Kindle Fire HDX to the Apple iPad Air display, Display Mate concluded that the new Kindle display "has now jumped into the impressive category as the best performing Tablet display we have ever tested." Of course, Amazon isn't the only company with an ad to poke fun at the iPad Air. In November,†ads by Microsoft showed some of the benefits of a Surface 2 over Apple's new iPad Air. One ad highlighted Microsoft's hands-free technology, something the iPad Air lacks entirely. Another ad pointed out Apple's failure to support multiple accounts on iOS. Massive price cutsBeyond ads, a common strategy for competitors is to undercut Apple in pricing. Amazon, in particular, does this exceptionally well. Unlike Apple, the company doesn't have to please investors with massive gross profit margins. With gross profit margins at 26.5% in the trailing 12 months (considerably less than Apple's) and net margin of basically zero, Amazon investors are primarily focused on the company's ability to grow revenue and steal market share. Even more, Amazon takes a†different approach to selling hardware. While Apple attempts to take profit up front, Amazon prefers to sell hardware at or near cost and profit from sales of content after the hardware is sold. Thanks to Amazon's different approach to selling hardware, the company was able to offer consumers massive price cuts on Cyber Monday, dropping 7-inch 16 GB Kindle Fire and Kindle Fire HDX models by $50 each. That brought the Kindle Fire HDX pricing down from $229 to $179 and Kindle Fire pricing down from $169 to $119. Meanwhile, Apple only offered a small discount on Black Friday via gift cards -- a $75 Apple Store gift card to anyone who purchased an iPad Air, which starts at $499. Will the price cuts work?The two discounted tablets have taken the top two spots on Amazon's best-sellers list in electronics. Before these two Kindles took the top two spots,†Google's Chromecast had held the first spot†for some time -- even after the new Kindle models went on sale. There's no question about it, the pricing seems to be helping Amazon keep sales of the two models robust. But it's clear Amazon may not be making much (or any) money on these Kindles up front. So the company will need to continue to drive higher-margin content sales. That said, Amazon is certainly in a better position to do this with more Kindles in the hands of customers. For Amazon, undercutting Apple on price and poking fun at the company in its ads may be an effective strategy. As the biggest technology company in the world, Apple will continue to be targeted by competitors. Thereís a huge difference between a good stock, and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and itís one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report: "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just†click here†to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company. Fool contributor†Daniel Sparks†owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Amazon.com, Apple, and Google. The Motley Fool owns shares of Amazon.com, Apple, Google, and Microsoft. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services†free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that†considering a diverse range of insights†makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a†disclosure policy.
The astronomical rise in the value of bitcoinówhich has surged more than 8,000 percent over the course of 2013óhas created a new breed of digital currency multimillionaires. The 34-year-old Roger Ver began investing in bitcoins in early 2011óand made his first million from the virtual currency that same yearówhich saw prices skyrocket from around $0.30 to $32 before settling at $2. He bought his first bitcoins at around $1. (Read more:†Bitcoin's surge due to 'excess liquidity': Faber) With prices currently hovering above $1,000, his virtual wealth has since exploded. Ver says he doesn't feel "richer" but that his wealth is "much more liquid than it would be in a normal bank account." Ver is one of hundreds of investors that have struck it big with bitcoin. But his association with the virtual currency extends far beyond just owning it. He has helped seed about a dozen different businesses involving bitcoin and actively promotes the currency, earning him the nickname "Bitcoin Jesus." "I believe Peter Vessenes [chairman of the Bitcoin Foundation] gave me the title when we were at a BBQ together. I was explaining bitcoin to about two dozen high school kids. The kids were all enthralled by bitcoin, and hanging on my every word," he told CNBC. (Read more:†Bitcoin breaks $1,000 barrier for the first time) "Peter then commented that 'it's like you are a Bitcoin Jesus, and you have all your disciples around you'," he added. His venture MemoryDealers.com, a website that sells discounted computer parts, became the first mainstream business to accept bitcoins as payment. It's also worth noting that it was through this business that he made his first million, in dollar terms, back in 2003. Ver's nickname is as colorful as his past. Born and raised in Silicon Valley, he moved to Tokyo, Japan in 2005 after serving 10 months in federal prison for selling a product called "Pest Control Report 2000"ówhich he described as a firecracker used by farmers to keep animals away from their cornfieldsóon†eBay. Before that, in 2000, he tried his hand in politics, running for California State Assembly as a Libertarian, but lost. Bitcoins are 'incredibly cheap' Bitcoin's meteoric rise in the recent weeks has led to concerns that it may be a speculative bubble, but Ver doesn't believe this is a concern for him. At $1,000, Ver regards bitcoin as "incredibly cheap," noting that if it gains in popularity as he anticipates, each bitcoin would be worth tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars. "The rapid price rise is due to people with money starting to realize how important of an invention bitcoin is," he said. "Bitcoin will experience many bubbles along its way to improving the lives of everyone on the planet. I'm not concerned with the short-term price fluctuations," he added. Ver, who currently uses bitcoins to pay factories in China to produce electronics components for his company, says he plans to use them "to promote the ideas of Voluntaryism and economic freedom" in the future. (Read more:†Regulators see value in Bitcoin, and investors hasten to agree) This past weekend, Ver made the largest-ever bitcoin-based charitable donation. Ver donated 1,000 bitcoins (more than $1 million) to the†Foundation for Economic Educationóan American organization that promotes the principles oflaissez-faire†economics, private property, and limited government to students. óBy CNBC's Ansuya Harjani. Follow her on Twitter @Ansuya_H
Courtesy of the Freedom ShipA 2009 rendering of Freedom Ship's design Back in the nineties, a team of visionaries started planning a floating city of 50,000 to 100,000 people, with shops, restaurants, and other amenities, that would travel the globe and let people spend their entire lives at sea. Named Freedom Ship International, the project†was the brainchild of a†Sarasota, Fla. engineer named†Norman Nixon. "As soon as we get this joker built we're going to retire and live on it for two years," Nixon bragged to NPR in 2002. That never happened. The ambitious project struggled to attract venture capital and was abandoned after the financial crisis. Nixon himself passed away last year. Things could be about to change for Freedom Ship International, however. Roger Gooch, part of the original team that worked with Nixon, recently sensed a change in the economic climate and decided to try to revive the idea. Gooch, 60, is a marketing man by training (he also formerly owned an insurance company and worked in the travel industry), so he thought he'd do what he did best and get the idea some press. After a few interviews, the idea was back in the spotlight again last week with multiple outlets picking up the story. Freedom ShipA cutaway diagram that shows an older design of the Freedom Ship"It's gone viral on the Internet," Gooch told Business Insider with a laugh. "In the last three or four days we've been inundated with emails and responses and stuff, most of them have ó quite truthfully ó been very favorable." The press is important, Gooch explains, as the company needs to get past their biggest hurdle ó the truly astronomical price tag of the Freedom Ship. Gooch estimates that the project needs would have a budget of $9ñ10 billion, but he says it would provide a good return on investment. Thanks to the newfound attention, Gooch says, a number of private investors have contacted him about the idea, though no venture capital firms have reached out so far. He says his team is now interested in partnering with "notable or established private maritime entities" and has also floated the idea of what he called a "constructive equity capitalization" ó wherein the vendors he would use to construct the Freedom Ship would be given equity in the finished product for discounts of services and goods. The plans for the Freedom Ship are certainly audacious. The one-mile-long and 25-story-high ship would circle the Earth every two years, spending roughly 70 percent of its time moored outside major cities and ports (it will be too big to go in most ports, so residents can fly to and from the shore from the Freedom Ship's onboard airport). On board the floating ship would have its own economy, with tens of thousands of people working in shops, bars, and other businesses, and everyone on board paying a maintenance fee to support infrastructure such as security services and fire fighters. Freedom Ship Gooch is adamant, however, that the project is feasible, and points out that technically the idea of a city on a boat is a misnomer ó the Freedom Ship is actually a "super platform." "There are super platforms now in the world, they're just not mobile platforms or floating cities," Gooch explains. "There's a large platform Japan uses as an airport. Super platforms are not the question, the question is whether an autonomous city circumnavigating the world can be economically viable, and we truly believe it can." (Exactly who "we" is at this point remains unclear: Gooch admits that much of the team that was working on Freedom Ship International 10-15 years ago is no longer involved, and that he needs a project manager and marine architects, but he does say he is one of five currently working on the project.) Even before its comeback, however, the Freedom Ship project had endured a good amount of criticism, and it seems unlikely that the critics will be satisfied by Gooch's claims. Back in 2001 Patri Friedman, an American activist and political economy theorist, collected criticism of the Freedom Ship project. Friedman is a supporter of life on the sea (he co-founded the Seasteading Institute, dedicated to studying and promoting floating cities, with Peter Thiel in 2008), but he was forced to conclude that "the project is unrealistic." Freedom ShipA 2009 rendering of the Freedom Ship"I am still quite pessimistic," Friedman said when contacted via email. For example, he pointed to the issues with the residential cruise ship The World, operated by Residensea, which has struggled financially, despite being 30 times smaller than Freedom Ship. Friedman likens the idea to a startup tech company. "Here in Silicon Valley, you can raise a million dollars with little more than a good resume and a cool idea that could become the next Google or Facebook," he writes. "But even Facebook didnít raise a billion dollars until January of 2011, when the company had 600 million users and was worth $50 billion." "Rather than trying to build a huge product and then sell it, startups now focus on creating the 'Minimum Viable Product,'" Friedman adds. "This is the smallest thing they can build and get users or, even better, customers to start getting market traction, feedback, and of course revenue. The results of that MVP test determine whether venture capitalists will fund their next stage of development. When your Minimum Viable Product is a mile-long city at sea that costs $11 billion, itís time to go back to the drawing board." Even if Freedom Ship can raise the money, there are a lot of complications. For example, CNBC's Roger Gooch points out that the floating city might be considered a tax haven. While Gooch himself acknowledges that some passengers might be able to work out some tax benefits, that isn't the intention of the boat, and he expects most will have to pay taxes in their country of citizenship. The question of legality onboard is a little murky too, though the Freedom Ship will likely have to operate under the laws of the country whose flag they fly. Still, Gooch remains hopeful. "The question is if there's enough interest globally," he says. "On the first ship we really only need about 50,000 interested people out of 3 billion, and we've run the numbers and believe there might be a need for 2 or 3 ships down the road. Is the timing now, in this decade? That we're not sure of, and that's why we are exploring it as we are right now to see if there is the demand and the interest." And does Gooch want to live on the Freedom Ship himself? "Absolutely," he replies immediately. "I've been sold on the concept. The first time I heard about it, I thought, if you guys can build this I would live on it." "I would like it to happen in my lifetime," he says before laughing. "It better hurry up."
Reuters/Lee Jae WonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. This Is A Great Time For Investors To Rebalance Their Portfolios (Morningstar) After the run up in stocks this year, many are expecting a correction. But investors shouldn't try and time the market, says Christine Benz at Morningstar. Instead, they should consider rebalancing their portfolios and raising a little cash.¬† "I've been advising for a while that one tack investors should be looking at right now is to be thinking about rebalancing their portfolios. So assuming that they have some sort of strategic asset allocation framework that they're working within, look at where your current weightings are versus those targets. A portfolio that was 50% equity, 50% bond five years ago would now be about 64% equity, 36% bond. This is an S&amp;P 500, high-quality bond portfolio. "If you've been very hands-off through this rally, chances are you've seen your equity holdings step up and up and up, probably higher than your target weightings. I think of rebalancing as kind of a "chicken" tactical asset allocation play. It's a way to be a little bit tactical, be sensitive to the fact that stock valuations aren't what they once were, but it's not market-timing, because you're not taking all of your equity holdings off the table." Female Merrill Lynch Advisors Oppose $39 Million Settlement In Gender Discrimination Suit (Investment News)  A group of female Merrill Lynch advisors is opposing a $39 million settlement¬† tied to a gender discrimination suit, reports Trevor Hunnicutt at Investment News. The advisors are opposing the suit on the grounds that it is "meager" and that it would actually "enshrine the very policy that the plaintiffs challenged in this lawsuit as discriminatory." Investors Shouldn't Fear Rate Hikes (BMO Capital Markets) Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets maintains a S&amp;P 500 price target of 1900 for 2014 and thinks that stock performance will be centered around the Fed. When the Fed first hinted that it could taper its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program the S&amp;P 500 lost nearly 5% in the following month. Belski writes that most investors "re going to view tapering as a tightening of policy (even though it is not), given the market‚Äôs reliance on the Fed during this bull market." But he says investors should "welcome rate hikes." This is because their research shows that "after the initial shock of the first rate hike subsides, the S&amp;P 500 goes on to deliver rather impressive gains in the subsequent periods." This is because a rate hike signals that economic growth prospects have improved and higher rates will dampen inflation. "We would view any Fed related weaknesses as an excellent longer-term buying opportunity." BMO Capital Markets Money Managers Haven't Bet On Stocks With This Much Borrowed Money Since 2006 (All Star Charts) Of late it seems that more and more short funds are closing their doors and more bears are turning bullish and saying it's okay to have stock exposure, writes J.C. Parets at All Start Charts. The latest the National Association of Active Investment Managers (NAAIM) shows that investment managers haven't loaded up on U.S. stocks this much and this aggressively since 2006.¬† "I like this particular poll is because of the wide range of investment styles among the managers participating in the survey," Parets writes. "These include managers that trade frequently and can switch long and short positions daily. Other managers trade less and for the most part just keep their core positions. But it‚Äôs a better representation of the real world, and not just the long only, ‚Äúhope for the best‚Äù, type of passive managers." Here's One Chart Every Stock Market Investor Should Pin To The Wall (JP Morgan Asset Management)  Pointing to a chart of S&amp;P 500 intra-year declines against calendar year returns, JP Morgan Asset Management's Paul Quinsee shows that even in big years investors have to stomach a hit to realize buy and hold returns. These hits could be as much as 10-15%. JP Morgan
REUTERS/Valentin FlauraudA model stands next to the covered new Chevrolet Cruze car during the first media day of the Geneva Auto Show at the Palexpo in Geneva.America's automakers released their November data, exceeding market expectations ahead of the holiday season. Chrysler's sales jumped 16% to 142,275 units during the month, while Ford was up 7.1% (190,449). GM spiked¬†13.7% as well. A total of 16.3 million vehicles were sold at an annualized rate, stronger than the 15.75 million expected. "Consumers who probably balked at making such a major purchase during the October‚Äôs budget showdown returned to dealer showrooms," Citi's Peter D'Antonio predicted before the data release. Overall, the November data smoked expectations, but some cars were hotter than others.
Flickr / World of Good2013 wasn't a great year for emerging markets. Unfortunately, problems could persist a little longer. Emerging markets have a busy political calendar in 2014. And there are concerns that officials won't push through much needed reforms, sticking to populist policies ahead of the elections instead. This political disincentive, could only exacerbate economic woes in these countries. Let's take a quick look at the upcoming 2014 elections and what these mean for the country. Not everyone is as pessimistic about the impact of the elections on emerging market nations though. "Although election uncertainty suggests higher risk premia, elections could also be a catalyst for market-positive change," writes Alia Moubayed at Barclays. Here's a table of all the key emerging market elections in 2014 and 2015 from Barclays: Barclays
WikimediaIllinois lawmakers approved a bill to address the state's $100 billion pension debt. The state has the worst credit rating in the country according to S&amp;P, and its pension crisis was having ripple effects throughout the state. Fitch cited it two weeks ago when it downgraded Chicago's credit rating.¬† Officials hope the bill, which will among other things raise state workers' retirement age on a sliding scale and introduce a 401(k) option,¬†can save $160 billion over¬†30 years and reduce annual pension payments by up to $1.5 billion. But some have cast the measure ¬†the bill¬†as an inadequate stopgap. In a lengthy op-ed Friday, Citadel CEO Ken Griffin, a Republican, called it "a fiscal death sentence." He wrote:¬† "Here is where this story will inevitably end: Our state is going to be forced to break its promises to our government employees and retirees. They will receive less than they bargained for. Our state's taxpayers will see the 67 percent "temporary" tax increase converted into a permanent tax increase. And soon we will hear that even further tax increases are needed to meet our obligations. This is the price we are all going to pay for sending the wrong leaders to Springfield for too many years." Sen. William Delgado, a Democrat from Chicago, called the bill ‚Äúmorally wrong, morally corrupt,‚Äù according to the Sun-Times' Dave McKinney, adding that¬†the bill would, ‚Äúpunish retired teachers, the janitor, the woman who serves lunch to your child in school.‚Äù House Speaker Michael Madigan, also a Democrat from Chicago, said¬†current pension benefits were "too rich" and that there "must be change," according to the Chicago Tribune's Ray Long and Monique Garcia.¬† Governor Pat Quinn is expected to sign the bill in the next 24 hours.
Bitcoin mining is becoming a serious business. This chart, from Bitcoin wallet service and block explorer Blockchain.info, shows the amount of computational power worldwide dedicated to Bitcoin mining ‚Äî the process of maintaining the public ledger of all Bitcoin transactions, and of being rewarded new Bitcoins for participating in this process. In just the last few months, this amount has exploded: BlockChain The chart shows the number of "gigahashes per second" being processed on the Bitcoin network. A hash is a cryptographic function that takes a large amount of data and generates from it a much smaller number. This is done in such a way that a very small change in the original piece of data will result in a very different hash number. Hashes are thus used in cryptography to show that a piece of data has not been tampered with ‚Äî if the data has been altered, it is easy to see this, since the changed message will give a very different hash number than that of the original message. Hashing is at the heart of the Bitcoin mining process. Miners assemble "blocks" consisting of Bitcoin transactions, a hash record of the prior transaction block in the "blockchain" ‚Äî the public ledger of all Bitcoin transactions ‚Äî and an extra randomly assigned number. The miner then repeatedly hashes the block, making a small change to the extra number with each repetition, until the hash number satisfies a rare criterion. This process will take, on average, an enormous number of repeated hash steps to get a hash number satisfying the criterion. Once that criterion is met, the block is added to the blockchain, and the miner is rewarded with her new Bitcoins. The insanely rapid growth of the chart shows how the tech race in Bitcoin mining has heated up recently. As of this writing, there are computers around the world performing about 6,900,000,000,000,000 hash operations per second. This is about a ten-fold increase in computing power dedicated to Bitcoin mining since September, and about a 275-fold increase from the start of 2013.¬†
REUTERS/Thomas PeterPeople hold banners during a protest against the German government's perceived backtracking on energy transition near the Chancellery in Berlin, on November 30, 2013. BRATISLAVA, Slovakia -- Europe, at present the world's largest market and largest economic bloc, is in decline and living standards are in danger. That was the sober message at an energy conference here, delivered by a battery of speakers from across eastern Europe. The narrative is that energy is what is dragging Europe down ‚Äì not low birthrates and pervasive social-safety networks, but increasing dependence on expensive energy imports and hopelessly tangled markets.¬† Although delegates gathered to discuss the particular problems of eastern Europe, many had comments about the energy dependence across Europe; its labyrinthine regulations in nearly all 28 countries, its inability to form capital for large projects like nuclear, and governments intruding into the market. Related article:¬†New Study Finds Higher Methane Emissions from Fracking The result is a patchwork of contradictions, counterproductive regulations, political fiats and multiple objectives that leave Europeans paying more for energy than they need to and failing to develop indigenous sources, such as their own shale gas deposits in Ukraine and Poland. It also leaves countries dependent on capricious and expensive gas from Russia, unsure of whether they can build needed electric generating plant in the future and poorly interconnected, sometimes by both gas pipelines and electric lines. Good intentions have also had their impact. The European Commission has pushed renewable energy and subsidized these at the cost of others. The result is imperfect markets and, more important, imperfectly engineered systems. Germany and other countries are dealing with what is called ‚Äúloop flow‚Äù ‚Äì when the renewables aren't performing, either because the wind has dropped or the sun has set, fossil fuels plants have to be activated. This means that renewable systems are often shadowed by old-fashioned gas and coal generation that has to be built, but which isn't counted toward the cost of the renewable generation. With increasing use of wind, which is the most advanced renewable, the problem of loop flow is increased, pushing up the price of electricity. Germany is badly affected and the problem is getting worse because it heavily committed to wind after abandoning nuclear, following the Fukusima-Daiichi accident in Japan. Frank Umbach, associate director of the European Center for Energy and Resource Security at King's College, London, said energy costs in Germany are now driving manufacturing out of the country and to the United States. Umbach said that as Britain de-industrialized 15 years ago, Germany was beginning to go the same way. He said Britain had been able to sustain itself through financial services and other service-sector jobs, but that was not a prospect for Germany, the industrial mainstay of the European Union. Now Britain, with its new nuclear policy, is trying to re-industrialize, he said.Umbach urged that Europe get serious about shale gas and even burning coal. His argument was that there are environment safeguards available and that more are being developed, such as the new less environmentally assaulting techniques in hydraulic fracturing (fracking) used to extract tightly bound natural gas from shale formations. Related article:¬†PetroChina to Buy Exxon Stake in Iraqi Oil Field Several speakers said the region has to face the reality that it is no longer able to generate the capital it needs for liquified natural gas terminals, nuclear power plants and unconventional gas recovery in Ukraine, Poland and in the Black Sea offshore Romania and Bulgaria. Many countries, particularly in eastern Europe, still balk at foreign ownership of their energy infrastructure and have actively driven away investment. Poland, for example, has frightened off shale gas developers from the United States by insisting that as the resource is developed, 50 percent of the developing company must be ceded to the state. The companies left. In other places, the Czech Republic, for example, landowners have no claim to the resource under their land; that remains the property of the government and, therefore, they are hostile to any development on their property, whether it is for oil, gas or minerals. The United Kingdom, by contrast, declared a spokesman for its energy ministry, Hergen Haye, is open for business. That means if the Americans, the Chinese or the Middle Easterners want to ‚Äúbuy into‚Äù Britain's new nuclear undertaking, ‚Äúthey are welcome.‚Äù Europe's sad energy situation was summed up by Iana Dreyer of the EU Institute for Security Studies. She said Europe is still the largest trading bloc in the world, the largest economic machine and the largest market, but that it is slipping. By 2030, she calculated, Europe will have slipped to No. 3, behind the China and the United States, unless it can untangle its energy Gordian knot.
Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite raised his 2014 target for the S&amp;P 500 today. He now sees it rallying to 1,940 by the end of next year, up from an earlier target of 1,900. And in his research note, he offered 10 reasons why we should expect this rally. He also identified some risks to his forecast, and one of them was a bit unexpected. "The key risks to markets are US growth being too strong (leading to earlier-than- expected tapering), China growth surprising on the downside, too much corporate spending (bad for margins and depreciation charges) and a European political event," said Garthwaite. It certainly seems a bit ironic that stocks would take a hit because economic growth is stronger than expected. Of course the risk of liquidity being unexpectedly sucked out of the market is a hazard everyone should be worried about. For the most part, Wall Street's strategists think stocks can rally even as the the Federal Reserve begins tapering its quantitative easing program. Indeed, Garthwaite's forecast assumes the Fed begins tapering in January 2014 and ends in September 2014. The Fed's next FOMC meeting will be held on Dec. 17-18, which appears to be the earliest the Fed begins to taper. ... It's worth noting that many bears have been increasingly warning that the stock market may be in a bubble doomed to burst. Ironically, Garthwaite thinks this possibility would make his forecast look too bearish. "On the upside, one risk is a bubble in the equity market," he added.
The stock was buoyed on news that the German Federal Motor Transport Authority cleared the Model S. The German regulator had reviewed the Model S fire incidents in Seattle, Tennessee, and Mexico. It said "according to the documents, no manufacturer-related defects [herstellerseitiger Mangel] could be found. Therefore, no further measures under the German Product Safety Act." The stock also got a nice boost after Morgan Stanley calledTesla as its top pick among 26 automakers in its U.S. coverage. Jonas also said the stock is now nearly 20% undervalued. "Tesla shares have moved from 20% overvalued to nearly 20% undervalued in just 2 months. We attribute the majority of the 35% retrenchment in the share price to a momentum/cult stock that produced 3Q results not strong enough to move expectations significantly higher. For a 5-bagger, that‚Äôs a problem. With little or no valuation support on near-term expectations, the stock was due for a big correction. We attribute less than half of the price move to negative headlines on the 3 Model S fires since October 1st." While Jonas isn't calling a bottom he thinks this a good time for buyers to step in. The stock had taken a beating earlier this year after a series of fires caused by accidents, which prompted Elon Musk to take to the Tesla Motors Blog to defend the Model S. The stock also took a hit after it missed analyst estimates on vehicle deliveries in its Q3 earnings report. Tesla shares hit an all-time closing high of $193.37 on September 30. The stock is down 28% from its closing high, but is up over 305% year-to-date. Here's a look at Tesla's five-day chart: Google Finance
AP ImagesJCPenney CEO Mike Ullman.Shares of JCPenney are nearly 4% higher in after-hours trading following the release of favorable November same-store sales numbers, which showed a 10.1% increase from last year. Despite a 4.8% drop in same-store sales in Q3, the company said in its quarterly earnings release¬†on November 20 that it believed same-store sales trends would improve in Q4. In October, same-store sales were up 0.9%. Of course, while these double-digit gains in same-store sales in November are undoubtedly a welcome sign for investors, it's important to remember that sales are rising from a very low base. Below is the full press release: PLANO, TX -- (Dec. 3, 2013) --¬†J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCP) (the "Company") today provided a preliminary update on the Company`s performance for the fiscal month ending November 30, 2013. During that period, which includes the important Thanksgiving weekend, the Company`s comparable store sales grew 10.1 percent over last year. The Company also noted that its e-commerce sales through jcp.com continued to be strong, running well ahead of last year, consistent with last month`s trend. "We are pleased with our performance over the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, particularly in light of the continued spending pressures on consumers. ¬†The combination of our great merchandise and compelling promotions put us in a position to succeed in a highly competitive environment, and our teams executed very well," said Myron E. (Mike) Ullman, III, Chief Executive Officer of JCPenney. Based on sales trends through the weekend, the Company is encouraged by the early performance of its giftable items, especially among its private brands such as Modern Bride(TM), St. John`s Bay¬Æ and a.n.a¬Æ, and a range of national brands. ¬†The Company also noted that customers took advantage of exciting promotions for gift buying for their loved ones as well as for themselves. Mr. Ullman continued, "The traffic and conversion we saw both in stores and online this weekend was exciting for everyone across our organization. ¬†We know the environment will remain as competitive as ever, and we are all working to maintain our momentum through the Holiday season."
REUTERS/ Sebastien NogierSince 1986, investing legend and Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien begins each January by attempting to predict the 10 big surprises of the coming year. Wien should be given major props for even trying to do what many investing gurus might not. But in the interest of keeping him honest, it's time to score his 2013 calls. In the past, Wien has seen about half of his predictions come true. Not bad. Though this year, he thought that stocks would fall and gold would reach $1,900 an ounce. And that has to count against him pretty big. NOTE: We awarded partial credit where partial credit was due.
REUTERS/Dominic EbenbichlerA sign reads 'Danger of Avalanches' in the Austrian ski resort of Obergurgl, November 27, 2013.Stocks saw a decent sell-off today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
In an effort to bolster the country's economic health amid the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve embarked on an ambitious monetary policy known as quantitative easing, the effects of which remain somewhat unknown. But years into the program (and with its "tapering" seemingly on the way this year or early next), the investment environment continues to be dominated by central banks' expanding balance sheets,¬†says J.P. Morgan Funds' David Kelly. Central banks abroad have similarly grown their monetary base. In effect, this has driven up asset prices in a far more dramatic way than it has wages, Kelly says.¬† The last few years have been far more lucrative for the wealthy than the average worker. Turns out rich people tend to do better from a skyrocketing stock market! Take a look at this chart from Kelly showing global inequality. On the left, you can see the how global income is skewed to the wealthiest 10%. But even more staggering is the chart on the right. In the United States, almost 75% of the wealth is owned by the top 10%. QE is of course only part of the story, but whatever the cause is, this chart is straight-up scary.¬† JP Morgan Funds
It took Wal-Mart Chairman Rob Walton a matter of seconds to burn through millions of dollars on a race track last year. He was reportedly tearing around a corner in his rare Shelby Daytona Cobra Coupe, one of five ever made, when he ran it off the track and wrecked it. The car has been estimated to be worth as much as $15 million, according to The Los Angeles Times,†and it likely cost him a couple million dollars to fix it. The Waltons are without question one of the wealthiest families in the world.†Forbes estimates that the net worth of just six of the family members is more than $144 billion, which is greater than the combined net worth of Bill Gates and Warren Buffett. Rob Walton's father, Samuel Walton, founded Wal-Mart in 1962. The family now owns a 50.9% stake in the company that's worth†$131 billion and paid out $2.5 billion in dividends last year. The dividends alone would be enough to pay every one of Wal-Martís 1.3 million U.S. employees nearly $2,000 in cash. As Business Insider reported last week, the Waltons have mostly kept their multi-billion-dollar lifestyles out of the public view. Consider Rob Walton, for example: Besides houses in Aspen, Colo., and Paradise Valley, Ariz., at least a half dozen vintage cars, and the recent purchase of 1,500 acres of land in Hawaii for a planned resort, you would be hard-pressed to find many signs of his outrageous wealth. But with Wal-Mart workers striking for better wages and groups like OUR Walmart organizing national protests against the company, the Walton's wealth ó and how they manipulate the tax code to pass it onto heirs nearly tax-free†ó†has become a subject of particular interest.† Activists argue that the Waltons' reported money-hoarding has become characteristic of Wal-Mart's corporate culture, and that the company ó which turned a $17 billion profit last year ó could afford to give employees a raise without affecting its bottom line. One of those activists is Rev. Holly Beaumont, who helped organize Wal-Mart protests on Black Friday in New Mexico.†She says the Waltons are†"modern-day Pharaohs right out of the book of Exodus.î "They are accumulating wealth at obscene proportions without [any concern for] their workers, forcing them to depend on the charity of their community,î Beaumont said. While the average wage of Wal-Mart associates is the subject of†some dispute†(OUR Walmart claims that most make less than $9 per hour, an estimate based on data from IBISWorld and Glassdoor.com, while Wal-Mart pegs the figure at $11.83), thereís little doubt that many of the storeís workers are stuck below the†poverty line, currently $23,550 for a family of four. A study by congressional Democrats suggested that low wages at a single Wal-Mart could be costing taxpayers as much as $900,000 per year, due to employees using programs like food stamps and Medicaid. "When low wages leave Wal-Mart workers unable to afford the necessities of life, taxpayers pick up the tab," the report said. Wal-Mart disputes the study's findings. The company is admittedly one of the biggest benefactors of the government's welfare dollars, however.†Wal-Mart estimates that about 18% of the nationís food stamps are spent in its stores.
Via Bitcointalk.org user Stick, there is now a map showing every store in the world that accepts Bitcoin. It's probably not 100%, as the site asks users to add their own known listings. Still, it reveals something you may have probably sensed about bitcoin, and which makes its price surge all the more baffling: there really aren't†that many places that take it ó only about 1,000. Most are in Europe, though there's a notable concentration in Argentina. If you click on it, the map is interactive, so you can drill down more into each location. Coinmap.org And here's the places that take it in New York: Stick/Coinmap.org The map is interactive so you should check it out to zoom in further ª
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniU.S. home prices, including distressed sales, were up 0.2% on the month in October, and up 12.5% on the year, according to CoreLogic's latest report. This was the twentieth consecutive monthly year-over- year increase in national home prices. The pace of home price growth tends to slow towards the end of the year. And adjusting for this seasonality Paul Diggle at Capital Economics points out the CoreLogic home prices were actually up 1.2% on the month. Ex-distressed sales ‚Äî short sales, and real estate owned transactions ‚Äî home prices were up 0.4% on the month, and 11% on the year. The latest Case Shiller data also showed that home prices posted the biggest gain since February 2006. But economists largely expect home price growth to slow the rest of the year and in 2014. While CoreLogic home prices are on less of a lag than Case Shiller, "these numbers still reflect supply and demand conditions from four to six months ago," writes Diggle in a note to clients. "Since then, demand has dropped on the back of higher mortgage interest rates and the supply of homes for sale has continued to rise. The resulting loosening in market conditions does not point to a continued acceleration in house price gains." Michelle Meyer at Bank of America also expects home price growth to slow in 2014. BofA lowered its 2013 home price forecast to 10% from 11.8%, and its 2014 forecast to 5.2%, from 6.5%. "The slowdown in price appreciation is positive for the housing market as almost half the states are now within 10 percent of their respective historical price peaks," Mark Fleming, chief economist at CoreLogic said in a press release. Here are some details from the report: Here's a look at the trajectory of home prices since 2002: CoreLogic
Bank of America Merrill LynchInstitutional selling of equities is accelerating.Every week, BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategist Savita Subramanian publishes data showing what BofAML clients are doing with their holdings of U.S. stocks. During the week ended November 29, in keeping with a trend the bank has been observing since it started compiling these data in 2008, big institutions that do business with BofAML unloaded $2.3 billion from their U.S. equity portfolios. "Institutional flows suggest waning confidence in U.S. equities,"¬†writes Subramanian in a note to clients this morning. "Last week, as the S&amp;P 500 climbed another 0.1%, BofAML clients were net sellers for the sixth consecutive week, in the amount of $2.47 billion.¬†"Net sales were led by institutional clients for the second week in a row, and this group's net sales were the third-largest in our data history (since 2008). This group remains the biggest net seller year-to-date. Hedge funds were also net sellers for the third consecutive week, while private clients were the sole net buyers." Subramanian notes that these private (retail) clients have added to their portfolios in 24 of the last 27 weeks ‚Äî and unlike institutional and hedge fund clients, they are the only net buyers of stocks so far in 2013. So, what's behind the institutional selling? "While much of institutional clients' net sales post-crisis were likely due to redemptions, some outflows year-to-date could suggest a rotation out of U.S. stocks and into global equities," says Subramanian.
Bloomberg.comHedge fund advisor Steven Drobny, the author of global macro books "Inside The House of Money" and "The Invisible Hands," is coming out with another book called "The New House of Money."¬† Drobny has just released the first chapter available for free on his website. It's a Q&amp;A with Texan hedge fund manager Kyle Bass. Bass, who runs Dallas-based Hayman Capital, crushed it by shorting subprime. In his interview with Drobny, Bass discussed a host of topics, including how he got into the hedge fund business and how he stays grounded by spear fishing in the Bahamas. Bass also talked extensively about his Japan trade where he's been predicting a debt collapse for some time. Bass said that he's also worried about¬†inflation. ¬†He thinks that globally we're going to be hit with the "ugly kind" of inflation (cost-push inflation) due to having too much money in the system. ¬† Bass also revealed the worst trade he has ever made and what he learned from that experience. ¬†¬† From "The New House Of Money":¬† What was the worst trade of your career? The second company I ever sold short was a disaster. The first one was actually a great trade. It was an East German shipbuilder that was being heavily subsidized by the government when the Berlin Wall came down. The executives were not applying the subsidies to the shipyards. We shorted the stock around 100 Deutsche marks and it never saw an uptick ‚Äì it went from 100 to 80 to 60 to 40 to 20 to zero, where they were literally chaining the gates after that. The second short was a technology company. The COO had just quit under suspicious circumstances and in doing our homework on the capital structure we figured it could be a zero. Right after we got short this stock, an active and influential newsletter at the time came¬†out and said they thought it was the stock of the century. It doubled on me so fast that it carried me out. All the money I had saved up until that time was literally gone.¬†I did an enormous amount of work on the balance sheet, met with some of the players, thought I understood what was going wrong, had almost all of the data, and in the end, was even right. But I just couldn‚Äôt withstand the move. It was such a beautiful learning experience because I came from no money. I was so broke in college. I came from a middle class family, and by that point I had made a few¬†hundred thousand dollars and saved it, and it was gone. I was apoplectic. When I think back now, thankfully it happened to me then ‚Äì it only cost me a couple¬†hundred thousand bucks, and it was the most important lesson in short selling that¬†anyone could ever learn. It taught me the humility and the respect that you must have¬†when you‚Äôre on the short side of anything. It wound up being one of the best things¬†that ever happened to me. What do you do differently today with short sales? We do a lot differently. We do short individual equities from time to time, but we short¬†with respect, experience, and proper sizing and stop-loss levels. Read the full chapter here ¬ª
- opening stanza to Rudyard Kipling's, "If" So, let's say you're a prudent person who has concerns that our economy isn't 'recovering' as robustly as you'd like. Perhaps you still remember the speed and depth of the 2008 credit crisis' arrival, and its toxic impact on asset prices, jobs, and overall trust in the financial system. Maybe you took notes during the preceding tech and housing bubbles and their aftermath. If so, you likely swore that "Never again!" would you put your wealth at risk during such obvious times of public mania. Chances are, you've probably logged a lot of hours over the past several years on the Internet trying to read the economic tea leaves more closely. Are things becoming more stable, or less? What are "safer" measures for protecting and building wealth than simply putting all your chips into the paper markets (stocks &amp; bonds) and real estate? As a result, you've probably had a smaller percentage of your wealth in the stock/bond markets over the past few years than your peers. You probably also own some gold and silver, likely having bought much of it between 2009-2011 with the stock market collapse still fresh in your memory. Chances are also good you've made a series of "preparedness" investments (stored food, etc) as an insurance policy in case¬†really tough times were to break out. Most of your family and friends didn't take these steps, nor are particularly interested to talk about your reasons for taking them. So, if this sounds at all like you: five years after the 2008 crisis, how is the "prudent" strategy looking today? As one who took similar steps, I'll confirm it looks pretty lousy to the casual observer. Stocks &amp; Bonds There has been an absolute party in the stock market over the past two years. The S&amp;P is up nearly 40% (!) since early 2012 and has almost tripled since its 2009 lows. It's been nearly impossible not to make money in the stock market recently (unless you've owned mining shares). Bonds have remained at historically-elevated prices. And although 2013 has seen prices come off slightly from their highs, prices are still substantially above pre-crisis levels. The pumped-up performance of paper assets here is of course due to the staggering amounts of new money the Fed has been creating since 2008. Starting with a balance sheet of $880 billion pre-crisis, the Fed has since expanded it by an additional $3 trillion. In less than 5 years. And it's continuing to expand to the tune of $85 billion (some calculate $100 billion) per month. Most of that money sits in excess reserves enriching the banks at zero risk, at high hidden cost to the public (a rant for another day). But enough of it is sloshing over into the markets where it does exactly what excess liquidity always does: rise all boats. So, if you decided to stay out of the markets, you've watched the party boat pass you by. They say "Don't fight Fed" and so far, the Fed is indeed winning. In reality, it will likely prove to be the Charlie Sheen version of "winning", but to the casual observer whose¬†401k is up 20% this year, the Fed definitely appears to be playing the better hand. Real Estate How soon we forget. Home prices have resumed climbing at historically-aberrant rates. The¬†Case-Shiller¬†home price index just reported that, year-over-year, its national home price index¬†grew by 11.2%. A number of markets have re-entered bubble territory. San Francisco, where prices are now higher than at their 2007 peak, saw a¬†26% year-over-year increase¬†in average prices. Las Vegas, the poster child for housing prices excesses six years ago, saw a 29% average price increase from 2012 to 2013. The tell-tale sign of an overheated housing market -- house flipping --¬†is back. If you've been holding off on purchasing real estate (as I have) -- expecting a stumble back into recession, or higher interest rates, could bring prices down to saner baselines -- again, you're watching prices get away from you. Precious Metals Ugh. There's no denying it has been a very rough two years for gold and silver holders. As I'm writing this, gold and silver are dropping to near 4-year lows. For those burned by the last crisis who purchased precious metals near their zenith in 2011, hoping to protect the purchasing power of their capital -- the nauseating declines since early 2012, especially in silver, have done anything but. Those who bought PMs pre-2008 enjoyed a long stretch of validation while prices appreciated year after year. With a material percentage of that appreciation now gone, and month after month of relentless losses punctuated by vicious price smashes, it's harder to feel as smart as it once was. But it's maddening. With the $3 trillion in new currency recently created by the Federal Reserve, shouldn't precious metals be appreciating? Wildly? Isn't that their central promise: to hold value as the purchasing power of paper money inflates away? But instead, they're decreasing in dollar price, even as the money supply continues to expand. How is that possible?¬† And Bitcoin! From almost out of nowhere, a new alternative currency skyrockets from nearly valueless to (briefly?) match the price of gold. It's like adding insult to injury for the 99.9% of precious metals holders who don't also hold Bitcoin. How can the world suddenly wake up to the advantages offered by non-fiat currency and yet still treat the granddaddy of sound money like kryptonite? Sentiment In 2009 and 2010, those of us who had warned our friends of the lurking risks in our economic and financial system suddenly looked like geniuses, instead of the kooks folks had dismissed us as. Now, we're back to being kooks. A chart Chris has been sharing recently with our enrolled members shows that at no time in the past 30 years has sentiment been this bullish. Not even during the Internet stock mania of the late 1990s: @CortesSteve Faith in the current system is as high as it has ever been, and folks don't want to hear otherwise. This extreme optimism extends beyond the Economy. In the Energy sphere, in news headlines discussion of the "shale miracle" is still omnipresent -- without, of course, any mention of net energy, extraction costs or depletion rates. In the Environment, coverage of the real-time collapse of key fisheries or water shortages likely to impact food production rarely get any mainstream notice. In short: if you're one of those people who thinks it prudent to have intelligent discussion on some of these risks -- that maybe the future may turn out to be less than 100% awesome in every dimension -- you're probably finding yourself standing alone at cocktail parties these days. Charles MacKay's excellent classic reference book¬†Extraordinary Popular Delusions and The Madness of Crowds¬†explains the nefarious nature of public manias: they strive to suck in as many participants as possible before collapsing. We are seeing classic signs of the abandonment of concern by the public in favor of not missing out on 'easy gains'. In addition to the examples mentioned above, signals that the fear trade has given way to the greed trade are abundant these days: "I can no longer say I am bearish. When markets become parabolic, the people who exist within them are trend followers, because the guys who are qualitative have got taken out." "All markets are bubbly" - Bill Gross, Nov 29 2013 "In many countries the stock price levels are high, and in many real estate markets prices have risen sharply...that could end badly. I find the boom in the U.S. stock market most concerning," - Robert Shiller, Dec 1 2013 "Now, five years later, signs of frothiness, if not outright bubbles, are reappearing in [at least 17 global] housing markets" "What we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck. And, like last time, the bigger the bubbles become, the nastier the collision with reality will be." - Nouriel Roubini, Nov 29 2013 When this latest global asset bubble bursts as Roubini reminds us, by definition, it must; the public will cry "Why didn't anyone warn us?" The media will reflexively utter "Nobody saw this coming". But the truth is, there is evidence galore for those who choose to look for it. The other key characteristic about popular manias/bubbles is that they collapse suddenly. Much more swiftly than they took to build. The resultant carnage catches the masses like deer in headlights. The Kubler-Ross stages of grief begin quickly, and since Denial is Stage 1, most folks delay taking action out of disbelief. Soon Bargaining is reached, and they continue to delay reaction as prices continue falling - praying for the chance to get out if a reversal would just happen. It's not until Acceptance that most will take action, selling after the down draft has largely run its course. Here are some useful stats to keep in mind that show how sudden and savage the 2008 market collapse was: The takeaway here is that the wealth destruction caught most investors flat-footed. Most were unprepared -- both psychologically as well as with their portfolio positioning -- to react. Many investors thought themselves savvy and nimble enough to avoid the losses they ultimately suffered, telling themselves a similarly ill-fated narrative as Charles Prince told his shareholders: ‚ÄúWhen the music stops, in terms of liquidity, things will be complicated. But as long as the music is playing, you‚Äôve got to get up and dance. We‚Äôre still dancing,‚Äù - Chuck Prince, Citigroup CEO, Jul 9 2007 Most readers remember how Citigroup's price dropped from over $500/share when Prince made this comment, to $10/share in March 2009. Prince was booted from his CEO role in late 2007 due to emerging losses resulting from the bank's¬†MBS and CDO¬†positions, investment classes which proved to be at the heart of the 2008 crisis. So, a smart question to ask at this time is: is the moment in time we're in today closer to January 2006, when there were several years left of exuberance to ride? Or are we more like September 2008, poised at the precipice? A smarter answer is: there's no way to know with acceptable certainty. Like grains of sand piling up or snowflakes falling on a cornice, we can assess the growing level of risk, but we can't identify the grain of sand or snowflake that will cause the eventual cascade. We can't predict the collapse timing with confidence. We can -- and will -- continue to make our best educated estimates; but the exact timing is unknowable. So, given that fact, as John Hussman¬†so pithily captures, bubble markets force us to make a choice: The problem with bubbles is that they force one to decide whether to look like an idiot before the peak, or an idiot after the peak.¬† And so your choice is upon you. Look at the evidence around you -- a movie nearly identical to one you saw in 2008 and in 2000 -- and either decide to party with the herd while the music plays (look smart today), or park yourself in safety now (look smart tomorrow). Since the timing of the next correction is unknowable, the prudent choice is obvious. But it's not easy for all the reasons mentioned at the start of this article. A helpful question to ask yourself is: if I could talk to my 2009 self, what would s/he advise me to do? For most of us, our past self, recently reminded of the anguish of wealth destruction, would say "Run to safety!" at the first whiff of anything bubblicious. Research has shown that when the chips are down, the benefits of loss aversion are always preferred to the joys of gain. Don't put yourself in a position to relearn that lesson so soon after the last bubble. Exercise the wisdom to look like an idiot today. OK, so what should today's "idiot" focus on doing? Essentially, the approach here is to dismiss what is not in our control and focus on what we can best do with what is. Be practical. Be prudent. Be dull to those watching you from the dance floor.¬† John Hussman signed off his latest report with the advice: "Risk dominates. Hold tight." ¬†I agree. Now is the time act with the courage of our convictions. As Kipling put it at the end of his poem: If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew To serve your turn long after they are gone, And so hold on when there is nothing in you Except the Will which says to them: 'Hold on!' If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings - nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much; If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance run, Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, And - which is more - you'll be a Man, my son! ¬†
You can be genius, but sometimes in business, genius isn't enough. That's the takeaway from finance career site OneWire's interview with Tom Dean, co-founder and co-CEO of private equity firm Avista Capital Partners. Avista has done 90 transactions over the years investing over 9 billion dollars of equity, and Dean credits his top employees, the partners working on deals, for that success. A lot of those partners, it's also important to note, started at the firm as analysts, made it to associate, left Avista to go to business school, and then returned to the firm as vice presidents after earning their MBAs. To walk that path, though, you've got to be more than smart. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs plenty of people who have triple 800s on all their board scores, who really will never rise above the analyst or associate level," Dean said in the interview. "We‚Äôre looking for the next partners in our firm, and those are people who have the intellectual capabilities, but also have what it takes from a marketing side, a communications side, a writing side, and an ability to have a presence, to really be future leaders for us.‚Äù Check out the full interview and click here to sign up for OneWire‚Äôs interview series. 
Credit Suisse is the latest in a slew of Wall Street banks to publish its market outlook for 2014. "We stay overweight equities ‚Äì and raise our end-2014 target on the S&amp;P 500 to 1,960 from 1,900," said Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite. "QE has meant that there are no cheap asset classes ‚Äì but equities continue to look attractive in relative terms. Additionally, relative positioning, excess liquidity and a stabilisation in earnings revisions are all supportive." 1,960 implies a 9% gain from current levels. The lengthy 211-page note includes identifies 10 positives for stocks: "Ultimately, we believe that the equity market is set to be on an uptrend until equities become clearly expensive against bonds, QE ends or risk appetite is clearly in euphoria zone (as opposed to neutral now)," said Garthwaite. "Very near-term we see the risk of consolidation, with some of the tactical indicators extended (such as the bull/bear ratio for financial advisors, while net corporate buying is low) and we expect the Fed to start tapering in January. However, the tactical indicators are less extreme than was the case a month ago." Garthwaite joins BMO's Brian Belski, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, Jefferies Sean Darby, and Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in publishing bullish 2014 forecasts for the stock market.
AP Photo/Ivan SekretarevMiss Universe 2013 Gabriela Isler, from Venezuela, left, and pageant owner Donald Trump, of the United States, point to each other while posing for a photo after the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow, Russia, on Saturday, Nov. 9, 2013.Donald Trump filed an ethics complaint against New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman on Tuesday morning. Trump hasn't been too happy with Schneiderman†ó the AG sued "Trump University" for allegedly running a scam university that hurt at least 5,000 students across the country. Schneiderman wants Trump to cough up $40 million in restitution. Trump says Schneidmerman is "crooked" and the "dumbest attorney general"†in the U.S. Atlantic Wire Trump's lawyer Jeffrey Goldman filed the complaint with the Joint Commission on Public Ethics, alleging that Schneiderman met with Trump's daughter Ivanka at a bar while he was investigating Trump University (which, to be clear, is not a real university, and has been renamed The Trump Entrepreneur Initiative). Trump says the AG asked Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, for favors while conveniently leaving out the fact that he was planning to sue Trump.† The suit against Trump alleges that he and his organization made false claims about the classes and his level of involvement in Trump U, which isn't licensed as an educational institution.
Abercrombie CEO Michael Jefferies has made headlines for trying to look like his preppy teenage customers.† The executive reportedly wears flip flops and Abercrombie clothes. He demands the same of employees at corporate headquarters. After he made a Black Friday appearance at a New York Abercrombie store, a photo of Jeffries emerged on Twitter: Pretty sure my Black Friday couldn't have gotten any funnier took a selfie with Abercrombie CEO Mike Jeffries pic.twitter.com/MlG7RnPrus But in reality, Jeffries is 69.† According to his Wikipedia page, he was born on July 15, 1944.† Even though most people would consider that retiring age, Jeffries has made it clear that he doesn't plan on stepping down anytime soon. Meanwhile, Abercrombie sales continue to plummet as teens check out fast fashion retailers like Forever 21. Given Jeffries' real age, it's no surprise he's having trouble relating to teen customers. Here's another photo showing a close-up of his face:† AP Images
I spoke with Siegel on Friday, Nov. 29. In our interview on Dec. 10 of last year, you said that investors could expect a 25% return this year. On that day the S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,424, and Wednesday it closed at 1,815, which is a 27% gain. Congratulations. What do you consider the fair value of the S&amp;P 500 to be today? Thank you. I‚Äôve gotten quite a few media contacts and congratulations because I said in January 2012 that the Dow would finish this year between 16,000 and 17,000. I‚Äôve learned that humility, rather than hubris, is the proper response to a good market prediction. You know how uncertain market direction over the short term is. But, that said, I think fair market value for the stocks today is 10% to 15% higher, and that might even be on the conservative side. As I mentioned last year, when you are in a low-to-moderate interest-rate environment, the average price-earnings ratio for stocks is 18 to 19. If you use reported earnings, which I think are too conservative in terms of their predictive value, we‚Äôre at 16.7 times next year‚Äôs estimate of forward earnings. That‚Äôs slightly above the long-term median but it‚Äôs below the average. In a low-to-moderate interest-rate environment, the average is 18- to 19-times earnings. I think this bull market has definitely more to run. A lot of factors are weighing on investors‚Äô minds about equity prices, particularly those investors who look out over 10-year or longer time horizons. Let me ask you about some of those concerns. Let‚Äôs start with quantitative easing (QE). To what extent do you believe QE has inflated stock prices, and should investors be fearful that the Fed might taper or otherwise become less accommodative? The biggest myth in the market today is that this bull run is because of quantitative easing. I‚Äôm not going to deny that an easy Fed is helpful, but this market is really being driven by fundamentals. Earnings are up 10% to 13% this year over last year, and this is despite very slow GDP growth both in the United States and the rest of the world. I expect GDP growth next year to be 3.5% or higher.¬† I admit that it might not reach that, and I have been a bit overly optimistic when predicting GDP in the past. But we got 2% growth this year, and most economists agree there was about 1.5% fiscal drag due to the higher taxes and the cutback in spending.¬† If you add that 1.5% back you get 3.5%. I wouldn‚Äôt be surprised if GDP pushes 4%. My feeling is that the market is far too focused on QE, and people are incorrectly calling this ‚Äúa QE-driven market.‚Äù I don‚Äôt understand why they do that, because if they looked at P/Es, earnings and interest rates, they would realize that the fundamentals support this bull run. Another concern is that corporate profit margins are at historically high levels, as are corporate profits as a share of GDP. When we talked about this last year, you said it was due to the increased share of revenue from foreign sales and because more high-margin technology sales were showing up in corporate revenues. Are those are still the dominant trends?  One factor yielding higher margins is that we have very low leverage among corporations today. They have $1.5 trillion in cash on their balance sheets. This leads to higher margins because corporations don‚Äôt have to spend that much on interest expense. Today, 80% of corporate liabilities are long-term debt. In 1996, which was the last time that we were not in a recession and were at average margin levels, only 50% of corporate debt was long-term. Firms have now locked in these low interest rates on longer-term debt. Even if interest rates rise, their exposure is relatively small. And if rates rise, they‚Äôre going to start getting some interest on their $1.5 trillion of cash. Corporations have locked in their long-term debt, while their assets are short-term. I don‚Äôt think they will be hurt much by any rise in interest rates. The tech sector has become a larger slice of S&amp;P, but the P/E of the technology sector is still very low from a historical standpoint. As you mentioned, the margins for technology are historically always higher because most of their assets are intangibles, such as copyrights and patents, which don‚Äôt get expensed. That is a source of those high margins. Margins are still high compared to the long-term average, but secular ‚Äì not cyclical ‚Äì factors are driving them up. High margins investors should worry about occur when you are at a top of the business cycle with demand that is so strong that firms can raise their prices and know that their products will still sell. That‚Äôs not the case today. There is still a general over-supply of goods. That‚Äôs one reason why inflation remains at historic lows. If you go back historically, it‚Äôs only been at the top of the business cycle when demand has outstripped supply that one should worry. We do not see that phenomenon occurring now in the economy. The household savings rate is also at a historically low level, as households continue to de-lever and save more. Does that concern you at all? The savings rate is still higher than what it was pre-crash. We have ratcheted saving up a little bit. Don‚Äôt forget that with rising asset prices ‚Äì and now we also have rising home prices ‚Äì savings are taking place in the form of capital gains. Households are not going to cut back on their spending, because they‚Äôre going to look at their balance sheets and find themselves more comfortable than they were before. The number of homeowners who are underwater has decreased sharply since the 2008-2009 crash. There‚Äôs more liquidity in the market. There is still a lot of cash in money market funds. No, I don‚Äôt think we‚Äôre going to see a cutback in consumer spending. As opposed to last year, when we faced a Social Security tax increase of 2% for everyone and higher rates for virtually all high-income tax payers, there are no increases in taxes scheduled or anticipated in 2014. That hit to the pocketbook is not going to occur, and with more comfortable 401(k) and home-equity positions, consumer spending should become stronger in 2014. Read The Rest Of The Interview At AdvisorPerspectives.com ¬ª
Screenshot by Bloomberg TVNassim Taleb is not a fan of economists. If you have read his books or if you follow him on Twitter or Facebook, you'd know. He even engages individual economists, like Karl Whelan earlier this year, in debates worthy of reality TV. We pulled a sample of Taleb's best anti-economist quotes from his Facebook and Twitter pages, his paper "The Skin In The Game Heuristic for Protection Against Tail Events", and an interview with the Financial Times. Mixed in there is a fair amount of disdain for journalists too.:
Reuters/Don HimselIn August, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a lawsuit against Donald Trump over his eponymous "Trump University." Schneiderman argued that the "university" was more like a get-rich-quick scheme, and that the school defrauded students looking for the Donald's brand of real estate investing tips out of, in some cases, tens of thousands of dollars. In a new story in Vanity Fair, William Cohan highlighted one sorry tale from Trump's alleged shakedown. From Vanity Fair: Bob Guillo, from Manhasset, New York, and his son, Alex, fell hard for the Trump line. After the free seminar and the three-day course costing nearly $1,500óand which he graded as ìexcellentî in his evaluationóGuillo signed up for the Trump Gold Elite program and paid nearly $35,000. He was told he would be part of a select ìin-the-know groupî and among ìinsidersî who would have access to proprietary real-estate deals. ìFor example,î Guillo wrote in an affidavit, ìwhere Mr. Trump would be involved in building condominiums, we would get first choice at purchasing an apartment and then would be able to immediately sell it at a profit.î Guillo wrote that at the first day of the Trump Gold Elite program he ìbegan to realize I had been takenî because the information conveyed seemed to be coming from Zillow.com, a real-estate Web site, or from the I.R.S. Web site. Turns out $35,000 is a lot to spend on free information from Zillow. Guillo complained to the folks at Trump University and tried to get a refund. He told Cohan, "ìI got a picture of myself with a Trump cutout and basically very, very little else.î A Trump representative maintained to Vanity Fair that Guillo "could not articulate one thing that was wrong with the course." Ever since this saga began, Trump has called out Schneiderman for playing politics. The two have gone back in forth in the media over the past few months. Trump even filed a formal state ethics complaint saying Schneiderman asked Trump's daughter Ivanka and her real estate magnate husband for favors as he "downplayed the ongoing probe into her father's venture," the New York Daily News reported. Read the full story at Vanity Fair ª
It seems to me like the few stock market bears that were left have been capitulating lately. Every week weíre hearing of another short fund closing their doors, or another market bear saying†now†itís okay to be in stocks. This is just anecdotal of course, nothing quantitative or anything. But Iím sure we can all agree that weíre seeing this all around us. Something that stands out to me is the latest survey from Active Investment Managers. This is one of those, ìwhat are they†doing?ì, and not, ìwhat are they†saying?ì, type of polls. A lot of my smart friends find these more valuable. I personally try to look at them all, and then take them in aggregate. The National Association of Active Investment Managers (NAAIM) consists of active money managers that are asked each week to provide a number which represents their overall equity exposure at the market close on a specific day of the week. The range of responses can vary from up to 200% leveraged short, to zero (if all in cash or hedged market neutral), to 200% leveraged long, and everything in between. One of the reasons that I like this particular poll is because of the wide range of investment styles among the managers participating in the survey. These include managers that trade frequently and can switch long and short positions daily. Other managers trade less and for the most part just keep their core positions. But itís a better representation of the real world, and not just the long only,†ìhope for the bestî, type of passive managers. Here is the latest chart showing that investment managers havenít been this exposed to the US Stock Market, this aggressively, since at least 2006 (when the poll first began): For only the second time in the history of this poll, the average manager is leveraged to the long side. In other words, if you randomly pick out an investment manager from this group, they have actually borrowed money to bet on rising prices to continue. The confidence among these managers is currently the highest ever. According to Sentiment Trader, Intensity is also extremely high. This is the deviation in exposure between the most bullish and most bearish manager. Since the most bearish manager is actually net long the stock market (something that happens less than 4% of the time), managersí intensity is also among the highest levels ever seen. So although weíve seen the NAAIM number slightly higher in the past, itís the combination of this poll number with the intensity that currently makes managers the most bullish ever. While many of the individual managers are talented and increase or decrease their market exposure at fortuitous times, Sentiment Trader notes that as a group they tend to be more of a contrary indicator when too many of them skew to one side or the other.
An anonymous anti-Western post called 'You're Nothing Without The Motherland' is blowing up on Chinese blogs and social media sites like Weibo, reports the South China Morning Post. State media is calling it a 'spontaneous expression of patriotism,' says the report. 'You're Nothing Without The Motherland' warns China's citizens to keep an eye out for Western powers that wish to destabilize the nation and ìtake advantage of social instability to harm Chinese peopleî. ìChina would be in chaos if it lost the leadership of the CCP and this would be a catastrophe for the 1.3 billion Chinese people,î the post says. This comes amid tensions between the U.S., Japan, South Korea, and China over air space over the South China Sea. Moreover, U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron arrived in Beijing yesterday ó a Bloomberg reporter was barred from a presser with Cameron and Premier Li Keqiang ó and U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is about to arrive for a state visit as well. In the post, the United States is singled out as ìan initiator of plotsî to foment chaos. Luckily, says the post, President Xi Jinping, has the ability to capture 'big tigers' (like corrupt government officials). He is courageous despite the fact that he has the 'blood of a princeling'. If you think that's a not-so-subtle way of putting Xi above the rest of the Chinese political fray, you might be onto something. Xi has been widely criticized in the West for consolidating power under his office. This summer, Arthur Dong, a professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University, told Business Insider's Mamta Badkar that party officials expect a ratcheting up of party indoctrination and "re-education" under Xi, and a few stories that have made it to the U.S. have given credence to that notion. Back in September, Bloomberg reported that party members met for 'self-criticism' sessions that smacked of days of Mao. They've also been asked to watch a documentary called "In Memory of the Collapse of the Communist Party and the Soviet Union." It's a movie about how Western Democratic reforms destroyed the USSR. Meanwhile, Xi himself has collected more power since the Third Plenum, a meeting on Chinese political and economic reforms. For example, leadership of the Central Finance and Economy Lending group ó the group the decides on economic reform ó was taken from the office of Premier Li Keqiang, and put under the office of the President. But if Xi can capture 'big tigers'† he can likely handle a little econ too.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note trades near 2.8%, and volatility in the market is creeping up again.The consensus on Wall Street still appears to be that the Federal Open Market Committee will refrain from announcing the first tapering of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program until its March policy meeting. However, good news on the economic data front has market participants wondering if the FOMC could announce tapering at its January meeting, and possibly even its December meeting. George Goncalves, head of fixed income strategy at Nomura Securities, believes the market may be getting over-hedged for such a possibility, just like in September, when the FOMC surprised market participants by refraining from tapering at a time when it was largely expected. CFTC, Nomura, Bloomberg"It feels like the market could be getting over-hedged again as it did in September, evident in the spike in [10-year U.S. Treasury futures] put-call ratio last week," writes Goncalves in a note to clients this morning. "We believe a December taper is unlikely, and will only occur if things line up perfectly, with Yellen chairing the December FOMC, consistently strong data, and real progress on the fiscal front." Goncalves notes, however, that increased hedging accompanied bullish inflows into bonds as an asset class at the end of November. "Flows continue to be bullish biased in the latest release of positioning data," he says. "Bond funds continue to see outflows, although at a slower pace while there were bullish flows from all other investor types we track. Specs increased their net risk by $3.5bn (in 10yr eqv.) while dealers were net buyers of USTs by $8.2bn. Both domestic and foreign banks were net buyers by $8.4bn and $1.1bn, respectively, and foreign central banks‚Äü holdings of USTs are the highest on record." CFTC, TD SecuritiesAccording to the latest CFTC data released yesterday, reflecting the week through November 26, investors nearly halved their short position in Treasuries, taking it down to $11.2 billion from $19.4 billion in the previous week. Gennadiy Goldberg, an interest rate strategist at TD Securities, says the data reflect¬†market positioning in the wake of the curve steepening that took place following the release of the minutes from the October FOMC meeting on November 20. "Implied curve positioning continues to point toward flattening even as the spot curve reached its widest point since before Operation Twist following the release of the October FOMC Minutes, which showed the Fed‚Äôs preference toward increased forward guidance in lieu of QE," says Goldberg.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookMichigan bankruptcy court judge Steven Rhodes has approved Detroit's bankruptcy as constitutional, and said cuts to pensions are permissible. But Rhodes added that he would not approve pension cuts unless the bankruptcy plan is fair and equitable, according to Detroit Free Press reporter Nathan Bomey.† Still, he agreed with emergency manager's Kevyn Orr's contention that pension debts cannot be distinguished from other debts, according to the Detroit Free Press' Brent Snavely. Rhodes says the city entered into bankruptcy in good faith, though did not negotiate in good faith, which could in theory disqualify the filing. However he also ruled in favor of the city's claim that certain creditors made negotiation impracticable, according to Crain's Amy Haimerl. It's the largest bankruptcy filing in history. But he signaled Orr's current reorganization plan is inadequate, calling "very summary in nature."
There's always some pain to endure. Perhaps there's no better encapsulation of that market maxim than this chart from J.P. Morgan Asset Management's Paul Quinsee. It shows S&amp;P 500 intra-year declines versus calendar year returns. The bar represents year-end returns since 1980, while the little purple dot shows how low the market went each year. What you find is that investors must stomach not-insignificant drawdowns to get their buy and hold returns ó even in big years. Basically, you have to be prepared to lose 10-15% of your money and not freak out. Looking at 2013, Quinsee notes that a -6% low point is a pretty small level of pain, and investors shouldn't expect such luck in 2014. If nothing goes majorly south in the next month, this year will have the smallest pullback since 1995. It's a chart investors would be wise to keep nearby, says Quinsee. JP Morgan Funds
An Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. shareholder is urging the retailer's board of directors to replace Chief Executive Mike Jeffries when his contract expires in February or consider a sale of the struggling company. Engaged shareholder Capital LLC fired off a letter to the board on Tuesday saying the company's¬†"perennial underperformance is a result of a failure of leadership."  "Given the Company‚Äôs history of operational missteps, taken together with Mr. Jeffries‚Äô age and his increasingly controversial reputation, the Board must not let this opportunity pass,"¬†Engaged Capital Managing Director Glenn W. Welling¬†wrote in the letter. Engaged Capital owns less than 1% of the company's shares. Abercrombie's shares were up 2% in early trading Tuesday. Jeffries, 69, has been CEO of the teen retailer for 16 years. According to his contract, he would receive more than $100 million if the company replaced him. "A little fresh blood would definitely benefit the company," Morningstar Inc analyst Bridget Weishaar told Reuters. But Weishaar added that the board has been supportive of Jeffries. "So, I'd be highly doubtful if this letter changes anything." Abercrombie's sales have been plummeting as teens abandon the retailer for fast fashion brands including Forever 21, H&amp;M and Urban Outfitters. Same-store sales fell 14% in the most recent quarter ending November 2, up from a 10% drop in the previous quarter. The company has been criticized for not updating its fashions to reflect changing consumer tastes.Jeffries has also become the target of criticism for saying he only wants beautiful people to shop in his stores. "Publicity around Mr. Jeffries‚Äô past public statements and the apparent intrusion of his private life into Company business have caused unnecessary controversy, no doubt damaging the Company‚Äôs public profile, employee morale, and likely sales," Welling wrote. The company's poor corporate culture also makes it difficult for Abercrombie to attract and retain talent, he added. "[Abercrombie's] future success will be dependent on the Company‚Äôs ability to adapt to a fast changing retail environment, carefully manage expenses, and efficiently allocate capital," Welling wrote. "Unfortunately, these are not areas where Mr. Jeffries has demonstrated expertise or competency." In response to the letter, Abercrombie released this statement to the Wall Street Journal:¬†"The Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Board and management team are committed to creating value, and we welcome input from all shareholders. The Company has had extensive discussions with many of its shareholders, including Engaged Capital, over the past several months. We look forward to continuing our dialogue with shareholders as we execute on our long-term plan." See the full letter below. Engaged Letter to ANF 
PM avoids public clash over human rights during first day of Far East trip despite British journalist being barred from a press conferenceDavid Cameron avoided a public clash with China over its human rights record during the first day of his trip to the Far East on Monday, despite a British journalist being barred from a press conference after apparently upsetting the country‚Äôs rulers. In contrast to his recent trip to Sri Lanka, where Mr Cameron publicly criticised the regime there for human rights abuses, the Prime Minister was silent on the issues of Tibet or China‚Äôs imprisoned Nobel Peace Prize winner, Liu Xiaobo. The contentious subject now threatens to dog the trip, on which he is accompanied by a large business delegation hoping to win contracts for the UK. Robert Hutton, from Bloomberg News, was told he could not attend Mr Cameron‚Äôs press conference with Li Keqiang, the Chinese premier. Bloomberg has been blocked in China after its reporters were understood to have carried out an investigation into the finances of President Xi Jinping. At the press conference, Mr Cameron made no mention of China‚Äôs apparent human rights abuses. Premier Li and Mr Cameron read prepared statements about the deals agreed. Questions were not allowed and when both leaders had finished, Nick Robinson, the BBC‚Äôs political editor, tried to shout that he wanted to ask a question, but he was ignored by the two leaders. Asked after the conference why he seemed to be avoiding the issues, Mr Cameron, said: ‚ÄúWe spoke about all those issues as I always do. Whenever I come to China, I always raise human rights issues and I continue to do that on this visit.‚Äù He added: ‚ÄúThe British policy towards Tibet is unchanged. I have met the Dalai Lama as Leader of the Opposition, I have met him as Prime Minister, I don‚Äôt have plans to meet him again. But my diary is for me to decide.‚Äù Asked to justify why he raised human rights during the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit last month but was less forthcoming in China, he said: ‚ÄúI think I‚Äôm totally consistent. I come to China and I don‚Äôt believe there‚Äôs a choice between raising growth and investment issues and raising human rights issues. I raise them both. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what a policy of engagement is all about. There are some huge opportunities here in China for British jobs, British growth and British investment. ‚ÄúI want to make the most of them and that‚Äôs right for our country to compete and succeed in the global race. ‚ÄúBut I also raised concerns about human rights and we have agreed on this visit to restart the China/Britain human rights dialogue. ‚ÄúWe will start again next year, so that is an important achievement.‚Äù The news came as No‚Äâ10 was forced into the embarrassing position of protesting to Chinese leaders after the ban on Mr Hutton, who is UK political correspondent for the US media company. A spokesman for No‚Äâ10 said: ‚ÄúAs soon as this issue [the threat of a ban] became apparent on Sunday, we raised our concerns at senior levels and made clear it would be completely inappropriate to exclude journalists from the press statements. ‚ÄúWhen we heard what had happened today we expressed our deep concern to senior Chinese officials about journalists being blocked.‚Äù 
REUTERS/Jon Nazca Marinaleda, a small village outside of Seville, has tried for the last thirty-five years to construct what has failed numerous times before ó a communist utopia. In "The Village Against The World,"†author Dan Hancox traveled to the countryside of Andalusia, Spain to find the story of the incredible village. Here are a few excerpts that Hancox shared with Business Insider: In 2004, I was leafing through a travel guide to Andalusia while on holiday in Seville, and read a fleeting reference to a small, remote village called Marinaleda ñ a unique place,ëa communist utopiaí of revolutionary farm labourers, it said. I was immediately fascinated, but I could find almost no details to feed my fascination. There was so little information about the village available beyond that short summary, either in the guidebook, on the internet, or on the lips of strangers I met in Seville. ëAh yes, the strange little communist village, the utopiaí, a few of them said. But none of them had visited, or knew anyone who had ñand no one could tell me whether it really was a utopia. The best anyone could do was to add the information that it had a charismatic, eccentric mayor, with a prophetís beard and an almost demagogic presence, called Juan Manuel S·nchez Gordillo.† Courtesy Of Verso Books Eventually I found out more. The first part of Marinaledaís miracle is that when their struggle to create utopia began, in the late 1970s, it was from a position of abject poverty. The village was suffering over 60 percent unemployment; it was a farming community with no land, its people frequently forced to go without food for days at a time, in a period of Spanish history mired in uncertainty after the death of the fascist dictator General Franco. The second part of Marinaledaís miracle is that over three extraordinary decades, they won. Some distance along that remarkable journey of struggle and sacrifice, in 1985, S·nchez Gordillo told the newspaper El PaÌs: We have learned that it is not enough to define utopia, nor is it enough to fight against the reactionary forces. One must build it here and now, brick by brick, patiently but steadily, until we can make the old dreams a reality: that there will be bread for all, freedom among citizens, and culture; and to be able to read with respect the word ëpeaceí. We sincerely believe that there is no future that is not built in the present. It may be a household name in Spain today, but it was not until the late twentieth century that Marinaleda gained any notoriety. The village ís first victories came during a different systemic crisis, one which exists in the living memory of many: the aftermath of a fascist dictatorship. In 1975, thirty-six years after his brutal victory in the Spanish Civil War, General Francisco Franco finally passed away. He left Andalusia in a wretched state: aside from the embryonic construction and tourism industries on the Costa del Sol ñ the profits from which rarely enriched the locals ñ the region was bereft of industrial development, and of investment generally. As a region historically home to rebellious peasant farmers, scourges of the kind of central authority Franco embodied, and his enemies in the 1936ñ39 Civil War, he had been happy to let it rot. In the ensuing chaos of the dictatorís death, while his friends and enemies manoeuvred to address the power vacuum in Madrid, the small community of poor, mostly landless farm labourers in Marinaleda began to pursue their own unique version of la TransiciÛn. At the time, 90 percent of landless day labourers, known in Spain as jornaleros, had to feed themselves and their families on only two months of work a year. As Spain began its slow, careful transition from fascism to liberal democracy, the people of Marinaleda formed a political party and a trade union, and began fighting for land and freedom. There followed over a decade of unceasing struggle, in which they occupied airports, train stations, government buildings, farms and palaces; went on hunger strike, blocked roads, marched, picketed, went on hunger strike again; were beaten, arrested and tried countless times for their pains. Astonishingly, in 1991 they prevailed. The government, exhausted by their defiance, gave them 1,200 hectares of land belonging to the Duke of Infantado, head of one of Spainís oldest and wealthiest aristocratic families. From the very beginning, one man was at the forefront of this struggle. In 1979, at the age of thirty, Juan Manuel S·nchez Gordillo became the first elected mayor of Marinaleda, a position he has held ever since ñre-elected time after time with an overwhelming majority. However, holding official state-sanctioned positions of power was only a distraction from the serious†business of la lucha ñ the struggle. In the intense heat of the summer of 1980, the village launched ëa hunger strike against hungerí which brought them national and even global recognition. Everything they have done since that summer has increased the notoriety of S·nchez Gordillo and his village, and added to their admirers and enemies across Spain. S·nchez Gordilloís philosophy, outlined in his 1980 book Andaluces, levantaos, and in countless speeches and interviews since, is one which is unique to him, though grounded firmly in the historic struggles and uprisings of the peasant pueblos of Andalusia, and their remarkably deep-seated tendency towards anarchism. These communities are striking for being not just anti-authoritarian, but against all authority. "I have never belonged to the Communist Party of the hammer and sickle, but I am a communist or communitarian," S·nchez Gordillo clarified in an interview in 2011, adding that his political beliefs were drawn from a mixture of Christ, Gandhi, Marx,†Lenin and Che. In August 2012 he achieved a new level of notoriety for a string of actions that began, in forty-degree heat, with the occupation of military land, the seizure of an aristocratís palace, and a three-week march across the south in which he called on his fellow mayors not to repay their debts. Its peak saw S·nchez Gordillo lead a series of supermarket expropriations along with fellow members of the left-communist trade union SOC-SAT. They marched into supermarkets and took bread, rice, olive oil and other basic supplies, and donated them to food banks for Andalusians who could not feed themselves. For this he became a superstar, appearing not only on the cover of the Spanish newspapers, but across the worldís media, as ëthe Robin Hood Mayorí, ëThe Don Quixote of the Spanish Crisisí, or ëSpainís William Wallaceí, depending on which newspaper you read.REUTERS/Jon Nazca Somewhat later in the book, Hancox finally meets ìthe Robin Hood Mayor,î†S·nchez Gordillo, in the wake of the recent Spanish financial crisis. The communist mayor is, as many might guess, fascinating: When I interviewed S·nchez Gordillo that winter, he was, as usual, entirely confident in his world-view and the stark contrast between what they were creating and the world outside. To his credit, there was not a sliver of triumphalism in his analysis; it was stern, and sober. ëThe myth of capitalism has crumbled,í he announced, ëthat the market is an omnipotent God that fixes everything with his invisible hand. Weíve seen this is a great lie, a stupid fundamentalism: weíve seen that in times of crisis, markets have had to resort to the state, and that states are putting money into the banks.í† And so they were ñ hundreds of billions of eurosí worth. In Spain, 75 per cent of debt is private. There was no extravagant public spending that created the crisis there; in 2008 Spainís finances were well within the Eurozoneís fiscal rules, and its government debt as a share of GDP was much lower than Germanyís, a situation they maintained, to begin with. In Spain, essentially, it is the crash which created the debt, not the other way around. ëIf there were any justice in the world the big bankers, and the governments that allowed them to perpetrate their economic terrorism, would be in jail. And those same people who caused the crisis are the ones who now want to fix it. The pyromaniac wants to play the fireman! Mrs Merkel and Mr Sarkozy want to speak for the banks and fix what they caused.† ëEverywhere there ís crisis: an agricultural crisis, an industrial crisis, a financial crisis, a food crisis, a system crisis. Before, people had work, so they didnít think twice about it. Here in Andalusia there was a boom in construction, and things were getting built everywhere. A construction worker would earn three, four or five thousand euros per month ñ a lot of money! Then when we lost those jobs, people began losing their homes, because they couldnít pay the mortgage, so the banks have been repossessing them. And so now people are seeking refuge in agriculture instead, and in other formulas that arenít those of capitalism.í And how serious are those formulas? S·nchez Gordillo rejected the idea that 15-M was ëmerely reformistí, as some of its leftist critics have contended: it was developing, he said, ëan increasingly anti-capitalist visioní.† In London, I told him, big-state social democracy on the post-war model was increasingly seen as finished. The centre-left approach, of a compromise with capitalism, was kaput: apart from anything else, if someone wonít meet you halfway, itís not a compromise anymore. Just like 15-M, the people at Occupy London and Occupy Wall Street were looking for alternative models wherever they could find them, however obscure the location. In fact, I†explained, thatís kind of what brought me here. He nodded sympathetically. ëPeople no longer care if itís this party or another party, PP or PSOE; they want to change the system to one that isnít capitalistic, with unions, parties and organisations that promote a different system, with human beings at the core. People are considered merchandise: while theyíre profitable, theyíre used, and when theyíre no longer profitable, theyíre discarded. We have to change these cruel and inhuman values. I have dedicated my entire life†to this.í
REUTERS/Jason Lee100 Yuan notesHONG KONG (Reuters) - China's yuan currency overtook the euro in October, becoming the second-most used currency in trade finance, global transaction services organization SWIFT said on Tuesday. The market share of yuan usage in trade finance, or Letters of Credit and Collection, grew to 8.66 percent in October 2013. That improved from 1.89 percent in January 2012. The yuan, also known as the renminbi, now ranks behind the U.S. dollar, which remains the leading currency with a share of 81.08 percent. The top five countries using the yuan for trade finance in October were China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Germany and Australia, SWIFT said in a statement. "The RMB is clearly a top currency for trade finance globally and even more so in Asia," Franck de Praetere, SWIFT's Asia Pacific head of payments and trade markets said. The RMB remained the 12th payments currency of the world, with a slightly decreased share of 0.84 percent compared with 0.86 percent in September. RMB payments increased in value by 1.5 percent in October, while growth for all payments currencies was at 4.6 percent. The world's second-largest economy is accelerating the pace of financial reform to promote its currency to international players beyond Hong Kong. China aims to lift the yuan's global clout and reduce its reliance on the U.S. dollar. Yuan trade settlement has expanded quickly since it first began in 2009 and the percentage of China's total trade settled in yuan has risen from 12 percent in 2012 to nearly 20 percent. (Reporting by Michelle Chen; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)
DonkeyHotey/FlickrRemember #MintTheCoin? It was an idea pushed mostly by bloggers to allow the Treasury Department to avoid hitting the debt ceiling without any Congressional action. Treasury would mint a trillion dollar platinum coin, deposit it at the Federal Reserve and use those funds to make future payments. Just like that, the debt ceiling would be effectively eliminated. Turns out, the Obama administration seriously considered minting the coin, according to the Huffington Post: The Justice Department's¬†Office of Legal Counsel, which functions as a sort of law firm for the president and provides him and executive branch agencies with authoritative legal advice, formally weighed in on the platinum coin option sometime since Obama took office, according to OLC's recent response to HuffPost's Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. While the letter acknowledged the existence of memos on the platinum coin option, OLC officials determined they were "not appropriate for discretionary release." A 1996 law allows Treasury to mint platinum coins of any denomination. Supporters of the plan wanted Treasury to do just that, but in a large enough in value to enable the government to pay all of its bills. In January, the White House shot down the proposal¬†and the Federal Reserve has said that it would not accept the deposit of a trillion dollar coin. Nevertheless, many economic reporters supported the idea since breaching the debt ceiling would be catastrophic. In October, Congress struck a last-minute deal to raise the debt-ceiling until mid-February. Treasury will be able to extend that deadline a bit by its use of extraordinary measures, but another potential debt limit fight is lurking next year. If Republicans choose to risk breaching the debt ceiling again, maybe the White House will take a second look at minting the coin.
After Prohibition was repealed in 1933, National Distillers Products Corporation distributed a dividend of one case of whiskey for each five shares that were owned. This pulled out the stops with paying dividends.¬† Twenty years later, Park &amp; Tilford provided a more sobering saga. PUMP AND DUMP Originally founded in 1840, Park &amp; Tilford had a long history of being a family-owned operation run by the Schulte‚Äôs.¬† For decades, the company produced a broad line of whiskey and related products until it formally incorporated in 1923 in order to list on the NYSE. In 1943, in the middle of World War II, whiskey was scarce.¬† Most companies that produced whiskey had their factories diverted to manufacturing more important goods ‚Äì in the opinion of some folks ‚Äì making whisky a hot product to the public.¬† Since Park &amp; Tilford owned a drug store in New York and went public during prohibition; the company diversified into cosmetics, perfumes and other drug sundries.¬† Though Prohibition had been repealed in 1933, the diversion of resources to the production of war materiel had some people worried that Prohibition was being reintroduced de facto if not de jure.¬† On December 15, 1943, D.A. Schulte, the President of Park &amp; Tilford announced that the company was contemplating a distribution of whiskey to its shareholders.¬†¬†¬† The announcement by Schulte had its effect.¬† Based on these rumors, the stock advanced roughly 40 points over the next five months, as new shareholders tried to get access to scarce whisky to sell on the black market.¬† This advance was an aggressive move in any market.¬†¬† The Schulte family owned over 90% of Park &amp; Tilford stock, and they took advantage of the promise of the whiskey dividend to sell their stock to the public During the five months that followed the announcement, the family unloaded 93,000 shares through their broker, Ira Haupt &amp; Co. The 93,000 shares the family sold may not seem like a large amount of stock until you realize that there were only 243,683 shares outstanding when the whiskey announcement was made.¬† Ira Haupt &amp; Co unloaded 40% of the outstanding shares as the stock hit new highs between December 1943 and May of 1944, as can be seen by the graph below.¬†¬†¬† Park &amp; Tilford stock had been at 57.625 on December 15, 1943 and advanced to 98.25 on May 26, 1944.¬† It was classic pump and dump.¬† Pump up the stock price then dump the shares on unwitting investors. Global Financial Data WHISKY DIVIDENDS On May 26, the company formally announced the details of the whisky dividend.¬† During World War II, the government imposed price controls on consumer goods, including liquor. The Government did not see the whiskey dividend as an exception to their regulations. The Office of Price Administration stepped in and limited the negotiability of the purchase rights and the maximum profit on the resale of the liquor.¬† The stock price plummeted on the news. Since some shareholders were more interested in making cash than in drinking whiskey, they saw their profits from the whiskey dividend melt away, further causing a collapse in the stock price.¬† If the government had not intervened with their ruling, the result might have been otherwise, but the government did intervene. The price of Park &amp; Tilford fell 10 points on May 31st; and declined over 60 points during the month of June to close at 32 on June 28.¬† The stock‚Äôs behavior relative to the S&amp;P 500 is shown in the graph below. Global Financial Data LIQUID STOCKS Until the announcement, Park &amp; Tilford stock had been relatively illiquid. In the month of November 1943, only 7,000 shares of Park &amp; Tilford had traded on the NYSE, but after the announcement was made, 24,500 shares, or about 10% of the float, traded in the next two days, and 115,000 shares, or half the float, traded during the rest of the month.¬† The announcement of the whiskey dividend had made their stock very liquid. Unloading such a large number of shares caused Park &amp; Tilford and the brokerage firm of Ira Haupt &amp; Co. to run afoul of the SEC.¬† During the period in which the 93,000 shares were dumped on the public, ten representatives of Ira Haupt &amp; Co. solicited twenty-one customers to buy shares in the company, and the company‚Äôs chief statistician prepared a written analysis of the stock for a customer. The sale of stock by the Schulte family was, essentially, a secondary offering since the company had used a brokerage firm to distribute the stock. In a secondary offering, potential buyers know that insiders in the firm are unloading stock and the float is increasing.¬† This tends to drive down the price of the stock.¬† Park &amp; Tilford used the rumors they had circulated about the Great Whiskey Dividend to push the price up so the family could unload their shares at a higher price; however, potential buyers were completely unaware they were buying shares from insiders. A TOAST TO PUMP AND DUMP Though Park &amp; Tilford argued that the shares they sold were not a secondary offering, the SEC saw otherwise and ruled against Park &amp; Tilford and Ira Haupt &amp; Co. since ‚Äú[t]he only reasonable conclusion that could have been reached by respondent was that it was intended that a large block would be sold.‚Äù This rule was formalized by the SEC in Rule 154 which was adopted in 1954. If Park &amp; Tilford‚Äôs principal shareholders had only sold a few hundred shares, there would have been no violation of SEC rules, but since the company had unloaded a large block of shares, they were effectively making a secondary offering.¬† Ira Haupt &amp; Co. should have insisted on a registration statement for the securities being distributed from Park &amp; Tilford, and should have provided potential customers with a prospectus, but they did not.¬† As a result, Ira Haupt &amp; Co.‚Äôs membership in the NASD was suspended for twenty days. What have we learned here?¬† Besides the fact that investors need to have all of the facts before investing, they also need to have a brokerage firm that is transparent with all relevant information, just the opposite of the behavior of Ira Haupt &amp; Co.¬† Had investors known they were being solicited to buy shares from insiders, and that the government was going to limit the profitability of the Whisky Dividend, the stock would never have risen in price as it did in order to be dumped by the Schultes.¬† This is a classic case of not only buy on rumor and sell on news and don‚Äôt count your chickens before they are hatched, but most importantly, there is a sucker born every minute.
GettyMayor of London fails test of three questions after recently saying some people are too stupid to get on in life Boris Johnson has admitted that IQ is not the ìonly measure of abilityî after failing to give a single correct answer when he was tested. The Mayor of London said in a speech that 16% of "our species" had an IQ of less than 85 and just 2% over 130 before adding "the harder you shake the pack, the easier it will be for some cornflakes to get to the top.î The comments lead to criticism that he viewed human beings as ìa breed of dogs.î However when he was given his own IQ test on his regular LBC Radio slot ìAsk Borisî he did not give a single correct answer to the questions put to him. Clearly unhappy to answer the questions by presenter Nick Ferrari Mr Johnson was combative in his answers. Asked how many apples he would have if he took two apples from three apples, the Mayor replied: "You've got loads of apples mate, you've got one apple left." Mr Ferrari replied: "You say you've got one apple? You haven't, you've got two apples." He added: ìYou didn't get any of the IQ questions right so who are you to lecture about IQ, Mr Mayor?" "No one has said that IQ is the only measure of ability but what I have been saying repeatedly is that our system is letting down people who do have ability and could do much better," Mr Johnson replied. Senior members of the coalition have been quick to distance themselves from Mr Johnsonís comments in his speech last week at the Margaret Thatcher lecture Boris Johnson's speech at the Maragaret Thatcher lecture in full However Mr Johnson said much of what he had said had been ìwillfully misconstrued.î He said: "People are entitled to misinterpret, willfully to misconstrue what I said if they so choose. I notice that many newspapers, many commentators did not. "I think the real issue is we need to do more to help people, both who are finding it tough and people who... 20 or 30 years ago we had much more fluidity..." Mr Cameron, speaking in Chinasaid he ìlet Boris speak for himself.î He added: "I think is very important that we make sure we do everything so that we maximise people's opportunities to make the most of their talents. George Osborne, the Chancellor went further telling the BBCís Andrew Marr Show: ìI wouldnít have put it like that, I donít agree with everything he said. ìWhat I think there is actually increasingly common agreement, across the political spectrum is that you canít achieve equality of outcome, but you should be able to achieve equality of opportunity wherever you come from, the best chance, and actually education is the absolutely key to this.î Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, said that the comments reveal a ìfairly unpleasant, careless elitismî behind the image of Mr Johnson as a ìfunny and engaging guyî. Mr Clegg added that Mr Johnsonís comments of the relative IQ of the human ìspeciesî amounted to the London Mayor treating people like a ìbreed of dogs.î 
China Photos/Getty ImagesThis is a bit more discreet, no?Rich Chinese shoppers are over flashy, prominently sported designer logos. Now, discretion is the thing, says a report by researcher Wealth-X. Experts are considering this a rite of passage in the evolution of the Chinese consumer. The super rich no longer want to appear ostentatious, and they're learning that "expensive" doesn't necessarily mean "high quality." From the report: ‚ÄúI even see people removing the label from the inside of their jacket as a way of making it more anonymous,‚Äù said Jing Ulrich, managing director and vice president of Asia-Pacific at JP Morgan, and one of Asia‚Äôs most respected bankers. So what has replaced the desire for an LV front and center? China's wealthy want clothes and accessories that are completely their own ‚Äî bespoke this and personalized that. Companies like Louis Vuitton, Todd's, Hermes and more are complying with more customizable products. Researchers also attribute this move toward discretion to the¬† government's anti-corruption crackdown over the past couple of years. For the full report, head to Wealth-X&gt;
aldenjewell / FlickrThe big automakers are releasing their November U.S. sales stats. And they're off to a strong† start. Chrysler announced that sales jumped 16% to 142,275 units during the month. Analysts were looking for an 11% gain. Ford sales climbed 7.1% to 190,449, which was stronger than the 5.6% gain expected. GM sales increased by 13.7% versus expectations for 13.5%. Analysts estimate vehicle sales climbed to an annualized pace of 15.75 million units in November. "Motor vehicle sales likely surged back to summer highs in November," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "Consumers who probably balked at making such a major purchase during the Octoberís budget showdown returned to dealer showrooms." Here's a tally:
PanamasCanal.com On August 15, 1914, the Panama Canal saw its first cargo ships slice through two continents on their way to Asia, forever transforming global trade flows. It was the product of almost 15 years of military, diplomatic, and economic maneuvers. Now, 99 years later, the canal is set to cause a surge in U.S. exports across the commodities sector. A $5.25 billion expansion is set to wind down in 2015.¬†In its current form, the canal can handle vessels that can carry up to 5,000 TEUs, or 20-foot equivalents ‚Äî basically, the size of a shipping container.¬†Once the expansion is completed, the canal will be able to handle "Post-Panamax vessels," which can carry up to 13,000 TEUs.  For reference, according to the FT, carrying a 10,000-size load would require 18 trains, 5,800 trucks or 570 planes. Any sector where the U.S. is a net exporter is likely to reap some benefit from the expansion. For instance, the U.S. currently enjoys a positive balance of trade in its paper, raw textile, and machinery industries. ¬† But their gains are likely to be modest compared with those of two other major sectors: agriculture and natural gas. U.S. agriculture stands to gain the most from the expansion, further entrenching America as the world's breadbasket (we're already No. 1 in wheat, corn and soybeans exports).¬†In a 2011 report prepared for the U.S. soybean industry, Informa Economics forecast¬†that¬†volumes of grain and soybeans transiting the Panama Canal will jump¬†30% or 426 million bushels (or 11.2 million metric tons) to 1,840¬†million bushels (the equivalent of 48.4 million metric tons) by 2020/21 from the¬†projected volumes for 2011/12. It's already $6 per metric ton cheaper for farmers in the country's midsection to ship their goods down the Mississippi River down through the Gulf than to ship them out through Seattle. Once the expansion is finished, vessels will be capable of handling an¬†additional 7,000 metric tons on a Panamax or 13,300 metric tons on a small¬†Capesize vessel. As a result,¬†the area of farms who can take advantage of traveling down the Mississippi through to the Gulf¬†instead of using freight trains to the West Coast will be able to expand, Informa says, while putting pressure on freight train companies to lower their rates, as shown in this map:¬† Informa Economics "For bulk shipments, the expansion of the Panama Canal is extremely important," Informa says. "The possibility of lowering the Center Gulf freight rate by $14 per metric ton will expand the barge competitive draw area. The railroads shuttle¬†train locations in the expanded barge draw area will either lower freight rates or lose modal share. Of course, the canal is a two-way street, and Informa says any domestic U.S. industry that has to compete could face losses because their competitors will also be seeing transportation gains. Steel, cement, and fertilizer are likely to take the largest hits, Informa says. But this also means consumers and end users will be seeing price gains and increased economic activity. Informa:¬† "The ability to unload larger ships on the East Coast makes it more likely a large retailer will build a major distribution center in the the Eastern US That will in turn enable ocean carriers to add a string of ports to call. The new availability of¬†containers, load out times and increased destination ports expand backhaul [trucking] opportunities." Ports up and down the East Coast have already invested millions of dollars to prepare for this outcome. Savannah, Ga., for instance, has spent $662 million expanding its own port to accommodate post Panamax vessels, the benefits of which the Army Corps of Engineers said in 2012 would far outweigh costs.¬† Currently, Very Large Gas Carriers, the vessels used to transport American petroleum and natgas products, must sail all the way around South America to reach Asia. But¬†once the expansion is complete, shipping days will be cut to 25 from 41. That means the time it takes to get from the East Coast to Asia will now be comparable to the time it takes to get there from the Middle East, resulting in freight cost savings of up to 50%, according to AllianceBernstein's Neil Beveridge. Beveridge says the coal and petroleum product sectors are unlikely to change much given flagging demand former the former and narrow pricing spreads for the latter. Not so with natural gas. Thanks to the shale boom, which has made the U.S. the world's largest natural gas, natgas prices have plummeted, which has enticed importers, especially in Asia to start sending for U.S. goods. The current cost of transporting natural gas is already relatively high, which means it has more to gain from a canal expansion, Beveridge argues.¬† Bloomberg's Isaac Arnsdorf says¬†exports to Japan, which has shut down its nuclear plant fleet in the wake of the Fukushima incident, could surge, and with the canal expansion, it will cost 30% less for carriers to reach a the country from Louisiana. "There‚Äôs a huge market in Asia, a huge resource in the United States, and the Panama Canal is an enabler of this trade, reducing the cost of getting LNG to the market,‚Äù Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at Fearnley group in Oslo who's studied the canal expansion told Arnsdorf. ‚ÄúWe didn‚Äôt see this coming.‚Äù Most gas gets exported in the form of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).¬†Beveridge is slightly more bearish on efficiencies for LNG, since Washington may seek to limit LNG exports to maintain cost advantages now enjoyed by U.S. consumers.¬† Rather, he argues, LPG is likely to be the greatest beneficiary. LPG consists of hydrocarbons like propane and butane that exist as a gas at sea level¬†but liquid at reduced¬† pressures and temperatures. It's mostly used for cooking and space heating, as well as an industrial feedstock. Global LPG demand is about 30% larger than the global LNG market.¬† Asia-Pacific countries comprise 40% of global consumption and 7% of demand growth. With the expansion, the cost of shipping LPG from the U.S. to Asia will equal the cost of shipping it from the Middle East, Beveridge says. "As such we expect demand for US LPG to increase sharply which will put downward pressure to Middle East LPG export prices," he writes. We've come full circle.
Mario TamaIllegal mining operations have sprung up all over the Amazon. This is a mining site in the Madre de Dios region of Peru.PUERTO AYACUCHO, Venezuela (Reuters) - From the air, the thick green canopy that covers the Venezuelan Amazon is pocked with ever more frequent small holes. On the ground, at 40 degrees Celsius (104 F) in the shade, crews of Brazilian, Colombian and Venezuelan miners tear through one of the areas of greatest biodiversity on the planet in their hunt for gold, diamonds and coltan. Those riches are then smuggled out of the country, local authorities say, with the aid of left-wing Colombian guerrillas who take a share of profits. Some locals accuse money-hungry members of Venezuela's military of also helping out. A tripling of the value of gold over the last decade has led the illegal business of unlicensed mining to flourish, knocking efforts by Venezuela's government to check deforestation. Foreign and local groups fighting for the rights of the region's indigenous inhabitants estimate that there are as many as 4,000 illegal miners working in the area near the borders with Colombia and Brazil. Liborio Guarulla, a 59-year-old opposition politician who has been governor of Venezuela's Amazonas state for the last 12 years, said many of the illegal miners are protected by Marxist guerrillas of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. The FARC is funded largely by the illegal cocaine trade in Colombia. Some of its units are active inside Venezuela, largely to seek sanctuary from Colombian military offensives at home. The guerrillas received ideological support from Venezuela's late leader Hugo Chavez, who shared their leftist cause. The government in Caracas denies there has ever been any practical aid. Still, Guarulla says members of the Venezuelan armed forces help the FARC and the miners in the Amazon. "The illegal gold mining is done, to some extent, with the approval of the armed forces," the governor, a member of the Baniva ethnic group, told a group of about a dozen foreign journalists who visited the state capital Puerto Ayacucho, 335 miles south of Caracas. "When the indigenous people complain, there are reprisals (from the miners) immediately." Spokespeople for indigenous groups accused the miners of attacking, and sometimes killing, their people. Government officials did not respond to requests for comment on the allegations of corruption. In the past they have denied similar accusations and said that on the contrary, troops defend the environment and local tribes. It was not possible for Reuters independently to check the allegations made against the military. President Nicolas Maduro has dismissed Guarulla as "very corrupt" and "very drunk," though the governor says he is tee-total. 'LIKE SLAVES' Indigenous rights groups and local officials say the illegal miners see the region's indigenous Yanomami tribe and others as cheap, or nearly free, labor for their sites. "In several communities we've found Yanomami with numbers written on their shoulders," said Luis Shatiwe, a 30-year-old Yanomami leader who heads one local rights group. "They keep them like slaves," he said via a translator in his native tongue, speaking at an event held in a Puerto Ayacucho school to mark the 10th anniversary of a massacre of his tribespeople by illegal miners. It was not possible to speak to the illegal miners themselves, who work deep in the forest. About a dozen indigenous people interviewed in Amazonas accused some illegal miners of attacking tribespeople who confronted them - with no apparent fear of consequences from the authorities. "Why would you complain, when two days later you see the prospector walking happily down the street?" asked Maria Perez of the Hoti tribe, who said insecurity had forced her to move to the city from her jungle home near the Brazilian border. "There's no authority here to protect us." Allegations that FARC rebels are in Venezuela have caused severe diplomatic disputes for years between Colombia and Venezuela. Since 2010 both governments have sought to play down the issue as ties improve. In San Fernando de Atabapo, a hot, dusty town of 10,000 people about 135 miles upriver and south of Puerto Ayacucho, residents refer to the Colombian guerrillas, with a degree of sympathy, as "the boys." "They come to the town for gasoline, oil and other provisions, and then disappear into the jungle again," said Hassan Fadel, an 89-year-old Lebanese businessman who has spent half his life living in San Fernando de Atabapo. Speaking at his small shop next to a National Guard military post, he said that in the past the rebels used to visit in uniform and demand whatever they needed. Today, he said, they come in civilian clothes and with cash to pay for the food, fuel and outboard motors that they carry away. It was not possible to seek comment from the FARC rebels. At the National Guard post, one young soldier accused some officers of profiting from the smuggling of guns, drugs and minerals out of Venezuela, mostly by night along the Orinoco River in boats making their way up to the Caribbean coast. From there, trafficking experts say the goods are transferred to larger ships and small planes before being sent to buyers in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. "Many of the bosses conceal these activities because they are conspiring with the rebels," said the soldier, who declined to be named and only spoke when his superiors were not around. National Guard officials declined to comment specifically on that allegation, but say they constantly carry out operations in the area against the rebels and illegal mining. Nationwide, illegal mining in Venezuela is thought to produce about 12 tons a year of gold, or roughly double the amount produced by the legal, regulated sector. 'MEN IN UNIFORMS' Not everyone is convinced of the Colombians' presence, however. "We see men in military uniform going upriver, but we can't know who they are," cautioned Ramon Garrido, an independent politician in Autana, a town halfway back to Puerto Ayacucho. "We don't have any proof." Deforestation is a big concern, with the Venezuelan government's figures showing it has increased to 1,100 square km annually in recent years, an area roughly the size of Rio de Janeiro. While that is much less than the more than 5,800 square km that was cut down last year in Brazil, Maduro's administration says it aims to plant some 20 million new trees in deforested areas before the end of 2015. Flying over the rain forest in a small plane, the Amazonas governor, Guarulla, said he hoped those efforts could, bit by bit, fill in the holes torn by the prospectors. He also hoped talks in Cuba between Colombia's government and the FARC could lead to a peace deal and an eventual rebel demobilization. He doubts, however, that all the FARC would go home and give up their profitable business, even if they give up their guns and uniforms. "Is it possible that if there's a peace deal with the FARC then they will leave Venezuela?" Guarulla asked. "Or will they continue with their business? Because it is a good one." (Reporting by Diego Ore; Writing by Daniel Wallis; Editing by Kieran Murray and Andrew Hay)
Frank DiPascali joined Bernie Madoff's firm in 1975 when he was 19 years old. He eventually became the firm's finance chief. Monday in court, he described what it took to pull off a Ponzi scheme that spanned decades. In all honesty, it doesn't sound like much. Bloomberg has the details. DiPascali faces 125 years in prison for his part in one of the most infamous financial frauds of the last decade. He's cooperating with prosecutors, but that means revealing secrets he and his colleagues on trial kept for years in the service of Madoff. The meat of DiPascali's testimony had to do with the difference between fake trades and real trades. He alleges that any fool in the office would've been able to tell which ones were legitimate and which ones were not. From Bloomberg: DiPascali told jurors today there was no way employees at Madoff‚Äôs investment advisory unit could have confused fake trades for real ones, because the real trading taking place at Madoff‚Äôs broker-dealer involved counterparties, current trading prices and the coordination of several people making simultaneous phone calls ‚Äúin a very noisy environment.‚Äù By comparison, the fake trading in the investment advisory unit was based on historical prices taken out of newspapers and given to Bongiorno on index cards in a small, metal box about once a month, he said. ‚ÄúDid you see Ms. Bongiorno looking at real-time prices for stocks?‚Äù Assistant U.S. Attorney John Zach asked DiPascali. ‚ÄúNo,‚Äù DiPascali said. ‚ÄúCan you buy stock looking at yesterday‚Äôs prices in the Wall Street Journal?‚Äù Zach asked. ‚ÄúNo,‚Äù DiPascali said. DiPascali admitted that he knew all of this was wrong: He admitted that he lied to clients, and of course he also admitted that he's hoping for a substantial reduction in his sentence. We'll see how this works out for him.
Fox Biz reporter Charlie Gasparino delivered the best possible insult to Forbes tech reporter Jeff Bercovici. Charlie Gaparino, Twitter And here's the full conversation: Charlie Gasparino
Facebook/Mad-River-GlenThe U.S. markets are open, and stocks are falling. The Dow is down 60 points. The S&amp;P 500 is down 4 points. There are no major economic reports scheduled for today. However, the big automakers are announcing their November sales stats throughout the day. So far, Ford and Chrysler have announced numbers stronger than expected. Analyst estimate an annualized pace of 15.75 million vehicles were sold in November.
UBSArt CashinDuring the final hour of trading on Monday, stocks sold off sharply.† After spending much of the day in the green, the Dow closed down 77 points or 0.4% on the day. So, have things turned for the stock market? Have we seen the top? Not necessarily. Here's UBS's Art Cashin's post-mortem: As the final hour began, traders were even more surprised to see the selling imbalance had swollen to over $1 billion.† That would have an impact and prices began to melt. The anticipatory selling turned more aggressive, taking the Dow down through 16,000 and the S&amp;P below 1800.† There was a relief blip right before the bell that allowed both averages to close above those landmark levels. While the $1 billion to sell was a clear and palpable motivator, a look under the hood shows it's still a market of stocks.† The Dow fell 79 points.† MMM contributed over 38 of those points.† IBM chipped in 15 and Travelers nearly 11.† That's three stocks providing 64 of the 79 lost points.† Micro versus macro, indeed. This is important because the sell-off can't be characterized as indiscriminate panic. Rather, it just reflects biases created by the nature of the indexes, which are often driven by the idiosyncratic moves of the larger cap companies. All of this reflects the falling correlations among financial assets, a key market theme in 2013. "That is a natural response as the nadir of the crisis recedes further into the past and normality returns to markets that can respond to their own ëfundamentalsí rather than one common risk-on-risk-off dynamic," said Nomura on Monday. "That means that asset markets can start to diverge." "Absolute correlation among asset classes continues to fall rapidly showing a smaller magnitude of co-movement between asset classes, indicative of a normalisation." Here's a look at the S&amp;P 500 yesterday. Bloomberg
zendave/flickrIt may surprise you to learn that despite the massive attention bitcoin has received this year, no one knows the true identity of its creator. In 2008, a person or group of people named Satoshi Nakamoto published the digital currency's original spec paper. After lingering around cryptocurrency forums for a year or two, "Satoshi" dropped off the map. There have since been numerous attempts ‚Äî comprehensively tracked by Hilary Sargent, aka Chart Girl ‚Äî¬†to determine Satoshi's identity, but nothing conclusive has yet emerged. The latest stab comes from an equally unknown blogger, who on a Wordpress site called "Like In A Mirror" apparently created just for the post explains how he used analyzed speech patterns used in the Satoshi paper to determine that a blogger and former economics George Washington University economics professor named Nick Szabo "is probably Satoshi." "...reverse-searching for content similar to the Bitcoin whitepaper led me to Nick‚Äôs blog, completely independently of any knowledge of the official Bitcoin story. ¬†I must stress this: an open, unbiased search of texts similar in writing to the Bitcoin whitepaper over the entire Internet, identifies Nick‚Äôs bit gold articles as the best candidates." Among the similarities "Mirror" found: Szabo has denied to Wired that he is Satoshi. If he's lying, he'd have been more or less hiding in plain sight. An active writer at a blog called Enumerator, Szabo has written extensively on a mind-boggling amount of topics including hermeneutics, deep-sea resource exploitation...and cryptographic security.¬† "Mirror" admits that the matches could just be coincidences, arguing there were only a handful of people using these types of expressions in the context of cryptocurrency in 2008 and earlier ‚Äî although this would seem to suggest a pool of potential candidates, not just Szabo. ¬†¬† And "Mirror" explains away Satoshi's use of Britishism like "favour" by arguing Satoshi may have had co-authors, but does not state who these might be.¬† Still, the similarities seem interesting.¬†We've sent an email to Szabo to comment. For more on all the theories of who created Bitcoin, check out this guide at Chartgirl &gt;
The picture below was recently tweeted by @FascinatingPics. It shows some of the 1993 technology that is now packed into 2013 technology. Anytime you think the pace of innovation in the world is slowing down, just have another glance at this. Fascinating Pictures
Gold priced in Euros dropped through Ä900 per ounce for the first time since July 2010. Silver failed to match the Dollar gold rally, hitting a new 5-month low of $19.09 per ounce. "The wheels seem to be coming off the gold market," says one US broker's note. "The yellow metal is at stake of loosing its grip in the run-up to year-end," says a separate note from a London market-maker's trading desk. "Our flow is dominated by sellers across the board. Producers, funds, [high-net worth individuals] and ETFs all are selling gold in anticipation of the Fed tapering as early as Dec. 18." Maintaining their holdings even as the gold price fell 2.6% on Monday, the two largest US exchange-traded gold trust funds have so far shed one third of the bullion backing their shares in 2013, shrinking to the smallest level since Feb.2009. "We have no doubt that gold is in a bear market," says the commodities team at Swiss investment bank Credit Suisse, repeating the view it first gave in February's End of an Era report. "Financial bubbles tend to unwind faster than they inflate," the bank's analysts write in Gold: Decline &amp; Fall. "If gold were to continue to retreat along its current trajectory, the metal would be trading close to $900 per ounce by the end of 2014." "Regardless of the precise timing," agrees French bank and London bullion market maker Societe Generale, forecasting an average gold price of $1050 in the final 3 months of 2014, "underpinning our negative view towards gold is that the ultraloose stance of monetary policy is gradually unwound." Swiss investment bank and London market maker UBS yesterday cut its average 2014 forecast to $1200 per ounce from $1325, also pointing to a tightening of US monetary policy. A drop to $1050 could signal a "decent buying level", says UBS analyst Joni Teves. But while "physical buyers are expected to provide some support at the lower levels, this is unlikely to be enough to fully offset the selling." "Strong Chinese gold imports are being overpowered," agrees Bart Melek at TD Securities in Toronto, "by sharply lower ETF demand." The Canadian bank's analyst also cites "worries expressed by highly leveraged speculative investors that the 14,700 tonnes of vaulted gold since 2002 may start hitting the market once real Treasury [bond interest] rates move materially higher." Latest data from US regulator the CFTC yesterday showed speculative traders such as hedge funds raising their bearish betting on gold to a 4-month high in the week-ending last Tuesday. Net of those bearish bets, the so-called "Large Speculators" net bullish position in gold futures and options fell to 162 tonnes equivalent. That compares to the 3-year average of 497 tonnes. Smaller speculators trading gold on leverage through futures and options meantime cut their net bullishness last week to just 6 tonnes equivalent ñ the lowest level since early July's negative reading. Dollar gold was then half-way through a 21% rally from 3-year lows. Private investors choosing to trade physical gold, in contrast, last month maintained their positive sentiment near a 6-month high says Bloomberg today, citing the latest Gold Investor Index from BullionVault. Amongst money managers, however, "Gold ETF holdings have failed to stabilise" after the spring collapse says Barclays. "Not really an attractive asset class at this stage," said Mark Konyn, CEO of Cathay Conning Asset Management ñ part of the $83 billion Conning group ñ to CNBC overnight. Noting the drop in India's formerly world-leading demand as anti-import rules hit in 2013, "The [investment] case for gold is an inflation hedge," says Konyn. "But where's the inflation globally?" Adrian Ash BullionVault† Adrian Ash is head of research at BullionVault, the secure, low-cost gold and silver market for private investors online, where you can fully allocated bullion already vaulted in your choice of London, New York, Singapore, Toronto or Zurich for just 0.5% commission. (c) BullionVault 2013 Please Note: This article is to inform your thinking, not lead it. Only you can decide the best place for your money, and any decision you make will put your money at risk. Information or data included here may have already been overtaken by events ñ and must be verified elsewhere ñ should you choose to act on it.
AmazonWinter is always a good time to stay in and catch up on a little finance reading. In case you missed them, we've compiled a list of 22 classic works that every Wall Streeter should read. These are the books that show up time and again in lists of books recommended by the pros themselves. Topics covered include everything from the fundamentals of investing to the stories behind some of the Street's most speculative episodes in history.
National Employment Law ProjectCome January 1st, 1.3 million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits unless Congress passes a law extending them. Throughout 2014, an additional 850,000 people will lose their benefits as well. In normal times, unemployment benefits last a maximum of 26 weeks, but Congress passed an "emergency" provision - known as the Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) - in 2008 that extended benefits up to 99 weeks. The goal of this was to provide a greater cushion for the millions of workers who lost their jobs during the Great Recession. As part of the fiscal cliff deal last year, Congress extended the EUC until the end of this year. Now, that is set to expire and there is little support in Congress for a further extension. This emergency provision was never expected to last forever, but it was intended to help families out while the economy recovered. But the recovery has been much slower than anyone originally expected and the unemployment rate remains above seven percent. The National Employment Law Project (NELP) reports that there are still 4.1 million workers who are long-term unemployed (out of work for more than 27 weeks) and a third of those receive assistance under EUC. Their benefits will immediately be cut off on January 1st and another 850,000 will lose their benefits in just the first few months of 2014. The expiration of the EUC can also hold back the recovery as the unemployed receiving extended benefits are likely to spend that money immediately. In addition, in order to receive benefits, the unemployed must continue looking for a job. Brad Plumer flags a report from¬†JP Morgan chief economist Michael Feroli that says the unemployment rate could drop 0.25-0.5 points due to those workers dropping out of the workforce when their benefits expire. Congressional Democrats have hinted at including another year-long extension of the extended benefits in any small budget deal worked out between Patty Murray and Paul Ryan, but that seems unlikely at this point.
Shutterstock/Bi AustraliaThe Asian business world is fraught with landmines and it‚Äôs not just cultural nuances that tend to trip Australians up. Mini vandePol, who heads up Baker &amp; McKenzie‚Äôs Asia Pacific Regional Dispute Resolution Group, has seen small oversights turn into multimillion-dollar bribery lawsuits involving even the world‚Äôs biggest brands. VandePol says Australian firms looking to operate in Asia should firm up their auditing processes, get familiar with the various legal jurisdictions and learn how to say no. Here are her top tips: Business people should be prepared to face awkward questions and be able and willing to say ‚Äúno‚Äù. VandePol says this comes down to education: if people don‚Äôt go into negotiations with both eyes open, they‚Äôre more likely to be talked into doing ‚Äúfavours‚Äù or paying a bribe. ‚ÄúSomeone is going to say ‚ÄòNo, that‚Äôs not how you do business here‚Äô, and ask for favours or extravagant wining and dining or money,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúMany companies have just jumped into these ways of doing business and are now finding that it‚Äôs a very high-risk strategy.‚Äù Regardless of local laws or lack thereof, any international companies found to be involved in bribery or corruption could be in trouble with long-arm jurisdictions like the US, she warns. There are many different cultures, legal environments and business regulations that apply within the Asian region. Sometimes, laws vary widely even within a single country. VandePol highlights India, which has 28 states and 7 territories. Businesses need to be familiar with taxation laws in each state, and be aware of more subtle differences. The Indian state of Gujarat, for example, has taken a strong stance against corruption so western businesses may be tempted to lower their guard while operating there. Operating in other states may require a little more time and care, she says, so businesses shouldn‚Äôt fall into the trap of simply porting established processes across state lines. Many third party businesses offer to partner with western companies to help smooth over the complexity of legal jurisdictions, a lack of contacts, and cultural norms. VandePol says any such partnerships should be approached with great care: she has witnessed some third parties that ‚Äúdidn‚Äôt seem to have real duties or functions [but] were paid enormous sums of money to make things happen‚Äù. In December 2008, German electronics giant Siemens pleaded guilty to¬†paying more than $US5 million in bribes¬†‚Äúthrough purported business consultants to various Bangladeshi officials‚Äù. ‚ÄúThird parties are a big issue if you don‚Äôt manage them properly,‚Äù VandePol says, adding that Siemens has since cleaned up its act. ‚ÄúIf they behave improperly, it will come back and bite you. ‚ÄúDue diligence is a very important part of doing business in Asia.‚Äù In countries like China,¬†the concept of ‚Äúsaving face‚Äù¬†‚Äì avoiding embarrassment or humiliation ‚Äì is key. That can be difficult to balance against the risks of engaging in corrupt behaviour. Here‚Äôs where a bit of creative thinking comes in handy. One Chinese businessman once asked of vandePol‚Äôs clients to fly him and his wife to London in exchange for being offered a contract. After some thought, the client said he‚Äôd be happy to fly the couple to London but would need the Chinese company‚Äôs senior management to write a letter stating that the trip would not influence their decision. ‚ÄúThe letter would make it transparent, but there was no way that he would be willing to get the letter from his boss,‚Äù vanderPol explains. ‚ÄúThat way, we weren‚Äôt engaging in improper conduct but it was not a slap in the face to a potential business partner. ‚ÄúUnfortunately, Asian business is slower and needs to be carefully stepped through, but if you do it well, it will be very lucrative and sustainable.‚Äù Baker &amp; McKenzie urges its clients to include an international arbitration clause in any contracts, so they have a fighting chance to resolve issues should anything go wrong. Without such a clause, Australian companies may find themselves fighting a losing battle on the opponent‚Äôs home turf, and facing unfamiliar laws, an unfamiliar language, and access to fewer people in the know. ‚ÄúYou¬†must¬†have an international arbitration clause in your contract or risk not having the bargaining position to be able to resolve disputes,‚Äù vandePol says. She suggests agreeing to have any legal disputes resolved in an independent, third jurisdiction like Singapore for fairness. VandePol warns that some global firms have been tripped up by very specific laws like China‚Äôs¬†state secret legislation¬†that prevents certain information from being transmitted out of the country. Earlier this year, corporate investigators Peter Humphrey of Britain and Yingzeng Yu of the US were arrested and made to apologise on Chinese state television for illegally gathering information on Chinese individuals¬†in connection with a GlaxoSmithKline corruption probe. ‚ÄúThey were charged with stepping over the mark in terms of investigating individuals‚Äô backgrounds,‚Äù vandePol explains. ‚ÄúIn China, you have to be careful because of the regime ‚Ä¶ don‚Äôt take certain information out of the country.‚Äù While Australian laws tend to be well-defined, with a highly regulated business environment that sometimes encourages what vandePol describes as a ‚Äútick-a-box mentality‚Äù. Things are very different in Asian countries, she warns. ‚ÄúThat tick-a-box mentality doesn‚Äôt work in Asia, where it‚Äôs not just about obeying the letter of the law,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúYou have to have a holistic understanding of how business can be done in a lawful manner; that comes down to understanding the language of business and staying on top of changes.‚Äù She insists that that‚Äôs no more difficult than how businesses normally stay on top of changes to business conditions, drivers and opportunities like commodity prices or real estate boom areas. Now read:¬†GROUND ZERO: 10 Things Australian Firms Need To Know Before Joining The Myanmar Gold Rush Follow Business Insider Australia on¬†Facebook¬†and¬†Twitter
Here's a great little Black Friday nugget. Wal-Mart's #1 seller was a washcloth. From NBCNews: The retailer announced it had sold 2.8 million towels during the shopping event, which this year started even earlier at 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day. The textile sales outpaced the 300,000 bicycles, 1.4 million tablets, and 2 million televisions sold during the period, and also beat last year's towel sales by 1 million. For $1.74, bath towels and six packs of washcloths were available. That breaks down to $.29 per washcloth. And there's video of people going nuts for the washcloth: 
Margin CallFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, here's an ultra-quick roundup of today's trader talk: US Futures are starting on weaker footing this AM, mirroring overseas markets. †Much of the global angst is Yen driven, which is catching a bid due to a lower than expected stimulus package being discussed. † Nasdaq Futures are outperforming SPX, as AAPL pops over 1% on a upgrade from UBS. †Some other ìhigh Betaî names are mixed this AM, with TSLA up 2%, DDD up 1%, but FB losing 40bp. †Over In Europe, Markets are considerably weaker in heavy volume. †The DAX is off 1%, with volumes 140%+ over the 20day average, while Franceís equity market is getting hit for 2%. † Focus on the EU fins, which are getting hit for almost 2% (Iíll be surprised if we donít see a bid developing as US traders man their Bloombergs).. †The Nikkei managed a fresh 6year closing high, before the Stimulus details were released by Reuters, which has hit the Nikkei futures for over 1% early this AM. † China managed a rebound after the IPO induced weakness today, with their smallcap index surging back after the 8% smackdown yesterday. † Aussie lost 50bp, but globally resources companies continue to underperform. †Focus today will be in the Autos, as November sales data is released. †Bear in mind also, while searching for Liquidity, a few UK firms are hosting Charity Days today.The 10YY is retreating slightly lower, after tasting 3M highs yesterday ñ but the Spread between US and German Yields has widened to 7Y highs on diverging Central Bank Policies. †The DXY is under pressure this AM, losing ground to both Ä and Yen. †This is a natural tailwind for commodities - †but Gold has a ìdead Catî bounce feel, barely holding green ñ WTI is up small into Inventory data release tonight - †but losing ground to Brent (Telling with DXY weaker). † Natty Gas is getting hit for 40bp, as we enter a seasonable tough month for the commodity, and Japanís Tepco is holding off on LNG purchases due to high prices. † Aside from Vehicle sales today, we have ISM NY at†9:45, but the big driver may be the double POMO whammy ---&gt; †Fed has a $750mln - $1B purchase at†11am, followed by a $3-4B purchase operation at†2pm.
REUTERS/ Damir SagoljA Buddhist monk wearing a gas mask points towards police positions as they clash with anti-government protesters near the Government House in Bangkok December 2, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Have you seen silver? It too is coming very close to breaking below its lows of the summer. From FinViz: FinViz
Earlier we reported on new rankings from the OECD that showed the Asian nations obliterating everyone else in terms of science, math, and reading. So, what kinds of questions are students asked to determine their proficiency in these subjects? Here's an example of a tough geometry question. Ready? OECD OECD OECD
The OECD is out with new global rankings of how students in various countries do in reading, science, and math.†Results of the full survey can be found and delved into here. You can see below how Asian countries are obliterating everyone else in these categories. The United States, meanwhile, ranks below the OECD average in every category. And as the WSJ notes, the US has slipped in all of the major categories in recent years: The results from the 2012 Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), which are being released on Tuesday, show that teenagers in the U.S. slipped from 25th to 31st in math since 2009; from 20th to 24th in science; and from 11th to 21st in reading, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, which gathers and analyzes the data in the U.S. Here are the top countries OECD
Just in case you missed it, gold had a terrible November. And December is off to a pretty rough start as well. It's not doing much today, but it got utterly worked over yesterday, falling close to levels not seen since June. If Wall Street's forecast for 2014 comes true ‚Äî that we're finally about to get some normalcy ‚Äî expect more pain ahead. Kitco
Markit This charts shows the latest Construction PMI reading for the UK. The reading just hit 62.4, as output rose at its fastest pace in 10 years. This is consistent with all of the anecdotal stories about London being filled with cranes and high-end condos. Here's more on the joyous mood in the UK construction sector: Construction companies pointed to a steep and accelerated expansion of house building activity in November, with the rate of growth the fastest for ten years. Work on commercial construction projects also increased sharply during the latest survey period, and the rate of expansion was the steepest since September 2007. Civil engineering activity increased at a robust pace that was little-changed from that recorded in October. Anecdotal evidence from survey respondents widely pointed to more favourable business conditions in November, with rising confidence in the economic outlook and improving credit conditions helping to boost spending across the construction sector. As a result, volumes of new work increased at a strong and accelerated pace, with the latest rise in new orders the joint-sharpest for just over six years. Read the full report here &gt;
REUTERS/SupriOnce again, markets are really quiet. U.S. futures are a shade lower, as are European stocks. This follows a decently notable selloff yesterday (nothing huge, but any selling stands out these days). Markets gained modestly in Asia. This is a huge week for economics, although today is the slowest day of the week in terms of data.
