Based on inflation, unemployment, growth weakness, and cost of capital, Goldman notes that emerging market's¬†"macro-misery" indices have pushed back to post-financial-crisis highs. It is hardly a surprise that macroeconomic hardship is surging since in the 15 years since the EM sovereign bonds have been liquid,¬†levels remain extremely elevated, despite the mainstream-media's relegation of the problem. As Bank of Mexico's Agustin Carstens warns,¬†"we cannot rule out the event that some advanced economies run into deeper trouble again... the world economy is still in a fragile situation." www.zerohedge.com [Click below for larger.]
Mark Wilson / Getty (Reuters) - If the¬†federal government¬†fails to pay its bills and the interest on its borrowing by the middle of the month, it is the overwhelming verdict of the nation's smartest economists that financial mayhem will ensue. Until this week, no one on either side doubted that. In fact, it was implicit in the Republican case for using the debt ceiling as a lever to cut public spending. Only with the threat of¬†Armageddon¬†in the markets and the prospect of a return to the Crash of 2008 did the Republican bartering make any sense. Now the looser cannons on the GOP deck have changed their tune. At last count, seven¬†House¬†members and six senators have suggested the government can remain shut down in perpetuity and¬†America¬†can fail to make interest payments on its borrowing and nothing much will happen. Hard-right Republicans' rejection of basic economics is just the latest example of how they have abandoned rational thought and refuse to accept established scientific facts. Consider their arguments against evolution. Not long ago, Republicans were hardheaded realists who derided the woolly pipe dreams of their Democratic rivals. Now they appear to have lost all touch with reality, embracing notions that used to be the preserve of paranoid eccentrics who write rambling letters in green ink. While we live in the Age of Obama, they are living in the Age of Unreason. For Senator¬†Rand Paul¬†(R-Ky.), the threat of¬†America¬†not paying its debts is not so much about economics as semantics. "It really is irresponsible of the president to try to scare the markets," he said. "If you don't raise your debt ceiling, all you're saying is, ‚ÄòWe're going to be balancing the budget.' ‚Ä¶ the American public will say that sounds like a pretty reasonable idea." An ophthalmologist by trade, Paul should forget grappling with economics and tend to his own shortsightedness. The flat denial ‚Äî even in the face of the fact that freezing the federal economy is already causing profound business uncertainty ‚Äî that blowing past the debt ceiling could lead to a steep stock market slide and will provoke skyrocketing interest rates that could ricochet around the world and set the scene for another Great Recession is part of a pattern. These same Republicans were indifferent to the consequences of the sequester ‚Äî a mindless, deep slashing at entitlements and defense spending they insist is doing no harm. If they looked around them they would see how the sequester is unfairly causing misery. Economics has long been an act of faith rather than a rational scientific study for some conservatives and libertarians. The pretense that a successful modern economy could do without a strong central government or that a government should somehow not influence economic policy by intervening is fanciful. There is a reason we are living under the all-pervading influence of¬†John Maynard Keynes¬†rather than the Austrian economists who challenged him,¬†Ludwig von Mises¬†and¬†Friedrich Hayek. Keynes won the argument 80 years ago and transformed our understanding of economics. There is no putting that toothpaste back in the tube. Some deluded conservatives and libertarians may wish to live in an alternative reality where history never happened, but Keynes won and the Austrians lost. The right should get over it. Ignorance about business, finance and economics is new to the GOP, which was once the proud party of big business and Wall Street. Now driven by the¬†Tea Party, angry at bankers and Wall Street types who were saved by the government from bankruptcy in 2008 and 2009, the congressional GOP is being pushed around by a radical sect willing to risk the collapse of the world economy rather than accept that the Affordable Care Act is the law of the land. Little wonder that Wall Street donors are pondering whether they should continue feeding dogs that bite them. It makes you wonder, too, whether the sons and daughters of the anarchists and communists who plotted the overthrow of capitalism have infiltrated the GOP to get the job done. The¬†Party of Lincoln¬†has become the¬†Party of Lenin. Ignorance about economics is just one example of how a resistance to facts has become an electoral asset for a Republican seeking a candidacy from a mob of ignoramuses. Nowhere is this clearer than in the evolution debate, where a fondness for creationism upends science in the name of piety. Charles Darwin's contention that we are all descended from common ancestors caused uproar when he first floated it in the 1830s. No one likes being made a monkey. But educated people cannot doubt the wealth of evidence that Darwin was right. All, that is, except the GOP holdouts. The dodgy science underpinning the prejudices of those who ignore scientific facts became evident in the last general election. For example,¬†GOP Senate¬†candidate¬†Richard Mourdock¬†said, "I believe God controls the universe. I don't believe biology works in an uncontrolled fashion." Wishful thinking only got him so far. Mourdock convinced Republican primary voters he should be their Senate candidate ‚Äî then he lost the general election. This denial of knowledge, or just plain ignorance, is widespread. Recall the absurdity of¬†GOP Senate¬†candidate Todd Akin. "From what I understand from doctors," Akin said, "If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down." Akin, a married man with two daughters and four sons ‚Äî all home-schooled, which may explain a lot ‚Äî is plainly not paying attention to what goes on under his roof. Before pronouncing on women's health, he should have spent less time talking to "doctors" and more time asking his wife and daughters about the birds and the bees. Despite wearing a dunce's cap, Akin won the primary ‚Äî but then lost the election. The fostering of ignorance has also altered the climate change debate. Once it was universally acknowledged that global warming existed, though the reasons for it were less certain. Then came a well-funded campaign to cast doubt on the science behind climate change and disparage the distinguished researchers who provided hard evidence that the globe is getting warmer. Though the muddying of the science was paid for by the big oil brothers Charles and¬†David Koch, whose interest in keeping the world burning fossil fuels is not in doubt, climate change denial found a ready audience among contrarians, curmudgeons and doubters who welcomed the new "evidence." It proved their conspiracy theory that all this science was a put-up job. These cranks and kooks even deny they are in denial. Conservatism has always represented a stand against the tide of history. Progress is an anathema to many who wish the world would stop spinning while they catch up. But elevating ignorance over scholarship should have no place in conservatism. The role of political leadership is to gently persuade people to face the world as it is, the better to change it. The Age of Unreason that insists that Hayek won, that Darwin lost, that hot is cold, and that babies are found under gooseberry bushes brings all rational debate to a halt. Who can reason with those who, to gain popularity with the foolish and the shallow, rail against the real world? America¬†may have reached a crossroads. That is what the president suggests by drawing a red line over the debt ceiling. He has decided it is time for a showdown between the realists and the fantasists.¬†Tea Party Housemembers, who appear to have kidnapped Speaker¬†John Boehner, wish to ignore the facts. They regret passage of Obamacare ‚Äî though it sprang from an idea from the conservative¬†Heritage Foundation. They deny it is truly the law, they deny the¬†Supreme Court¬†found it constitutional and they deny that the straight up and down vote over Obamacare last November re-elected the president with a plurality of votes. Which part of democracy do they not understand? They lost. The president won. They should stop pretending that the last five years never happened. A small but significant number, however, are insisting that unless Obamacare is defunded, delayed or repealed now they will not pass a budget nor a debt ceiling increase. They assert that the economic consequences ‚Äî which all those with knowledge of finance, business and economics say will be disastrous ‚Äî may even be good for America. These deniers have reduced the public discourse to a farce by declaring that up is down and vice versa. There is a term in psychology known as the Dunning-Kruger effect. "People tend to be blissfully unaware of their own incompetence," David Dunning and¬†Justin Kruger¬†wrote. "Their lack of skill deprives them not only of the ability to produce correct responses, but also of the expertise necessary to surmise that they are not producing them." In other words, some people are too stupid to know how stupid they are. (Nicholas Wapshott¬†is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)
Win McNamee/Getty ImagesWarren Buffett calls the debt ceiling a "nuclear weapon, too horrible to use."¬†Obama administration¬†official¬†Jason Furman¬†says the consequence of a default on¬†U.S. government¬†debt is "too terrible to think about." When asked about a default, Wells Fargo strategist¬†James Kochan¬†simply commented, "Holy cripes." With this crisis,¬†America¬†is risking financial¬†Armageddon. The default of Lehman Brothers on its $613 billion of debt ignited a chain reaction in the financial system, nearly destroying the U.S. economy. A default by the¬†U.S. government¬†on $17 trillion of debt ‚Äî debt that has been considered the safest in the world ‚Äî could be far worse. But at heart, this is not a debt problem. It is an accounting problem. The Treasury Department issues U.S. debt, and lots of it. So you would think that¬†America¬†is deeply indebted to its bondholders. Yet increasingly, it is the U.S. monetary authority, the¬†Federal Reserve, and not private investors, who buys this debt. So a simple solution to the impasse is as follows:¬†Federal Reserve¬†Chairman¬†Ben Bernanke¬†should simply cancel the Treasury debt that it owns. The government can just forgive the government's debt. This wouldn't solve the debt problem entirely. The¬†Federal Reserve¬†doesn't own all¬†U.S. government¬†debt; it owns only roughly $2 trillion of it. (Well $2,076,927,000,000.00, as of last Wednesday, but who's counting?) Yet canceling this debt would give the government substantial room under the debt ceiling to manage its finances. It would end the debt ceiling standoff in¬†Congress, and it would prevent a default. The debt held on the balance sheet of the¬†Federal Reserve¬†can be canceled without any significant consequence, because it is a bookkeeping artifact corresponding to the money supply. In essence, the government owes this money to itself. If I owe money to myself, I can cancel that debt at will and without consequence, essentially taking it out of my left pocket and putting it in my right pocket. Last year, the¬†Federal Reserve¬†declared a "profit" of roughly $91 billion, much of which came from interest payments from the U.S. Treasury. The¬†Federal Reserve¬†then quickly remitted nearly all of this profit right back to the U.S. Treasury. The¬†Federal Reserve¬†does this every year. Reducing or eliminating this unearned "profit" actually will provide a more realistic view of federal finances. I am a Democrat, and known as a progressive. But this idea was put forward a few years ago not by me, or by a member of my party, but by Republican Representative¬†Ron Paul. He thinks, as do I, that the¬†Federal Reserve's dramatic expansion of its balance sheet is simply a way of financing the government by printing money. The Fed isn't really "buying" Treasury bonds, it is just letting the government finance its deficit by adding to the money supply. If this plan were enacted, there conceivably might be some operational problems for the Fed, but nothing compared to the nightmare of a default on Federal debt. Some of the¬†Fed's Treasury¬†debt facilitates Fed open market operations, which is part of how the central bank manages the money supply. Surely it would be much easier for the Fed to change its money supply management techniques, though, than to figure out how to manage open market operations using defaulted Treasury bonds. While canceling the Treasury debt held on the¬†Federal Reserve¬†balance sheet might be considered unorthodox, it is no more unorthodox than the quantitative easing that has added much of this debt to the Fed's balance sheet. In any event, preventing a financial meltdown, with its attendant risks of interest rate and price spikes as well as staggering employment losses, is certainly central to the¬†Federal Reserve's mandate of ensuring price stability, maximum employment and moderate, long-term interest rates. Bernanke could alleviate the debt ceiling crisis simply by canceling the debt held on the Fed's balance sheet. I've written to him, and asked him to do so. Let's hope that he does.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. It's Pointless Trying To Adopt The Endowment Model To Your Clients' Portfolios (Advisor Perspectives)  The endowment model ó investing in illiquid assets in the hope to replicate the results of Yale and other such endowment models ó has become popular among advisors in the past two decades, writes Robert Huebscher in Advisor Perspectives.† Citing a paper by Brad Barber and Guojun Wang, professors at the University of California at Davis, he explains that "that the average endowment fails to deliver alpha and that the average consultant does not add value." Huebscher adds that these findings "reinforce the message that the odds against successfully adopting the endowment model are very steep." "I spoke last week with Barber, who has been in the position of advising universities on how to manage their endowments. His recommendation, typical of academics, is to rely on a passive, index-based approach. Reducing the cost of investments leaves more for the investor. "ÖFor advisors, Barber recommended starting with a simple asset allocation using index funds with low fees and avoiding private equity, hedge funds and active management. He said advisors should focus on estate planning, insurance and ìmaking sure clients meet their life goals." Wells Fargo's Wealth Management And Retail Brokerage Had A Good Quarter (Wells Fargo) Wells Fargo's wealth management business helped boost its third quarter profits. Wells Fargo's wealth, brokerage and retirement segment reported net income of $450 million in third quarter, up 4% from the previous quarter, and up 33% from a year ago. It also reported revenue of $3.3 billion, up 1% from the previous quarter, and 9% from Q3 2012, "driven by strong growth in asset-based fees and higher net interest income, partly offset by decreased brokerage transaction revenue."† Its retail brokerage managed client assets of $1.3 trillion, up 8% from a year ago. Meanwhile, wealth management assets were up 5% to $209 billion. Advisors Need To Tell Their Clients If A Family Member Is Taking Advantage Of Them No Matter How Uncomfortable It Is (The Wall Street Journal) Telling a client that a family member is taking advantage of them is a sensitive subject. But advisors need to broach the subject even at the risk of getting fired writes Neal Frankle of Los Angeles-based Wealth Resources Group in a new Wall Street Journal column.† "In my experience it's important for advisers to develop a process of slowly introducing the topic, and as many times as necessary. First, identify the problem and then try to agree on a plan for the next three or six months, whatever time period is necessary to reach a solution. "ÖWe need to continue to bring it up as long as it's a problem until we get the sense that they're not willing to hear about it anymore. It's not for us to say something is right or wrong, but we do have to shine a light on those things that are detrimental to our client's financial goals." What The Whole Debate On The S&amp;P Is About (Deutsche Bank)  "Normally in the middle of an economic cycle, investment spending is two to three times GDP growth," writes David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank. "Strong investment spending is what drive S&amp;P 500 sales and non-financial profits. The whole debate about the S&amp;P is about when this turns back up again." Deutsche Bank Financial Planning Is All About Clients' Priorities (Nerd's Eye View) "Financial planning is essentially about trade-offs," writes Michael Kitces of Nerd's Eye View. "We must prioritize which goals are most important to achieve, and allocate resources to them, recognizing that this means money may not be left to satisfy other goals (or wants or desires)." Advisors also need to be careful of the amount of recommendations they lay out for their clients at one go, because this can be overwhelming. Advisors need to understand what is most important to the clients. "It's not about prioritizing the whole list, but simply about picking the top 1 or 2 items that will be done between now and the next meeting." Finally, the client should realize it isn't just about telling clients what to do, but to actually help them do it.
APWrong answer.(Reuters) - Ever since the government shutdown began, various federal departments have been forced to furlough nonessential personnel. The specter of the†United States' first default in history has become a†bargaining chip†for American politicians. That has rankled the international community, and it only compounds the backlash we've seen recently in response to Obama's flip-flopping on a†Syria†strike and the NSA surveillance revelations. It's clear that international consternation is not enough of an incentive for the†United States†to change its behavior. As I wrote recently in this column, foreign policy simply isn't a priority for the†Obama administration. Buffeted by the shutdown crisis and leery of the coming debt ceiling fight,†Barack Obama†canceled his trip to†Asia†last week, where he would have attended the†Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation†conference. Obama sent†John Kerry†in his stead to shake hands, dress in funny outfits, and engage in all the other usual hallmarks of a foreign convention of leaders. Obama was right to think that had he attended himself, the optics wouldn't have worked in his favor. He would have looked distant and overly-casual to the crises at home if he were in†Bali†glad-handing with foreign leaders. But the point is not whether Obama made the right decision to cancel - he did - but whether he made the best decision possible. He could have done more, which we'll get to in a bit. But instead of thinking creatively, the administration checked down to the obvious decision and simply sent Kerry. What's at stake at the APEC conference? The validity of†America's "pivot to†Asia," a hallmark of the administration's first term, and a strategy that was beginning to succeed in the region. As†the New York Times†wrote earlier this week, without the U.S. at the APEC conference, it's†China's stage. And that's a problem when the†United States†is in the middle of trying to negotiate and complete the†Trans-Pacific Partnership†(TPP). The TPP is the most important trade agreement on the world agenda right now; should all the countries in discussions join, its members would constitute almost 40 percent of world GDP - a coalition of more than a dozen of the most important Pacific powers. The deal would liberalize trade, foster more market access for U.S. firms in the region, and serve a deeper geopolitical purpose: it would give the U.S. a larger stake in regional stability. In other words, the agreement would put American skin in the game and confirm the†Asia†pivot, as likeminded countries try to hedge against the rise of a Chinese-led system that is not in accordance with their norms and standards. The TPP is an agreement that pointedly excludes†China†(at least at first; it incentivizes†China†to make economic changes over the longer-term that align it with free market thinking in order to gain entry). But it's tough to negotiate a U.S.-led trade deal when†America's president RSVP's "No" and†China's leader†Xi Jinping†is running the show. I've spoken to senior officials in†Indonesia†who expressed personal disappointment with Obama's no-show as well as their concerns about TPP closure. Other regional players are echoing these sentiments. That's certainly not to say Obama's absence will doom the negotiations. But there is a real risk that the agreement could become watered down as key participants question American commitment. Allies can't be calm, either, when they imagine how TPP legislation would be digested by a†dysfunctional†American Congress. With so much at stake, what could Obama have done differently? What could he have done aside from sending†John Kerry, who has vastly more street cred in the†Middle East†than in†Asia? He could have thought outside the box and called up†Bill Clinton†to take his place instead. Clinton is an ex-president with gravitas and without a portfolio, unless you count whatever groundwork he's laying for a potential Hillary 2016 run. With Obama tied down in the States, putting Bill in charge of negotiating the†Trans-Pacific Partnership†would ensure the trade partners felt respected. And Bill is no stranger to marquis trade architecture in†Asia, as he spearheaded†China's accession into the WTO back in the twilight of his presidency. It's too late for Obama to change his APEC strategy, but it's not too late for Obama to learn the deeper lesson: that abroad, allies - and holders of American debt - are deeply concerned with what's happening in the States. American citizens can barely make sense of the mechanics behind the government shutdown and debt ceiling fracases; it's even more foreign to audiences that aren't familiar with the arcane ins and outs of American democracy and political gamesmanship.†Bill Clinton†could act as a surrogate for Obama, and just as importantly, as a translator for†America's absurdist democratic system, help guide the TPP to its final stages, and be a bulwark against†China's charm offensive as it plays nice and ramps up its military spending and economic investment in the region. Understandable distractions stemming from†Congress†and the†Middle East†are no excuse for putting theAsia†pivot into cold storage. Perhaps most importantly, Clinton's appointment would have kept foreign policy on the administration's and the American people's radar. If that's what it takes to make foreign policy essential again, so be it. As any furloughed federal worker might tell you, just because something is considered nonessential doesn't mean it actually is. (Ian Bremmer†is a Reuters columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.) Editor's note: This column is based on a transcribed phone interview with Bremmer.
REUTERS/Jason ReedWith the government shutdown showing no sign of abating,¬†it looks like we could be left without some of our favorite economic indicators for some time. For example, economists and market watchers won't get their hands on the Bureau of Labor Statistics' jobs report ‚Äî the oft-hyped monthly indicator ‚Äî until Congress can produce a budget. The good news is there are other economic indicators to supplement our view of the economy.  Though some, like Tylenol usage and the Mosquito Bite Indicator, are stranger than others. Eric Platt helped compile the research for this report.
Josh Brown of Ritholtz Wealth Management recently tweeted the chart below, which was created by National Public Radio. (See the original and some additional notes here.) The chart shows who holds the $16.8 trillion of U.S. federal debt that is currently outstanding. In other words, the chart shows who we owe all that money to:† National Public Radio Some observations:
Earlier this week, President Obama nominated Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen for Chair of the Fed. Already, economists are combing through her old speeches to figure out what she may or may not push in terms of monetary policy. For now, the consensus is that she will keep monetary policy easy, largely due to the painfully high unemployment rate. At least two top Wall Street economists have circulated this chart of the long-term unemployment rate. "She focuses on long-term unemployment and its associated risks, including skill atrophy and the potential for household credit problems," said Deutsche Bank's Carl Riccadonna. "The ranks of individuals out of work for more than half a year has steadily declined since mid-2010, although it remains roughly double the average of the prior economic cycle." Riccadonna appears to be referring to this excerpt from a speech she gave in February to the AFL-CIO: Individuals out of work for an extended period can become less employable as they lose the specific skills acquired in their previous jobs and also lose the habits needed to hold down any job. Those out of work for a long time also tend to lose touch with former co-workers in their previous industry or occupation--contacts that can often help an unemployed worker find a job. Long-term unemployment can make any worker progressively less employable, even after the economy strengthens. ‚ÄúWith employment so far from its maximum level and with inflation currently running, and expected to continue to run, at or below the Committee's 2 percent longer-term objective, it is entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum employment to take center stage in determining the Committee's policy stance," said Credit Suisse's Neal Soss. Credit Suisse
It's a good thing the newspaper industry is finally embracing paywalls, because print ad spending is going down the drain. According to Alan Mutter, the dean of newspaper economics, newspaper print ad spending tanked another 6% in the first half of 2013, despite the economic recovery.¬† All other ad spending, meanwhile, grew, or at least held flat. Alan Mutter, Reflections Of A Newsosaur The newspaper ad spending collapse has been monumental. After peaking in the early 2000s, print ads have dropped off a cliff, and "digital dimes" haven't replaced them. On an inflation-adjusted basis, newspaper print ad spending is now back to 1950s levels. Business Insider Intelligence Fortunately, print newspapers are not the same thing as "journalism." Unlike print newspapers, journalism is in great shape. TV and radio are doing fine, most magazines are hanging in there, and some newspapers are even transitioning well to digital. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, smartphones, and dozens of other digital technologies are putting eyes, ears, and a printing press in everyone's pocket all around the world. And digital journalism, meanwhile, is growing rapidly and getting better by the day. SEE ALSO: Journalism Has Entered A New Golden Age
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMakeup artists Kamila Wysocka and Alexis Jackson from Florida point at another costumed person as they eat dinner in their zombie makeup at ComicCon in New York, October 10, 2013.It's day 11 of the government shutdown. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
This post is sponsored by†OppenheimerFunds. People often think of investments as a hedge for the future ó money you shouldn't think about until you really need it. But a well-balanced portfolio can do much more than act as an untouchable nest egg. Funds don't play just one role in your portfolio. If you think in terms of growth, income and protection* against certain risks, some funds can end up multitasking for you. OppenheimerFunds†senior economist Brian Levitt†gives examples of strategies that fulfill more than one function. Watch the video below for Levitt's analysis of those issues and more.† Learn more at†GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Before investing in any of the Oppenheimer funds, investors should carefully consider a fund's investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Fund prospectuses and summary prospectuses contain this and other information about the funds, and may be obtained by asking your financial advisor, visiting oppenheimerfunds.com, or calling 1-800-CALL-OPP (800-225-5677). Read prospectuses and summary prospectuses carefully before investing.  © 2013 OppenheimerFunds Distributor. Inc.† Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
The Hollywood design firm 5+design presented its master plan for the Dubai International Financial Center to the rulers of Dubai, and the United Arab Emirates has approved. Managing Partner of 5+ Michael Ellis said the massive projects aims to "bring continuity between the rest of the worldís international financial centers" by filling†the time zone gap between London and New York in the west and Hong Kong and Tokyo in the east. The complex will be†on the north side of the city, situated†between the Emirates Towers and the Burj.† Construction will begin this month and is estimated to continue for up to five years, according to lead design partner Tim Magill. Cost has not been calculated but 5+ told Business Insider that "it is going to be quite an expensive project."† Check out the renderings:† 5+design5+design5+design5+design5+design5+design
We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at¬†Business Insider Intelligence. The candidate must also be an excellent writer. What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth analysis and insights on the tech industry.¬†We publish newsletters, news notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help individual and corporate subscribers stay on top of key tech trends.¬†The service, launched in 2012,¬†has experienced rapid growth and has expanded from its original focus on mobile to cover additional tech-related topics. This is an opportunity to join a team that's redefining what a professional research service can be.¬†Check out BII¬†here.¬† What's The Job?¬† The ideal Research Analyst will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics, including social, mobile, e-commerce, digital marketing, and mobile payments. The Research Analyst will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. Desired Skills &amp; Experience: The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with excellent writing skills. The ideal candidate would also have an interest in visual data presentation ‚Äî charts, graphics, etc.¬†After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce full-length research reports of value to our members. The role is full-time and based in our New York City offices. No requests for off-site or part-time work will be considered. If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you must possess: Skills: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the journalism and business/consulting worlds. It would be an excellent way to sharpen your skills before business school, or launching a career in digital media, research, or business journalism.¬† If interested, please email a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume to Marcelo Ballv√© (mballve@businessinsider.com). Thank you in advance.
Earlier this week, President Obama nominated Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen to be Fed Chair when Ben Bernanke retires in January. Assuming Yellen gets confirmed by the Senate Banking Committee, her Vice Chair seat will be vacated. However, the Fed will actually be looking for not one, but two Vice Chairs. "[T]he Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation requires that a second Fed Vice Chair be named, in addition to the individual who eventually assumes Yellen‚Äôs current role," said Credit Suisse's Neal Soss. "The responsibility of the second Vice Chair will be to focus on issues of bank supervision." Not many people are talking about this. Here's more from Soss: A little-known provision of the enormous Dodd-Frank financial reform law concerns changes to governance and positions at the Federal Reserve. Buried in Title XI of Dodd- Frank is language creating a new position at the Fed, the Vice Chairman for Supervision. Like the Vice Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman for Supervision will have a term of four years. While the Vice Chairman of the Board is charged with serving in the absence of the Chairman, the law states that the Vice Chairman for Supervision ‚Äúshall develop policy recommendations for the Board regarding supervision and regulation of depository institution holding companies and other financial firms supervised by the Board, and shall oversee the supervision and regulation of such firms.‚Äù One natural candidate for the new vice chairmanship position is Fed Governor Tarullo, who has carved out bank supervision as his specialty on the Fed Board. We expect the new vice chairman to be named sometime in 2014. This just scratches the surface in terms of changes at the Fed. "Another seat was vacated when Governor Duke left the Fed at the end of August," added Soss. "And Governor Raskin, who abstained from the September 18 FOMC vote, is about to leave the Fed to join the Treasury. So, that makes three of seven slots to be filled."
In a new report, Goldman Sachs economist George Cole says the planet is transitioning from the "Age of commodities" to the "Age of consumer durables," which will present new opportunities for global investors as this phase change materializes. The key is the rise of the middle class consumer in emerging markets (EM). "Over the coming decades the spending power of the EM middle class ñ the 'expanding middle' ñ will cause tectonic shifts in global consumption," says Cole. "The next set of structural opportunities in EMs will therefore depend on understanding not just the macro story of growth, but also the micro story of spending and consumption ñ in other words, understanding what the world wants." So, what does the world want? Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchClick to enlarge.Historical consumption patterns have the answer, says Cole: consumer durables, a category that includes everything from washing machines to sports cars (see chart at right). "These dynamics suggest that the EM story depends on more than simply headline growth," says Cole. "As EM incomes continue to rise in coming decades, the rate of demand growth for high-end consumer durables and services will continue to increase even after the peak of global potential GDP growth has passed." Thus, a shift from the "Age of commodities" to the "Age of consumer durables," as Cole explains in the report: The overall message is that we are passing from an 'Age of commodities' to an 'Age of consumer durables' ñ if commodities have seen the bulk of EM demand pressure over the previous decade, this is likely to shift to consumer durables in the next decade. For low-end consumer durables, a large part of this shift has occurred. For example, annual EM demand for cars is set to outstrip DMs in the next few years, driven by a three-fold increase in demand from China between the current and previous decade. For higher-end durables such as dishwashers and luxury cars the shift occurs later, with EM demand outpacing DMs by 2030. Growth in the demand for services remains high and consistent across each decade to 2050, and the EM share of services climbs higher each decade. This is in contrast to the EM shares of demand growth for commodities and low-end durables, which have largely peaked. "Across the regions, Asia, Latin America, CEEMEA and MENA all see major growth in consumer durables as they move through the current decade, and all hit the income range for peak services demand after 2030," says Cole. "Africa, with current income levels in the region of peak demand growth for commodities, has the most room to grow."
Michael Scherer of Time just tweeted this chart. It's based on data from the 2012 University of Michigan "Monitoring The Future" study. It appears the message that it's not cool to smoke cigarettes is making inroads with America's teenagers. The same folks also apparently agree that it's totally cool to smoke pot. University Of Michigan, Monitoring The Future 2012
Both Republicans and Democrats are suggesting that progress is being made on a deal to raise the debt ceiling and reopen the government. But according to Roll Call reporter Daniel Newhauser, staffers in the House of Representatives are being notified that a vote on related legislation is not expected today. House staff being notified that there is not expected to be debt/cr vote today Boehner needs to pass a plan of his own quickly to avoid losing control over negotiations to the Senate. But it probably won't happen today.
Google Finance.Stocks are trading near their highs of the day. Worries about the October 17 debt ceiling appear to be receding on reports that Congress is inching toward a deal. When the U.S. hits the debt ceiling, the government will no longer be able to borrow money by issuing bonds. Experts worry that once we hit the debt ceiling, the Treasury will rapidly run out of cash, forcing the U.S. to default on its obligations. Today's rally comes after Thursday's surge when the Dow jumped 323 points.
Washington County Sheriff's OfficeVirtually all investors have fled Portland, Oregon-based Common Sense Investment Management following the arrest of founder Jim Bisenius for soliciting a prostitute, sources close to the matter said. Clients have requested to redeem more than 90 percent of the $3.2 billion the fund of hedge funds managed around the time of the¬†arrest in late August, according to three people familiar with the situation. The redemptions would leave the 22-year-old firm less than $150 million by year-end, assuming no investors change their mind, according to one of the people with direct knowledge of the situation. Common Sense did not respond to requests for comment. Among those who have redeemed recently include the Fresno County Employees Retirement Association, the Cincinnati Retirement System and the Oklahoma Municipal Employees Retirement Fund. Pension consultant Arnerich Massena also recommended its clients leave. The firm declined to comment on who those clients were. Not all the redemptions‚ÄîFresno County, for example‚Äîwere directly because of the arrest. "It's a tough issue. From our vantage it's a personal issue first and foremost and does affect the business," said Phillip Kapler, administrator of the $3.5 billion Fresno pension fund. "But if it affects the morale or key people at the organization and it becomes detrimental to our interest, it would be a problem." Common Sense responded to the news a month ago by backing founder Bisenius, a 62-year-old active in¬†Christian-related philanthropy. "Jim Bisenius' recent personal transgression bears no reflection on this outstanding team of professionals or the quality of portfolio management at CSIM," firm president Dean Derrah said in statement on Sept. 4, the day the news broke nationally. The firm said Bisenius would remain chief executive officer and chief investment officer. Most observers were not surprised at the investor reaction. "The biggest reason people pulled wasn't to penalize them for the personal transgression. It was more that everyone else might get out," said a person familiar with the firm and its investors. "'Let's not be the last one to leave' was the mentality." Others wondered if the business would survive. "If the redemptions come as projected, this will call into question the ongoing viability of Common Sense," said another person who has tracked the situation closely, referring to the difficulty of running an asset management firm with such a small amount of client capital and fee revenue. "Even if you still believed in the investment strategy and had no problem with the extracurricular activities of the founder, you still need people there. I don't see how they come out of this." Common Sense already had performance and personnel problems before the arrest. The Common Sense Long Biased Offshore fund was up 8.3 percent this year through July 31, according to a report from The University of Toledo Foundation (which started redeeming in February). But the net annualized return for the fund since May 2008, when the foundation first invested, was just 1.8 percent, according to the report. Long-biased funds focus on investments that will improve in value, rather than short-positions that gain on losses. Two key employees‚Äîpartners and portfolio managers Jonathan McGowan and Scott Kelly‚Äîalso left in January this year to run 801 West Capital Management. Common Sense assets had already declined from $3.9 billion in 2012 and $4.2 billion in 2011. The firm managed $3.2 billion in February. "I'm not surprised their assets have dropped--there was already poor performance, lots of change in leadership," said one of the observers. "With this it was like 'OK, quit hitting your head against the wall.'"
Last month, AIG CEO Robert Benmosche told the Wall Street Journal that the public anger over AIG's post-bailout bonus structure was akin to lynching¬†"sort of what we did in the Deep South [decades ago]." "And I think it was just as bad and just as wrong," he told the Journal. His¬†comments ‚Äî buried in the report and picked up by Columbia Journalism Review's Ryan Chittum ‚Äî prompted Democratic Rep. Elijah Cummings to call for Benmosche's¬†firing. Today,¬†Benmosche met with Cummings and "apologized for [his]¬†reference to the South and the impact that it had on him and others." AIG released the following statement from¬†Benmosche¬†on why he seemingly equated the "vilification" of AIG to historical extrajudicial murder. I explained to Rep. Cummings that I was responding to a reporter‚Äôs question about certain actions I felt were wrong at the time of the financial crisis: that what stood out to me was the enormous fear AIG employees felt about their safety and the safety of their families because people in positions of public responsibility were actively encouraging the vilification of our people. I expressed my belief that people should never encourage public anger against any group ‚Äì for any reason ‚Äì and that the vilification of a person or a group of people is not right. It‚Äôs never right, and when it happens it should not be trivialized or dismissed lightly, as it too often was in the context of AIG. And when I referred to the South, I unintentionally trivialized a horrible legacy of our country. That was the opposite of my intent. "I look forward to continued dialogue. AIG repaid America every dollar plus a profit of¬†$22.9 billion¬†‚Äì a total of¬†$205 billion¬†‚Äì and every one of our employees is committed to making sure AIG stands for what‚Äôs right about this great country," he concluded.
REUTERS/Bobby YipChina's economy has grown to be a global powerhouse, and the yuan is the ninth most traded currency in the world. But China has some way to go before its currency is fully internationalized.¬† It announced two steps recently that again prompted chatter about the country taking steps to internationalize its currency. First, the European Central Bank and the People's Bank of China signed a 350-billion-yuan (‚Ç¨45 billion) bilateral currency swap agreement. The agreement is in place for three years and can be extended.¬† China has made a few such moves to make its currency fully convertible. It signed 100 billion yuan currency swap agreement with Indonesia earlier this month, reports Xinhua. And in September it signed currency swap agreements with Hungary and Albania. Second, the People's Bank of China also announced that it will allow foreigners to invest their offshore renminbi in domestic financial institutions. This would include investing in "new set-ups, additional investment, M&amp;A, liquidation, equity sell-off, and profit remittances (outflows)," according¬† to Stephen Schwartz, chief economist for Asia, at BBVA. We've previously pointed out that China set up the offshore renminbi market so its currency could be used in the international market to settle trade and financial transactions without fully opening up its capital account. So is this worth getting excited about? Not quite. It's good for China to set up these facilities, Patrick Chovanec,¬†chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, told Business Insider, but for the renminbi to be a truly international currency "its relationship to the global economy has to change in a fundamental way:" "The problem is that China is not a net exporter of currency, China is a net importer of currency. This isn't just related to the swaps, this is related to the bigger question of the international role of the renminbi. "For the renminbi to be a truly international currency, it has to circulate outside of China, and it has to circulate on a fairly accessible basis. But if there are only a handful of countries in the world that are in a position to earn renminbi, and China is a net importer of currencies on the current account, and previously on the capital account, how is China going to become a net exporter of currency? How is that currency going to circulate? It implies a very different relationship with the global economy. " The flow of currency is what matters in terms of the Renminbi's international use. Chovanec points out that there was much chatter about allowing for currency convertibility in the Shanghai Free Trade Zone but officials backed away from it. This because allowing it in Shanghai would mean losing control of the domestic interest rates or exchange rate. Also, if they tried to limit this to just Shanghai, this would mean there would be difference in the interest rate or exchange rate in Shanghai and the rest of the country, and that this would create "massive arbitrage opportunities." So, China would have to significantly open up its financial system, and while we have seen a flurry of financial reforms this year, there is a lot more to be done. For China to be a fully convertible currency, it would have to be accessible for anything, anywhere. There have to be a wider number of countries willing to accept it. "The renminbi is a long way from that being the case," says Chovanec. Chinese officials have previously said they want to make the currency fully convertible by 2015.
Paula Bronstein/Getty ImagesUnintended Consequences Parents will recognize the following as the ‚ÄúIf You Give a Pig a Pancake‚Äù problem, referencing the ubiquitous children‚Äôs book about giving a pig the first thing (a pancake) which leads to the next thing (some syrup), which leads to the next thing (a napkin), and so on. For those of you who have not been parents in the past twenty years and aren‚Äôt familiar with the pig &amp; pancake problem, file this one under the ‚ÄúDepartment of Unintended Consequences‚Äù Tab. Background to the problem Readers may recall my wonderful, awful, idea a few weeks ago to introduce my eight year-old daughter to stock investing. Fast forward a few weeks to a conversation she had with my Managing Editor (aka wife) last night. ‚ÄúMommy.¬† I need money.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhy?‚Äù ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs a book fair at school but Daddy took all of my money and put it in stocks.¬† And stocks are not fun at all.‚Äù ‚ÄúI‚Äôm sorry dear.‚Äù ‚ÄúCan I have an allowance?‚Äù ‚ÄúLet me talk to Daddy.‚Äù Ugh.¬† It is true that I took all of her money.¬† And converted it into shares of Kellogg stock. And it‚Äôs also true that the steady stream of loose teeth ‚Äì her main source of revenue via the Tooth Fairy ‚Äì has dried up lately.¬† There‚Äôs just no telling when the next tooth will drop, and then the school book fair comes up. ¬†Girls who don‚Äôt lose teeth don‚Äôt get paid.¬† And then she needs fairy princess dolls, then it‚Äôs just all like, bills, bills, bills for my eight year old right now.¬† You understand what I‚Äôm saying. I didn‚Äôt hear about this conversation at first, but I noticed my oldest daughter kept prompting my wife to bring up some particular unnamed topic last night.¬† My daughter was eager for the conversation, but my wife strongly preferred that she and I develop a common strategy with regard to allowances, without having to simultaneously negotiate with an eight year-old.¬† (Here‚Äôs where I ought to insert some analogy between negotiating with 8 year-olds and negotiating with terrorists.¬† Or lately, negotiating with Congressmen overly responsive to hard-core constituencies, encouraged by a system gerrymandered for incumbency.¬† But I digress.) Also, my wife assumed I‚Äôd have some strong ideas about what to do when it comes to kids‚Äô finances.¬† You probably won‚Äôt believe this, but I have a lot of thoughts about allowances. Allowances! So now we have moved, like the proverbial pig and his pancake, from the ‚Äúfirst stock investment‚Äù phase to the ‚Äúallowance phase‚Äù of parenthood.¬† At this point my wife and I haven‚Äôt fully decided what to do, although I‚Äôm about to explain to you my best ideas so far, at least for the first month of her allowance.[1] This is one of the cleverest allowance ideas I‚Äôve ever come across, so I thought I‚Äôd share before even rolling it out to my family. Another Wonderful, Awful, idea. I mentioned this other wonderful, awful, idea once before, buried at the end of a book review I wrote for the excellent The Only Investment Guide You‚Äôll Ever Need, by Andrew Tobias. You see, I‚Äôm always on the lookout for ways to show that compound interest is the most important and powerful math concept in the universe, and Tobias suggests the following children‚Äôs allowance plan for driving the idea home. In fact he lists three great ways of teaching the power of compound interest to kids through the mechanism of the allowance.¬† Each one has its own special advantage. The power of compound interest ‚Äì The Cookie Jar Experiments Tobias describes three versions of what he calls the Cookie Jar Experiment, which over a month or two can viscerally and intuitively teach the magic of compound interest to kids through the mechanism of an allowance.¬† ¬†Version One.¬† Offer your kid $1 on Day 1, and put it in a cookie jar.[2]¬† Offer to add 10% more each day, as ‚Äòdaily interest growth‚Äô on that original $1.¬† So, for example, on Day 2: $1.10 would be in the jar, Day 3: $1.21. ¬†And then on Day 4: $1.33.¬† After a month there will be a total of $17.45 in the jar, which shows how powerful 10% compounding can be, even if you begin with just $1.¬† Tobias suggests you probably won‚Äôt continue the experiment to the end of Month 3 ($5,313) or Month 6 ($28 million) but really that‚Äôs up to you and your own resources.¬† In my opinion, the power of compound interest as a concept is really worth teaching, so some of you will want to consider going the full 6 months.¬† It will only cost you $28 million in total.¬† If you do decide to do everything it takes to teach little Johnny the power of compound interest, be sure to email me at Bankers Anonymous so that I can provide my bank account number for the minimal 2% fee I normally charge for this kind of life-changing advice. Anyway, back to my regularly scheduled commentary.¬† While ‚Äòreal life‚Äô doesn‚Äôt let you compound at 10% on a daily basis,[3] the experiment lets you demonstrate the amazing power of compound growth to your kids in a concrete way. The 1 month time period ‚Äì by which $1 grows to $17.45 ‚Äì is short enough that kids can see the growth and just how powerful it can be. Version Two. ¬† This next version of the Cookie Jar Experiments is best for two kids, and it can drive home the power of compounding early, plus delayed gratification.[4] Between your two kids, you offer a similar deal to version one, but with a twist.¬† If one of them is willing to skip the first three days of interest accrual, they can get something desirable like a chocolate bar. After they finish fighting over the chocolate, you run the experiment for, say, two months.[5]¬† The child who went without the chocolate has $304, while the ‚Äòlucky‚Äô child who got the chocolate only has $228 in the cookie jar at the end of 60 days.¬† The lesson: Start saving early because it‚Äôs the earliest accruing period that matters the most.¬† The child with $304 can now buy a whole bunch of delicious cookies and leave the greedy chocolate eater weeping. Are we having fun yet, kids?¬† Kids?¬† Please stop fighting, please.¬† Thank you. Version Three.¬† ‚ÄúIf only he‚Äôd used his powers for Good, instead of Evil.‚Äù The final version of the cookie jar experiment allows you to compare for your kids the power of compound interest to create wealth to the power of compound interest to dig ditches of indebtedness via credit cards. Run the same experiment as in Version One, but use the interest rate associated with many credit cards.¬† Let‚Äôs pick 20% because it‚Äôs a round number, even though many people‚Äôs effective credit card rates are even higher.¬† Start adding money to the $1 at a 20% growth rate and label this ‚ÄòCredit Card‚Äô growth.¬† On Day 19 the ‚Äòcredit card‚Äô account has grown to $32, versus the $6 to which the original savings at 10% per day grew.¬† If you run the comparison all the way to Day 35, the difference is $590 for the credit card account versus $28 for the ordinary 10% growth account.¬† The key to this version is pointing out that some people scrimp and save and achieve some growth on their savings, while others pay huge portions of their money to credit card companies. Again, of course, whether you fill up a cookie jar with $590 is up to you and your family‚Äôs means, but you can create an unforgettable demonstration for your kids of how small differences in compound interest rates make for giant differences in the medium and long run. So what will we do about the allowance request? So will we decide to run these experiments on our children when they request an allowance? I‚Äôm going to push for at least Version One to kick off the new allowance phase for my eight year-old.¬† She may not literally be having fun with the fact that all of her tooth fairy money is tied up in Kellogg stock right now, but I‚Äôm pretty sure it‚Äôs nothing years of therapy in her future can‚Äôt undo.¬† If she complains, I‚Äôve got a Jack Handey quote ready: ‚ÄúOne thing kids like is to be tricked. For instance, I was going to take my little nephew to Disneyland, but instead I drove him to an old burned-out warehouse. ‚ÄúOh, no,‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúDisneyland burned down.‚Äù He cried and cried, but I think that deep down, he thought it was a pretty good joke. I started to drive over to the real Disneyland, but it was getting pretty late.‚Äù¬† ‚Äì Jack Handey That‚Äôs why I say, deep down inside, she‚Äôs knows stock investing is fun. ¬†And so are Daddy‚Äôs experiments with allowances. Please see related posts: Daughter‚Äôs First Stock Market Investment ¬†Book Review of The Only Investment Guide You‚Äôll Ever Need by Andrew Tobias. [1] After that, we may revert a more typical $2/week, conditional on a usually-left-undone chore ‚Äì cleanup of the girls‚Äô room ‚Äì that drives my wife nearly to glue-huffing, out of frustration, on a weekly basis. [2] Or, wherever.¬† Do cookie jars even exist anymore? [3] Except, you know, if you‚Äôre a pay day lender. [4] Also, it pits your children against one another, which is always fun. [5] Again, adjust to your own means.¬† And then, of course, send me a reasonable fee if your means are extraordinarily large.
YouTubeIt's no secret that we've been waiting for Martin Scorcese's 'Wolf Of Wall Street' with bated breath, and now that the premier is almost here (December), more details are coming out. Like how a crazy marching band/stripper parade party on the trading floor scene featured in the trailer was filmed. 'Wolf Of Wall Street' is the true story of Jordan Belfort, a trader that ran a pump and dump called Stratton Oakmont. He was eventually caught by the Feds and went to jail. But not before he sunk a yacht and threw some killer parties. The WSJ caught up with Scorsese, Leonardo DiCaprio (who plays Belfort), and co-star Jonah Hill for an extensive interview on how the movie was made. The whole thing is worth a read, but the best part is possibly how DiCaprio explains his preparation for the film. He spent a lot of time with Belfort, interviewing him and getting details that didn't make it into the biography he wrote (also called 'Wolf of Wall Street'). One of those details was a monkey on roller skates (from WSJ): The attitude, the lingo, the type of music he listened to, the drugs he took, how he took those drugs, the effects that it had on his mind and his psyche." Asked for an example of this research, DiCaprio describes a large-scale scene, in which Belfort throws a wild party to celebrate his firm's success: "We reach our monthly quota, and I make it a big celebration," says DiCaprio. "A gigantic marching band and a bunch of naked strippers come into the salesroom." Production managers booked trained horses, hired scores of extras and midgets who would be dressed in Velcro suits and thrown at targets, per Belfort's memoir. Then, just days before the shoot, DiCaprio remembered something crucial from his conversations with Belfort and sought out Scorsese: "I said, 'Jordan also mentioned that he had a chimpanzee on roller skates in a diaper that was handing out tickets to all the stockbrokers.' And Marty's like, 'That's great, how do we get a chimpanzee?' And I said, 'I don't know.' And he's like, 'All right, somebody get on it.' "Scorsese's longtime producer Emma Tillinger laughs. "The party scene was choreographed to the T," she says. "We'd auditioned marching bands, hired the animals, then Marty calls. I'm like, 'Well, there's a chimpanzee who can roller-skate, but it's in Florida.' " "Next thing you know," DiCaprio continues, chuckling, "there's a chimpanzee, and I'm toting him around the salesroom." For the full interview, head to WSJ&gt;
by Orin ZebestDespite massive amounts of oil coming to market from everyone but the Middle East, oil prices are going nowhere and will probably remain elevated, the IEA says. In its latest report, titled, "The New Math On Supply," the Paris-based agency increased its global demand forecast by 90,000 barrels a day, led by growth in the U.S., Egypt, Taiwan and France.† Non-OPEC monthly supply growth is forecast to jump to a near-record 1.7 million barrels a day from 1.1 mb/d in 2013, the IEA says.† It could even reach 1.9 million mbd, a figure not seen since the '70s. And the agency confirms that the U.S. is set to become the leading non-OPEC liquids producer, surpassing Russia. But they write that, "surging non-OPEC production does not necessarily equate to a supply glut." That's because OPEC itself has seen severe supply outages, mostly in Libya and Iraq, amounting to 1 million barrels a day. And the disruptions are expected to linger, they write: "Although Tripoli has since announced a partial restart of production, tribal unrest and political instability continue to throw formidable hurdles for the return of Libyan oil to market. With OPEC losses partly canceling out North American gains, crude prices have remained well supported by geopolitical turmoil in the MENA region." They also see the recovery in Europe supporting prices. The IEA does not forecast oil futures, but suggests U.S.-traded West Texas Intermediate contracts are likely to de-couple again from London-traded Brent as OPEC supply continues to wobble.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonGuys, this really is my pride and joy. The fact that every day of my life I get to turn on a computer and start flipping through charts from all around the world, truly is a blessing. And I‚Äôm not just talking about the S&amp;P500 and Apple. I look at Asian stock markets, European currencies, Commodities that range from Gold and Crude Oil to Coffee and Sugar. I‚Äôm constantly looking at the bond market and interest rates, both for trading purposes and information as well. I look at more charts on more time frames than you could ever imagine. And there‚Äôs a very good reason for that. I‚Äôm a technician‚Ä¶. So today I wanted to talk a little bit about the rationale behind all the chart watching. There are three basic premises on which the technical approach is based: 1) The Market action discounts everything 2) Prices move in trends 3) History repeats itself For the purposes of this post, let‚Äôs focus on what the market action discounting everything actually means. To quote the great John Murphy, ‚ÄúThe technician believes that anything that can possibly affect price ‚Äì fundamentally, politically, psychologically, or otherwise ‚Äì is actually reflected in the price of that market. It follows, therefore, that the study of price action is all that is required. While this claim may seem presumptuous, it is hard to disagree with if one takes the time to consider its true meaning‚Äù. Price action is a reflection of the shifts in supply and demand. If there is more demand than supply, prices rise. If supply exceeds demand, prices fall. Isn‚Äôt this simple concept the basis for all the economic and fundamental forecasting? Well then let‚Äôs flip that around: We as technicians have concluded that if prices are rising, for whatever the reason, demand must exceed supply and therefore the fundamentals must be bullish. We‚Äôre talking about fundamentals in a discussion about technical analysis. Funny right? But think about it. Aren‚Äôt technicians indirectly studying fundamentals? Well according to Murphy, most technicians would probably agree that fundamentals are the underlying forces of supply and demand. It‚Äôs what causes markets to move up or down. Price simply reflects the bullish or bearish psychology of the market place. ‚ÄúAs a rule, chartists do not concern themselves with the reasons why prices rise or fall. Very often, in the early stages of a price trend or at critical turning points, no one seems to know exactly why a market is performing a certain way‚Äù (See: Is Apple Stock About to Crash?). ‚ÄúWhile the technical approach may sometimes seem overly simplistic in its claims, the logic behind this first premise ‚Äì that markets discount everything ‚Äì becomes more compelling the more market experience one gains. It follows then that if everything that affects market price is ultimately reflected in market price, then the study of that market price is all that is necessary. By studying price charts and a host of supporting technical indicators, the chartist in effect lets the market tell him or her which way it is most likely to go. The chartist does not necessarily try to outsmart or outguess the market. All of the technical tools are simply techniques used to aid the chartist in the process of studying market action. The chartist knows there are reasons why markets go up or down. He or she just doesn‚Äôt believe that knowing what those reasons are is necessary in the forecasting process‚Äù. *** The legend John Murphy ladies and gentlemen. I couldn‚Äôt have put it better myself. Is there anything else I really need to say? Don‚Äôt worry about the ‚Äúwhy‚Äù. Focus on the ‚Äúwhat‚Äù and ‚Äúfor how long‚Äù.
France's†CÙte díAzur is the most popular "leisure enclave" for the world's super-rich, according to a new report from Savills. A typical 5-bedroom home in the CÙte díAzur, or†French Riviera, now costs more than $28.5 million, Savills found. It ranked the exclusive enclaves, where the world's wealthiest people are likely to buy additional homes, by looking at four factors: the average price of prime residential property, the highest prices for luxury hotel suites, global appeal, and exclusivity among the elite. Here are the top 20 residential enclaves for ultra-high-net-worth individuals (defined as those with $30 million or more in assets), according to the report, which was co-produced with Candy &amp; Candy and Deutche Asset Wealth &amp; Management: Courtesy of Savills The report also looked at where the super-rich from different regions are most likely to buy vacation homes. North America's 65,000 ultra-high-net-worth individuals tended to stick close to home, buying primarily in the Caribbean and spots like Aspen, Vail, and Monterey. Wealthy Russians commonly buy additional homes in the Mediterranean, South of France, and Italy, while Middle Easterners dominate the close-to-home markets of Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Click map to enlarge. EMEA stands for Europe, Middle East, and Africa; CIS refers to the former Soviet Republics. Courtesy of Savills
Mark Lennihan/APThe governments of developed countries have the power to rescue economies from defective finance. There is a radical solution. It would be relatively easy and at least as fair as the current slow generation-long recovery from the 2008 financial collapse. I have been suggesting massive ìstart from scratchî financial reform for several years. The response is usually a mix of incredulity (itís too hard to do) and indignation (it would be unjust). A thought experiment might help deal with those objections. Pretend that the current situation ñ excessive debts and deficits, unprecedented and risky monetary policy, overly powerful banks, slow GDP growth and unacceptably high levels of unemployment ñ was the result of a recent war. Under those tragic circumstances, it would not be strange to say that the prevailing financial order was a relic from a lost period. Perhaps the arrangements were effective and fair back then, leaders would say, but the old promises, practices and privileges are now helping the few, hurting the many and holding the economy back. So finance needs to be reconstructed. The experience after the Second World War provides an encouraging precedent. Strong German and Japanese governments led the rebuilding of devastated economies. Surely the developed countries of today could manage the much easier task of rearranging financial obligations. Here is a simple post-pretend-war agenda. Recalibrate debts. Debt writeoffs are not ideal ñ obligations should normally be honoured ñ but itís better to restructure national balance sheets than to allow excessive debts to discourage job creation and investment. Writeoffs can also serve social justice when the debts in question are owed by the relatively poor to the undoubtedly rich, so often the case in increasingly unequal developed economies. Strong governments ñ perhaps under the auspices of an invigorated G20 ñ could organise a total balance-sheet restructuring to disentangle the current system. There would be two goals: to reduce the quantity of burdensome debts and to ensure that savers are not punished. It is hard to do both, since a borrowerís reckless and unaffordable obligation is often the lenderís prudent investment. The trick is to combine debt reduction with the maintenance of value for savers. The former requires a combination of writeoffs, writedowns and debt-for-equity swaps. The latter can be done by taking advantage of governmentsí ability to create new money and place it directly in bank accounts. There are many debts to be evaluated ñ sovereign, corporate, personal and financial ñ and a corresponding collection of assets. Each of the judgments of a right new value would undoubtedly strike someone as unfair, but the comparison is not with a perfect world. It is with the current arrangement of ultra-low interest rates for savers and unwarranted gains for many asset holders. Make government promises affordable. The mountains of government debt are a big part of the financial overload. The debt recalibration would reduce them to manageable hills, but the debts would soon pile up again unless governments matched their entitlement programmes (for the old, ill and otherwise suffering) to their tax bases. A one-time shift, some combination of higher taxes and lower benefits, will be more effective and less unjust than the current approach, which amounts to a mix of tinkering and wishful thinking. The new arrangements could be introduced gradually ñ although Latvia has managed pretty well with a sudden, post-war-style shock. Gradually, but more decisively than the current policy agenda. Reconfigure the financial system. Thanks to the debt explosion, the financial-political complex has become big and powerful in developed economies. It is now far more parasitic than productive. Strong governments would crack down. They would separate everyday finance from risky lending, divide big banks into little ones, strictly limit trading, favor equity over debt financing and ensure that financial markets were either sufficiently competitive or tightly enough regulated that bankersí pay was not noticeably high. The existing financial reform project goes only a small way towards these goals. Thankfully, there has been no war to justify such drastic plans. It is a matter of debate whether the current system qualifies for emergency treatment. Bankers and other beneficiaries of the financial status quo would argue that the economies are not working badly enough to justify taking the risks of radical reconstruction, which might well wreck the economy by destroying confidence in the financial system. That is a risk, although it is only fair to point out that confidence in current financial arrangements is low and that the economy is hardly thriving. In reality, governments are neither courageous nor respected enough to consider anything like such truly drastic plans. Political authorities are stuck in ruts, when they are not engaging in pointless and possibly disastrous quarrels ñ for example, the current debt pyrotechnics in Washington.†American politicians currently lead the global contest for ineffectiveness, but the race is close. And by post-war standards, even the relatively popular Japanese and German administrations are timid. Governments sit at the centre of modern economies; their weakness is probably the greatest threat to global prosperity.
Top portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists sent us what they deem the most important charts in the world. We received over 100 fascinating charts, and 22 of them were focused on the stock market. Here's what Wall Street is saying about stocks: Matthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business Insider Matthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business Insider Matthew Boesler/Business InsiderMatthew Boesler/Business Insider Matthew Boesler/Business Insider Matthew Boesler/Business Insider Business Insider/Matthew Boesler
Via Houlihan Lawrence The Wall Street Journal reports that former investment banker Joseph Zimmel and Alison Blood, a former Wall Streeter, are selling their Connecticut compound for $10.85 million.¬† They bought the seven-bedroom home features an indoor basketball court, an indoor lacrosse turf, heated pool/hot tub and an indoor movie theater. ¬† The couple bought the place back in July for $10.65 million. However, they only have one child left at home since the others have gone away to school in other states, the report said.¬† Houlihan Lawrence in Greenwich¬†has the listing.¬† * Correction: An earlier version of this story erroneously referred to Alison Blood as Joseph Zimmel's wife. We apologize for the error. 
YouTube/BloombergFour years ago, hedge funder Bill Fleckenstein closed down his short fund to go exclusively long. Now, Fleckenstein has announced he will reopen his short fund amid a bullish market, The Street's Herb Greenberg is reporting. From the Street: "For four years and counting, there was no reason to think about shorting," [Fleckenstein] told me. "I survived from 2000 to 2009, even when the market was going up, because I made what the¬†Fed¬†was doing a key variable." When that variable changed, he figured "it would be impossible to make money on the short side. I knew the Fed and the other central bankers would print a tremendous amount of money and it would be impossible to be short until the time the bond market takes away the printing presses ‚Äî I mean, forces them to stop." That's where Fleckenstein thinks we are now. "I could be off by a year, I don't know," Fleckenstein told The Street. "I may have to sit in cash for a year. I know the bond market will have to stop the Fed. Money printing was the problem and more of it won't fix anything. But you can't win that argument as a short until such time that the bond market stops it." Read the full report at The Street¬†¬ª
The Department of Justice is opening up an investigation into currency market manipulation, Bloomberg reports. The FBI is investigating the matter as well. RBS, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup have already started the process of going over e-mails, instant messages and other interbank communications related to currency trading. So those could make for some interesting reading. From Bloomberg: The U.S. investigation comes as the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority said in June it was reviewing potential manipulation of exchange rates. That month, allegations that dealers at banks pooled information through instant messages and used client orders to move benchmark currency rates were reported by Bloomberg News. Regulators are probing the alleged abuse of financial benchmarks used in markets from oil to interest rate swaps by the firms that play a central role in setting them. For the full story, head to Bloomberg&gt;
A new Business Insider-SurveyMonkey Audience poll¬†has found that Americans know shockingly little about the budget, federal deficits and major top line economic indicators.¬† We asked over 500 respondents to write in an estimate of several different statistics, including the minimum wage, which currently stands¬†at $7.25 per hour. They actually did pretty well on this one: The average response was $7.81 per hour.¬† But what we got next was even more interesting. We asked people what the minimum wage *should* be, and on average the response was $9.86. The vast majority of respondents would make the hourly minimum higher than it is now.
Google FinanceHouse Republicans are about to make an offer that would hike the debt limit and end the governement shutdown, reported the AP moments ago. The stock market took off on the headline. The Dow is up 63 points, and the S&amp;P 500 is up 6 points. The government has been shut down for 11 days due to Congress' inability to make a budget deal. This fiscal incident has unfortunately come as the U.S. approaches the October 17 debt ceiling, which is when the government will no longer be able to borrow money by issuing bonds. Experts worry that once we hit the debt ceiling, the Treasury will rapidly run out of cash, forcing the U.S. to default on its obligations. Congress has been scrambling to at least extend the debt ceiling to buy time before a more comprehensive deal is made. Here's the tweet from AP seems to have the markets excited. BREAKING: AP Sources: House GOP offers debt limit hike, end to shutdown in package with spending cuts
Current Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen has been nominated by President Obama to become the next Chair of the Fed. Many people have said many different things about her. Some experts think she is too dovish, which means she is likely to keep monetary policy loose and easy for a long-time. Others argue that she tends to move with the consensus. Indeed, Yellen has been noticeably quiet this year. But Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey cobbled together some key recent quotes that offer clues as to how she thinks about monetary policy and the economy. Goldman Sachs
Reuters/ Charles PlatiauPlenty of whiskey drinkers start with (and stick with) bourbon, as it tends to be cheaper and more accessible than its Scotch whiskey brethren. It comes down to personal taste, of course, but not all bourbons are created equally. Leave that to the judges. In the "Whiskey - USA" category at this year's International Wine and Spirit Competition this summer, great bottles of bourbon won a "Gold,"¬†but the very best took home a "Gold Outstanding" for setting the industry standard for excellence. These liquids all went through the gauntlet, subject to¬†professional blind tasting and chemical and microbiological analysis at the competition. Perhaps even better than the bourbon are the judges' descriptions: "Big, rich and full bodied in the mouth¬†with toffee, gentle vanilla and some molasses giving sensation¬†of slow, deliberate flow across the palate."
All the hullabaloo about Jaime Dimon's first loss aside, there was also some worrisome information about the U.S. housing market (and thus, recovery)† in JP Morgan's earnings announced this morning. Check out this bit from the bank's earnings report: Mortgage origination were $40.5 billion, down 14% from the prior year and 17% from the prior quarter, including purchase originations of $20.0 billion, up 57% from the prior year and 15% from the prior quarter. Additionally, mortgage application volume was down 45% from the prior year and 38% from the prior quarter. The bank's mortgage production pretax income came in at $9o million, down $997 million year over year. JPM said that this is "reflecting lower volumes and lower margins, partially offset by lower repurchase losses." Okay so here's what all that means. JPM is cleaning up their balance sheet (lower repurchase losses), but overall their new mortgage business ó mortgage originations ó is taking a beating. Purchase originations (new mortgages) jumped up 57% from Q3 2012 to $20 billion, but it's still not enough to keep JPM from taking a loss a loss in this sector. It's also still not more than the number of people refinancing for purchase. That business collapsed from $31.6 billion in Q2 2013 to $20.5 billion this quarter. And again, overall, this business is in decline at JPM. The worrisome part of that is that the decline seems to be coinciding with rising interest rates. So if you're concerned about the American consumer not being as resilient as we thought in the face of rising rates and the specter of less easing by the Federal Reserve, this is one to put in your pocket. Check out JPM's slide on mortgages from their earnings presentation below: JPMq2
Apple†is in the final approval process for its new "Spaceship" campus in Cupertino, California. The company hopes to finish construction of the Spaceship three years from now, in the middle of†2016. But it hasn't broken ground yet. I was in Cupertino the other day, so I checked out the site of the new campus. Suffice it to say that Apple has a lot of work to do.
APMichigan head coach Brady Hoke reacts on the sideline after a Michigan miscue in the fourth quarter of an NCAA college football game with Notre Dame, in Ann Arbor, Mich., Saturday, Sept. 7, 2013.The¬†preliminary results of the University of Michigan's October consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index fell to 75.2 from September's 77.5 reading. Expectations were for a slightly smaller drop to 75.3. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 92.8 from 92.6, while the economic outlook index fell to 63.9 from 67.8. Inflation expectations a year out fell to 2.9% from 3.3%, while expectations for a five years out fell to 2.8% from 3.0%. High-frequency measures of confidence, like Gallup's daily tracking poll, have shown a big dive in confidence since the government shutdown began October 1.
Gold trading was temporarily halted on the CME for 10 seconds this morning at 8:42 AM ET for a "stop logic event," according to Bloomberg. A big trade knocked $25 off the price of gold in a short, two-minute span, triggering the event. Stop Logic detects potential market movements caused by the triggering and trading of Stop orders where the resulting price move would extend beyond an exchange specified threshold. The triggering of Stop orders can potentially exaggerate price movements in temporarily illiquid markets. When triggered Stop orders attempt to move the market to an executing price beyond a pre-established value, a Stop Logic event occurs. Stop Logic detects these situations and responds by placing the identified market in a Reserved¬†state¬†for a predetermined period of time, usually 5 to 10 seconds, depending on the instrument. During the Reserve period, new orders are accepted and an¬†Indicative Opening Price¬†(IOP) is published, but trades do not occur until the Reserve period expires, thereby providing an opportunity for participants to respond to the demand for liquidity. At the end of the Reserve period, the instrument will re-open and matching will resume. Stop Logic will not prevent markets from ultimately moving in the direction of the order flow, but allows time for liquidity to enter the market so that new orders can be matched against the triggered stop order(s). The chart below shows the drop in gold, along with the big spike in volume at 8:42 AM on the sub-graph. Miller Tabak chief technical market analyst Jonathan Krinsky says technical patterns imply a move downward to $1110-1120 an ounce, 12% lower from current prices. Thinkorswim
The Sveriges Riksbank will announce the 2013 Nobel Prize in economics winner on Monday. Bloomberg's Michael McDonough just tweeted this chart from Bloomberg's Rich Yamarone ranking the universities that have produced the most laureates. Bloomberg Last year, Stanford's Alvin Roth and UCLA's Lloyd Shipley won for their work modeling how to match microeconomic agents, like organ donors or schools and students, as efficiently as possible.
Gold lost $25 in the span of two minutes this morning on heavy trading volume around 8:42 AM ET. The yellow metal is now down 2.5%, trading around $1264 an ounce. When it got slammed, it fell as low as $1259.60. In a note, Miller Tabak chief technical market analyst Jonathan Krinsky writes: Gold has dropped ~$20 in the past few minutes. While there might be a fundamental reason, we had been watching 1273-78 as a key support level. This represented the low from August 7th, and October 2nd. It also represents the neckline of a head and shoulders continuation pattern. Recall there was a larger ‚Äúpotential‚Äù inverse head and shoulders bottoming pattern, but it never confirmed above the neckline. This smaller pattern, however, is currently breaking the neckline, and has downside measured move to ~$1110 - $1120. That would imply a breach of the June low at $1180.A couple other concerning factors are that price is now back below the 50 Day Moving Average, which is declining once again. Further, momentum is now negative, but far from oversold.Although Silver is down more on a percentage basis right now (-3.7% vs. -2.2%), it has yet to breach its October low. That level is 20.62. While that is a small salvation to the bulls, it is one level to watch on any further weakness.If this is a false breakdown, price should reclaim 1273 at a minimum. Since today is Friday, the close will also represent a weekly settlement price, adding to the significance. The chart below shows the damage: Thinkorswim
This morning JP Morgan reported its first quarterly net loss ever under the leadership of CEO Jamie Dimon ó a net loss of 17 cent per share. Yes, you'll remember that this even includes the carnage of the financial crisis. The losses were caused by mounting legal costs the bank incurred from a regulatory crack down on a wide range of its operations, from energy trading violations to fines paid for legacy mortgage backed securities the bank inherited when it purchased Bear Stearns. The worst part of that is that, based on JPM's earnings call, the bank clearly believes this isn't over. Back in 2010 JPM kept legal reserves at $3 billion, now it's up to a whopping $23 billion (as you can see below in the table from the bank's earnings presentation). On the call, CFO Marianne Lake said the bank was in a "highly charged and very volatile" legal environment, "far beyond what we reasonably expected... even a few weeks ago." The bank expected a Q3 legal loss of $5.7 billion and incurred losses of $8 billion. Quarter over quarter, Lake said, the deployment of these funds to settle the bank's legal issues will be "lumpy." So shareholders can expect a "lumpy" ride.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Wall Street                                            JP Morgan                                            Litigation                                            Investor Relations                                                                                                                                                                Earnings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						7									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        The Slide Of JP Morgan's Earnings Presentation No Investor Wants To See    The Slide Of JP Morgan's Earnings Presentation No Investor Wants To See        JPM didn't see this coming.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstIncredibly whiny historian Niall FergusonOn Thursday, the Huffington Post published the third part of economic historian Niall Ferguson's three-part essay on why he hates Paul Krugman. The essay†is 2,900 words long (and that's just part three!) so you probably won't want to read all of it, but here's the especially delicious part where he attacks me and Krugman's other "acolytes": For too long, Paul Krugman has exploited his authority as an award-winning economist and his power as a†New York Times†columnist to heap opprobrium on anyone who ventures to disagree with him. Along the way, he has acquired a†claque†of like-minded bloggers who play a sinister game of tag with him, endorsing his attacks and adding vitriol of their own. I would like to name and shame in this context Dean Baker, Josh Barro, Brad DeLong, Matthew O'Brien, Noah Smith, Matthew Yglesias and Justin Wolfers. Krugman and his acolytes evidently relish the viciousness of their attacks, priding themselves on the crassness of their language. But I should like to know what qualifies a figure like Matt O'Brien to call anyone a "disingenuous idiot"? What exactly are his credentials? 35,550 tweets? How does he essentially differ from the cranks who, before the Internet, had to vent their spleen by writing letters in green ink? Indeed, what credentials does The Atlantic's Matt O'Brien have? In an accompanying video interview with Alyona Minkovski, Ferguson notes with horror that O'Brien has never even written a book. Why, he might as well be some vagrant! But back to me. When I saw that I had made the list of Krugman's "acolytes" (a distinction that surely distresses my father) I first tried to remember what exactly I had written that would have so upset Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History Niall Ferguson. Based on what I can find in Google, the answer seems to be, not much. Back in 2011, Ferguson wrote a column for Newsweek in which he alleged that the consumer price index, the standard measure of inflation, is "a bogus index." He continued: Yes, folks, double-digit inflation is back. Pretty soon youíll be able to figure out the real inflation rate just by moving the decimal point in the core CPI one place to the right. I wrote a response, in which I called Ferguson's argument "bizarre." I said "Fergusonís suggestion that the basket underlying CPI calculations should not ever be adjusted for changes in consumer behavior is a real headscratcher." That was a far more charitable response than such an asinine column deserved.†I even noted that there was "a nugget of a reasonable idea buried within Fergusonís piece" and went on to explain what it was. (In Thursday's Huffington Post piece, Ferguson insists that his Newsweek piece was "hardly a confident prediction of higher inflation." That's true. It was a statement that inflation was†already high and the government was using fudged statistics to claim it wasn't. Derp.) Then, in May of this year, Ferguson suggested that John Maynard Keynes endorsed short-sighted economic policies because he was a gay man who never expected to have children. He reportedly also noted that Keynes was an "effete" man who liked to read poetry to his ballerina wife, which admittedly does sound pretty gay. But there were several problems with Ferguson's analysis, including: "in the long run, we're all dead" doesn't actually mean we should ignore the long run; Keynes once impregnated his wife (she miscarried); and just because gay people often don't have children doesn't mean we're indifferent to the future of humanity. I never wrote a post about this incident, but I did write a series of snarky Tweets, which may have been what pissed Ferguson off. Oh holy shit Niall Ferguson said something EVEN DUMBER THAN WHAT HE USUALLY SAYS http://t.co/MF4SmBBP88 Someone should ask Niall Ferguson if the lack of interest in climate change action on the right is because conservatives are gay. If I talked like Niall Ferguson I wouldn't be throwing "effete" around so liberally. "Keynes? More like GAYnes!!" -- Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History Niall Ferguson Niall Ferguson missed the mark. The real reason Keynes favored interventionist economic policies is that he was black. Now all we need is an unqualified apology from Ferguson for being constantly wrong about inflation and interest rates http://t.co/Y3PAbuKzOI I'll try to follow the example of my editor, Joe Weisenthal, who somehow didn't make Ferguson's "acolyte" list. Joe wrote a solid post this†spring called "Niall Ferguson's Horrible Track Record On Economics," which explained that Ferguson has a tendency to make ridiculous claims about inflation and interest rates while purporting to be some sort of expert on the economy. Joe even wrote that "Ferguson has self-immolated a number of times trying to fight an anti-Keynesian battle." But then Joe, like Matt O'Brien, has never written a book, so he probably has no idea what he's talking about. The big quote I used at the top was only the second-most delicious part of Ferguson's endless whine. Here's the most delicious: You may ask: Why have I taken the trouble to do this? I have three motives. The first is to illuminate the way the world really works, as opposed to the way Krugman and his beloved New Keynesian macroeconomic models say it works. The second is to assert the importance of humility and civility in public as well as academic discourse. And the third, frankly, is to teach him the meaning of the old Scottish regimental motto:†nemo me impune lacessit†("No one attacks me with impunity"). Niall Ferguson will teach us the importance of humility! Presumably in the same manner that Lindsay Lohan can teach us the importance of sobriety.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesA sign is posted in front of a Wells Fargo Bank branch in Oakland, California.Wells Fargo just released its third-quarter results. Wells Fargo posted earnings per share of 99 cents per share.¬† Third quarter revenue came in at $20.5 billion.¬† On average, analysts expected the bank to report adjusted earnings per share of 97 cents on revenue of $21.02 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† From the release:¬† SAN FRANCISCO ‚Äì Wells Fargo &amp; Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record net income of $5.6 billion, or $0.99 per diluted common share, for third quarter 2013, up from $4.9 billion, or $0.88 per share, for thirdquarter 2012, and up from $5.5 billion, or $0.98 per share, for second quarter 2013. For the first ninemonths of 2013, net income was a record $16.3 billion, or $2.89 per share, compared with $13.8 billion, or $2.45 per share, for the same period in 2012.¬†‚ÄúWells Fargo continued to demonstrate strong and consistent financial performance in the third quarter,‚Äù said Chairman and CEO John Stumpf. ‚ÄúAs our economy continues to transition to higher interest rates, our diversified business model and strong risk discipline contributed to record earnings per share along with continued strength in return on assets, return on equity and capital. The improvement in the housing market has been beneficial to our customers and significantly contributed to our broad-based credit improvement in the quarter. We also deepened relationships, resulting in increases in cross-sell across the Company. As we look forward, we remain well positioned to meet the needs of our customers and to perform for our shareholders.‚Äù Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan said, ‚ÄúThis was a solid quarter for Wells Fargo. As expected, mortgage ¬†banking revenue was lower in the quarter as the recent increases in interest rates reduced refinance volume, but this impact was partially offset by improved credit and lower expenses. Year-over-year, we had strong loan growth, double-digit increases in noninterest income across many of our businesses and continued to build capital and return more to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.‚Äù
REUTERS/Heiko Junge/NTB ScanpixChairman of the Norwegian Nobel Committee Thorbjorn Jagland announces the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize as committee secretary Geir Lundestad is pictured behind him at the Nobel Institute in Oslo October 11, 2013. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), which is overseeing the destruction's of Syria's arsenal, won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday, the Norwegian Nobel Committee said. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
JPMorgan reported a net loss of 17 cent per share, but excluding non-recurring items (litigation expense and reserve losses), JPMorgan's core businesses earned EPS of $1.42.¬† Third quarter net revenue came in at $23.9 billion. On average, analysts were expecting the bank to post adjusted earnings per share of $1.28 and revenue of $24 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† The bank reported a mountain of legal costs of $7.2 billion (that's after-tax).¬† Those legal expenses have caused the bank to report its first quarterly loss since Jamie Dimon became CEO.¬† The loss is J.P. Morgan's first quarterly loss since before Jamie Dimon joined in 2004. It didn't take a loss in the financial crisis. $JPM Here's an excerpt from the release (emphasis ours):¬† JPMorgan Chase Reports Third-Quarter 2013 Net Loss of $0.4 Billion, or $(0.17) Per Share, on Revenue1¬†of $23.9 Billion THIRD-QUARTER 2013 NET INCOME OF $5.8 BILLION, OR $1.42 PER SHARE, EXCLUDING LITIGATION EXPENSE AND RESERVE RELEASES1SUPPORTED CONSUMERS, BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITIES New York, October 11, 2013¬†- JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (NYSE: JPM) today reported net loss of $0.4 billion for the third quarter of 2013, compared with net income of $5.7 billion in the third quarter of 2012. Earnings per share were $(0.17), compared with $1.40 in the third quarter of 2012. Revenue1¬†for the quarter was $23.9 billion, compared with $25.9 billion in the prior year. The Firm's return on tangible common equity1¬†for the third quarter of 2013 was (2)%, compared with 16% in the prior year. Third-quarter results included legal expense in Corporate of $9.2 billion ($7.2 billion after-tax), and a benefit from reserve releases of $1.6 billion ($992 million after-tax). Excluding these items, third-quarter net income would have been $5.8 billion, or $1.42 per share1. Jamie Dimon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, commented on the Company's results: "While we had strong underlying performance across the businesses, unfortunately, the quarter was marred by large legal expense. We continuously evaluate our legal reserves, but in this highly charged and unpredictable environment, with escalating demands and penalties from multiple government agencies, we thought it was prudent to significantly strengthen them. While we expect our litigation costs should abate and normalize over time, they may continue to be volatile over the next several quarters." Dimon continued: "The Board continues to seek a fair and reasonable settlement with the government on mortgage-related issues - and one that recognizes the extraordinary circumstances of the Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual transactions, which were undertaken at the request or encouragement of the U.S. Government." Commenting on the business performance, Dimon continued: "We maintained our #1 ranking in Global Investment Banking fees and our unparalleled capital raising and advisory capabilities led to ground-breaking transactions and market share gains. Equity Markets revenue was up 20%, driven by broad-based strength across products. In Consumer Banking and Credit Card, our customer satisfaction scores continue to rise and our customer attrition remains low. For the second consecutive year, we led the nation in deposit growth - up 10% from the prior year - more than twice the industry average. Credit card sales volume was a record $107.0 billion, up 11%, and general purpose credit card sales volume growth has outperformed the industry for 22 consecutive quarters. Asset Management continued to have strong performance, with $19 billion of net long-term client flows, the 18th consecutive quarter of positive net long-term client flows. We are seeing continued positive trends in consumer and stability in wholesale - loss rates in mortgage are improving steadily as delinquencies continue to decline, and credit card delinquencies are at 20-year lows across the industry." Dimon concluded: "We continue our intense focus on our legal, control, and regulatory agenda - we are simplifying our business and making unprecedented investments in controls, which will make our company better and stronger for the long-run. We are extremely gratified that, in light of the issues the Company is facing, our people continue to do an unwavering and excellent job in serving their clients and communities, which you see in the underlying performance of our businesses." Refresh this page for more.¬†
Twitter is abuzz this morning after a Twitter account associated with the Nobel Prize Committee tweeted to the recipient of the 2013 Nobel Peace Prize, the Organisation for the Prevention of Chemical Weapons: ó Nobelprize_org (@Nobelprize_org) October 11, 2013 Apparently that didn't even work. The live webcast is now over. We are still trying to reach @OPCW Bet Malala would've answered the phone. RT @Nobelprize_org: @OPCW Please contact us @Nobelprize_org we are trying get through to your office Even OPCW isn't taking the announcement seriously. RT @Nobelprize_org: @OPCW Please contact us we are trying get through to your office. The #Nobel for Best Tweet of 2013 Goes To @Nobelprize_org: @OPCW Please contact us @Nobelprize_org we are trying get through to your office
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonAn Occupy Wall Street activist with an American flag blindfold holds a copy of the U.S. Constitution during demonstrations on the one-year anniversary of the movement in New York, September 17, 2012.It's day 11 of the government shutdown, which means we won't be getting any economic reports from the public data agencies. Fortunately, one key economic report is published by the private sector. Here's a preview of today's scheduled data releases via Calculated Risk: ï DELAYED: Retail sales for September. The consensus is for retail sales to be unchanged in September, and to increase 0.4% ex-autos.ï DELAYED: Producer Price Index for September. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in producer prices (0.1% increase in core).ï At 9:55 AM ET, the Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (preliminary for October). The consensus is for a reading of 75.0, down from 77.5 in September. Other sentiment indicators have shown a sharp decline.ï DELAYED: Manufacturing and Trade: Inventories and Sales (business inventories) report for August. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in inventories.
 Today‚Äôs strong market rally seems to us to be based on false hope and wishful thinking.¬† After years of sharp disagreement, it appears highly improbable that a deal can be worked out under the pressure of six-week timeframe.¬† If anything, the two parties seem further apart than they were a year ago when neither the budget super committee nor various congressional working groups were able to hammer out an agreement.¬† The result was the sequester that still continues to put a damper on economic growth.¬† The stock market and the economy, therefore, will probably continue to be under pressure for some time to come.
Micky** / FlickrMarkets are mostly higher early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.5%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is up o.3%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Overnight, markets went haywire after the New York Times reported that President Obama rejected the GOP's latest offer to extend the debt ceiling. However, it soon became apparent that no decision was made by either side. The current proposal would delay the debt ceiling by around six-weeks, giving Washington more time to work out a longer-term deal. U.S. futures are up, with Dow futures up 26 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 2 points.
API got an email Thursday evening from Erik Finkelnburg, a Customs and Border Patrol agent based in southern California. He's sick of hearing people say the government shutdown isn't a big deal because 85% of government employees are still at work¬†‚Äî a "government slimdown," as Fox News has called it. Like about 1.5 million federal civilian employees, Finkelnburg is among that 85% because he's "essential" to the protection of life and property. But until the shutdown is resolved, he won't get paid for any work he's performed after Sept. 30. That certainly feels like a big deal to him, especially since like many federal workers, he's scheduled to be paid on Tuesday, Oct. 15¬†‚Äî meaning his missing pay is about to go from being a theoretical problem to a real one.  He wrote to me about the upcoming pay day: Money was already committed and obligated through Sept. 30, which means that everyone on the government payroll will get a partial paycheck. Because of days off and rotating shifts, that check could be anywhere between 50 and 70% of normal wages for the period. If this thing happens to drag out another two weeks, there won‚Äôt even be a¬†partial¬†paycheck. Instead, there will be a lot of families ‚Äî¬†many of them single income with kids ‚Äî¬†wondering how they‚Äôre going to pay their mortgages, car notes, utility bills, or put food on the table...¬† Will 800,000 federal employees missing some payments completely crash the economy? [ed. note: It's actually closer to two million.] No, probably not. Could it drastically alter the lives and stability of a lot of people? Absolutely. I can honestly say that morale among the rank and file of the Border Patrol has tanked since the debt ceiling became a national issue a few years ago. Most agents are too worried about the uncertainty of being able to provide for their families.¬† Erik notes that the shutdown is harming the economy, which is true, and that it's bad for federal workers' families, which is also true. But I'd like to focus on the fact that it's no way to run an organization. Imagine if the firm you work for would periodically, due to pissing matches among the board of directors, tell employees that they won't be paid, for now, but they should keep showing up for work. And imagine that at the same time your organization would shut down various client services without giving any clarity about when they would resume.  Would that help your organization succeed in reaching its goals? Would it be good for recruitment and retention of talented employees? Would clients consider it to be acceptable? Of course not. If you believe that the federal government is an essential part of a functioning society and economy, and that most of the time when it spends money it is doing so for a good reason, you should be strongly opposed to a government shutdown. You shouldn't want a shutdown even if you believe, as I do, that the federal government does a significant number of things it shouldn't do at all, and could be more efficient when it does the things it should be doing. A shutdown won't make the organization more efficient ‚Äî it will just make it more dysfunctional. But here's the thing: A lot of Republicans in Congress today view the federal government as basically a parasite on society. They think it's unimportant that a shutdown makes the federal government less effective. Perhaps that's even a feature: If the federal government is seen as dysfunctional, people might be disinclined to expand it. House Republicans have taken a strategy of passing "rifle shot" funding bills that would reopen small parts of the government ‚Äî like memorials on the National Mall and the processing of veterans' benefits ‚Äî because they believe that a stoppage of the vast majority of federal discretionary spending is no big deal. Or at least, that's how a lot of Republicans view the government in theory. In practice, House Republicans couldn't pass a full slate of appropriations bills this year because they couldn't agree on specific program cuts to meet their ambitious target for overall budget cuts. A government shutdown provides a great opportunity for a primal scream when you hate "big government" in the abstract but aren't willing to get specific about what should be cut. It's stupid. And it's hurting a lot of real people. But Republicans are doing it because they have decided that conservative principles are better served by causing the federal government to fail than by trying to help it succeed. Voters seem to be catching on that Republicans are doing bad things to the government and, as a result, to the economy and the public. We'll have to wait another year to see if they've become sufficiently convinced of national Republicans' unsuitability for governance to strip them of the House majority.
APSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Majority Leader Harry Reid Senate Democrats are hopeful that their Republican counterparts in the Senate will work with them to come up with a deal that both ends the ongoing federal government shutdown and raises the nation's debt ceiling in the next few days. A Senate Democratic leadership aide told Business Insider Thursday night that Senate Republicans have a "very strong desire" to end the shutdown before Oct. 17, which also happens to be the Treasury Department's deadline for raising the debt ceiling. The aide said that Democrats are more optimistic of a deal from Senate Republicans than House Republicans, who met with President Barack Obama at the White House Thursday night.¬† "None of the deals on the table at the moment are good enough, but if there is a deal to be had it is probably with Senate Rs, not House Rs," the aide said. House Republican leaders had unveiled a plan to¬†extend the nation's borrowing authority for six weeks on Thursday, provided that Obama and Democrats enter into negotiations about broader fiscal issues. But their plan does not end the ongoing government shutdown ‚Äî something the White House said would be necessary for negotiations. Obama didn't close the door on a six-week debt ceiling increase, but he made it "very clear" that he wanted a clean continuing resolution to reopen the government as well, according to a source familiar with the meeting.House Republicans' plan also fell flat with both parties in the Senate because it didn't tackle the shutdown, which entered its 11th day on Friday. According to multiple reports, Republican Sens. Susan Collins (Maine) and John Cornyn (Texas) are circulating a version of the plan Collins presented last week. The reports also portrayed Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell as involved in the talks. The Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider that negotiations are "all over the place in the Senate," and far from settled. CNN reported that what Collins and Cornyn are proposing would likely fund the government for six months and raise the debt ceiling for a little more than three months. Collins' proposal also repeals the Affordable Care Act's tax on medical devices. "I was surprised that the House decided only to deal with the debt limit and not the continued closure of government," Collins told reporters on Thursday. "I think that we need to deal with both issues and we need to do so quickly." Of course, even though the idea of a deal in the Senate seemed attractive to Republicans in that chamber, there's always the issue of whether or not House Republicans will go along with it. "The problem of course is that even if the Senate passes a deal, there is no guarantee Boehner brings it to the floor," the Senate Democratic aide said.
