Steve Kovach/Business InsiderThe BlackBerry Q10¬†is here, and it is hard to imagine that only six short years ago, a phone without a keyboard seemed absurd.¬† How would you type? How would you dial?¬† But the huge wave of touchscreen phones that started with the original iPhone proved that was what most consumers really wanted.¬† BlackBerry largely missed that trend and is only just recently catching up with its new touch-friendly mobile operating system BlackBerry 10, which debuted last month on the BlackBerry Z10. But the company is still trying to appeal to its core audience with another new phone running BlackBerry 10, the BlackBerry Q10. And this time, you get that iconic BlackBerry keyboard. Let's be clear though. The Q10 isn't for the typical consumer. It's a serious device and designed as such. It has a smaller touchscreen, which isn't the best for gaming, streaming video, or any of that other fun stuff. It's an email, messaging, and productivity beast. If that's you're style, you're going to love this phone. Click here for photos of the BlackBerry Q10 &gt; The BlackBerry Q10 looks a lot like BlackBerry's last generation of Bold smartphones, except it has a much larger 3.1-inch screen and a wider keyboard with bigger individual keys. It's a delight to type on. I haven't used a physical keyboard in ages, but the keys are designed so well that I was flying. It's definitely a better and more accurate experience than most touchscreen keyboards, as long as you can get past the tradeoff of a smaller screen. The Q10 feels great to hold too, thanks to a special rubbery coating that helps protect it from dings and scratches. The entire phone is just plain solid. There aren't any creaks or squeaks like you see on many non-metal smartphones. It also has a removable battery and SD card slot for extra memory, two other throwback features that'll please BlackBerry lovers.¬† It is a bit odd to switch between the touchscreen and the keyboard so often though. Most of the BlackBerry 10 operating system is designed for touch gestures, so there's really no need for the keyboard most of the time. Whereas most touch-based operating systems only show you the keyboard when you need it, the Q10's keyboard is always there. It feels like wasted space when you're not typing. It's a minor drawback, and one keyboard lovers will surely have no problem overlooking. The Q10 will be the first phone to ship with BlackBerry's first major update to BlackBerry 10, version 10.1. That version includes a handful of minor improvements over the last version, including a more robust tutorial mode to help beginners learn how to navigate the phone.¬† The notifications center, called the BlackBerry Hub, has also been tweaked to help you tell the difference between what apps are sending you updates. Now it's a lot easier to filter notifications from Facebook, email, calendar appointments, etc. thanks to some handy symbols that tell you where each one is coming from.¬† Steve Kovach/Business InsiderThe BlackBerry Hub. BlackBerry 10 also takes advantage of the Q10's always-present keyboard. From the home screen, you just have to start typing to search your phone for anything you need: contacts, messages, emails, apps, you name it. It's an amazing and seamless way to find stuff on your device. You can also tweet or post to Facebook from the home screen just by typing "tweet" or "fb" plus your message. Pretty cool. Overall, the BlackBerry 10 experience on the Q10 is nearly identical to what you get with the Z10. It has an excellent multitasking system that lets you swipe up to close out an app and view your recently used one. It's much more intuitive than multitasking on the iPhone, Android, or Windows phone.¬† But as solid as BlackBerry 10 is, it still suffers from a poor app selection. You won't find many of the top-tier apps on BlackBerry. There's no Instagram, Spotify, Netflix, Pandora, Hulu...the list goes on and on. Most of those big developers either refuse to develop for BlackBerry 10 or won't say if they plan to at all. Either way, it's not a good sign for the platform. However, there is one big app on the way, and I got to test a beta version on the Q10. BlackBerry has finally confirmed Skype is coming very soon. Steve Kovach/Business InsiderBlackBerry 10 has a poor selection of apps. There's only one question you need to ask yourself before buying the BlackBerry Q10: Do you absolutely need a physical keyboard? If the answer is yes, then the Q10 is the best phone you can buy. In fact, it's pretty much you're only option unless you want to buy one of the older, outdated BlackBerrys. If you're still a BlackBerry fan and don't need the keyboard, you're much better off with the touchscreen-only BlackBerry Z10. The Q10 won't be available in the US until the end of May, and exact pricing and availability will vary by carrier. BlackBerry says the phone will cost around $250. Click here for photos of the BlackBerry Q10 &gt;¬†
In a new report, the analysts at Goldman Sachs wrestle with the idea that the U.S. might be in a bond bubble. For some context, they include this great annotated chart tracking the fluctuations of the 10-year U.S. Treasury note since 1790. Goldman Sachs
Flickr/jacilluchMarkets are off to a nice start in Asia. Japan's Nikkei is up 1.5%. Korea's Kospi is up 0.5%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.7%. Dow Jones notes that with the Nikkei above 13,700, the index is now at its highest level since June 26, 2008. This follows a big up-day in the U.S. From Nikkei.com: Nikkei
Apple earnings day is always a spectacle in Business Insider offices, and today's earnings release did not disappoint. Take a look at how SAI Senior Editor Jay Yarow and Business Insider Executive Editor Joe Weisenthal react to the news of Apple's surprising earnings report:¬† Produced by Business Insider Video
Getty Images / Andreas Rentz"Black Swan" (and more recently, "Antifragile") author Nassim Taleb is known for, among other things, his impassioned arguments against his detractors (especially on Twitter and Facebook). Yesterday, Taleb sent out a tweet that caused a few other tweeters to poke fun, including Joe Cotterill, a reporter for the Financial Times; Lorcan Roche Kelly, Chief Europe Strategist at Trend Macrolytics; and Karl Whelan, an economist who worked for several years at the Federal Reserve and the Central Bank of Ireland. To make a long story short, Taleb didn't find the jokes funny. The whole thing quickly devolved into a pretty heated exchange that ended up running all the way until this afternoon. We have chronicled the conversation here.
Let's call it the Twitter Skitter. When the market briefly skidded after a hacked AP Twitter account reported explosions at the White House, we saw the first real-time demonstration of robo-trading riding on the back of social media. The plunge in the market was so quick that it obviously was not the result of individuals reading the phony news and deciding what action to take. Computers were making the tradesóor, more precisely, ending the trades. "It's not so much that the computers initiated trades. What happened is that they canceled the orders, so the bids come out of the market. That causes a crash," a person at an algorithmic trading firm explained. The Twitter data stream has been available to high frequency traders since at least 2009. That's when a company called StreamBase began to incorporate Twitter in the firm's "complex event processing" service, which is basically a platform that aggregates data from a vast array of sources for hedge funds and investment banks. It's tempting to say that, in retrospect, that was when Skynet became self-aware. At least since 2010, Bloomberg has been monitoring Twitter feeds and can send alerts to its customers when it detects that a lot of people are tweeting about an event or a company. An outfit called Lexalytics has developed algorithms that it says can read Twitter "sentiment." None of the big algorithmic traders I called would explain how they use Twitter, which is not exactly surprising. The algorithmic guys never want to explain anything to anyone. But one person inside an algorithmic trading operation at a major U.S. bank said that his unit's software is programmed to detect major events occurring on Twitter. In some ways, this is a very old story. Traders have been scraping data from every imaginable source for as long as we've had trading. And tech-savvy traders have been scraping the internet for a long time. What makes this new is that the world's fastest news delivery deviceóTwitteróis now mixing with ultra-fast trading, often without any human intermediary. But in order for this to work well, safeguards have to be put in place to guard against errant news on Twitter triggering trades. "You have to be careful with Twitter because there is so much noise. So you build a system of weighting into the algorithms, giving more weight to more credible sources," the trader at the U.S. bank said. The possibility of the account of a reliable news source being hacked can break theses checks, however. "There's going to be a lot of rethinking in light of today," the trader said. The sell-off on a false tweet should have triggered a buy signal instead of a sell order of cancellation, he said. Even firms that do not monitor Twitter directly would have seen the selling pressure in the futures market, which sold off quicker than the cash equities market. High-frequency trading algorithms would have detected the divergence between the futures and stock markets, which then would have triggered selling in the stock market. The market markers, however, would have hedged the selling in the stock by going long in the futures market until the divergence was arbitraged away. I pointed out that a lot of people who read the AP tweet recognized it as a likely fake right away. Why didn't the computers? "People are still better than the algos at a few things," the trader said. "For now."
The cost of the review of ethanol is a measly $1m. Why has it taken so many years to have this study? More importantly, what happens if this study shows that ethanol is proven to be a dud? Answer: No later than 30 days after the assessment is completed, EPA would be required to submit a report to the Congress, indicating whether the agency agrees with the study‚Äôs findings. The NAS and EPA would have 18 months from the time of enactment to complete the study. Mid-level ethanol blends could not be sold until after EPA issues its assessment report. A few data points on ethanol: - 10% of all gasoline sold contains ethanol. That comes to 13 billion gallons of alcohol, $25-30b of cash flow a year. - The energy content of ethanol is 33% less efficient than gasoline by volume. - Using E10 (10% ethanol) reduces mileage by 3.3%. Americans drive 3 Trillion miles a year (incredible). If all of the drivers used blended gas containing 10% ethanol it would mean that the reduced efficiency would cost drivers 100b miles a year, or $350B. The actual losses to drivers is less than that calculation as not all gas consumed has ethanol, but the number that consumers pay as a result of ethanol is well in excess of $50b ‚Äì serious money. The politics of ethanol is interesting. The House Bill that would force the review of ethanol comes from Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX). Lamar is the head of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology (CSST). Smith also represents Texas. Does Congressman Smith have an axe to grind in this story? Sure he does ‚Äì Texas is oil and refining. Those who produce oil and the refiners who convert it into gasoline have a lot at stake. If ethanol is scrapped, then big oil and big refiners will win big. One can be pretty sure that the ‚Äòresults‚Äô of the proposed study are already known. H.R. 875 would not have gotten as far as it has unless guys like Lamar Smith already know the answers on ethanol. Ethanol is a renewable energy source ‚Äì so that makes it Green. The Administration, and a fair number of Democratic Senators have IOUs to the Greens. The folks who want ethanol have a very big support base. That support base includes environmentalists, corn growers and ethanol producers ‚Äì but it doesn‚Äôt include consumers. There are some market related consequences to H.R. 875. Should it pass, it will knock the ethanol producers for a loop, the refiners will see a benefit, and I wouldn‚Äôt want to be long corn if this Bill comes into being. I‚Äôm not worried too much about the companies who make ethanol, nor do I think that corn is headed for a tumble. H.R. 875 will never see the light of day. And that is the joke in this story. For a lousy million bucks the answers to this could be available for the public to consider. But the public will never have a chance to see those results. We will continue to burn our food and use inefficient energy supplies for years more to come. Welcome to America and its stupid politics.
Apple's shares are trading down to flat after the company reported earnings. The market is not all that thrilled with Apple's report, despite the fact that it beat on revenue, EPS, iPads, and iPhones. What gives? Apple's June guidance is weak: $33.5-$35.5 billion versus analyst estimates of $38.6 billion. Still, it was somewhat expected that Apple's guidance would be soft. The initial reaction the report, which included guidance, was good. The stock was up 4.5%. It started to break down during the earnings call.  On the call, Tim Cook burst investors' bubble. He said new products are coming this fall, and throughout 2014. That means nothing new from Apple between October of 2012 and September of 2013. That's almost an entire year with nothing from Apple. That's not going to help the company's suddenly weak growth. So, despite the fact that Apple committed to returning $100 billion to shareholders, the market's snap reaction tonight to this report is: Meh.
Even as the U.S. economy began to rebound from the Great Recession, only the highest earning households in America actually felt the difference. The richest 7% of American households saw their net worth grow by 28% to a whopping $3.2 million¬†during between¬†2009 to 2011,¬†according to a new study by the Pew Research Center. In contrast, 93% of households lost money. Average household net worth for this group fell by 4% during the same period, down to about $133,800 per household.¬† What's with the huge discrepancy? In a nutshell, it comes down to a difference in how the rich and the less affluent invest their earnings. The vast majority of households tend to put their money in real estate ‚Äì‚Äì namely, their homes ‚Äì‚Äì an industry that took an enormous hit during the recession and has been one of the slowest to recover. The wealthiest 7% (households earning $840,000 or more),¬†on the other hand, had more money to invest in the stock market, which has rebounded at a faster rate. Between 2009 and 2011, the S&amp;P 500 soared by 34% while the¬†S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index dropped by 5%.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Hacked Tweet Reveals Longs, Shorts In Market (Sebastien Galy)¬† The fallout from today's hacked AP Tweet debacle has already begun. In case you missed it, someone managed to hack the Associated Press' official Twitter account and said the White House had been attacked. The stock market instantly plummeted. Societe Generale's points out the drop revealed how the market will react to an actual shock. The Dow fell, the Yen gained against the dollar, and VIX spiked. Takeaway, per Galy:¬†"The market is very long equities and short yen." Finance-Related Hacking Topped 2012 List Of Cyberattacks (AllThingsD) "Financial motivations" accounted for 75% of computer security incidents, according to a Verizon report.¬†State-sponsored attacks accounted for just 20 percent.¬†Financial organizations comprised 37% of targets, followed by retailers at 24% and industrials at 20%. 60-40 Portfolios Are Dead (Marketwatch) Inevitably rising interest rates are killing the age-old 60-40 axiom, which held portfolios should be 60% stocks and 40% bonds. A recent study predicts 60-40 would yield just 4.4% between 2011 and 2020, compared with about 14% for the '80s and '90s. Managers are now mixing in commodities, real estate and currencies into their portfolios to shore up gains The Gold Plunge Has Broken The Charts (Morgan Stanley) Our chart of the day was this illustration of gold's collapse through all of its moving averages, via Morgan Stanley. They conclude that it's lure as a safehaven for investors has evaporated.¬† Morgan Stanley Firms Defying Spring Swoon (UBS) The Richmond Fed index declined to -6 from +3, while Flash PMI dipped to 52.0 from 54.6. Are firms taking notice? Not really, says UBS' Drew Matus. In a note today, Matus writes: "We continue to focus on the low level of initial claims as evidence that firms have not adjusted their outlook due to the recent data."
The Reformed Broker It lasted three minutes and shaved about 150 points off the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the blink of an eye. Near as we can tell, it all began when the Associated Press had its Twitter account hacked. An erroneous message went out that the White House was bombed. This was quickly debunked by members of the President's staff and several reporters for the AP and markets got back to normal sort of. But what was seen cannot be unseen and we got a quick reminder about how close we always are to a market panic or meltdown - whether thanks to false news, real news or no news. Market structure is a joke at this point, the amount of volume accounted for by bots that shut themselves down automatically at the hint of turbulence is just absurd. We did it to ourselves. We made it unprofitable for humans to make markets, which reduced the interest in small cap research and the IPO process. We further exacerbated things by allowing the exchanges to go for-profit - the only revenue stream they could find was selling access and data and capabilities to parasitic tech firms. They took the money - now it's the only money they actually make other than renting out the trading floor for cocktail parties and the Westminster Dog Show. So now we have this†atmosphere†where a tweet from a hacked account can temporarily wipe out half a trillion dollars of wealth in minutes. Hope you're enjoying this! Some other thoughts: * Check out the chart below, this thing stopped dead right at the bottom of the opening gap (last night's closing level) on the S&amp;P! Chart courtesy of my friend Stefan Scheplick: Stefan Scheplick via The Reformed Broker † * People with stops in got screwed, supposedly those sales are being honored. * Gold didn't rally when we though the White House was bombed. The Yen and the Treasury complex did. What did you learn? * I have no idea how Wall Street's rank-and-file can function without access to social media, it's getting embarrassing that they have to pretend they're not using it. On the twitters, we noticed the commotion, the market's †reaction to it and the debunking of it before the news anchors could even be rushed into makeup. Maybe they'll read about it in the newspaper tomorrow. * The fact that the bots shut themselves down is another reminder that the liquidity they provide is bullshit liquidity than no one really needs. As it's been phrased before, they provide a glass of water in a monsoon, but when you really need them to absorb sell orders, they're on the sideline, buffering. It's a joke. Anyway, I'll add relevant links here as I come across them. AP Just Got Hacked And A Fake Tweet Caused The Stock Market To Tank (Business Insider) From A Twitter Hack To The Complete Evaporation Of All Market Liquidity In One Chart (Zero Hedge)
YouTube Screengrab When¬†Zhang Aihua, a Chinese government official running an industrial park in Jiangsu Province, held a lavish party for clients last week, he didn't expect quite so many guests to turn up ‚Äî nor that they would be quite so angry. The video below, first posted to Sina, shows around 1,000 gate crashers arriving and demanding to know why government money was being spent on the meal.  Zhang apparently begged for forgiveness ‚Äî another image posted to the internet (included at the top of this post) shows Zhang on his knees, apologizing to the angry hoards through a megaphone. According to China.cn.org, Zhang has now been fired from his position, with local authorities saying he didn't follow guidelines for official spending. Zhang is reported to have spent¬†6,830 yuan ($1,105) for all of the tables at the banquet, and the Financial Times says that the meal came out at at 250 yuan ($40) a head. While that figure may not sound too expensive to New Yorkers, outside of Beijing or Shanghai such a figure would seem absurd to many ordinary Chinese citizens. Unfortunately, it also comes during new President Xi Jinping's new austerity drive. China.cn.org says that many lavish treats were served, including "high-end Chunghwa cigarettes, premium liquors produced by Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery, nearly extinctive Yangtze scabbard fish and Chinese globefish, which must be specially prepared because its organs have deadly toxins."
Apple announced today that it would crank up its quarterly cash dividend by 15% to $3.05 per share, and it would expand its share buyback plan by $50 billion to a total of $60 billion. Perhaps the most interesting thing about this ramp up in its capital return plan is that it will finance some of it by borrowing money. "In conjunction with the expanded return of capital program, the Company plans to borrow and expects to announce more details about this in the near future," said management. This means that Apple could soon offer bonds.¬† We'll call them iBonds. This will be a welcome development for bond investors looking for a higher yield in this extremely low interest rate environment. Already, S&amp;P has given the company an AA+ rating and Moody's has blessed it with an Aa1 rating.¬† Both say that their outlooks for the company are stable. The idea of debt tends to raise the average eyebrow.¬† But in the corporate world, it comes with numerous benefits.¬† The cost of debt is cheaper than the cost of equity.¬† Also, interest lowers a company's taxable income. Overall, this seems to be a smart move by Apple. Earlier this year, legendary NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran discussed this as one of the four things that could make Apple a hot stock again: 4. Behave consistently with your choice: Once Apple makes its stand as a growth or mature company, it has to behave consistently. Thus, if it decides that it is a mature company, it should return more cash to its stockholders, though I think stock buybacks make more sense to its stockholder base now than dividends do. At the moment, with its huge cash balance, it clearly does not make any sense for Apple to borrow money, but somewhere down the road, it has to consider the debt option, since not using it is depriving itself of the tax benefits embedded in the tax code for using debt instead of equity. Keep in mind, much of Apple's cash is overseas, which is a point CFO Peter Oppenheimer made on Apple's earnings conference call.¬† And repatriating that cash would come with a steep tax. As Apple said, more details will come in the near future. Prospective bond investors, however, can prepare by reading the releases from S&amp;P and Moody's. Here's S&amp;P:---------------- NEW YORK (Standard &amp; Poor's) April 23, 2013--Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services today assigned its 'AA+' corporate credit rating to Cupertino, Calif.-based Apple Inc. The outlook is stable. We anticipate that we would also assign this rating to unsecured senior debt that may be issued as part of the shareholder return program, subject to review of the documentation. "The rating on Apple reflects the company's 'minimal' financial risk profile and 'strong' business risk profile, incorporating market-leading products, a globally diverse customer base and strong profitability," said Standard &amp; Poor's credit analyst Martha Toll-Reed. Although the majority of Apple's revenues are generated in highly competitive markets characterized by rapid technology evolution and short product life cycles, it is our view that Apple's managerial and product innovation capabilities will enable the company to sustain its competitive position. Furthermore, it is our expectation that Apple will maintain "excellent" liquidity, which provides substantial cushion to offset the potential for some volatility in revenue growth and operating earnings. With annual revenues of $165 billion in calendar 2012, Apple is the largest U.S.-based provider of mobile devices, personal computers, and related products and services. Apple has been an industry leader in the growth of, and market shift to, internet-connected mobile devices (which include smartphones and tablets). The company's core values of innovation, quality product, and quality user experience provide its competitive differentiation. Revenues and earnings are concentrated in iPhone and iPad sales, which accounted for more than 75% of revenues in the December 2012 quarter. However, Apple generates sustained customer interaction through an expanding array of content and service offerings, and benefits from significant customer loyalty. We believe that this, along with its track record of innovation and successful new product development, distinguishes Apple from other consumer device and electronics firms that were unable to sustain their market leadership positions in these rapidly evolving markets. In our assessment, Apple's management and governance is "strong," based on the company's track record of market leadership, effective innovation, and successful performance in relation to its peers. The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Apple will maintain modest leverage, significant net cash balances, and a commitment to a minimal financial risk profile. While not expected, the most likely cause of a downgrade would result from competitive market conditions that cause a material decline in operating performance and discretionary cash flow, leading to a substantial decline in Apple's net cash position. The potential for an upgrade is currently constrained by our view of Apple's business risk profile, which incorporates highly competitive and rapidly evolving market conditions and Apple's earnings vulnerability to a potential delay in, or modest success of, new product introductions. Therefore, an upgrade would likely depend upon an upward revision to our view of Apple's business risk profile to "excellent," while maintaining a minimal financial risk profile.
Beck Diefenbach, ReutersApple today announced that it would be issuing bonds in order to pay for its new shareholder dividend and share buyback program. Credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poors gave the new Apple bonds a 'AA+' rating, outlook stable. That's the same rating S&amp;P has on U.S. government debt, which it downgraded from AAA in July 2011. Right now, there are only four AAA rated companies in the United States: Johnson &amp; Johnson, ADP, Exxon Mobil, and Microsoft. In other words, not a bad first foray into the credit markets for Apple.
Apple's numbers are out! It's a beat on the top and bottom line thanks to better than expected iPhone and iPad sales. The stock was up 6% after hours, going to ~$429. Then it crashed, and is now slightly down. Apple also announced plans for its cash. The company will return $100 billion to shareholders by the end of 2015. Apple authorized a $60 billion share buyback plan, and upped its quarterly dividend to $3.05 per share. To pay for the return, Apple plans to borrow cash. Apple's guidance for the June quarter is pretty weak compared to sell-side analyst estimates, but that was sort of expected. Overall, this was a pretty good quarter, judged by the numbers. However, on the earnings call, CEO Tim Cook revealed Apple has no new products planned until the fall. That means Apple is going to go a long time before producing new stuff. As a result the company's earnings growth will continue to shrink, and its revenue will go flat. Here's a full breakdown of how Apple did versus estimates: This post is being updated in real time, so for the most recent information click here, or just refresh your browser. We'll have a live blog of Apple's earnings call starting at 5 PM eastern. † In the first half of the year, $98 million in revenue, $22 billion net income, 85 million iPhones, 42 million iPads, very very large numbers. Acknowledge growth slowed, and margins fell.  Fiscal 2012 makes comparisons very hard. Last year, growth, foreign currency, product mix. Compares are made hard until the anniversary of the iPad Mini. Guiding to flat revenue + slight decline in GM. Decline in Apple stock price very frustrating to all of us. Apple remains strong. We can't control cost pressures, foreign currencies. Our objective is creating great products. Focused on the long term.   Based on research from comScore, iPhone #1 in U.S. for 3 month period ended in Feb. In Japan, #1 according to IDC. Also, first time non-Japanese company done that. Apple #1 in Nikkei brand survey. Second year in a row, unprecedented. Around the world, IDC ranked 1 or 2 in all countries IDC tracks. Kantar found 95% loyalty. Tops in customer experience. Businesses around the world scale iPhones. 30,000 compnies developing/distributing iPhone apps.  Did well in greater China and Japan. iPad and iPad Mini very popular. More iPad MInis in March quarter than December quarter. Not able to meet demand for iPad Mini in december, so channel inventory was low coming in. Most recent ChangeWave survey indicates 96% apprecition rate. iPad and IOS driving innovation across industries. Delighted by the number of companies choosing iPads.  iTunes best reach in industry. Quarterly billings over $4 billion, a $16 billion run rate. $2.4 billion iTunes revenue, new records. Helped us achieve $4 billion from iTunes, software and services. Thrilled with the growth of these streams. We sell movies in 109 countires, bookstores in 55 countries. App store in 155 countires, cover 90% of world population. 350,000 iPad apps. 45 billion cumulative downloads of apps $9 billion in app sales for developers, $4.5 billion in last four quarters alone MacAfee found malware on Android.  Fueled by iPhone and iPad 402 stores, 150 outside U.S. Average revenue was $13.1 million. Hosted 91 million, up from 85 million a year ago, 17.5K per store per week.   $102 billion off shore. $2.5 billion in divdends for the March quarter.  More details... 1. Share buy back to $60 billion, up from $10 billion a year ago. Biggest by any company. We believe in Apple so strongly, we think this is a great investment. Will buy beginning this month. Will use cash to balance RSUs. 2. Increasing dividend to $3.05, a 15% increase. Our board of directors say May 16, 2013 for shareholders of record. Happy to be largest dividend payer of record. Continuing to generate cash off shore, to repatriate would cause tax problems. Expect to fund from U.S. cash, future U.S. cash, and borrowing. Will maintain cash liquidity. Between now and end of 2015, foreign cash and domestic borrowing to grow. Capital return to have attractive returns to shareholders.  GM to be 36% and 37% OIE $300 million Tax rate to be 26%  Mix, more iPads than we planned, including iPad Mini in 4-6 week channel range. Change in services policy, unfavorable adjustments. Looking forward, to be down 50-100 basis points sequentially. Two factors: Lots of leverage on lower revenue, diff product mix. These headwinds offset by better cost in the quarter.  iPad grew 138% y/y, new records for sell through for iPad and iPhone. Some y/y timing w/r/t channel inventory. If you look at revenue on sell through, up 18%, it's a bit better than it looks. As I said, in year ago quarter, launched iPhone 4S. This year iPhone 5 in Decvember, diff set of dynamics. Going forward, still see opp in China, great market, expect to have 22 stores in next two years. Plan to add more points to sell iPhones. Innovating in online store, adding diff functionality. China has an unusually large number of first time smartphone buyers and that's not lost on us. Have made iPhone 4 more afforadble to make it more attractive to first time buyers.  Tim: As you get further from launch, a lower mix than where it starts, expect on all products. We do want to grow faster, but we don't view as only measure of our health. Customer Sat importance to us.Usage importance ... Market share important, unit volume important, but other things important. We see enormous first time buyers coming to market, particularly in other parts of the country. We made the iPhone 4 even more affordable, making it attractive to first-time buyers. We're continuing to do that in other markets. The phone for the price point is an incredible value, get into the ecosystem with a really great product. iPod &mdash; was below Apple margins. 4 years later, half our profits. iPad mini another example. Believe in strategic decision. Only make great products, this precludes us from making with a cheap experience. Some of revenue and profits happen after we ship products. $4 billion in software and services. Confident in our strategy.  Rivals made trade offs for a larger display. Apple would not make these trade offs.  Tim: Because not fragmented, we can update iOS and substantial will update to the latest software. Also, because usage for iOS is so much higher, when we integrate things well, people use them a lot more. Just those concepts are huge from customer experience view. 
This afternoon, the market briefly lost $136 billion when someone hacked the Associated Press' Twitter feed and tweeted that the White House had been attacked and that President Obama had been injured. The market quickly regained its footing as everyone realized what was going on, but this incident serves as a reminder that the market moves in the blink of an eye, and is subject not only to the whims of millions, but also sometimes the recklessness of one. Market research firm Nanex LLC posted a gorgeous moving visual of what the drop looked like in high speed. What this chart shows is the depth of volume in the market when the false tweet broke and a ton of traders started to sell, then how the depth stabilized as the world realized that the news was inaccurate. Check it out below: Nanex LLC
After Apple's big earnings beat, the stocks jump nearly 5% after hours. Yahoo Finance This is good news for longsuffering shareholders, who have watched the stock crater, and fell below $390.
On Sunday, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) began furloughing all of its 47,000 employees for one day of work every other week, to meet spending cuts mandated by the sequestration. The FAA has warned passengers to expect delays, as a reduced number of air traffic controllers will space flights further apart to allow them to manage traffic safely. This chart shows the percentage of flights delayed at eight large airports around the country, for the two-month period before the staffing cuts, one week before, and immediately afterward. There's a noticeable spike in delays on April 21, the first day the FAA operated with reduced staff, and then a huge jump on Monday at all of the airports listed. Since the furloughs are scheduled to continue until the end of the fiscal year, in September, there's no reason to believe the number of delays will drop in the near future. Delay statistics were provided to Business Insider by FlightStats.com. Business Insider
Getty ImagesWorkers set up a KFC billboard in Beijing, China.Yum's Q1 2013 earnings results are out. The company reported earnings of $0.70 per share, greater than the $0.60 expected by analysts. Revenues, however, came in at $2.54 billion, slightly below the $2.56 billion analysts predicted. In the first quarter, same-store sales in the U.S. were up 2%. However, China same-store sales were down 20%. The company said negative media on the poultry supply in China because of the bird flu story has subsided, but it expects a volatile recovery in Chinese sales nonetheless. Click here for the full release &gt;
Here are the key bullet points: The full release is below. It has come in conjunction with earnings. ----------------- Apple¬Æ today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a significant increase to the Company‚Äôs program to return capital to shareholders. The Company expects to utilize a total of $100 billion of cash under the expanded program by the end of calendar 2015. This represents a $55 billion increase to the program announced last year and translates to an average rate of $30 billion per year from the time of the first dividend payment in August 2012 through December 2015. As part of this program, the Board has increased its share repurchase authorization to $60 billion from the $10 billion level announced last year. This is the largest single share repurchase authorization in history and is expected to be executed by the end of calendar 2015. Apple also expects to utilize about $1 billion annually to net-share-settle vesting restricted stock units. Additionally, the Board has approved a 15% increase in the Company‚Äôs quarterly dividend and today has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share, payable on May 16, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 13, 2013. Apple is among the largest dividend payers in the world, with annual payments of about $11 billion. In conjunction with the expanded return of capital program, the Company plans to borrow and expects to announce more details about this in the near future. The management team and Board of Directors will continue to review each element of the capital return program on an annual basis. ‚ÄúWe are very fortunate to be in a position to more than double the size of the capital return program we announced last year,‚Äù said Tim Cook, Apple‚Äôs CEO. ‚ÄúWe believe so strongly that repurchasing our shares represents an attractive use of our capital that we have dedicated the vast majority of the increase in our capital return program to share repurchases.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe will continue to return capital to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases, and cash used to net-share-settle vesting RSUs,‚Äù said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple‚Äôs CFO. ‚ÄúWe continue to generate cash in excess of our needs to operate the business, invest in our future, and maintain flexibility to take advantage of strategic opportunities.‚Äù This press release contains forward-looking statements including without limitation those regarding future business outlook and plans for dividends, share repurchases, and borrowing. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ. Risks and uncertainties include without limitation the effect of competitive and economic factors, and the Company‚Äôs reaction to those factors, on consumer and business buying decisions with respect to the Company‚Äôs products; continued competitive pressures in the marketplace; the ability of the Company to deliver to the marketplace and stimulate customer demand for new programs, products, and technological innovations on a timely basis; the effect that product introductions and transitions, changes in product pricing or mix, and/or increases in component costs could have on the Company‚Äôs gross margin; the inventory risk associated with the Company‚Äôs need to order or commit to order product components in advance of customer orders; the continued availability on acceptable terms, or at all, of certain components and services essential to the Company‚Äôs business currently obtained by the Company from sole or limited sources; the effect that the Company‚Äôs dependency on manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties may have on the quality, quantity or cost of products manufactured or services rendered; risks associated with the Company‚Äôs international operations; the Company‚Äôs reliance on third-party intellectual property and digital content; the potential impact of a finding that the Company has infringed on the intellectual property rights of others; the Company‚Äôs dependency on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers of the Company‚Äôs products; the effect that product and service quality problems could have on the Company‚Äôs sales and operating profits; the continued service and availability of key executives and employees; war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, and other circumstances that could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products; and unfavorable results of other legal proceedings. More information on potential factors that could affect the Company‚Äôs financial results is included from time to time in the ‚ÄúRisk Factors‚Äù and ‚ÄúManagement‚Äôs Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations‚Äù sections of the Company‚Äôs public reports filed with the SEC, including the Company‚Äôs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2012, its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 29, 2012, and its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2013 to be filed with the SEC. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information, which speak as of their respective dates. Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple has reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad.
Today, a hacker-produced Tweet from AP about an attack on the White House sent stocks crashing.¬† We went back and picked out other examples of "news" flashes on Twitter causing instant market reaction. Just recently, Josh Brown's live Tweet-porting from a Jeff Gundlach luncheon caused Chipotle shares to plummet. Here's the Tweet: NEW GUNDLACH SHORT IDEA: CHIPOTLE. "Gourmet Burrito is an oxymoron". Was saving it for Ira Sohn but couldn't resist mentioning. $CMG Google Finance Bill Gross and PIMCO probably deserve their own separate post on this theme. Here's a selection: Gross: #Portugal headed for a haircut ‚Äúvoluntary exchange‚Äù by private market seems inevitable. #Euro vulnerable in its wake. Bloomberg Gross also famously Tweeted he believed QE-3 would be revealed at the 2011 Jackson Hole conference. That Tweet has since been deleted. But here's what it did to markets: Yahoo¬† Last fall, portfolio manager Leo Isaak Tweeted from the middle of a David Einhorn presentation that the Greenlight Capital chief was short iron ore: Leo Isaak/BI We can't say for sure, but this is what ArcelorMittal trading looked like just afterward: Yahoo A fake Tweet from Muddy Waters head Carson Block in January caused a company called Audience Inc. to plunge 25% in a matter of moments; it ended the day down 4%: Google Finance A few weeks ago, Tesla CEO Elon Musk Tweeted the company would be announcing "really exciting" news¬†(it turned out to be a controversial financing scheme)... Really exciting @teslamotors announcement coming on Thursday. Am going to put my money where my mouth is in v major way. Yahoo Just this February, Doug Kass Tweeted some market-moving Apple news from a "gnome." High above the Alps my Gnome is hearing a rumor that Apple will announce a stock split at tomorrow's shareholder meeting.$AAPL Did we miss any?
Wikimedia CommonsWant to know what it takes to get into Columbia University, which had a 6.9% acceptance rate this year? We just got a clue thanks to Peter Jacobs at IvyGate, who¬†discovered an online folder where students who were accepted into Columbia's class of 2017 are sharing their Common App essays. Columbia is one of hundreds of colleges that accept the Common App, a standardized undergraduate college application. One of the most daunting parts of the application is the essay, where applicants are asked to write up to 650 words about nearly any subject under the sun. Unfortunately, the Google Drive folder was deleted shortly after we discovered it. But we picked ¬†out a few noteworthy opening paragraphs, below, and you can read more about what was in the essays over at IvyGate. The 'life as a movie':¬† Google Drive ¬†The dramatic opening: Google Drive The hipster paradox: Google Drive The extended resume: Google Drive The romance novel: Google Drive
APSenator Max Baucus (D-MT) has announced that he will not run for reelection in 2014. That means alot to Democrats, who want to keep their slim majority in the Senate. It also means alot to Wall Street. Baucus is the head of the Senate Finance Committee. Not to be confused with Senate Banking (that's where Sen. Elizabeth Warren is), Senate Finance handles everything from the budget and tax policy, to trade, entitlement spending and more. Baucus, in short, has tons of power. In terms of who should be rejoicing about Baucus' exit, Business Insider has heard some mixed things. "No one fought harder for the creation of SIGTARP than Senator Baucus, and he was one of the fiercest defenders of our mission and our independence," said former TARP czar Neil Barofsky. "Without his unflinching support, we never would have been able to do the job that we did." On the other hand, Baucus is also known for standing up for the Bush tax cuts, and voting against the Democrats' 2014 budget. He's also known for having former staffers littered all over K Street. According to the NYT, these 28 lobbyists make good money for their ability to access Baucus, and are employed by corporations ranging from McDonald's to tobacco company, Altria. If that doesn't sway you in one direction or another, it's worth knowing that the top 3 donors of Baucus' career (he's been in office since 1989) are financial firms according the Center for Responsive Politics site, OpenSecrets.org. In fact, you'll note that half of his top donors are financial firms. Here's the top 20 breakdown: Center for Responsive Politics, OpenSecrets.org According to Washington chatter, Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) is the mostly replacement for Baucus. There are no financial institutions in his top five donor list. Only accounting firms Delloitte and Pricewaterhouse Cooper make it into the top ten. Most importantly, there are no investment banks on the top 20 list at all. From the Center of Responsive Politics' OpenSecrets.org: Center for Responsive Politics, OpenSecrets.org It's not hard to see that there could be some big changes coming if Wyden fills in for Baucus. Brace yourselves.
Screenshot via BloombergTVBillionaire Marc Lasry, who runs distressed debt hedge fund Avenue Capital, will not be the ambassador to France, CNBC's Kayla Tausche reported.¬† According to Tausche, he told investors in a letter that he will not be the next ambassador to France. It's unclear why at this time. There has been speculation for months now that Lasry would be the next ambassador. Just last month, Bill Clinton told Politico that Lasry was told he was going to be the next ambassador.¬† The hedge fund was also preparing for life without Lasry.
Flickr / BeauGilesVolatility spiked and markets plunged on a false tweet. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,719, +152.2 pts, +1.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,578, +16.2 pts, +1.0%NASDAQ: 3,269, +35.7 pts, +1.1% And now the top stories:
AP Photo/Federal Bureau of InvestigationDzhokhar Tsarnaev admitted to FBI agents that he and his brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan, detonated bombs at the Boston Marathon last week and killed an MIT police officer, according to a report in the Boston Globe. However, he had not yet been read his Miranda rights when he admitted to the bombings, meaning that Tsarnaev's defense team will almost certainly challenge the evidence if it is brought in court. The 19-year-old Tsarnaev was formally charged on Monday¬†with¬†one count of using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and one count of malicious destruction of property with an explosive device. Tsarnaev could face the death penalty. According to the criminal complaint filed against Tsarnaev on Monday, the victim of the brothers' carjacking told investigators that one of the brothers told him he had been responsible for the bombings. The carjacking victim is considered a key witness in the case. "Did you hear about the Boston explosion?" the carjacker asked his victim, according to the complaint. "I did that." According to the complaint, the carjacker then removed a magazine from the gun, showed the victim that he had a bullet in it, and re-inserted the magazine. "I am serious," he said. Police sources told the Globe, meanwhile, that Tamerlan Tsarnaev threatened the victim when they carjacked his vehicle. ‚ÄúWe just killed a cop," he said, according to the report. We blew up the marathon. And now we‚Äôre going to New York. Don‚Äôt [expletive] with us.‚Äù Tsarnaev reportedly told police on Tuesday that he and his brother acted alone and out of religious motivation.
This post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>¬† I was pretty new to Bank of America, running, among other things, its US Trust division. Bank of America had a new CEO, and we were new to each other. A cocktail party for the ‚Äúwho‚Äôs who‚Äù of US Trust clients at my home, with the CEO as guest of honor, seemed like a good idea at the time. I‚Äôve done this type of thing dozens of times. We have a curving staircase in our home that provides the perfect ‚Äústage,‚Äù if you will, to address the assembled crowd. Also in our home we have a very sweet, very thin, very ugly, (usually) very shy black cat. (See picture above, with her in her Easter garb. Yes, her tooth does stick out, her whiskers are crooked, and there is something wrong with her eye.) In all of the client events I‚Äôve had in my home, she‚Äôs been too shy to make an appearance. But at this one, she came down the stairs, unbeknownst to the CEO, who was delivering words of wisdom on the state of the economy and the state of the bank‚Äôs fortress balance sheet. She planted herself on a step that put her at the level of his head. If you were looking at him, you were looking at her. So the whole party was looking at her. Ok, fair enough. Wish I had locked her away. Oh well‚Ä¶.. And then she turned her head, looked at the CEO for a bit, looked back at the audience, looked at the CEO ... kicked up her leg ... and began cleaning her nether-regions. He talked, she cleaned ... he talked some more, she cleaned some more ... he paused, she paused ... he started in again, she started in again, both with admirable gusto and stamina ... Let‚Äôs just say she got her nether-regions good and clean. I‚Äôm not sure the CEO ever knew what happened, or why there was so much ‚Äúcoughing‚Äù from the assembled VIPs. This is the part of this post in which I am supposed to tell how this seemingly mortifying event turned out for the good. But, before too long, I was ‚Äúrestructured out‚Äù of the bank, so not every story has a Cinderella ending. But this one always reminds me how much I‚Äôve enjoyed the journey along the way ‚Äì how much I‚Äôve enjoyed it, even when I wasn‚Äôt enjoying it ‚Äì in part because the real ‚Äúlaugh until you can‚Äôt breathe‚Äù moments show up at unexpected times and in unexpected ways.
From Deutsche Bank's "House View," here's a bunch of things that are going wrong or could get worse in Europe: Deutsche Bank
I just lost my cord for my iPhone 5, so I had to get a new one.† I stopped into the neighborhood Radio Shack on the way back from Chop't and got one. I noticed that they were offering "$50 off!" an iPhone 5, so I asked the Radio Shack guy about that. He said that promotion was a Sprint thing. (I remember a few years ago when Apple never let anyone discount its products or offer rebates. I thought that was a smart strategy, one that reaffirmed the iPhone as a "premium" phone. I've noticed with some concern that Apple seems to have abandoned that strategy.) I also asked the Radio Shack guy what kinds of phones people are buying. He said, "the Samsung Galaxy S3." I asked him about the iPhone. The Radio Shack guy said that they were still selling some iPhones--implying that sales have fallen off--but said the price-point of the Samsung is a big draw right now. He then explained that Samsung is selling the Galaxy S3, a phone that many people thought was as good as or better than the iPhone 5, for $50 right now (with a contract). And he said lots of folks choose to save the $100-$150 vs. the iPhone 5. Now, it's no mystery why Samsung is selling the Galaxy S3 for $50 right now... Because the Galaxy S4 is about to come out. But it doesn't matter why Samsung is selling the S3 for $50. What matters is that Samsung is selling the S3 for $50. And at least in the United States, at this particular Radio Shack, the $50 price point is making people opt for the S3 over the much-more-expensive iPhone 5. That's bad news for Apple in three ways. First, it might mean that Apple's second-calendar-quarter iPhone sales might be getting hammered (we'll find out when Apple reports earnings). Second, it might be an indication that price-points for premium top-of-the-line smartphones are starting to break down.†Eventually, at some point, these price points probably†will†break down. And, when they do, Apple's profit margin will compress. Third, at least at this Radio Shack, it's an indication that the Apple iPhone isn't worth paying more for. Yes, this is just one Radio Shack in one city in one country. No, we should not extrapolate much from that. Radio Shack probably serves the most price-sensitive clientele in the country, and most people who want an iPhone probably shop at an Apple store or a carrier store. (Verizon, for example, says that most of the phones it sold last quarter were iPhones). But it's another discouraging data point ahead of Apple's big earnings call. (See: "Bracing For Disaster: How Bad Will Apple's Earnings Be?") And I say that as an Apple shareholder! By the way, the Radio Shack guy said no one is buying the new BlackBerry. SEE ALSO: The Bull Case For Apple! Disclosure: Last week, when Apple's stock crashed to a new low of $390,†I bought some. I think stock-picking is an idiotic strategy for individual investors, and I almost never do it. But, sometimes, for fun, I put my money where my mouth is. You can read about†the logic behind my Apple purchase†here..
Update: Our full earnings coverage is here. Below is a preview. Original: It's been a bad year for Apple. The stock is down 27%. Every day an analyst slashes his or her price target on the stock, as well as lowering EPS and revenue estimates. The world has come to realization that the iPhone market as currently constructed is hitting saturation. The next wave of growth is going to be very hard for Apple to find because its revenue and profits are so gigantic that growing from here will be a challenge. Whatever product Apple makes next will not be as lucrative as the iPhone. Then, there's the margins. Those are going to come down when the product mix shifts to lower margin iPad Minis, and potentially a lower priced iPhone. Samsung stole Apple's spotlight all quarter. Apple hasn't had a single product announcement since October of last year. It doesn't appear to have any new products lined up until June at the earliest. The only time the management team speaks is during earnings calls. (With the exception of a round of interviews Phil Schiller did right before Samsung released the S4.) Lately, earnings calls have not been great. Apple is missing analyst estimates, something that never happened in the past. Tonight, some people are expecting Apple to miss its own guidance. If that were to happen, watch out. It's going to be a mess. But, here's the good news for Apple.¬† Tonight could be the low point. It could produce relatively bad results. It could put out revenue guidance that's so low analysts go scrambling to Excel to make their projections even lower. After this earnings report, the future looks very good for Apple. Those events will give Apple an opportunity to reset the narrative on the company. It can get back to talking about why people love iPhones and iPads. Because while it's been silent, the story has shifted. You would think Apple is going out of business the way people talk about the company right now. It's not. Even in this quarter, which is going to be a rough one, Apple is expected to generate $42.3 billion in revenue. For some context, Google's total 2012 revenue was $50 billion. Tonight, Apple has a chance to hit the reset button. It can lower expectations while hinting about its plans for the future. Here's what sell-side analysts are looking for from Apple, via Gene Munster: Munster also adds that the buy-side is thinking iPhones come in at 35 million units. It also thinks the gross margin is 38%.
Bloomberg TV screencapFormer Texas Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX) weighed in on Bitcoin, the controversial alternative digital currency, today on†Bloomberg TV with Erik Schatzker and Sara Eisen.† "To tell you the truth, it's little bit too complicated. If I can't put it in my pocket, I have some reservations about that." Bloomberg TV interviewed Paul on a variety of topics. † Paul, who is known for being a goldbug, said he's†"concerned about the erraticness of the dollar. The dollar is up, the dollar is down. We print a lot of dollars. The dollar gets devalued. That is really the concern. If people think the gold price up and down is a reflection of something wrong with gold, no, I say it is something wrong with the dollar." Here's the transcript courtesy of Bloomberg TV:† Paul on whether he's concerned about the drop in gold: "I am concerned about the erraticness of the dollar. The dollar is up, the dollar is down. We print a lot of dollars. The dollar gets devalued. That is really the concern. If people think the gold price up and down is a reflection of something wrong with gold, no, I say it is something wrong with the dollar. People have been expressing concerns over the past couple of months about gold, but compared to what? Compared to where gold went from when the Fed took over where it was $20 per ounce compared to what has happened in the past?...I remember in the 1970's when they finally allow people to own gold and it went from $35 to $200 rather rapidly, and then it lost 50%. Then it went up to $800. To compare a couple of months or a couple of weeks and forget about a bull market in gold price in relationship to the dollar for 12 years. I would say the comparison is not an authentic comparison. What you have to look at is the inflation. Inflation is an increased supply of money. Since 2008 they have quadrupled the supply of Federal Reserve credit and are buying $85 billion per month of treasury bills. At the same time last week they bought $60 billion. That is the inflation. That is the distortion of the market and that's why we're not getting economic growth." On whether we're seeing the opposite of inflation right now:† "It depends on how you define it. Inflation is when you increase the supply of money. Bond prices go up. Stocks are going up. Housing prices are starting to go back up again. Education costs are going up, but the gross distortion is the effect that the inflation of the money does on the price of money and interest rates and how it causes economic problems and why you don't get economic growth. You have to look at the malinvestment and destruction that occurs when you mess around with the price of money. It's not just the CPI because the CPI is not reliable. The government fudges that as well. They change the way they measure it. Free-market economists say it is going up about 8%. A lot of deception going on out there. I was just talking to someone on getting social security, they're not happy with the purchasing power of the dollar and you can't tell me there is no inflation." On what the real value of gold is: "No one knows it other than what is happening at that moment. The Supply and demand of gold is very important. That is why it is money, because gold is used elsewhere and it is commodity. The supply and money of paper is the culprit. That is the one that is causing all the trouble. People ignore the supply and demand of paper. Yes, paper goes up and goes down, but look at the long term purchasing power of the dollar. It has been devastating. At the rate they are printing the money, you will see a continual devastation of the value of the dollar. You will not see economic growth until you liquidate the debt and liquidate the malinvestment out there. Sure, you will see housing go up again, but you will see more bubble formation because prices go up does not mean there is economic growth. We are a long way from the correction, mainly because they ignore the definition of inflation and ignore the need to liquidate debt and the need to liquidate and get rid of all the malinvestment. One good comparison is look at the price of stocks and gold. Although in the past couple of weeks it has changed a bit. The price of the stock market has crashed, because you used to be able to buy the Dow with 44 ounces of gold. Now it is under 10 ounces of gold. It will probably go a lot lower." † "I think the way gold is acting it acts like a market does. You get ahead of itself, there has to be a correction. The amazing thing is not the correction, the amazing thing is the biggest bull market of the century when one commodity went up for 12 years straight. You cannot ignore that. To say, well there has to be an adjustment because prices are subjectively decided by many factors so you cannot predict exactly where the money will go. Unfortunately right now the money that the Fed creates goes into reserves, further distorting the markets and pumping up prices of bonds, further building a bubble that will burst because our economic growth is not there and we are in every bit as much trouble of Europe and Greece. Someday there will be a lack of confidence in our dollar and you will see the correction in the paper a lot more severe than you see the correction in the dollar-gold ratio." On Bitcoin: "To tell you the truth, it's little bit too complicated. If I can't put it in my pocket, I have some reservations about that. But it has been designed in the free market. If it is a means of exchange, it would not ever be illegal. You shouldn't regulate it in the free market, but I do not think it fits the definition of money, which has been around for 6000 years. People want to see something they can know what it is, they can define it, touch it and put in their pocket. If you do not have a computer and someone running the computer and calculations, you don't have it. I am not a big supporter of that, but I am not opposed to it. I admit, I do not fully understand what is going on with it." On whether the Boston marathon tragedy is an opportunity to fix immigration: "There is always an opportunity because there is a need for it, but I do not think they will solve any problems at all because they are too big and complicated and very much involved with economics. I don't think you can deal with immigration unless you deal with the welfare state. It is an incentive for people not to work. It is an incentive for others to come and get free services. Also, I think it is more important that we look at our work permit, letting people come in and work, and put aside the idea of how we will give automatic citizenship. That becomes a political football because everyone is lining up. Who is going to get the vote? One side says that we are going to get all the votes -- we want them all to be legalized. I think you have to deal with the economic policy and really open up the opportunities for people to come back and forth and to work, but not to insist everyone will become a citizen because I do not think that will work under these circumstances." On how Republicans will win the next election if there is no solidarity: "I think the solidarity is the same problem in Republican and Democratic parties. It's ongoing. There's always factions. Of course, I want to unify everyone in the belief and the cause of liberty. Sound money, balanced budget, the constitution. So yes, there's a good way to unify them, but unity for the sake of unity makes no sense whatever. The old guard are losing their way. The party is getting smaller. It is splintered. They will have to face up to the fact that if they talk about limited government and personal liberties, they have to believe in it and do something about it because the young people will not be fooled. If this continues, the party will become smaller." On whether Rand Paul will run for president in 2016: "You'll have to ask him. I have no idea what he wants to do." Watch the Bloomberg TV interview below:†
Earlier, the AP sent out an erroneous tweet reporting that U.S. President Barack Obama had been injured by two explosions at the White House. Markets instantly tanked on the news. Of course, a minute later, when the AP confirmed that the tweet was false, the stock market bounced right back to where it was trading before the tweet hit the stream. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale FX strategist Sebastien Galy writes in an email to clients that this episode¬†"will prove a good test of the positioning of the markets." "You now have the sensitivity of the markets to a large negative (fictitious) shock from which to deduce the positioning of the market," says Galy. The most notable moves seem to be the S&amp;P 500, which instantly fell 1% on the news, the VIX, which jumped 9%, and the dollar-yen exchange rate, which instantly dropped 0.7% (meaning the dollar weakened against the yen). The takeaway, according to Galy? "The market is very long equities and short yen." Below is an intraday chart of USD/JPY. Thinkorswim
With the announcement that MF Global Trustee (and former FBI chief) Louis J. Freeh will charge Jon Corzine for failing in his duty to oversee the company, the meaning of Jon Corzine shifts once again. Prior to this announcement, I understood the meaning of Corzine primarily through the following investment aphorism:[1] ‚ÄúOne of the worst things that can happen to you or a client is an early investment that wins big. You will become overconfident of your abilities and proceed to lose much more in the future through imprudent decisions than you initially made on the winner.‚Äù Corzine‚Äôs career is the epitome of this wisdom, although he combined it with an uncanny ability to ‚Äúfail upwards.‚Äù¬† A few salient points in his timeline illustrate his pattern. The 1994 failure in Goldman‚Äôs Fixed Income department 1. He made partner as a government bond trader in the ‚Äò80s, and later managing Goldman‚Äôs entire bond trading operation, but Corzine ramped up fixed income risk just when the wrong moment hit. Interest rates rose sharply in 1994, prompting a bloody massacre of fixed income departments on Wall Street, including an existential threat to Goldman‚Äôs survival, due to losses.[2]¬† Instead of firing Corzine for his astonishing imprudence, the partnership felt it had no choice but to elevate Corzine to Chief Executive, all the better to unwind the level of risk in the fixed income department.¬† His elevation illustrated another finance aphorism:[3] ‚ÄúIf you owe the bank $1,000., they own you.¬† If you owe the bank $100 million, you own them.‚Äù Corzine, as described in William Cohan‚Äôs Money and Power, How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World, in a sense ‚Äòowned the bank,‚Äô as the partnership could not afford to lose him due to its exposure to rising interest rates.¬† He was a massive risk taker in the lead-up to 1994, making extraordinary money in 1992 and 1993.¬† But when it all turned bad, instead of being fired, Corzine was rewarded with the top job at Goldman, paired with Hank Paulson to temper Corzine‚Äôs risk appetite.[4] Summer of 1998, Long Term Capital Management, and Corzine‚Äôs attempted rogue portfolio trade 2. With the August 1998 Russian ruble-bond default and Solomon Brothers‚Äô swap desk liquidation, most of Wall Street faced major exposure to the insolvent Long Term Capital Management, the first Too-Big-To-Fail hedge fund.¬† The New York Federal Reserve attempted a private sector ‚Äúbail-in,‚Äù requiring cooperation and an infusion of capital from each of the Wall Street firms, via a Godfather-style meeting of the families, hosted by the New York Fed. Corzine, however, nearly managed to personally blow up the whole bail-in, achieving the rare trick of pissing off not only the rest of Wall Street but the entire Goldman partnership as well. While the Fed urged cooperation between banks, Corzine attempted a sideswipe of the portfolio out from under the rest of the Street.¬† He secretly negotiated a purchase of Long Term Capital‚Äôs entire portfolio using Goldman‚Äôs capital[5], presumably believing the firm could make a profit by taking on the risk of the illiquid trades. This attempt, ultimately unsuccessful, came at a delicate time for financial markets, suffering unexpectedly large losses on Russia and exposure to LTCM. Goldman, in particular, had been planning an IPO that Fall, which Corzine‚Äôs actions undermined.¬† The IPO was delayed by market conditions, but also by the frightening style of rogue trading risk which Corzine engendered with his move.¬† The firm leadership of Paulson, along with deputy heads John Thain and John Thornton, engineered a coup against Corzine‚Äôs leadership as a result. Corzine seemingly never saw a risk he didn‚Äôt try to take, which ultimately proved too much for the partnership.¬† They allowed him to stay nominally in charge through Goldman‚Äôs IPO in June 1999, with the understanding that Corzine would be professionally sidelined after that.¬† His political career began shortly after. MF Global and lack of risk controls 3. After unremarkable stints as Senator and Governor of New Jersey[6], Corzine landed the top job at MF Global, a medium-sized brokerage. We now know Corzine continued his pattern of 1994 and 1998, in which he doubled-down and tripled-down on risks, in the face of extraordinary losses.¬† Although his trading led to huge losses, somehow his ability to fail upwards did not derail his own personal career. Up until MF Global became the eighth largest bankruptcy of all time, the meaning of Corzine seemed to be about his almost Forrest Gump-like success, in the face of amazing failure.¬† His Midwestern affable, bearded, demeanor masked an unlimited appetite for investment risk.¬† Sometimes it worked, sometimes it didn‚Äôt, but either way Corzine kept on moving upward. We know in retrospect that Corzine‚Äôs pattern of unrelenting risk-taking continued at MF Global, and that ultimately some wrong-way bets on European sovereign bonds pushed the firm into chapter 11 bankruptcy. We also know some $1.6 Billion in customer funds were misplaced in the final days of MF Global, for which I‚Äôve argued Corzine should be in jail. A new meaning of Jon Corzine Following the debacle of MF Global, and in the light of the 2008 credit crisis, however, Corzine‚Äôs career came to represent something darker and more insidious. Unlike failed chief executives Dick Fuld of Lehman Brothers, or Jimmy Cayne of Bear Stearns, Corzine actually oversaw the misplacement of customer funds, not just the destruction of shareholder value. We forgive ‚Äì mostly ‚Äì the leaders who drove their firms into the ground through errors in judgment, or risk management, like Fund and Cayne.¬† Shareholders lost, but shareholders took equity risk and our system rightly allows for losses like that. Fuld and Cayne lost personal fortunes invested in their own firms, as they should have, and suffered for the loss in their reputation.[7] But we should not forgive those who commit the fiduciary sin of misplacing customer funds, like Corzine. I make a distinction between these so that we do not lose sight of the different types of losses, and the consequences.¬† It bothered me, up until now, that Corzine was not pursued more aggressively for the loss of customer funds. Too Big To Fail executives For me, Corzine additionally offered the ultimate lie to the public about executive compensation.¬† Namely, if you‚Äôre so essential to your business that you deserve, say, $12.1 million per year in good times,[8] how can you not retain the liability and responsibility when things go horribly wrong? In what way did you earn the upside profitability, but not deserve the downside liability? If you‚Äôre so good at what you do, then you need to be held personally liable when $1.6 Billion in customer funds go missing. All of which is to say that I‚Äôm extremely pleased to see MF Global Trustee suing Corzine for his responsibility in the failure of his firm. MF Global, the firm, was not Too-Big-To-Fail when it went under in September 2011. Jon Corzine, the executive, until now represented a type of CEO who could earn profits and bonuses in the good years, without suffering personal consequences when things went wrong. With the latest news, however, I‚Äôm encouraged that at least one Too-Big-To-Fail executive will suffer the consequences. ¬† Please also see Arrest Jon Corzine Now And Update on Jon Corzine by the MF Global Trustee And One more rant on Jon Corzine [1] All credit for this aphorism to financial planner David Hultstrom, whose ‚ÄòRuminations on Being a Financial Professional‚Äô is the best collection of pithy and wise investment advice I‚Äôve ever seen collected in one place.¬† See especially pages 9-12. [2] Incidentally, I‚Äôm not in the prognostication business, but when you look at this simple chart of fixed income over the past 50 years, you see we‚Äôre at the very bottom of the rate cycle with very little to go from here.¬† No risk manager alive has ever dealt with a massive move upward in rates, only short spurts in a secular move to lower rates.¬† When the trend reverses, it will by U-G-L-Y. [3] Attributed in different variations to John Paul Getty as well as John Maynard Keynes. [4] I didn‚Äôt work in Goldman‚Äôs fixed income department until 1997, at which point Corzine ran the firm as senior partner, along with Hank Paulson from investment banking.¬† Corzine was the bearded, affable, sweater-vest guy who would occasionally come down to the bond trading floor. [5] Matched with capital from Warren Buffett‚Äôs Berkshire Hathaway. [6] An associate of mine who dealt with Governor Corzine frequently complained about Corzine‚Äôs leadership in New Jersey.¬† Although in agreement with his political persuasion, he found Corzine unwise politically and inconsistent to deal with. [7] I actually wish we had more Japanese-style ‚Äúbegging of forgiveness‚Äù for corporate failure by chief executives.¬† The promise of public shaming might help temper risk appetite. [8] Corzine‚Äôs scheduled final executive package, before he wisely offered it back, in the wake of the Ch. 11 filing of MF Global.
Story of the day: The AP twitter feed was hacked, and "reported" that there was an explosion at The White House, injuring Barack Obama. The tweet looked like this. It came just after 1 PM ET. Twitter/@AP Of course the story was false, though it remained uncorrected for several minutes. Eventually an AP employee tweeted that the company's account had been compromised. But in that time, the stock market briefly tanked. The Dow had been up over 100, but it then lost 150 points. The market did recover. So how did that happen that a tweet caused the market to dive? It's not that everyone on Wall Street is watching AP's Twitter. But here was our inbox from when it happened. Brokers instantly started emailing everyone with the headline, before walking it back. We've blacked out the names of the folks passing on the tweet. Business Insider Bottom line. Stuff moves really fast from Twitter to trader inboxes and then to the market itself.
Two Associated Press¬†Twitter accounts were hacked Tuesday, sending out a tweet claiming that President Barack Obama had been injured in explosions at the White House:¬† Twitter/@AP Within minutes, AP Corporate Communications reported that the tweet was false. That is a bogus @ap tweet. A few moments after the tweet, the AP's White House correspondent Julie Pace began the first question at the White House press briefing by confirming that the account was hacked.¬† "I appreciate you saying that," White House Press Secretary Jay Carney replied. "The President is fine, I just spoke with him.¬† The AP Twitter account has been suspended. ¬† UPDATE:¬† The so-called "Syrian Electronic Army," a group of pro-regime hackers, is claiming credit for hacking AP's official Twitter feeds. Ops! @ap get owned by Syrian Electronic Army! #SEA #Syria #ByeByeObama twitter.com/Official_SEA6/‚Ä¶ This appears to be the organization's third successful hack of an American media outlet in just over one week. Over the weekend, the group claimed credit for similar attacks on Twitter feeds run by CBS News, and last week, the group successfully attacked NPR's content management system and Twitter feed.¬†
Whoa.¬† Major volatility in the markets. After being up strongly for much of the morning, stocks collapsed following a false tweet from the AP with the text "Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured." This report was quickly denied, and people from the AP have now clarified that their Twitter account had been hacked. Markets came all of the way back after that. Here's a look at the Dow via Bloomberg. The Tweet was sent at 1:07 PM ET. Bloomberg
via CorcoranCurbed reports that the Soho penthouse belonging to billionaire businessman Leonard Stern is back on the market.¬† Stern, who NYU's business school is named after, purchased the place located at 459 West Broadway for¬†$14.25 million, the report said.¬† It's currently being listed at $17.25 million.¬† It's a stunning apartment and now we're going to take a tour.¬†
Getty Images/Matthew LloydThe Washington Post's Brad Plumer points us to a note from Capital Economics' Paul Dales that makes a fairly radical assertion: America's shale boom has barely moved the needle on domestic economic growth.¬† While the industry accounts for 2.5% of overall GDP, it's contributed just 0.6 percentage points (ppts) to the 7.6% rise in GDP since the recession, he says. Exploration and production investment¬†has increased by 56%, but this represents only a $36 billion chunk of to real GDP, or 0.3 ppts of the increase. Nor have falling natural gas prices really done much (Goldman's Jan Hatzius has previously addressed this). Dales estimates producers have only saved about $70 billion, or¬†0.8% of total wage costs; while households have only saved $20 billion, or 0.2% of real incomes. Here's the graph showing that energy-intensive industries have seen zero or even negative output growth since the recession. Capital Economics Dales concludes: Overall, the boom in domestic energy production is responsible for only a small part of the rise in GDP since the recession and it does not explain why the US has outperformed most of its closest competitors. Instead, the recovery in US GDP since the recession has been driven by an improved performance across a wide range of sectors, including motor vehicle production and professional business services.¬† We should add that there are lots of places where the impact has been real.¬†Oil imports are¬†plummeting. The boom has¬†boosted employment¬†in many places. And it is¬†reducing energy costs. But Dales' point is that in aggregate, it may not be doing as much as many have been saying.
If a trader, presenting a big pension fund or other large institution, wants to sell a large number of a particular stock, but doesn't want to raise a red flag among other traders and disturb the market, he or she may chose to make the trade anonymously. 'Dark Pools,' or private trading venues frequently used by large financial institutions, have become an increasingly powerful force in today's global economy and financial markets. The private trading venues, are often criticized for a lack of transparency and have become a major threat to the business interests of public exchanges as more and more transactions are taking place in these dark pools. Lit Markets, like the NYSE Euronext, have recently stepped up their efforts to regulate dark pools. To learn more about how Lit Markets and Dark Pools function, watch the explainer below:¬† Produced by Daniel Goodman and Kamelia Angelova
flickr/Adam CroweBitcoin ñ the controversial online currency that has soared in value this year ñ has captured the imagination of those in the investment community that see it as an opportunity to watch a classic "bubble" situation develop in real time. Today, Bitcoin is trading around $135. At its peak a few weeks ago, it reached $266. In January, it was trading at $15. For a big group of investors, though, Bitcoin seems to be anything but a bubble. "The most provocative feature of this dramatic rags-to-riches-to-rags-to-riches yoyo is that it is actually a diversion from the upcoming main event," says ConvergEx Group Chief Market Strategist Nick Colas. "Venture capitalists see a much larger narrative surrounding Bitcoin, and the capital they can put to work shaping the future of this novel currency far exceeds the $1.4 billion of Bitcoin value currently in the system." Chris Dixon of Andreessen Horowitz, for example, recently said in a blog post that Bitcoin-like technologies were ushering in "the third era" of currency. Andreessen Horowitz is also putting its money where its mouth is. Earlier this month, the venture capital firm announced an investment in OpenCoin, a Bitcoin competitor. Colas says venture capitalists look for three things when making an investment: "a huge (usually +$1 billion) market size, a disruptive technology, and lots of ways to play those two features." That's Bitcoin, more or less. In a note to clients, Colas highlights the merits of Bitcoin for venture capitalists, comparing it to tech success stories like Amazon and Netflix: Those thousands of tech-savvy folks who run the bitcoin system have created a new and very low cost method for transferring money around the world. For the potential 25 bitcoin reward of solving one of those 10 minute puzzles, they keep track of all the transactions created by users around the world. The current system for money transfers ñ banks, brokers and other financial institutions ñ want a lot more for their efforts than a few thousand dollars six times an hour. Bitcoin is to money what Amazon is to retail or Netflix is to video content ñ a much more efficient way to meet the needs of millions of people around the world. In order to make Bitcoin the "next big thing," however, Colas says VCs need to focus on remedying the security issues that have caused so much price volatility in the market for the virtual currency. The world's largest Bitcoin exchange has been subjected to multiple attacks by hackers in recent months, which almost invariably always causes a panic in the thin, fledgling market. The other problem presented by Bitcoin for VCs, says Colas, is the currency's inherent anonymity. While this is arguably a positive factor for users of Bitcoin, it could be a problem on the regulatory front, given world governments' increased focus on cracking down on funding sources for terrorism and the illegal drug trade. "My humble recommendation to venture capitalists to avoid further regulation or an outright ban is to quickly convince global charities to use the Bitcoin system for both donations and money transfers," writes Colas. "It is, after all, ideally suited to the purpose of taking in money in rich countries and efficiently moving it abroad to places with limited financial infrastructure." He points to figures from the National Philanthropic Trust indicating that Americans gave $218 billion to charity in 2011, as well as the one million-plus U.S.-based charities who "presumably ... all have bank accounts to process payments and would like a more efficient way to distribute funds." It's in the hands of the VCs now.
Yesterday Goldman Sachs put out an extensive report on the bond bubble debate. What we really loved about it was this awesome chart on all the most important bubbles you should know (h/t finansakrobat). Sure, the trick is to catch them before they pop, but they're interesting after the fact too. Check it out below:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Bubbles                                            Goldman Sachs                                            Infographic                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                        _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r-bmc', container:'taboola-bmc', placement:'bmc'});                                                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						5									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        All The Notable Bubbles In History In One Chart    All The Notable Bubbles In History In One Chart        Stories that pop.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonSometimes it's hard to tell whether a CEO is really in trouble, or if someone's just looking for attention. Without a connection on the board, it's impossible to know for sure.¬† Still, there are a few things to look for that let you distinguish situations like Ron Johnson's, where an exit is likely, from the talk about Apple's Tim Cook, which is just speculation.¬† People start jumping ship Relatively few executives will leave when they feel a turnaround's likely and they can claim part of the credit. But nobody wants to go down with a sinking company. High-profile executive departures usually aren't a good sign, especially when they come in waves. Taking forever to replace a high-level departure could be another worrying sign. Research from Northwestern's Jennifer Brown and David Matsa finds that companies in distress have a big problem finding talent. The critics have muscle There's a world of difference between comments from anonymous Wall Street sources, from the actual analysts who cover the company, and activism from big-time investors.¬† Some external sources are more credible than others. Ex-JC Penney CEO and retail legend Allen Questrom's criticism of Ron Johnson struck a chord, for example. But criticism means more when there's significant money involved, or when people who cover a company for a living and for investors' profit start to get worried. Particularly, when a large activist investor gets involved, like Dan Loeb did at Yahoo¬†under Carol Bartz, it means that not only do they think the CEO's bad, they think they have enough muscle to get them out. Frequently, they do. ¬† Things get leaky The first sign of unrest is when stories start coming out about a negative company culture or problems in the company on the ground, from retail workers or low-level employees. That doesn't mean all that much. You can find a disaffected employee wanting to vent just about anywhere. When those complaints and sources start to come from senior management, you have a bigger issue.¬† Multiple executives at JC Penney, for example, had complaints about Johnson's management style, the lack of transparency, and a culture of fear and anxiety.¬† There are crystal clear strategic errors It's one thing to underperform in a tough market or due to long-term trends. It's another entirely if a signature acquisition fails, or if a major initiative fails. The fact that customers were alienated by Ron Johnson's changes to discounting and merchandise highlighted the fact that he didn't test them first.¬† Stories are incredibly powerful. When there's a narrative of failure or bad management, the media, investors, and customers can latch onto, it can be difficult to stop.¬† They miss the numbers people really care about Whether its the sales of a signature product, profit margins, or specific costs, there are benchmark numbers that people care about for different companies, beyond just revenue and earnings per share. In JC Penney's case, it was same-store sales which fell by a staggering 32% in one year. Another sign is when they miss their board's goals in addition to Wall Street's. A board takes a longer-term view of the company than Wall Street's quarter-by-quarter approach, and has deeper access to the company's operations and finances. When their goals are repeatedly missed, it's a big warning sign. How can you know what a board's expectations are? Every year, public companies file a proxy statement (DEF 14A) with the SEC. It outlines what CEOs are paid, what parts of their compensation are performance-based, how it determines stock grants, and so on. When a CEO makes or exceeds their goals, they'll often get some extra stock or cash. When they don't, those numbers drop. And when they miss badly, even their base pay can get cut. That's usually a pretty good guide to the board's sentiment.¬† A board member speaks publicly This is the final straw ‚Äî the sign that there's about to be a change and that you should plan accordingly. The board, in the end, makes the actual decision. Anonymous grumblings and rumors are one thing, but public criticism signals that things have come to a head. It was pretty much over for Ron Johnson once Bill Ackman, a major JCP shareholder, a board member, and Johnson's most prominent supporter, publicly commented on his underperformance.¬† Ackman spoke on a Friday, and Johnson was out on Monday. ¬†
Ralph Orlowski / GettyEuropean markets had a gigantic day. Italy gained 2.9%. France rallied 3.5%. Germany gained 2.4%. What's behind the big gains? There seem to be three big stories. One of them is new comments from European Commission President JosÈ Manuel Barroso about limits to austerity. There's an idea afoot that the austerity movement is crumbling, and these latest comments underscore the idea that maybe some growth-related policies will come. The other two factors behind the rally: bank of Japan easing, the weak German PMI report, and the notion that this would inspire easing from the European Central Bank: We emailed with Frederik Ducrozet of Credit Agricole, who writes: I think expected ECB easing due to German/core weakness is one reason behind the rally indeed although it can hardly be the only one. Rather, investors are probably still digesting the long-term implications of the BoJ move, including its ramifications for other central banks, in a liquidity-fuelled environment leaving everyone searching for yields. We have seen some Japanese/Asian investors returning to Europe and the periphery, and together with a still very solid base of local bond investors in Italy and Spain may explain why those two countries in particular are benefiting the most without any good fundamental news (except the less uncertain Italian situation, maybe). The notion that a bad German manufacturing report would be a good thing is a tragic. The European economy has been in horrible shape for years, but pro-growth ideas are incredibly few and far between. And although the ECB deserves credit for putting a halt to the European sovereign debt crisis, the ECB hasn't done much else on the growth front, in part because of strong German opposition to action. Now the thinking is that with German's own economy going into the toilet, the ECB might do something. So basically it took Germany getting sucked into the vortex of a crappy Eurozone economy for anyone to have any hope that institutions would do anything to promote growth. That's a totally awful state of affairs.
Arenamontanus / FlickrThis morning, the release of worse-than-expected German manufacturing PMI data indicated that the contraction in Germany's manufacturing sector is picking up speed in April. Just last week, Bundesbank President and ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann hinted that an ECB rate cut could be in the cards if new economic data warranted such action. The way euro zone stock markets surged and government bond yields tumbled today, it seems like markets think a rate cut next week is a done deal. Here's a quick roundup of the action: Markets also hit a few notable milestones. French 10-year government bond yields fell to an all-time low. The Spain-Germany 10-year yield spread narrowed to less than 300 basis points. The Stoxx Europe 600 rose 2.4%, its biggest gain in eight months.
Last month Meredith Whitney spoke to Maria Bartiromo on CNBC's Closing Bell and said she was more bullish about U.S. Equities than she had ever been in her career. That was big news in this uncertain environment. Just as importantly, though, she specifically mentioned two financials she liked during that call ó Bank of America and Discover. Now that earnings are in we know how they're is doing. Bank of America, as we know, missed analyst expectations by 2 cents on earnings per share and beat slightly on revenue. The bank was dragged down by a 20% drop in fixed income, currencies and commodities trading (just like everyone on the Street) and real estate losses that widened from $1.1 billion in Q4 to $1.3 billion. Revenue from the bank's mortgage business was down as well ó Part of what Whitney, last fall, called the "endless beat down" of legal fees Wall Street would experience for a long time to come. All that said: What Whitney likes about Bank of America has nothing to do with any of that. She likes cost cutting, which Bank of America did and is continuing to do. In fact, CEO Brian Moynihan said it was one of the reasons the bank's trading operations took a hit.† Whitney also likes businesses she knows that Wall Street has traditionally considered boring, and those businesses won this earnings season. Bank of America was essentially carried by its brokerage business, which posted a 7% revenue gain. It's not "sexy" but the money sticks around since investors don't tend to change brokers a lot. The stock is moving up from its post earnings announcement hit and is up 3.54% today. The stock is moving up and Whitney is likely still bullish because, real estate business aside, moving from the sexy parts of Wall Street's business to the unsexy parts is what Bank of America's "New BAC" plan is calling for. From Bloomberg: During the years immediately after the financial crisis, ìMerrill was the only thing that was working as the commercial bank was getting pummeled by real-estate losses,î said David Knutson, a credit analyst with Legal &amp; General Investment Management America... ìMoynihan recognizes that there are regulatory changes coming and that Merrill may not have as meaningful a revenue contribution in the future,î Knutson said. ìHis view is that itís going to be a large commercial bank with an investment bank to facilitate large commercial customers, instead of an investment bank that will go out and seek risk on its own.î Discover, on the other hand, beat expectations all around in its earnings announcement this morning. Bloomberg's analysts had EPS at $1.12, Discover posted an EPS of $1.33. Meanwhile net income rose by 3.5% to $673 million. Lending expanded while delinquencies contracted and the stock is up 1.4%. So what does this tell us about the U.S. economy? It's pretty simple. Americans feel okay expanding credit (and debt) but only to a point. They're not ready to buy houses, but they are ready to get a new credit card. That's something.
We recently took a rare tour of the New York Stock Exchange building and its expansive archive collection.† One of the cool things we learned while we were there was how traders communicated with each other back in the 1920s. † They used this pneumatic tube system, which carried reports/stock order in capsules through a system of pipes.† Let's walk through how it works. Here's the pneumatic tubing station that dates from 1922. It was located on the 7th floor at the Stock Exchange Luncheon Club.† Julia La Roche for Business Insider These capsules traveled through the pneumatic tube system carrying orders and reports of stock sales from the broker's booth, to the trading post, and to the Ticker Department. Julia La Roche for Business Insider You can see that the capsules were destined for the floor...† Julia La Roche for Business Insider You can see the pipes that the capsules traveled through here.† Julia La Roche for Business Insider You can see the pneumatic tubing station in action in this photograph. That's a clerk organizing the messages. Julia La Roche for Business Insider Pretty amazing pro-version of IM. Of course, technology is constantly changing. The pneumatic tube system was replaced by radio paging and wireless communication systems beginning in the late 1960s, according to the display.† Even those forms of communication have changed. Now we live in a world of instant messages.†
The analysts at Morgan Stanley had long been bullish on gold, arguing that it was being driven by the "four pillars" of a bull market. But in a note last week, they said those pillars were "crumbling." This morning, the firm published its second quarter "Global Metals Playbook," which included a very plain chart of the price of gold and three lines. The lines have no labels.¬† One can assume that the upward sloping line signifies a trend that has been broken.¬† One can also assume that the parallel lines represent resistance lines, which no longer hold. Given that it seems to be a "technical" chart, some additional labeling could've been helpful. But it was probably unnecessary. The magnitude of the recent sell-off seem to speak for itself. "Worryingly for the outlook for the gold price, it is increasingly evident that investor conviction about the desirably of this form of investment, along with other safe-haven assets, is declining," they write.¬† "As of 12 April 2013, the aggregate holdings of gold-backed ETFs has declined by 249t or 8,005,599/oz since 1 January 2013. Here's a bit from their April 17 note: ...we are reluctant to try and identify a hard floor in the retracement that we have seen in the spot market. Overshooting is also a well-established feature of these types of sentiment-driven markets, and some very material technical damage to the long-established uptrend in the gold price has been done. We note in this context the psychological impact of the breach of technical support at US$1,525/t, long thought to be demarcation line between a rising or falling long-term price trends. Regardless, the chart is simultaneously elegant and brutal in its simplicity. Morgan Stanley
AP/GREG BAKERLast week, 60-year-old banker Wang Shiqiang, who worked for state-owned†China Jianyin Investment,†jumped to his death from a building in Beijing's financial district, the South China Morning Post reports (via Shanghaiist). Officials at the state-owned firm said the banker died because of "health reasons." Here's the statement from†the firm's website:† "For health reasons, former supervisor of the China Construction Bank Investment Co., Ltd. Wang Shiqiang, died in Beijing on April 17, 2013." There had speculation that he jumped because of losses trading gold and silver futures.†Gold had its biggest sell-off last week in thirty years.† From SCMP: A Beijing-based spokesman at Jianyin Investment confirmed with the†South China Morning†Post†that the senior banker's unexpected death was suicide but subsequently denied speculation that the incident was related to substantial losses from trading in gold and silver futures. Wang was†chairman of the board of supervisors at Jianyin Investment.† He was also a non-executive director for the Bank of China.
Business InsiderThat's me in a historic NYSE member's chair.The storied New York Stock Exchange in Manhattan's Financial District is rich with history.† That history has been kept alive, in part, because the organization has kept thorough archives since 1792. How many companies can say they do that? We recently took an exclusive tour of all the cool things in the NYSE's archive collection.† We've included our tour highlights in the slides that follow.†
YouTube/SpaceXMarkets are surging. The yen is weakening. Homebuilders are up 3%. European financials are on fire. What's going on? Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along some thoughts. We summarize:
Justing Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe March reading of new home sales is out. The headline number climbed 1.5% to an annualized rated of 417k. Economists were looking for a 1.2% increase to a level of 416k. The discrepancy in the numbers comes from the fact that last month's 4.6% drop was down to a 7.6% drop. "The median sales price of new houses sold in March 2013 was $247,000; the average sales price was $279,900," added the Census. "The seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of March was 153,000. This represents a supply of 4.4 months at the current sales rate." "The drop in sales in February was probably at least partly reversed," said Jim O'Sullivan of High Frequency Economics in a note yesterday.
AP ImagesThe Richmond Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturing conditions is out. The headline index plunged to -6 from +3 last month. Economists were looking for +2 this month. Below is an overview of the data from the text of the release: Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region¬†pulled back in April after growing at a slower pace¬†in March, according to the Richmond Fed‚Äôs latest survey. The index of overall activity landed in negative territory, driven by weak readings for factory shipments and volume of new orders.¬†Employment, however, remained in positive territory but grew at a pace below March‚Äôs rate. Other indicators also suggested weaker activity.¬†Capacity utilization and backlogs fell further, while the gauge for delivery times was unchanged. In addition, inventories grew at a slightly slower rate. Looking forward, manufacturers in April were less optimistic about their future business prospects.¬†An increasing number of contacts anticipated¬†slower growth across the board for all indicators of activity six months from now. Survey participants indicated that raw materials¬†prices grew on par with March‚Äôs pace, while finished goods prices grew at a slower rate than a month ago. Over the next six months, however,¬†respondents expected both raw materials and finished goods prices to grow at a slightly quicker¬†rate than they had anticipated last month. Click here for the full release &gt;
Google FinanceMarkets are making a nice up move early in the U.S. trading session. The Dow is up 118 points. Major movers include Netflix, which is up over 20% after announcing a stronger than expected first quarter. Gains in the U.S. come as the European markets are surging.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The funding shortfall bedeviling the 100 largest U.S. corporate pension funds rose for a second straight year in 2012, as a strong stock market and hefty plan contributions failed to offset damage done by persistently low interest rates, according to an analysis by Towers Watson released on Monday. The gap between what these corporations, all publicly traded, will owe retired workers and how much they have put aside jumped 17 percent, from $252.7 billion at year-end 2011 to $295.2 billion at year-end 2012. By comparison, these companies had a pension surplus of $86 billion in 2007. Companies are required to calculate the present value of the future pension liabilities by using a so-called discount rate, based on corporate bond yields. As those rates fall, the liabilities rise. An unprecedented level of lump sum buyouts and annuity purchases partially offset the increases in both assets and liabilities - due to lower interest rates. Without the buyouts and annuity purchases, obligations would have increased by 12 percent. Since the 2008 financial crisis, corporate pension plan assets have increased, owing to the double-digit gains in stock markets and large contributions. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index climbed more than 13 percent in 2012. "However, four consecutive years of declining interest rates pushed liabilities 40 percent higher, leaving companies with larger deficits than before," said Alan Glickstein, a senior consultant at Towers Watson. According to the Towers analysis, employers contributed $45.1 billion to their pension plans in 2012. That is a 16 percent increase from 2011 and the largest contribution employers have made in the past five years. The analysis noted that the companies contributed more than twice the amount of benefits accrued last year to keep funding levels up. Over the last few years many corporations have been gradually adjusting their portfolios to reduce investment risk relative to liabilities, shifting from public equities to fixed-income and alternative investments. Since 2009, average allocations to equities have fallen 10 percentage points, while allocations to fixed-income investments have risen by eight percentage points. However, the shift away from equities slowed in 2012, according to the report. "Of the 95 companies that reported target asset allocation strategies for 2012 and 2013, only three reduced their target equity allocations by 10 percent or more, versus 16 for 2011," Towers Watson's report said. "Obviously, there is a long way to go until the end of the year, but funding ratios are moving in the right direction," said Dave Suchsland, a senior consultant at Towers Watson. "If interest rates don't continue their rise and equity returns weaken, plan sponsors may need to pour more cash into their plans to improve funded status for the full year." (Reporting by Manuela Badawy; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Hannelore Foerster/Getty ImagesEuro zone stock markets are having a great day today, and they're all being led higher by bank stocks. Below is a quick rundown: Last week, there were rumblings out of the Bundesbank that the ECB could be preparing to cut interest rates should further deterioration in the economic data warrant such action. This morning, with German PMI falling to a 5-month low ‚Äì indicating a deepening contraction in the German manufacturing sector ‚Äì markets seem to think this will provide exactly the impetus that Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann hinted at last week. In his morning note to clients, Miller Tabak's Andrew Wilkinson writes: The conclusion to the glum tale of tepid world demand is that the ECB is now more likely to attempt to spur a turnaround by dropping its main repo rate at the forthcoming meeting at the start of May. And before you ask the question of us about what good that might do, we should also point out the important words aired yesterday by EC President Jose Manuel Barroso who warned that Europe may have reached the political limits of austerity due to growing opposition around the recession-hit periphery. Although he backed sweeping economic reforms and budget cuts, he said that a properly designed policy stance must have a ‚Äúminimum of political and social support. ‚Äú Further weak data from the eurozone could provoke leniency on peripheral nations to loosen their belt in terms of ongoing austerity. The question is when the leading member (Germany) will recognize that budget deficit reduction is proving more counter-productive than it is delivering good. Easing up or acting to provide stimulus would equally prevent the German manufacturing powerhouse from sliding back into recession. The ECB announces its next rate decision at its monthly policy meeting on May 2.
Andrew Kitzenberg, the founder of OnHand, has published a stunning new firsthand account of Thursday's shootout in Boston between police and suspects Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev.¬† Andrew gave us permission to run a couple of the photos, but you should check out the full account on the company's blog. This first photo shows the brothers taking aim at the officers right outside of Kitzenberg's window. Kitzenberg writes: The red circle highlights the pressure cooker bomb that was used just moments after this photo was taken. The use of this explosive created an enormous cloud of smoke that covered the entire street. While the street was still cloudy with smoke one of the brothers started running down the street towards the officers, while still engaging them in gunshots. As he got closer to the officers, within¬†10 -15 yards¬†of them he was taken down. From my vantage point I did not see whether he was tackled to the ground or brought down by gunshots. Courtesy of Andrew Kitzenberg The second photo is of the aftermath. After the shootout was over, Kitzenberg's roommate found a bullet hole that had penetrated through his wall and desk chair: Courtesy of Andrew Kitzenberg OnHand has developed a line of Boston-themed wristbands in the wake of last week's attacks. All proceeds will be given to The One Fund¬†Boston Inc. to help people affected by the tragedy.
Oh WSO, how I've matured since I wrote this now infamous post that even made it to Business Insider and even elicited some pretty funny responses. Yeah, it was kind of a troll post, but maybe 10% of it had some element of meaningful substance ó what is a hipster to do in the finance world? I guess now I'm qualified to tell you. These things don't matter at all once you're out of college. They matter even less if you work in IB. Now that I'm "living the dream" -- and trust me hardened WSO college kids, you're in for a rude awakening when you get there -- I haven't once thought about whether my self-proclaimed eclectic leanings have mattered in the workplace. Truth be told, there isn't time to think about much of anything beyond work and your longing for sleep...and yes, this includes your clothing, hairstyle, car, music you listen to, etc. Since starting my job, I haven't _once_ thought about how expensive my shoes are (they're not, but this is beside the point), how nice my suit is, whether my tie is Hermes or any of that other nonsense that pops up on WSO seemingly 15 times a day. These things do not matter. I wish I could tell you that hipsters fit like a square peg in a square hole in finance, but honestly I don't know the answer to this question because it matters so little. All anyone cares is if you suck at your job, and if you do, having pledged 17 different fraternities in college (or conversely having a playlist of only-Pitchfork-rated albums) isn't gonna save you. Neither will your suit, or your Allen Edmonds Park Avenues, or the fact that you think you're hot stuff because you went to a target school. For the rest of the piece, head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;&gt;
by Mark Dow and Michael Sedacca Few would still argue against the assertion that the Federal Reserve has been central to the financial stabilization and economic recovery from the 2008 crisis. They fixed the plumbing and are now trying to incentivize animal spirits to pump water through the pipes. The debate has now migrated to exit strategies and whether growing side effects from exceptional monetary accommodation outweigh incremental benefits. Nonetheless, it is the Fed, views are heated, and many misperceptions persist. The concept of money printing resonates strongly and intuitively with almost everyone, but most of the intuitive reactions to the Fed‚Äôs QE are turning out to have been wrong. Here are some of the major ones that linger. 1. Money printing increases the money supply. The Fed does¬†not¬†control the money supply; they control base money (or inside money), which is a small fraction of the broader money supply. In our fractional reserve system, the banks (loosely defined) control the other 90% or so of the money supply (a.k.a. outside money). And the banks have not been lending. This is why the money supply has not grown rapidly in response to years now of QE. 2. QE is ‚Äúpumping cash into the stock market‚Äù. The truth is little of this money finds its way into the stock market. Read the rest at Minyanville &gt;
Flickr / Em Jay BeeThe FHFA's reading of U.S. home prices for February is out. The headline index climbed by 0.7% month-over-month, which was right in line with expectations. This is up from 0.6% a month ago. "The U.S. index is 13.6 percent below its April 2007 peak and is roughly the same as the October 2004 index level," wrote the FHFA in a press release.¬† "U.S. house prices have not declined on a monthly basis since January 2012." Much of the more recent pressure we've seen in the housing market has been attributed to the unusually cold weather in March. Keep in mind that the FHFA reading we get today is from February. Click Here For Updates &gt;
April¬†Flash PMI is out. The headline index fell to 52.0 from last month's 54.9 reading. Economists were looking for a smaller decrease to 53.9. Any number over 50 indicates expansion, so this reading says American manufacturing is still expanding, but at a slower pace than last month. Below is a full breakdown of the sub-components of the index: Markit Economics Click here for the full release &gt;
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinGoldman Sachs has covered its gold short. Here's why: We closed our short trading recommendation on gold¬† We have closed our recommendation to short COMEX Gold, as prices¬† moved above the stop at $1,400/toz. We have exited the trade significantly¬† below our original target of $1,450/toz, for a potential gain of 10.4%. The¬† move since initiation was surprisingly rapid, likely exacerbated by the¬† break of well-flagged technical support levels. Our bias is to expect further¬† declines in gold prices on the combination of continued ETF outflows as¬† conviction in holding gold continues to wane as well as our economists‚Äô¬† forecast for a reacceleration in US growth later this year. SEE ALSO: Asian buyers go crazy for physical gold ---&gt;
APBloomberg is reporting that Jon Corzine is being sued by MF Global's Chapter 11 bankruptcy trustee Louis Freeh. Broker-dealer MF Global collapsed in the fall of 2011 and†more than a billion in customer funds went missing. "The Trustee brings this action against Defendants for acts and omissions that culminated in the business collapse of the Company and the bankruptcies of†the Debtors.†As detailed herein, Defendants, in their capacities as officers, breached their fiduciary duties of care,loyalty, and oversight over the Company, and failed to act in good faith," the complaint states. The complaint Freeh filed against Corzine is embedded below.†† MF Global v Jon Corzine†[via Chapter11Cases.com] 
The recent drop in gold has created a huge surge in Asian gold demand. It's happening in India, Hong Kong, and elsewhere. From Josh Noble at FT: Asia is witnessing one of the strongest waves of physical gold buying in 30 years, with bargain hunters using the drop in prices to secure jewelry and gold bars. The feverish buying has left many of Hong Kongís banks, jewelers and even its gold exchange without enough yellow metal to meet demand. In Shanghai, the gold exchange saw volumes ñ often seen as a proxy for demand ñ rising to a record on Monday, while queues formed outside some jewelery shops in Beijing. Check out these Reuters photos of crazy gold demand in Hong Kong that's causing shelves to go barren. REUTERS/Bobby Yip  † REUTERS/Bobby Yip  † REUTERS/Bobby Yip  † REUTERS/Bobby Yip  † REUTERS/Bobby Yip 
Untapped CitiesThis crisis has taken its toll on the livelihoods of many people. But itís also making otherwise reasonable and balanced investors lose the plot and move from investing to preaching. I have found myself in a surprising situation lately ñ I inadvertently became the only person on my Twitter feed who does not condemn Jeroen Dijsselbloem. Now, I like being controversial like the next man (anyone who ever tried to talk to me about Hungary can testify that) but this time around I have had to endure more abuses than normally. I am sure many of you still have in mind "the Cyprus debacle". If not, please start with an excellent piece from Joseph Cotterill entitled "A stupid idea whose time had to come"†and work your way through links. The title of Joeís piece has stuck in my mind ever since and I finally have a few moments to explain why. To be sure, I do not contest the fact that the EU outdid itself and managed to make their communication even muddier than usual. But this is now behind us and we should focus on the essence rather than on the way the package was announced. I may have mentioned that in the old days I was quite involved in Icelandís banking crisis of 2008. And I have always claimed that ñ despite a few minor hiccups on the way ñ letting the big banks default and closing the capital account was the right thing to do. I think there are many similarities between Iceland and Cyprus and thatís why I believe that bailing-in the (foreign to a large extent) depositors was the correct course of action. I mean of course the final solution, not the initial idea of not sparing smaller deposits, which was plain ridiculous. Yet, ever since the announcement, I had to argue with people who were throwing all sorts of populist arguments and who went into great length in finding ways to insult Jeroen Dijsselbloem. Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who is a politician trying ñ like all of them ñ to get re-elected, and who understands that top priority in a support package for any country must include ways to prevent citizens of core European nations from revolting. But instead of spending time explaining why I think the Cyprus solution was a correct one*, I thought I would touch on a somewhat more medium term issue, which is deposit insurance. This is because I think the debate in Europe whether to centralise the deposit insurance scheme or keep it on the national level is a wrong kind of discussion. I think that we should begin to discuss whether one of the lessons from the crisis shouldnít be to cancel deposit insurance altogether. Please bear with me before you click the unsubscribe/unfollow button. Deposit insurance was introduced in the U.S. in 1933 (earlier it was created in Czechoslovakia). The idea was to restore faith in the financial system and get banks to lend more. This was the idea whose time had to come. And it wasnít stupid at the time but rather necessary. Since then a lot of things have changed, though. For starters, the world has seen a remarkable ascent of investment banks, which have benefited quite a bit from deposit insurance. This was at times coupled by quite a bit of†recklessness†in the way banksí balance sheets were used and this is now widely recognised. Perhaps all-too widely. Think about it ñ we just witnessed a full-blown bank holiday in a country which is relatively small but which was in the spotlight for at least a fortnight. During that time I even recall one of the macro†tourists†hedge fund guys who said that the best thing to do at the moment was to put live cameras in front of banks in Milan and Madrid because ìthe end is nighî. Of course, none of that happened, and we probably need to entertain the idea that people in the street are not completely dumb, as difficult as it may soundÖ But why didnít we have a run on other European banks? I think most of the Europeans understood that the bail-in in Cyprus was due to the fact that there was a lot of foreign and most probably dirty money there. Heck, even the average person in Cyprus seems to have comprehended that problems at Laiki were pretty specific to Laiki. True, the capital account remains shut and it will probably stay like that for a while, but itís really not a big deal in the greater scheme of things. When I first tweeted about the idea of abolishing deposit insurance, the replies I received pointed out that it could topple the whole financial system. There is some truth in it. After all, if the deposit insurance was to be abolished as of tomorrow, many people would probably go to ATMs "just in case". But letís try and work out the logistics of the issue. First of all, most European countries†guarantee†deposits up to Ä100k in full. This seems to be working even though there are quite a few governments who could not possibly meet this obligation if required, just like Cyprus. So itís one of those barrier-type option hedging products that stops working precisely when you need it. Another question is why 100k? Itís a round number and nothing else, because the average deposit is way below that level. And if thatís the case then would it change much if we reduced the limit to 99,999.99Ä? With the exception of the holier-than-thou folk in the media who would immolate over the concept, probably not much. Letís take it a step further. What if Europe announced the following: I would argue that the average person in the street would probably be interested to browse through front pages of various newspapers which would be "shocked and dismayed", but since they donít have anything close to 100,000Ä, they would probably only calculate when their savings could potentially become vulnerable. What would be far more interesting is the reaction of banks. After all, even in core countries like Germany, the Netherlands, or France, "some banks are better than others". Thereís no need to point them out ñ they are perfectly aware of their own situation. After such a change in the system they would know they have several years to build up the sufficient capital buffer and to improve their books, or elseÖ In other words, Europe wouldnít place those institutions under an imminent threat of a rapid deposit withdrawal but would send a strong signal that the clock is (slowly) ticking. Sure, there would probably be some turbulence in the cost of bank funding, but I donít believe that would be fatal. Simultaneously, the banks would have to voluntarily cut their riskiest and most balance sheet consuming operations in trading. No need for financial transaction tax, bonus caps or short-sale bans. I know that what I described may sound a bit like science fiction, but we have just gone through something that was seemingly unthinkable only a few months ago; i.e., haircutting deposits and shutting the capital account within the Eurozone. And guess what ñ not much has happened. So instead of throwing calumnies at Jeroen Dijsselbloem, consider that if we stop here then it will mean that we (Europe) have just sent a signal to people that they can keep money in however crappy bank they want as long as itís less than 100,000Ä. Alternatively, we could give the banksí customers and the banks themselves a friendly nudge with a not-too-close deadline and let the market forces work their magic. Remember,†systemic ainít what it used to be. Letís take advantage of that. * By the way, donít even try to assume that I think every single country in trouble should be dealt with in the same way as Cyprus.
Jim D. Woodward / FlickrIt's been a busy morning. Two sentences from Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus are all you need though to sum it up . The DAX (Germany) is up almost 1% as the Ä is getting hit on rate-cut speculation as the German PMI print falls to a 5M low.† EU Fins having another banner day, popping 2.5% on the back of Portuguese and French banks.†† Basically, the expectation is that the data is now bad enough, such that the ECB will spring into action. In addition to the Germany/Euro story, the other big event was the China PMI miss, which helps underline the global growth slowdown story. SEE ALSO: 10 things you need to know before the opening bell --&gt;
Butch Dill/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
The mother of the suspected Boston bombers has given an exclusive interview to Britain's Channel 4 in which she reiterates assertions that her sons were set up, and also claims that her oldest son Tamerlan is still alive. "What happened was a terrible thing. But I know that my kids have nothing to do with this. I know it. I am mother. I know my kids," Zubeidat Tsarnaeva told Channel 4 News in Makhachkala, Dagestan. She said that Tamerlan, who apparently died in a gunfight with police on Thursday night, was being watched by the FBI before the attacks. "They were monitoring him and I know that because I used to talk to them," she said. "They used to come to our house, like two three times. And then my son Tamerlan used to tell me that he used to talk to them too, because they called me once and they wanted his number and then at such moments." Notwithstanding photos that place her other son, Dzhokhar, at the scene of the second Boston Marathon bombing, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva still believes that someone else set up the attack and that her son Tamerlan is not actually dead. "It's just somebody did this, somebody set this up, not my kids," She said. "Whoever is dead over there it's not my son. The body is half of the body of my son, you know what I mean? So this is not my son." There have been two points of speculation when it comes to the death of 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaeva, who was pronounced dead at 1:35 a.m. after suffering gunshot and shrapnel wounds as well as burn wounds. First, a man who looks remarkably like Tamerlan was stripped naked and detained Thursday night down the street from where the firefight with police took place in Watertown, Mass. Police told Business Insider that the naked man is not Tamerlan and was eventually let go. Second, a witness told The New York Times that the older brother was lying in the street after the shootout when the younger one ran him over while fleeing police, but¬†doctors didn't see signs of him being run over. Check out the interview below: 
Flickr / Martino's doodlesWhat a change from last week. Last week, markets were dumping all around the world for no real reason. This week, there's been plenty of bad news (Caterpillar earnings, that ugly German PMI number, the ugly Chinese PMI number) and yet, markets are resilient. Europe started the day going nowhere, but is now gaining nicely. Germany is up 0.56%, and Italy has added another 1%. France is up 1.5% on the day. US futures had been much deeper in the red earlier, but are now close to flat. Perhaps the collapse of the austerity movement is giving some hope that growth will come around again.
Elisabetta Villa/GettyOne important dynamic that you should be aware of in Europe. What we're seeing now is a growth crisis. It's not a sovereign debt crisis anymore. At least for now. While growth is dismal (see Germany this morning), borrowing costs continue fall. Italian yields have fallen below 4% today for the first time since late 2010. Of course, this is how things are supposed to work. In the US for example, yields fall as growth and inflation decline. That's what's happening in Europe. Last summer's ECB backstop really changed the game. Despite Cyprus, horrible growth, and the Italian political mess, government bonds just aren't the worry they used to be.
The Chancellor has been resiisting increasing pressure to ease the ¬£130bn programme of spending cuts and tax rises. The IMF, European Commission President Jos√© Manuel Barroso and Pimco boss Bill Gross, who head up the world's largest bond fund, have all urged him to slow his austerity programme in the past seven days. Mr Blankfein told Radio 4's Today programme that Britain had invested a lot in austerity and should "stay the course a little longer". He said "it was very tough" for the Chancellor, and he could see why at this point in the cycle there were calls to "relax the throttle" and extend austerity for longer. Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned in Washington last week that Britain's economic growth performance is "not particularly good", reinforcing suspicions that the IMF will urge Britain to moderate the severity and speed of his austerity plans. The funds chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, said Mr Osborne was ‚Äúplaying with fire‚Äù by pressing ahead with his plans in the face of a stalling recovery. However, Fitch, the ratings agency, argued that the UK had no ‚Äúfiscal space to absorb further adverse economic and financial shocks‚Äù in its decision to cut Britain from AAA to AA+ on Friday. Speaking in Washington, Mr Osborne hinted he would reject a likely demand from the IMF next month to fundamentally alter his austerity programme. Asked if he would follow a different IMF plan, he said: ‚ÄúIt depends whether you agree with that advice.‚Äù Defending his current strategy and risking a fight with the Fund, he said: ‚ÄúWhat the IMF has asked us to do is to show flexibility and credibility. The Autumn Statement and Budget demonstrated that by not chasing the debt target and taking additional measure to support the economy.‚Äù He was also dismissive of Mr Blanchard‚Äôs claim, saying he was ‚Äújust one voice‚Äù at the IMF. He added that the IMF has recommended countries reduce their deficit at a rate of 1pc a year and ‚Äúwe are bang on that‚Äù. In a speech yesterday, Mr Barroso said the policy of austerity pursued by the EU in recent years no longer has the public backing needed to work. "While I think this policy is fundamentally right, I think it has reached its limits," Mr Barroso said. While Mr Gross said the drive to cut debt rapidly through severe austerity in Britain and the eurozone was stifling recovery. To get real growth "you've got to spend money", he told the Financial Times 
It was an ugly night in China. Flash PMI in April came in a whole point weaker than expected. That confirms a string of weak data (as well as commentary from companies like Caterpillar) which shows that China is slowing down. As such, the Shanghai composite got slammed last night, losing 2.57%. Shanghai Stock Exchange via Bloomberg Bloomberg
After the ugly German Flash PMI and bad French Flash PMI, the Euro is getting whacked. From FinViz FinViz The weak economy seems to open the door for an ECB rate cut. It's been very hesitant to ease policy, but things are getting so bad (even Germany now!) that it may finally be compelled to act. That's the takeaway of economic Frederik Ducrozet, who tweets: @thestalwart Weak German PMIs likely sealing the deal for an ECB Refi rate cut in May
Earlier we mentioned the ugly German Flash PMI number, which confirms that Europe's economic crisis is now affecting the continent's strongest member. France, of course, has been dismal for awhile. And, well, nothing's changed there. Their Flash PMI is filled with more ugly numbers. Technically there are some increases, but anything below 50 is contraction, so these numbers in these low 40s for manufacturing in services are just straight up bad. From Markit: Markit Markit Markit
There is no place to hide out in Europe anymore. This morning, German Flash PMI for April confirmed that it too is going into contraction, as the headline number fell below 50, falling to the worst level in 6 months. Here's the key summary, but the obvious thing here is that every indicator has fallen below 50, signifying contraction. Manufacturing outpout at 47.9 is particularly gruesome. Markit Read the whole report at Markit &gt;
