BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - In the battle of investors who've made opposite bets on the shares of Herbalife &lt;HLF.N&gt;, both sides - including firms led by billionaires Bill Ackman and George Soros - have consulted a New Jersey college professor and studied his research. For decades, William Keep, dean of the School of Business at the College of New Jersey, has pursued a relatively obscure marketing specialty known as multilevel marketing businesses, or MLMs. But as a new go-to adviser for some of Wall Street's biggest players, Keep has been suddenly thrust into the spotlight. In December, Ackman placed a $1 billion short bet against Herbalife, citing the professor's research. Since then, Soros bought a large block of the company's shares around the time his firm was seeking out Keep's research and personal insights. Through it all, Keep insists he has remained neutral to the investment implications of his studies. "As my agenda has to do with MLMs and pyramid schemes, this sideshow is a distraction," he said of the attention he's received from investors and the media. Multilevel marketers pay their sales force not only for the products they sell but also for recruiting other sales people. A pyramid scheme occurs where a company's sales team earns more for finding new distributors than they get for selling the product. SHUNS INVESTMENT ADVICE Ackman cited a paper co-authored by Keep in his December presentation when he lambasted Herbalife's business model. Months later, Ackman called Keep and spoke to him on the phone, though it is not clear what the two discussed. Herbalife has repeatedly rejected Ackman's characterization of the company as a pyramid scheme that will eventually go bust. Keep told Reuters in an interview that he has not voiced an opinion one way or another on whether Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. He makes clear to investors he isn't giving them investment advice. Keep said that in his discussions with investments managers he never gets an indication of how they will react to his research. "Once I leave the room, they could say, 'this is silly'. I don't know what kind of investment decisions they will make." But investors still seek him out. Keep has been invited as a guest speaker at several hedge fund events and even visited the offices of Soros' family office. During the summer, Keep met with some of Soros's investment staff, including portfolio manager Paul Sohn, to give them a tutorial on his research. Keep said Soros's investment team wanted to know how he thinks the epic battle over Herbalife will play out. Keep declined to tell Reuters what he specifically told the Soros team, but said they had one burning question: Are regulators going to take action against Herbalife - something Ackman has been counting on in betting the company's shares will crash. He also declined to handicap the outcome of any potential regulatory investigation, saying only that it would take a long time and cost a lot of money. Keep visited Soros in June and again in July. Regulatory filings show Soros Fund Management purchased 5 million shares of Herbalife in the second quarter, becoming the latest high-profile investor to line up against Ackman and his Pershing Square Capital Management fund. Another manager investing for Soros, East Side Capital, had a long position on Herbalife long before Ackman made his December presentation and still ranks as Herbalife's seventh-largest investor. SOUGHT-OUT SPECIALIST Besides meeting with the Soros team, Keep said he also spoke at a luncheon sponsored by research firm DeMatteo Monness for its hedge fund clients and at an event sponsored by research firm Hedgeye in recent months. Keep has often been called as an expert witness when the government, including the Federal Trade Commission, has investigated pyramid schemes. And because of his specialist knowledge, Keep has frequently been featured in the media. Even as he was preparing for a new school semester, he said, he has been swamped by calls from reporters. For months, the battle of the future of Herbalife has fascinated Wall Street, given the number of high-profile investors lining up to bet against Ackman. Ackman's most notable and outspoken critic has been Carl Icahn, Herbalife's biggest shareholder, who got into the stock shortly after Ackman unveiled his big short positions. So far, Ackman and his $11 billion Pershing Square have been losers in this contest of Wall Street billionaires, with Herbalife shares rising 83 percent this year. Pershing Square has incurred at least $300 million in paper losses on its investment. (Reporting By Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Matthew Goldstein and Ken Wills)
Oil prices dropped suddenly between 2pm ET and 3pm ET on Thursday.¬† At the time, one of Business Insider's trader contacts warned that someone in the market was betting that the U.K. would vote against military action against Syria. It appears our source was right. At around 5:32 pm ET, Britain's House of Commons voted down the motion for military action. Here's what oil prices have been doing since then via FinViz. FinViz
Junko Kimura/Getty ImagesA Nissan Motor Co., Ltd employee works on the cylinder block of a V6 engine at the company's engine facility at the Iwaki plant in Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture, Japan.Industrial output in Japan climbed by just 3.2% in July, missing expectations for 3.6% growth. Earlier, we learened that core consumer prices climbed by 0.7% in July, which was a bit higher than the 0.6% increase expected by economists. Rounding out the data dump was the unemployment rate, which was 3.8% in July. This was lower than the 3.9% expected.
Despite the recent surge in oil prices, complacency just isn‚Äôt an option for producers. Meager economic growth and a potential production glut don‚Äôt bode particularly well for oil prices in the medium-term; geopolitical concerns won‚Äôt linger in perpetuity. In Canada, heavy oil producers are particularly vexed. As the nation‚Äôs Minister of Natural Resources, Joe Oliver, explained, Canada has but ‚Äúone customer ‚Äî 99 percent of our crude and 100 percent of our natural gas exports go to the U.S. ‚Äî a customer that will be needing our commodities less in the future.‚Äù David Bouckhout, senior commodity strategist for TD Securities in¬†Calgary, has emerged as one of the most astute analysts of energy commodity markets. Back in 2010-2011, his advice to clients that the spread between Brent and WTI crude oil grades would widen ‚Äì and remain so for a prolonged period ‚Äì was notably prescient. Business in CanadaBiC was lucky enough to chat with David earlier this week to discuss the hottest issue in markets ‚Äì the current forces driving oil prices ‚Äì as well as what the future has in store for Canadian and U.S. oil production. David believes the present threat to oil production is ‚Äúexaggerated,‚Äù and, as such, that oil is a tad overvalued. He fears not what the effect of U.S. involvement in the conflict would be, but rather, how oil production might be significantly impacted if the conflict spilled into Iraq. The senior commodity strategist also offers a fresh take on the spread between Brent and WTI crude oil ‚Äì an update on his clairvoyant call from a few years back. He notes that a spread between $4 to $7/bbl is consistent with TD‚Äôs longer-term outlook, and does not believe that WTI will return to parity in the near future since Brent remains more sensitive to geopolitical risk. With regards to Keystone XL, David thinks it will be approved ‚Äì eventually. The pipeline seems to satisfy the net greenhouse gas emission criterion established by President Obama in his speech back in June. A full transcript of the interview is provided below. BiC:¬†Let's start with the obvious question. Conflict in¬†Syria, a deteriorating situation in¬†Egypt¬†and disruptions in¬†Libya¬†have oil markets on edge currently. How real is the threat posed by these geopolitical factors to production levels? DB: The direct threat to production posed by the problems in¬†Syria¬†and¬†Egypt¬†is probably exaggerated. It's one of the reasons¬†why¬†we think that oil price levels are fundamentally¬†too high¬†currently.¬†However, there is a real risk that the situation in either nation could lead to¬†further¬†regional instability. In particular a spillover of the conflict¬†in¬†Syria¬†to Iraq¬†could disrupt production there, which would have a significant impact on supply dynamics.¬†On the other hand,¬†Libya¬†is already facing supply disruptions, which is price supportive and could keep the market elevated regardless of the developments in either¬†Egypt¬†or¬†Syria¬†with global oil fundamentals somewhat tighter now than they have been. BiC:¬†You are obviously well known for your market view on the spread between Brent and WTI price levels in recent years. Recently the two grades went to parity only to diverge again, what is your view of the price spread going forward in the near-term? DB: The move back out to the $4 to $7/bbl level is consistent with our longer-term view. We feel that in that range the spread covers the cost of transportation and other factors such as Brent‚Äôs higher sensitivity to geopolitical risks and the improving infrastructure for WTI to access US Gulf Coast refiners. BiC: What are your thoughts on the Keystone XL pipeline project? DB: We think that the Keystone pipeline will eventually¬†be approved. We think that the pipeline satisfies the net emission argument for the¬†US¬†and also reduces American reliance on foreign oil from more geopolitically unstable sources. It also provides heavy oil to refiners demanding heavy oil more so than light oil, which is what the bulk of the growth in¬†US supply is comprised of. We also can‚Äôt forget that traditional sources of US heavy oil imports are facing steep decline and more demand from alternative markets like¬†China.¬†Canada¬†doesn‚Äôt have that same issue given that it doesn‚Äôt have the infrastructure in place to access alternative markets at this point. BiC:¬†Given increasing oil and gas production in the¬†US, should Canadian producers be looking to diversify the markets they sell to? DB: We feel that seeking alternative markets for¬†Canada‚Äôs energy resources is very important. While we expect that the¬†US¬†will remain the largest buyer of Canadian supply for the foreseeable future, export capacity is going to remain an issue as Canadian production grows. Even if the Keystone XL pipeline goes through, more capacity will be needed down the road given the expected Canadian production growth. US demand is also starting to trend lower, which means less Canadian oil imports may be needed, and bring up the alternative market debate again.
ìThe Federal Reserveís large-scale purchases of long-term Treasury securities most likely provided a moderate boost to economic growth and inflation. Importantly, the effects appear to depend greatly on the Fedís guidance that short-term interest rates would remain low for an extended period. Indeed, estimates from a macroeconomic model suggest that such interest rate forward guidance probably has greater effects than signals about the amount of assets purchased.î C˙rdia and Ferrero (C&amp;F), similar to so many of their mainstream brethren, believe that the degree of aggregate-demand stimulation emanating from Fed purchases of long-maturity securities depends on the degree of decline in yields on long-maturity securities resulting from these purchases. But C&amp;F argue that Fed purchases of long-maturity securities alone sow the seeds of their own ineffectiveness in stimulating aggregate demand. According to C&amp;F, any initial decline in yields on long-maturity securities will quickly be offset by a subsequent rise in yields as market participants revise their expectations for an earlier Fed-induced increase in the federal funds rate and/or a larger increase in the federal funds rate due to stronger growth in nominal demand resulting from the Fedís purchases of longer-maturity securities. Got that? So, according to C&amp;F, if Fed purchases of long-maturity securities are going to be more effective in stimulating aggregate demand, the Fed needs to provide forward guidance as to at a minimum, when it intends to begin lifting the federal funds rate. Before I comment on ìforward guidanceî as a monetary policy tool, let me once again provide you with my explanation of how Fed purchases of securities, long- or short-maturity, it does not matter, stimulate aggregate spending. The Fed purchases a security from me. The funds that I receive from the Fed did not come from you or anyone else. The funds came from the Fedís figurative printing press. These are net new immediately spendable funds in the economy. It is as if these funds were created out of thin air. I have three options with which to use these funds. Option One would be for me to spend these funds to purchase goods, services or assets, including financial assets. Option One directly increases nominal spending. Option Two would be for me to lend these funds to someone else. Most people borrow funds to spend them on something ñ a good, a service or an asset, including a financial asset. So, Option Two indirectly increases nominal spending. Option Three would be for me to simply hold these funds at my bank. If my bank is unable to use these funds to acquire any new earning assets, perhaps because of capital constraints, then Option Three would not result in any new nominal spending in the economy. Other than extreme risk aversion, it is difficult for me to rationalize persisting with Option Three for any length of time. Although yields may be gyrating all over the place for all kinds of reasons after the Fed engages in purchases of securities, to me the effect on nominal aggregate demand from Fed purchases of securities boils down to if Bernanke prints it, someone will spend it. Alright, letís get on to forward guidance. Suppose the economy has been dead in the water and the federal funds rate is fallen to zero. Under these conditions, the Fed states that it has no intention of lifting the federal funds rate in the coming x-number of months. This ìforward guidanceî with regard to the Fedís target of the federal funds rate is quite credible. Why would anyone expect the Fed to raise the federal funds rate so long as the economy is ìin ironsî (hint ñ it is a sailing term)? A few months pass and the economy remains moribund. In response, the Fed begins a program of securities purchases, with Options One and/or Two, as discussed above, being operative. That is, nominal spending begins to grow faster. At the same time, the Fed reiterates its statement that it has no intention of lifting the federal funds rate in the coming x-number of months. Is the Fedís same forward guidance as credible now, after the implementation of its program of securities purchases and after tangible evidence of a pick-up in nominal spending? If it is to you, I have some bonds I want to sell you. The Fed can provide all of the forward guidance it wants. But if its actual policy actions, in contrast to its words, and the incoming economic evidence suggest that a prudent monetary policy should run counter to the Fedís forward guidance, who are you going to believe ñ the Fed or your lying eyes? After years of observing the behavior of financial markets, I bet that you are going to conclude that your eyes are not lying and that you will make portfolio adjustments accordingly. After you and other market participants have altered your portfolios in accordance with reality, the Fed will eventually will alter its guidance. † Paul L. KasrielEcontrarian, LLCecontrarian@gmail.comhttp://www.the-econtrarian.blogspot.com1-920-818-0236
In the 1970s women started getting appointed to central-bank policy committees, which set interest rates and in some cases supervise the banking system. Since then their numbers have remained low. The European Central Bank (ECB) currently has no women on its governing council. And no woman ever voted on Swiss monetary policy--or Italian or Dutch before those countries joined the ECB. Some countries have been more progressive. From 2002 to 2011 nearly half the members of Norway's policy board were women. America's Federal Reserve has not done too badly, with six women and 11 men today. Yet the poor representation of women central bankers across the advanced economies suggests that in this respect the folk who love to give forward guidance to others are themselves living in the past. The Economist Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
In the 1970s women started getting appointed to central-bank policy committees, which set interest rates and in some cases supervise the banking system. Since then their numbers have remained low. The European Central Bank (ECB) currently has no women on its governing council. And no woman ever voted on Swiss monetary policy--or Italian or Dutch before those countries joined the ECB. Some countries have been more progressive. From 2002 to 2011 nearly half the members of Norway's policy board were women. America's Federal Reserve has not done too badly, with six women and 11 men today. Yet the poor representation of women central bankers across the advanced economies suggests that in this respect the folk who love to give forward guidance to others are themselves living in the past. The Economist Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
AP Photo/Chicago Daily News)FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jack Bogle: America's Retirement System Faces Three Train Wrecks (Morningstar)In an interview with Morningstar Jack Bogle of Vanguard said America's retirement system faces "three train wrecks."† "Social Securityóyou all know about that.† Itís just underfunded. It could be funded with things that people wouldnít even notice: a change in the cost of living adjustment, which the administration has proposed. Theyíre simple things that end up being completely controversial. Iím not proposing reducing the payments, but making the payments appropriate to the circumstances. That, along with a little older retirement age and larger minimum Social Security distributions, and the problem would be solved. "The defined benefit plan, which is a vanishing kind of figure in the retirement system, is grotesquely underfunded. The states are a bigger problem than the corporations. Theyíre using an 8% future return. I will say, unequivocally, they are not going to get an 8% future return. Not with bond interest rates around 2%, depending on what youíre looking at, to 2.5%, and stocks likely to return about 7%, and thatís before costs. "The third leg of this retirement stool is the defined contribution plan. The problem with it is weíve taken a thrift plan and turned it into a retirement plan. What does it need to be fixed? We need to be much stricter on withdrawals. If we allow people to say, ìIíve got a sick child and my wife wants a new living room rug and I need to take some money out.î How are you ever going to have a good retirement doing that? Social Security wouldnít amount to anything if you could take your money out whenever you felt like it. Itís just a system that has too much flexibility."  Has 2013 Really Been A Bond Market 'Slaughter'? (Pragmatic Capitalism) Investors that have loaded up on long-term U.S. government bonds have taken a hit, but all the yelling about a bond market slaughter is overdone according to Cullen Roche of Pragmatic Capitalism. The aggregate bond market though hasn't done too much and the iShares Aggregate Bond Index is down about -2.5%. "Yes, itís true.† Parts of the bond market have been pretty beat-up.† The long bond is down 10-15% depending on your duration.† But thatís a slice of the overall bond market.† When we back up and take the big picture view it becomes pretty clear that the bond ìslaughterî hasnít really been anything close to a slaughter, but more like another thing that the media and Wall Street has made a big deal of for no good reason." Investors Need To Be Skeptical Of What They Hear On Financial Television (Advisor Perspectives)  Rob Isbitts of Sungarden Investment Research, who was named one of the top U.S. wealth advisors four times by Worth magazine reminds investors that "reporters and entertainers are not fiduciaries." "For years I have been asked what I think of financial television. My typical response: reporters and entertainers are not fiduciaries. That is, they are not in the business of making you more successful. They are in the business of driving higher rates for advertising dollars for the network. Thatís the game, thatís itÖ "Whatís my conclusion? Watch financial television but do so with extreme skepticism. They are not fiduciaries and they have a lot of people running teleprompters to make them look as smart as possible." There's Been A Massive Plunge In Affluent Investor Confidence (Millionaire Corner)  The Spectrem Affluent Investor Confidence Index (SAICI) fell 9 points to an eight-month low of -9. The SAICI surveys households with investible assets of over $500,000. The Spectrem Millionaire Investor Confidence Index (SIMCI) fell to a five-month low of three. The SIMCI surveys households with investible assets of over $1 million. The decline in investor confidence was largely driven by poor market performance, notably it was the month in which the market suffered its worst week. "Another factor in the dip in Affluent confidence can be found in the August Affluent Household Outlook, a monthly survey of Affluent attitudes toward four financial factors that impact their daily lives, including household assets and company health. The overall Outlook dropped 12.85 points to its lowest reading in six months."
Weibo via Tea Leaf NationIn Yangshi village in the south central Chinese province of Hunan, villagers debate the fate of their fallen hometown hero Zeng Chengjie. Zeng has been likened by the media to Bernie Madoff. The farmer's-son-turned-entrepreneur was found guilty this summer of defrauding investors in a massive Ponzi scheme similar to the now-disgraced American businessman. However, Zeng's real estate scheme cost him his life. "He's not the only one who raised money this way," one villager laments around the card table. "Why did he have to be executed?" It's a question many have been asking across the country: Was Zeng a perpetrator or a pawn of a flawed money system that has become a threat to China and the world? (Read more: China has much at risk but no reach in Middle East) China's financial sector has long been controlled by the government. State-owned companies get cash whenever they want, while private companies are largely starved of capital. "[Private companies] don't get access to bank loans," said Fraser Howie, co-author of "Red Capitalism". "As small companies need financing, you have shadow banking developing. It's as simple as that." In Zeng's case, he moved from his farming village to the city of Jishou, taking advantage of the construction craze there. He built 57 developments using money borrowed from the communityóa common practice in China. This is where the story gets murky. Zeng was executedóofficially for raising money for his projects illegally. However, his supporters challenge that version of events, questioning the justice of the government's action and stirring debate about how Chinese authorities will handle shadow banking. Despite repeated calls, local authorities and court officials could not be reached by CNBC. One of his investors, a retired math teacher, lost his entire life savings of $77,000. Yet he defended Zeng. He declined to give his name for fear of reprisal by government authorities. "Nobody thought he was a crook, " the investor said. "He was a decent personónot an unscrupulous businessman." (Read more: China's Xiaomi poaches top Google Android exec) The investor says Zeng offered phenomenal ratesófrom 24 percent one year to an 80-percent annual return the year before Zeng was arrested in 2008. "Over 90 percent of families were engaged in this shadow financing. You'd be a fool not to do it!" the investor said. "People here have almost no way to invest." Those shockingly high returns didn't worry investors, he says, because this off-the-book lending was backed by the government. "We saw many government officials invest," Zeng's investor said. "The government had a command office at Zeng's company." But in 2008, new officials took over and, according to Zeng's family lawyer, ordered a crackdown on shadow finance. "After the government pulled out, they told all these financing companies to stop paying the investors," lawyer Wang Shaogang said. "This, of course, infuriated the people." Investors rioted and the police stormed in. Zeng was accused of defrauding investors out of half a billion dollars. He and other company bosses were jailed. His assets sold off. The case has sent shockwaves through the community of entrepreneurs in China who feel vulnerable to the shift in political winds. "All the money was used on the company projects," Zeng argued in letters from prison. "There's very clear book keeping. I've never embezzled or transferred the money." Wang admits that to pay out the high returns Zeng used incoming investor money while waiting for real estate investments to bear fruit. He insists Zeng intended on paying everyone back in full. (Read more: China aims to expand luxury goods, property tax) After five years in prison, Zeng was executed by firing squad in July. His family was not informed until he was dead. "It feels as though he's still alive because I never saw his body," said his 23-year-old daughter, Zeng Shan. Zeng's daughter is now on a mission to clear her father's name. She has been blogging about the case, sparking public discussion about the competence of China's courts and rule of law. Zeng's wife and other daughter are still in jail for their roles at his company. Shan said she has not told them about the execution out of concern for her mother's poor health. In prison, Zeng expressed remorse for her suffering after his arrest. "She's a great wife and mother," he wrote. "In the future, I will cherish her, care about her, protect her and make it up to her." óBy CNBC's Eunice Yoon.
It's had a great run. But US oil production is on the verge of an inflection point, according to Alliance Bernstein's Bob Brackett. In a new note, he observes that while total production may still be rising, the rate of growth is decelerating. And barring an unexpected surge at the end of the year, 2013 will have seen lower a lower production rate than 2012. This does not mean the shale revolution is over. Rather, he says, the whole shale complex has now matured. He writes: We continue to believe that the rate of year-on-year production growth will slow. We believe that slowing (or as we term it, the inflection point at which the market realizes that production growth rates will be lower than the previous year) is a 2013 event. Exhibit 5 shows our logic. It plots US oil production by week in green and then shows the year-on-year growth. The red shaded area corresponds to the growth that†would be required to avoid inflection. It implies that the remainder of the year would need nearly 800 KBOPD of growth (with the first 63% of the year achieving only ~500 KBOPD). Given flattish rig counts and modestly rising efficiencies, we don't believe such back-loaded growth will be possible. Here's his chart, with our annotations: Brackett/Bernstein All this is further evidence, he says, †that shale oil production will not lead to a global price collapse, and that WTI-traded crude will have hit at least $100 by 2015.
REUTERS/Edgard GarridoMexican President¬†Pena¬†Nieto will sell his robust energy plan to Congress in an effort to spur private foreign investment and end the state's de facto control of its oil reserves. But negative economic data threatens to dog Nieto's young administration. "Following the release last week of a much worse than expected 0.7% q-o-q seasonally-adjusted contraction in Q2'13 GDP, we are now expecting the economy to expand by 1.6% in 2013, a far cry from the 3.5% level we and the market were expecting at the beginning of the year," writes UBS economist Rafael De La Fuente.¬† In a new note to clients, De La Fuente writes that the future of Nieto's government will be decided in the next 125 days, when Congress votes on his reform package amid public resistance and an expected economic downturn. De La Fuente writes: The slowdown in activity is largely attributable to external headwinds, to the manufacturing sector's inability to get much lift, and to the ongoing problems in the construction sector, which has been hit by a double whammy of sluggish infrastructure spending by the government and the dire financial straits faced by the country's largest home builders. However, what is widening the slowdown and leaving Mexico on the brink of recession is the fact that that job growth has slowed markedly. The economy now looks poised to generate roughly half the new jobs it created in 2012. For Mexican households, which did not enjoy much real wage growth in this cycle, which have limited access to credit, and which have not seen a recovery in remittances, the fall in employment growth pulls the rug from under their feet in terms of their ability to spend. No wonder then that private consumption is also compromised at this point.¬† De La Fuente believes the government will (and should) attempt to enhance overall revenues and reduce its fiscal dependence on oil through Nieto's reforms. That will prove difficult given the current economic, legislative, and social environment. "We remain on the glass-half full camp: we think this administration understands what is at stake and that progress on key reforms will be made," De La Fuente concludes.
REUTERS/Asmaa WaguihThe stock market made modest moves up. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Oil prices spent most of the day climbing steadily. But then in the last few minutes of the NYMEX session, prices tanked. The October futures contract ended closing down 1.2% for the day. One of our oil trader contacts says there was no obvious trigger, but that it was likely to have been someone with a large position "fading" the market on news that the UK seems reluctant to join in any Syria strike. Here's the chart via FinViz: FinViz
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThe NASDAQ MarketSite in New York's Times Square.NASDAQ has clarified why its system malfunctioned on August 22nd,¬†freezing trading for three hours. A "confluence of events" exposed a "latent flaw in SIP's software code," NASDAQ said in a statement. SIP, which stands for "securities information processor," is the system in which the NASDAQ sends quotes to other exchanges. The press release gets into the nitty-gritty, but essentially a data flood overwhelmed the system (NASDAQ qualified that high frequency trading "played no role" in the mishap.¬†From the press release: On August 22, the SIP received more than 20 connect and disconnect sequences from NYSE Arca, each of which consumed significant resources. Available capacity was further eroded as the SIP received a stream of quotes for inaccurate symbols from NYSE Arca, and generated quote rejects. Both of these actions served to degrade the system below the tested capacity of 10,000 messages per per-port, per second. During this period, NYSE Arca sent multiple bursts with each connect and disconnect, topping more than 26,000 quote updates per-port, per second as it attempted to reconnect. By comparison, a typical August day for NYSE Arca would peak at less than 1000 messages per-port, per second. The events of August 22 were 26 times greater than the average per-port, per-second activity. NASDAQ said they quickly identified the problem within 30 minutes, but took additional time to consult market participants and to test how exactly to re-open the market "in a fair and orderly matter."¬† Here's the full release: NEW YORK, Aug. 29, 2013 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- NASDAQ OMX today provided the following update on the preliminary findings of its internal review of the events leading to the August 22 temporary trading halt in trading of NASDAQ-listed securities. A preliminary internal review has identified a combined series of technology events that caused the initial market problems and extended the halt period. A number of these issues were clearly within the control of NASDAQ OMX. As the Securities Information Processor (SIP) for NASDAQ stocks, we are responsible for them, regret them, and intend to take all steps necessary to address them to enhance stability and functionality of the markets. Other issues contributing to the halt are more endemic to technology issues across today's complex markets and will require a broader industry-wide effort to resolve. NASDAQ OMX is currently identifying potential design changes to further strengthen the SIP's resiliency, including architectural improvements, information security, disaster recovery plans and capacity parameters. NASDAQ OMX will present our initial recommendations related to these changes to the SIP governing committee within 30 days. NASDAQ OMX is also undertaking a comprehensive review of the policies and procedures for communicating with customers, market participants and the broader public during market-wide events. We are committed to reviewing and improving our communications practices with all stakeholders.¬† Summary of Preliminary Findings NASDAQ OMX determined to halt trading on August 22 after the SIP could not process quotes thereby impacting the fair and orderly functioning of the public market. As outlined in more detail below, the catalyst for the SIP failure was a confluence of unprecedented events that overwhelmed the processing capacity of the SIP. Our review indicates that high frequency trading played no role in the technology events of August 22.¬† As with any technology system, the SIP has finite capacity. The SIP's governing committee plans for capacity based on the needs of its member exchanges, adding an appropriate cushion of extra capacity to handle heavier than expected volume. In January 2013, a regularly scheduled systems capacity test showed the SIP system was capable of handling approximately 500,000 messages per second across 50 of the SIP system's ports, for an average peak of approximately 10,000 messages per-port, per second. The tests are conducted in a controlled environment ‚Äì performance in real-life scenarios will typically be lower. On the morning of August 22, however, a sequence of events combined to create an unprecedented volume of message traffic into the SIP; well beyond the system's tested capacity of 10,000 messages per-port, per second.¬† On August 22, the SIP received more than 20 connect and disconnect sequences from NYSE Arca, each of which consumed significant resources. Available capacity was further eroded as the SIP received a stream of quotes for inaccurate symbols from NYSE Arca, and generated quote rejects. Both of these actions served to degrade the system below the tested capacity of 10,000 messages per per-port, per second. During this period, NYSE Arca sent multiple bursts with each connect and disconnect, topping more than 26,000 quote updates per-port, per second as it attempted to reconnect. By comparison, a typical August day for NYSE Arca would peak at less than 1000 messages per-port, per second. The events of August 22 were 26 times greater than the average per-port, per-second activity. The confluence of these events vastly exceeded the SIP's planned capacity, which caused its failure and then revealed a latent flaw in the SIP's software code. This latent flaw prevented the system's built-in redundancy capabilities from failing over cleanly, and delayed the return of system messages. The combination of large system inputs and delayed outputs ultimately degraded the ability of the SIP system to process quotes to an extent that a shutdown of the system was in the broader public interest, to prevent information asymmetry and ensure fair conditions for all market participants. Although the problem was quickly identified and data feeds were operational within 30 minutes of the halt, additional time was required for NASDAQ to consult UTP SIP committee members and market participants, and to test and evaluate scenarios to re-open the market to ensure that trading could be resumed in a fair and orderly manner. As soon as that process was completed, connectivity to the SIP was made available to UTP participants. The markets reopened without incident. NASDAQ OMX is deeply disappointed in the events of August 22 and our performance is unacceptable to our members, issuers and the investing public. While getting to 100% performance in all of our activities, including our technology is difficult ‚Äì it is our objective. NASDAQ OMX is committed to enhancing our systems and is actively engaging with customers, partners and stakeholders to strengthen the infrastructure that supports our markets.¬†¬† We will continue to provide updates on our findings and progress.
Jean-Pol GRANDMONT, Wikimedia CommonSean West of the Eurasia Group has a new note predicting a "toxic autumn" in Washington DC. There are a lot of moving parts, but fortunately West summarizes it all up in one sentence: <U+0095> The debt ceiling will now hit in mid-October, when hearings about a new Federal Reserve Chair should be heating up and amid the political fallout of Obama's decision on Syria. Yep.
Associated Press/New Zealand Herald, Greg BowkerMelissa Ray, right, and Natasha Wall take part in their wedding ceremony to be one of the first gay couples in New Zealand to be married on Monday. Aug. 19, 2013.The Treasury Department and IRS announced Thursday that all same-sex marriages will be recognized for federal tax purposes regardless of state residence, allowing gay couples in all states to file joint tax returns. The announcement means that even if a gay couple resides¬†in a state that does not recognize gay marriage, they will be recognized under federal law as long as they were married in a state that does. It comes about two months after the Supreme Court's historic ruling overturning the Defense of Marriage Act.¬† ‚ÄúToday‚Äôs ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent tax filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples nationwide. It provides access to benefits, responsibilities and protections under federal tax law that all Americans deserve,‚Äù Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in a statement.  ‚ÄúThis ruling also assures legally married same-sex couples that they can move freely throughout the country knowing that their federal filing status will not change.‚Äù Same-sex couples who are legally married can now file their 2013 federal income tax returns under the "married filing jointly" or "married filing separately" options. Here's the full announcement from the Treasury: WASHINGTON ‚Äî The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) today ruled that same-sex couples, legally married in jurisdictions that recognize their marriages, will be treated as married for federal tax purposes. The ruling applies regardless of whether the couple lives in a jurisdiction that recognizes same-sex marriage or a jurisdiction that does not recognize same-sex marriage. The ruling implements federal tax aspects of the June 26th Supreme Court decision invalidating a key provision of the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act. ‚ÄúToday‚Äôs ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent tax filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples nationwide. It provides access to benefits, responsibilities and protections under federal tax law that all Americans deserve,‚Äù said Secretary Jacob J. Lew. ‚ÄúThis ruling also assures legally married same-sex couples that they can move freely throughout the country knowing that their federal filing status will not change.‚Äù Under the ruling, same sex couples will be treated as married for all federal tax purposes, including income and gift and estate taxes. The ruling applies to all federal tax provisions where marriage is a factor, including filing status, claiming personal and dependency exemptions, taking the standard deduction, employee benefits, contributing to an IRA, and claiming the earned income tax credit or child tax credit. Any same-sex marriage legally entered into in one of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, a U.S. territory, or a foreign country will be covered by the ruling. However, the ruling does not apply to registered domestic partnerships, civil unions, or similar formal relationships recognized under state law. Legally-married same-sex couples generally must file their 2013 federal income tax return using either the ‚Äúmarried filing jointly‚Äù or ‚Äúmarried filing separately‚Äù filing status. Individuals who were in same-sex marriages may, but are not required to, file original or amended returns choosing to be treated as married for federal tax purposes for one or more prior tax years still open under the statute of limitations.¬†¬† Generally, the statute of limitations for filing a refund claim is three years from the date the return was filed or two years from the date the tax was paid, whichever is later. As a result, refund claims can still be filed for tax years 2010, 2011, and 2012. Some taxpayers may have special circumstances (such as signing an agreement with the IRS to keep the statute of limitations open) that permit them to file refund claims for tax years 2009 and earlier. Additionally, employees who purchased same-sex spouse health insurance coverage from their employers on an after-tax basis may treat the amounts paid for that coverage as pre-tax and excludable from income.
So, having recently covered Tips for Surviving a Goldman Sachs Internship and Attending a Sporting Event With Your Boss, my latest attempt (by request) is a fresh, succinct, and definitive guide to dressing like an investment banker. The genesis of this post is simple; American men dress like s---. † It doesnít matter where you look, from the endless stream of bright-eyed but hopeless-looking students vying for the ever-shrinking number of analyst positions on Wall Street, to the haggard, white-collar, middle class masses traipsing their way from airport lounge to departure gate, while getting Hilton Reward Points rich and Chipotle fat. Who better to help than the aggregated and infinite wisdom of GSElevator, with a comprehensive list of business fashion tips from the halls of Goldman Sachs? So, here we goÖ Shoes #1: He's really wearing square-toed shoes... #2: Wait, it's intern season already? WATCH: The Strange Fashion Choices Of European MenSocks  #1: Most Brits aren't gay, but their socks are. #1: I wear a brand new pair of socks every day. That's probably my only indulgence. That, and watches... And wine. Pants/Trousers No cuffs and no pleats; pleats are for guys with gunts (front asses). † #1: Dude, cuffed pants are for limo drivers. Belt loops are optional. †If you have a decent tailor, rock the side tabs.† #1: Did you forget your belt today? #2: I don't need one; did you forget to get your suit tailored? Actually, side tabs are rather convenient if you are a junior banker. Youíve got less time for the gym and spend many a lunch and dinner hunched over your desk. †Throw in the boozy nights out and extravagant client dinners and itís a recipe for looking like 2011 Alec Baldwin. Belts/Suspenders Shirts WATCH: How To Tie A Windsor KnotTies Itís all about the Windsor knot, with the perfectly symmetrical triangle. †A half or full Windsor are both fine, depending on the thickness of the tie and the spread of the collar. MD#1: Handshakes and tie knots. I don't have time for someone that can't master those basic skills. #1: Don't show up to an interview in a HermËs tie. I don't give a f*ck if you can afford it, you have to earn it. #1: Hermes ties are like Air Jordans for white people. Everyone has a favorite tie, but donít wear it every damn week. #1: There's nothing pretentious about keeping a tie journal. It keeps me on a solid 10-12 week rotation. WATCH: How To Pack A SuitSuit Jacket #1: Is that a brown suit? The back office is in Jersey City, pal. #1: Gucci suits are like Corvettes. They're a great way of telling people you didn't always have money. #1: I spent $2,000 on a suit I don't need or like, just to impress a sales chick I don't find attractive. Business Casual  #1: Why do people wear wool if they know cashmere exists?  #1: There is no such thing as turtleneck weather. Stick with Polo shirts; no one cares to watch you inevitably mime golf swings. #1: Nothing says douchebag quite like wearing an Augusta golf shirt when the Masters are on. Watches #1: Wearing a Rolex is like driving an Audi. It says you've got some money, but nothing to say. Thanks to Hank Paulson, Nike running watches and Livestrong bracelets were to 2004 what Lloyd's stubble beard has been to 2012-13. †There are quite a few senior guys that still wear a Nike sport watch, intentionally, or even no watch at all. #1: Not wearing a watch is the new Patek. Forget all about Hublot. †Itís a great way to tell people that youíre an idiot who has more money than taste. †Hublot was a second-rate brand with third-rate craftsmanship until about 15 years ago when they arbitrarily doubled the price and started paying celebrities and sport figures to wear them. It's been a marketers wet dream.  #1: Hublot put the ëwhoreí in ëhorologyí† Miscellaneous Tips #1: In New York, don't trust a banker with a pocket square. In London, it's a pinky ring. And in Asia, don't f--king trust anyone. Like Ambien and red wine, the wrong fashion combination can become a disastrously lethal cocktail of Larry Kudlow-esque proportions.† MD #1: A double-breasted suit and a blue shirt with a white collar? Was it a rough night in the water bed? #1: Plaid shirt, bow tie, and pocket square is the douchebag trifecta.† Finally, "an architect is only as good as his builder, and a fashion designer is only as good as your tailor." There you have it; head to toe. These tips wonít exactly get you laid at Soho House or on the cover of GQ; but on Wall Street and in business, you canít go wrong taking this advice. Just donít go out and break the law or get scapegoatedÖ Ask any juror, Fabrice Tourreís ëfabulousí(?) and expensive-looking fashion sense was a coffin nail come deliberation time.
Appearing on CNBC this afternoon, the DoubleLine Funds CEO said he now has a neutral view of the stock after shares in the tech giant reached his goal of $500 ‚Äî and he admitted that it wouldn't have even gotten to that level if not for Carl Icahn's recent comments that he was long the stock. Instead, he said, shares will now slowly drift upward and stay range-bound in the low $500s. ¬†The stock was trading at about $495 this morning. "All the easy money has been made," Gundlach said, adding, "It's kind of dead money."¬† It can be argued this is the third different position Gundlach has taken on Apple in 10 months. Last November, he said he was short. Then, as recently as May, he said it was "sorta cheap" when it was trading around $450. And now this. The stock is up about 0.80% today to $494.
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachBond god Jeffrey Gundlach said on CNBC's "Halftime Report" with Scott Wapner that he wouldn't announce any short positions because it invites your rivals to bet against you.¬† "I've learned from watching CNBC that announcing your shorts isn't the best idea because it sometimes invites competition," Gundlach, who runs DoubleLine Capital, said.¬† It's pretty clear that he's talking about Pershing Square Capital Management's founder Bill Ackman here. Back in December, Ackman publicly declared that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products. As part of his thesis,¬†Ackman said believes Herbalife is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income people, particularly those from the Hispanic population. Ackman thinks that regulators, particularly the FTC, will be persuaded to investigate and shut down Herbalife. Some of Ackman's competitors seized this as an opportunity to bet against him.¬† Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC, who used to be Ackman's friend, snapped up a sizeable position calling Ackman's thesis "preposterous." ¬†He later exited that position for a nice profit.¬† Then, Ackman's arch nemesis Carl Icahn amassed a huge position. ¬†He said that he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."¬† Since revealing his short, Herbalife's shares have rallied more than 43%.¬† Still, Gundlach noted on CNBC that Herbalife's stock chart right now is "an invitation of a short." ¬†
APFormer New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer and opponent Scott Stringer are in a dead heat in the New York City comptroller's race, according to a new poll from Quinnipiac University.¬† Among likely Democratic voters, both Spitzer and Stringer grab 46% of the vote in the upcoming Democratic primary. The primary is Sept. 10.¬† That's a huge plunge from Spitzer's 19-point lead in the previous Quinnipiac survey, which was released two weeks ago. As a grain of salt to the poll, however, Quinnipiac polls have been rather erratic in both the comptroller and mayoral races.¬† In the new poll, the main source of strength for Spitzer continues to be his standing with black voters, with whom he leads Stringer by 12 points. But that's down from a 47-point advantage from the last poll, and is the driving factor in his plunge. Stringer has a 58-35 lead with white voters. There is little gender gap between the two candidates.¬† Stringer voters are also more definitive in their support ‚Äî 77% say they will "definitely" vote for him, while only 72% say the same about Spitzer. Only 13% of likely Stringer voters say they might change their mind, compared with 18% for Spitzer. "Public polling is catching up to what we are seeing on the subways and streets. New Yorkers are looking for a comptroller with a proven record of honesty, integrity and putting the middle-class first," Stringer campaign manager Sascha Owen said in a statement. "After five years since he left office in disgrace, New Yorkers are being reminded of the mess that Eliot Spitzer left us. ¬†As voters around the city get to know Scott Stringer, they are seeing that the choice is clear - and we'll be fighting to the last hour to win over every last one of them."
Wikimedia CommonsStatue of the Death of Achilles, Achillion Gardens, Corfu.Jeff Gundlach, the legendary bond fund manager at DoubleLine Funds, was on CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report" discussing the economy and markets. He warned that the housing market looked over-extended as reflected by the disconnect between high prices and rising mortgage rates. Housing is the "Achilles heel" of the economy, he said. These comments come in the wake of a series of housing market reports that have been softer than expected. And many have blamed the disappointing data on rising mortgage rates, which tend to move with Treasury yields. "I think the 10-year can go to 3.10% or so," he said forecasting the Treasury market for the balance of the year. When asked about the possibility of 3.5% rates or higher, Gundlach said that would come with a serious down move in the markets, which in turn would force rates to come back down. Gundlach has been recently quoted as saying the 10-year would go no higher than 2.5% and fall as low as 1.7% this year. There's "fear and loathing in the markets," he said.
To promote Nike's Free Flyknit running shoes, Nike China pulled of this incredible publicity stunt. Workers on harnesses (it doesn't look very safe) knitted a shoe onto a foot in Nanjing. Here's a great time-lapse video of the workers knitting a shoe on a giant billboard of a foot, from The Shanghaiist.  
REUTERS/Giath TahaA man working at a makeshift oil refinery site, watches an improvised burner in Aleppo's countryside.The UK government has put out a paper explaining why a strike on Syria is justified. Meanwhile, president Obama will brief high-ranking members of Congress on his plans today.† Alastair Newton, senior political analyst at Nomura writes that the U.S. will probably delay a military strike against Syria until after the G20 summit in September. And it's likely to do so with or without the UK and France. But the most important takeaway is this: "We cannot emphasize too strongly that, whatever option may be adopted we see little or no direct threat to global oil supply emanating from a U.S. strike against the Syrian regime." In the aftermath of the coup in Egypt, Brent prices moved to the lower end of $105 - $120 per barrel range because of "misplaced, we believe concerns over the security of the Suez Canal," he writes. "We therefore see sentiment, ie, perceived geopolitical risk, rather than reality (with all due respect to Henry Kissingerís famous quote, ie, ìPerception is realityî) as the primary driver of the 15% or so increase in the price of Brent over the past two months." Newton adds that even if a strike on Syria "does not lead to mission creep" i.e. an expansion of the mission beyond its initial goal because the first strike is successful, we have to take a bigger picture view of the situation. And the view is "bleak," since regional tensions will be exacerbated. Bottom-line: A strike won't pose a direct threat to oil supply, but perceived political risk will impact prices. "We therefore see recent price action around Brent in particular as an overreaction to the prospect and therefore expect the price to dip again after a strike (if not, perhaps, even before any military action relative to yesterdayís high)." But perceived political risk in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) is expected to push Brent prices to the upper end of $105 - $120 per barrel range through the third and fourth quarters.
REUTERS/Mike CarlsonDonald Trump (seated L) and his wife Melania (seated R) are applauded before a dinner hosted by the Sarasota Republican Party honoring him as Statesman of the Year in Sarasota, Florida August 26, 2012. Trump University is in limbo after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued the organization for fraud. Mark Zimmerman, a 51-year-old married electrical engineer in Seattle, is stunned by the development. A longtime admirer of the controversial real estate developer, Zimmerman began taking Trump University courses after purchasing "Trump University Wealth Building 101: Your First 90 Days On The Path To Prosperity" ¬†(We tracked down Zimmerman through a review he gave on Amazon). "I always thought Trump was one of the more American icons because he was so successful, so when I originally noticed 'Finance 101,' it caught my eye," he told us by phone recently. He says he gave the book to every member of his family one Christmas.¬† "We're all in same scenario, thinking about our finances, what's the right way to do it ‚Äî I actually think it had a lot of really good attributes." Eventually, he enrolled in online courses organized by the university, ultimately spending "a couple thousand" dollars on lessons. He says he's glad he did. Why? Mostly because the school gave him confidence and energy. Empowered by the courses, he and his wife moved to the Caribbean island of St. Lucia and opened a restaurant. "People [would] look at me and say, 'You did what?' 'We lived in the West Indies.' And they're like, 'Wow!' It's the mindset ‚Äî it was 'Absolutely, if you have a dream, you might as well dream big. Have the tenacity, but pay attention to the details." Zimmerman says they sold the venture after only a year, after homesickness for Seattle caught up with them. He says they broke even. Though he hasn't seen the details of Schneiderman's suit, he says it almost certainly lacks merit. "Ya, he wasn't accredited, that would be the only 'downplay,' calling yourself a university...everybody knew he wasn't credited. I think he provided a good service." Zimmerman says there was no one tip or method he learned that changed his fortunes, but that he never entertained such expectations to begin with. "If you're doing a real estate deal, not everything is cut and dry ‚Äî a lot of variables in there. If you put a program together saying, 'This is what you do next' ...It could be done, but I don't think [any] go to that extent." He also rejected the notion that course participants were only out to make a quick buck. "I don't get the get-rich-quick thing," he said. "There's nothing there about getting rich quick. I've done real estate since 1995 off and on, it takes a lot of experience and knowledge of how things work." To this day, he says, he uses the lessons he learned to manage his family's trust. And if the University were able to come back in compliance with the statutes it allegedly violated, he would recommend it. "I would still advocate the books. If Trump University ever decided to start back up, maybe if they changed the format ‚Äî it's not such hard sell. I think the value is there."
Today, tens of thousands of U.S. fast food workers are striking to demand higher wages. According to The Economist's Big Mac price index¬†and¬†BLS pay data, their claims are not without merit. Between 2000 and 2012, the cost of two all-beef patties, special sauce etc. climbed 72%, to $4.33 from $2.51. Over the same period, the median fast food worker wage increased just 33%, to $8.78 from $6.52. For wages, that's just $0.07 above inflation. And it means that whereas in 2000 fast food workers could purchase 2.60 burgers for an hour of work, today they can only purchase 2.02. (The key line is the yellow line) Here's the chart: BLS/The Economist/FRED/Rob Wile And here's price changes: BLS/The Economist Something's gotta give.
Wikimedia CommonsAlbert Edwards, the uber-bearish strategist at Societe Generale, is warning clients that the ongoing devastation in the emerging markets is a sign of bad things to come. "At the risk of being called a crackpot again, I repeat my forecasts of 450 for the S&amp;P, sub-1% US 10y yields and gold above $10,000," wrote Edwards in a note subtitled: EM Rout Is Merely The Final Tweet Of The Canary In The Coal Mine.* From his note: The emerging markets ëstoryí has once again been exposed as a pyramid of piffle. The EM edifice has come crashing down as their underlying balance of payments weaknesses have been exposed first by the yenís slide and then by the threat of Fed tightening. China has flip- flopped from berating Bernanke for too much QE in 2010 to warning about the negative impact of tapering on emerging markets! It is a mystery to me why anyone, apart from the activists that seem to inhabit western central banks, thinks QE could be the solution to the problems of the global economy. But in temporarily papering over the cracks, they have allowed those cracks to become immeasurably deep crevasses... Edwards's note included a chart showing how the S&amp;P 500 in 2013 was on the same trajectory as it was in 1987 right before it crashed. "I remember the 1987 crash well," he wrote. "I was working at Bank America Investment Management as an economist/strategist at the time. Of course, the immediate trigger for the equity crash was the fear of US recession caused by the fear that the US would have to hike rates sharply to defend the dollar." That sounds eerily similar to the sentiment of today. "As to this year, ëDr Copperí has been telling us for some time that all is not well with global growth, and long before the marketsí ears picked up the loud sucking sound of the air draining out of emerging markets," he wrote. As you can see from the chart below, the S&amp;P has decoupled from copper. Edwards obviously believes that will correct as stocks crash. Societe Generale *We often refer to South Korean exports as the global economic canary in the coalmine. Edwards associates it more broadly to the Emerging Markets as a whole.
Over the past 10 years, real estate investment trusts, or REITs, have been stock market darlings, outperforming Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index. But there are signs REITs may be overheating as investors pile in, according to some experts. The average price-to-earnings ratio in the bellwether MSCI REIT Index was 41.5 at the end of July versus just 17.86 last year. And, once-hefty dividend yields have fallen. "Most REITs in our coverage have dividend yields well below their historical norms," says Todd Lukasik, a senior equity analyst at Morningstar. With that in mind, advisers are counseling investors to be picky when buying REITs, given their fast run-ups. "These valuations aren't sustainable," says Geoffrey Dancey, a portfolio manager at Cutler Capital Management LLC in Worcester, Mass. And they can lead to lower stock prices down the road, he adds, translating into losses. Examples of unusually low REIT yields and high prices aren't hard to find. Simon Property Group, which mainly invests in malls, was trading at $145 in early August and sports a 3.2 percent yield. "Persistently low (interest) rates are still driving REITs," says Lukasik. "It's hard for investors to get that." Lukasik worries that once interest rates rise, REITs could tumble. The reason: REITs rely on borrowed money to make acquisitions. When interest rates go up, so do the borrowing costs of REITs. In addition, investors may seek safer returns in risk-free Treasuries, which could cause a run for the exits, according to a Morgan Stanley research report. Caveats aside, REITs have a place in investors' portfolios. They pool capital to buy diversified real estate that investors normally couldn't afford. And, shareholders also benefit from their structure. REITs must distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable income annually. But, the key to REIT hunting is doing your homework, says Karl Romero, a Certified Financial Planner professional with Karl Romero &amp; Associates, a wealth management firm in Santa Ana, Calif. "Take it sector by sector," he says. Here are some key ways to protect yourself when REIT hunting. Avoid newly issued REITS. A host of new REITs, including single-family residential REITs, is coming to the market this year. However, these freshly minted stocks lack track records, so investors can't scrutinize their success. "These new REITs are signs that this niche is getting pricey," says Stephen Mauzy, a principal at the Colorado-based investment analysis firm S.P. Mauzy &amp; Associates. "Stay away from the new stuff." Mauzy says he prefers to see how a REIT maintains its payouts and navigates market troughs over time. Stick with publicly traded REITs. There are two types of equity REITs -- nontraded and ones that trade on a stock exchange. According to Morningstar research, publicly traded commercial equity REITs consistently outperform nontraded ones over time. They also recover faster during downturns, have lower fees than nontraded REITs and are stronger performers in bull markets. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority also has a warning. The independent financial watchdog says nontraded REITs have several drawbacks, including lack of transparency. They must often be held for eight years or more, since there are limited secondary markets, and front-end fees can run up to 15 percent of the REIT's share price. FINRA's recommendation: Short-term investors should look elsewhere. Longer-term investors should know their capital needs if they do invest in nontraded REITs. Don't overload your portfolio to chase REIT yields. Typically, REITs compose 5 percent to 10 percent of investors' portfolio assets. However, these days, investors are tempted to nab high yields by shifting more money into REITs rather than reaping the low yields of the bond market. Resist this urge, says Joe Davis, head of Vanguard's investment strategy group. He says REITs tend to mimic stocks rather than bonds. "The final result is a more aggressive and more stock-heavy strategic asset allocation," Davis wrote in a commentary for Vanguard. He warns that an income-focused strategy of buying dividend-paying stocks, including REITs, is not risk-free. Avoid REITs that use borrowed capital. REITs that use borrowed capital to spike returns can get pummeled when interest rates rise since their borrowing costs shoot up. And mortgage REITs, which mainly invest in real estate debt, are usually highly leveraged. That makes them more risky, Mauzy says. Conversely, equity REITs, which own properties, tend to be less rate sensitive. The upshot: When interest rates go up dramatically, the mortgage-backed securities that the REIT owns plummet in value as its borrowing costs go up. This isn't a good scenario for investors and quickly can lead to dividend cuts and even bankruptcy for the REIT, Mauzy says. Some equity REITs have significant debt, too. For example, CommonWealth REIT, which invests in office and industrial buildings, has more debt than its entire market capitalization. In June, S&amp;P cut the REIT's rating to junk status. However, Lukasik says a lot of equity REITs that were once debt-heavy have improved their balance sheets. That's why it pays to be picky with REITs.
Brent crude oil prices have been surging in recent weeks. Today, they are right around $116 per barrel, down around 0.5%. Market pundits have tied the move to Syria, where it appears the threat of a conflict breaking out into the broader Middle East is receding. At least for now. UBS's Julius Walker reiterates that it's the regional spillover that counts for oil prices, not what's actually happening in Syria. "The issue is not curtailed Syrian oil production ‚Äì its crude output has already shriveled to 40 kb/d from pre-crisis capacity of 350 kb/d," said Walker. "The fear is that a strike on Syria could lead to it retaliating, thus pulling in neighbouring countries. Even more worryingly, Assad supporters such as Iran or Russia could be prompted to intervene, risking a wider regional conflict." "Oil prices had already risen in past weeks, as worker strikes have shut-in much of Libya‚Äôs production, bombings in Iraq become more frequent again, and the situation remains unstable in Egypt," continued Walked. "We estimate that, including Iran, some 2.5 mb/d of oil production is currently shut-in globally. The Libyan situation, in particular, looks likely to last for longer than initially expected." Walker charted where we're seeing oil supply disruptions around the world.¬† As you can see by the light blue bars, Libya has experienced the biggest increases in disruptions in recent months. UBS
Business InsiderLike many banks on Wall Street, JP Morgan has been hiring the children of influential Chinese officials. But investigators are looking into whether the bank tried to specifically woo business deals through the practice, possibly violating antibribery laws. The Justice Department will be looking for a link ‚Äî some sort of "smoking gun"¬†‚Äî¬†that confirms the bank made hires only to use new employees' pedigree in landing lucrative Asian business. How about an internal excel spreadsheet connecting JP's appointments to its desired business deals? Bloomberg's¬†Dawn Kopecki reports such a document exists. From Bloomberg: The spreadsheet, which links some hiring decisions to specific transactions pursued by the bank, may be viewed by regulators as evidence that JPMorgan added people in exchange for business, according to one person with knowledge of the review. A company spokesperson told Bloomberg the firm is cooperating with the investigation. As we rounded up yesterday, JP Morgan has a slew of investigations to cooperate with. The Department of Justice alone has six probes into the company's practices.¬†
en.wikipedia.orgNew York‚Äôs notoriously stuffy co-ops are taking off their coats and ties, trying to snag those coveted younger buyers who are much more interested in condominium living. They‚Äôre doing everything from allowing the privacy-obsessed to put the name of a trust or limited liability company on the contract ‚Äî a popular option that condos give ‚Äî to speeding up the application process. A few have hired public relations consultants. And the trend is touching every part of the city and co-ops in every price range, including the most storied and exclusive: River House, on the East River, and the twin 38-story towers at 860 and 870 United Nations Plaza. ‚ÄúCo-ops have to look at what they are doing,‚Äù Donna Olshan, a luxury broker and principal at Olshan Realty, told the Wall Street Journal. ‚ÄúThe young audience out there today doesn‚Äôt care about the snob factor. If they are spending a lot of money they don‚Äôt want a co-op board breathing down their back.‚Äù In the past, for example, a prospective buyer who claimed to have $400 million in assets would have to provide proof of the wealth before getting into the more select co-op buildings, according to superbroker Dolly Lenz, who¬†recently left Douglas Elliman to start her own¬†firm, as¬†The Real Deal¬†reported. Now, Lenz told the newspaper, the same buyer might have to only prove $50 million of those assets, Lenz told the newspaper.¬†[WSJ]¬†¬†‚Äì¬†Hiten Samtani

Ajay Verma / REUTERS MUMBAI (Reuters) -¬†India¬†is considering a radical plan to direct commercial banks to buy gold from ordinary¬†citizens¬†and divert it to precious metal refiners in an attempt to curb imports and take some heat off the plunging currency. A pilot project will be launched soon, a source familiar with the Reserve Bank of¬†India¬†(RBI) plans told Reuters.India¬†has the world's third-largest current account deficit, which is approaching nearly $90 billion, driven in a large part by appetite for gold imports in the world's biggest consumer of the metal. With 31,000 tonnes of commercially available gold in the country - worth $1.4 trillion at current prices - diverting even a fraction of that to refiners would sate domestic demand for the metal.¬†India¬†imported 860 tonnes of gold in 2012. "We will start a pilot project among some banks where we will allow them to buy back gold from individual households," the source, an official familiar with the central bank's gold policymaking, said. "This will start soon, we have discussed (it) with banks." The RBI will ask the banks to buy back jewelry, bars and coins for rupees. Lenders will have to offer better rates than pawn shops and jewelers to lure sellers. Any talk of using the country's gold to help meet¬†India's international obligations revives memories of a 1991 balance of payments crisis - when¬†India¬†flew 67 tonnes of gold to¬†Europe¬†as collateral for a loan to avoid a sovereign debt default. Earlier on Thursday,¬†India's Trade Minister¬†Anand Sharma¬†said the central bank should look into the possibility of monetizing gold holdings. It was not immediately clear whether Sharma was referring to the 557.7 tonnes of gold the RBI holds in its own reserves, or gold in private hands. He did not give more details of how the proposal would work. "I have not said there should be any mortgaging of the gold, or auction of the gold, that is incorrect. I have just said the RBI should look into ... how they can benefit the people, particularly with regard to the bonds or the monetization," Sharma said in response to a question in parliament. Earlier this week in comments reported in the national media, Sharma said "even if 500 tonnes is monetized at today's value it takes care of your CAD", or current account deficit. Selling gold reserves may sit badly with Indians, many of whom saw the 1991 sale as a public humiliation. The secret operation was only exposed after a vehicle carrying the first consignment of bullion broke down on its way to the airport from the central bank. "It (pledging gold) will be a desperate measure, and it will send a very wrong signal to the entire country because all the time we've maintained that things are under control even though things are adverse," said¬†Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings in Mumbai. Such a sale would also dent international gold prices which took a hit earlier this year after¬†Cyprus¬†said it was considering selling its gold reserves to shore up its finances. India¬†has taken multiple steps this year to curb imports of gold, its second-biggest import after oil, including raising duty three times to 10 percent. The rupee, the worst-performing emerging market currency in¬†Asia¬†this year, rebounded from a record low on Thursday after the RBI said it will provide dollars directly to state oil companies to shore up the currency. In comments published by¬†The Hindu¬†newspaper last week,¬†David Gornall, chairman of the¬†London Bullion Market Association, said¬†India¬†could raise $23 billion by swapping gold for a payable currency for a period of its choice, while remaining the long-term holder of the gold. Gold forms an essential part of a bride's dowry in¬†India¬†and is considered auspicious as a gift or offering at religious festivals. (Additional reporting by Siddesh Mayenkar in Mumbai, Rajesh Kumar Singh, Frank Jack Daniel in New Delhi; Writing by A. Ananthalakshmi; Editing by Amran Abocar and Neil Fullick)
Flickr / noahwesleyThis morning's revised Q2 GDP report also came with a preliminary estimate of Q2 corporate profits. Profits climbed 3.9% quarter-over-quarter, after having gone negative in Q1. "Second-quarter corporate profits rebounded by 3.9% q/q (unannualised), after falling by 1.3% in the first," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Nevertheless, a big jump in dividend payments meant that net cash flow actually fell, which is not an encouraging sign for the investment outlook." From the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA): Profits from current production (corporate profits with inventory valuation adjustment (IVA) and capital consumption adjustment (CCAdj)) increased $78.3 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $26.6 billion in the first. Taxes on corporate income increased $10.5 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $25.0 billion. Profits after tax with IVA and CCAdj increased $67.9 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $1.7 billion. Dividends increased $273.8 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in the first. The large second-quarter increase primarily reflected dividends paid by Fannie Mae to the federal government. Undistributed profits decreased $205.9 billion, in contrast to an increase of $102.1 billion. Net cash flow with IVA -- the internal funds available to corporations for investment -- decreased $194.6 billion, in contrast to an increase of $140.7 billion. Corporate profits by industry Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $14.3 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $4.1 billion in the first. Domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $50.4 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $3.1 billion. The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $13.6 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $19.6 billion in the first. This measure is calculated as the difference between receipts from rest of the world and payments to rest of the world. Here's a breakdown via the BEA: BEA
Getty ImagesGDP growth in the second quarter was revised upward to an annualized rate of 2.5% from 1.7%. Analysts were expecting an upward revision to 2.2% .¬† Q1 GDP grew at a 1.1% pace. The revision was led by gains in durable goods spending, which climbed 6.1% compared with 5.8% in Q1. Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth says the strong print will nudge the "imminent Fed tapering" needle forward: The upward revision to second-quarter US GDP growth, which is now estimated to have been 2.5% annualised rather than 1.7%, should give Fed officials more confidence that the recovery is gathering steam as the fiscal drag begins to fade. Under those circumstances, we still think the Fed will begin tapering its monthly asset purchases in September, particularly with¬†weekly initial jobless claims, which fell back to 331,000 last week,¬†pointing to a further gradual improvement in the labour market. That said, it's no certainty and August's non-farm payroll figures will be watched closely. Here's the full release: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the second quarter of 2013 (that is, from the first quarter to the second quarter), according to the "second" estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the first quarter, real GDP increased 1.1 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for the "advance" estimate issued last month. In the advance estimate, the increase in real GDP was 1.7 percent. With this second estimate for the second quarter, the increase in exports was larger than previously estimated, and the increase in imports was smaller than previously estimated (see "Revisions" on page 3). The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, private inventory investment, nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by a negative contribution from federal government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. The acceleration in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected upturns in exports and in nonresidential fixed investment and a smaller decrease in federal government spending that were partly offset by an acceleration in imports and decelerations in private inventory investment and in PCE. The price index for gross domestic purchases, which measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 0.3 percent in the second quarter, unrevised from the advance estimate; this index increased 1.2 percent in the first quarter. Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic purchases increased 0.9 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 1.4 percent in the first. Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.8 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.3 percent in the first. Durable goods increased 6.1 percent, compared with an increase of 5.8 percent. Nondurable goods increased 1.8 percent, compared with an increase of 2.7 percent. Services increased 1.1 percent, compared with an increase of 1.5 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 4.4 percent in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 4.6 percent in the first. Nonresidential structures increased 16.1 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 25.7 percent. Equipment increased 2.9 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent. Intellectual property products decreased 0.9 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.7 percent. Real residential fixed investment increased 12.9 percent, compared with an increase of 12.5 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 8.6 percent in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 1.3 percent in the first. Real imports of goods and services increased 7.0 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.6 percent in the second quarter, compared with a decrease of 8.4 percent in the first. National defense decreased 0.6 percent, compared with a decrease of 11.2 percent. Nondefense decreased 3.2 percent, compared with a decrease of 3.6 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 0.5 percent, compared with a decrease of 1.3 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.59 percentage point to the second-quarter change in real GDP, after adding 0.93 percentage point to the first-quarter change. Private businesses increased inventories $62.6 billion in the second quarter, following increases of $42.2 billion in the first quarter and $7.3 billion in the fourth. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 1.9 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 0.2 percent in the first. Gross domestic purchases Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S. residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased 2.4 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 1.4 percent in the first. Gross national product Real gross national product -- the goods and services produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents -- increased 3.0 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent in the first. GNP includes, and GDP excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world, which increased $16.8 billion in the second quarter after decreasing $17.5 billion in the first; in the second quarter, receipts increased $1.3 billion, and payments decreased $15.5 billion. Current-dollar GDP Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's output of goods and services -- increased 3.2 percent, or $132.6 billion, in the second quarter to a level of $16,667.9 billion. In the first quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 2.8 percent, or $115.0 billion. Gross domestic income Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in the production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the second quarter, compared with an increase of 2.4 percent (revised) in the first. For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI may differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation of largely independent source data. However, over longer time spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar patterns of change. Revisions The upward revision to the percent change in real GDP primarily reflected an upward revision to exports, a downward revision to imports, and an upward revision to private inventory investment that were partly offset by a downward revision to state and local government spending. Advance Estimate Second Estimate (Percent change from preceding quarter) Real GDP.......................................... 1.7 2.5 Current-dollar GDP................................ 2.4 3.2 Gross domestic purchases price index.............. 0.3 0.3 Corporate Profits Profits from current production (corporate profits with inventory valuation adjustment (IVA) and capital consumption adjustment (CCAdj)) increased $78.3 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $26.6 billion in the first. Taxes on corporate income increased $10.5 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $25.0 billion. Profits after tax with IVA and CCAdj increased $67.9 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $1.7 billion. Dividends increased $273.8 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $103.8 billion in the first. The large second-quarter increase primarily reflected dividends paid by Fannie Mae to the federal government. Undistributed profits decreased $205.9 billion, in contrast to an increase of $102.1 billion. Net cash flow with IVA -- the internal funds available to corporations for investment -- decreased $194.6 billion, in contrast to an increase of $140.7 billion. _____ BOX. Profits from current production reflect the depreciation of fixed assets valued at current cost using consistent depreciation profiles. These profiles are based on used-asset prices and do not depend on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income tax returns. The IVA and CCAdj are adjustments that convert inventory withdrawals and depreciation of fixed assets reported on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost economic measures used in the national income and product accounts. _____ ¬† Corporate profits by industry Domestic profits of financial corporations increased $14.3 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $4.1 billion in the first. Domestic profits of nonfinancial corporations increased $50.4 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $3.1 billion. The rest-of-the-world component of profits increased $13.6 billion in the second quarter, in contrast to a decrease of $19.6 billion in the first. This measure is calculated as the difference between receipts from rest of the world and payments to rest of the world. Gross value added of nonfinancial domestic corporate business In the second quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added increased. The increase in unit profits reflected decreases in both the unit nonlabor and labor costs incurred by corporations; unit prices were unchanged. * * * BEA's national, international, regional, and industry estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases are available without charge on BEA's Web site at www.bea.gov. By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.
Luis Anzo via www.flickr.com creative commonsCome on, Ronald! Share!NEW YORK (Reuters) - Fast-food workers across the United States are expected to stage their largest strike to date on Thursday in an almost year-long campaign to raise wages in the service sector. Employees of McDonald's Corp, Wendy's Restaurants LLC, Burger King Worldwide Inc and others have pledged to walk off their jobs in 50 cities from Boston, Mass, to Alameda, Calif., organizers say. They are expected to be joined by retail employees at stores owned by Macy's Inc, Sears Holdings Corp and Dollar Tree Inc in some cities. The strike follows a similar protest last November, when some 200 workers walked off their fast-food jobs in New York City. Groups in Chicago, Kansas City, Detroit and other cities followed their lead in April and July. The workers want to form unions and bargain higher wages with their employers without facing retaliation from franchisees or their parent companies. They are demanding $15 an hour, up from $7.25, which is the current federal minimum wage. The median wage for front-line fast-food workers is $8.94 per hour, according to an analysis of government data by the National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group for lower-wage workers. Virtually all private-sector fast-food jobs are non-union, and organizers say retaliation against workers who try to organize is common. Martin Rafanan, a community organizer in St. Louis, Missouri, where the minimum wage is $7.35, said local employees of McDonald's and Wendy's were inspired by the Occupy Wall Street movement's discussions about income inequality. But he added that the main reason for their frustration is financial. "If you're paying $7.35 an hour and employing someone for 20, 25 hours a week, which is the average here, they're bringing home about $10,000 a year. You can't survive on that." Rafanan said. "Unless we can figure out how to make highly profitable companies pay a fair wage to their workers, we're just going to watch them pull all the blood, sweat, tears and money out of our communities." The National Restaurant Association, the trade group for U.S. restaurants and fast-food chains, said in a statement that the restaurant industry provides 13 million Americans with jobs and that discussions about wages "should be based on facts." "Only five percent of restaurant employees earn the minimum wage and those that do are predominantly working part-time and half are teenagers," said Scott DeFife, the organization's executive vice president of policy and government affairs. Fast-food companies, which have not altered wage policies as a result of recent strikes, have struck a similar tone. Many of them have said they provide good jobs and ample opportunities for workers looking to rise through the ranks. "McDonald's aims to offer competitive pay and benefits to our employees. Our history is full of examples of individuals who worked their first job with McDonald's and went on to successful careers both within and outside of McDonald's," the company said in a statement. Wendy's and Burger King did not respond to requests for comment. Thursday's strike is shaping up to be "the largest attempt at worker organizing in this industry ever" thanks to broad financial and technical support from the Service Workers International Union, and grassroots efforts from community groups, local politicians and the clergy, said Tsedeye Gebreselassie, an attorney at the National Employment Law Project. "The workers are responding to total failure on behalf of the federal government to raise the minimum wage to keep up with inflation and the cost of living," Gebreselassie said. The $200 billion U.S. fast-food sector has come under the spotlight because lower-paying and part-time service work, including retail sales and food preparation, has made up most of the jobs added since the recession. The pre-Labor Day strikes will include movements in several Southern states, a region that has historically been challenging for organized labor. Dorian Warren, an assistant professor of political science at Columbia University who has published work on labor organizing and inequality, said that, while the movement is still in its early stages, the significance of protests in states such as Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama is "a huge, huge deal." "The South has always been the model for low wage employment, from slavery to the Jim Crow laws, to the present. It's also the most anti-union part of the country, so the fact that workers feel empowered enough to take collective action is enormous," Warren added. (This story changes headline and fourth paragraph to clarify that workers are seeking higher wages through negotiations with employers, not via federal government action.) (Reporting By Atossa Araxia Abrahamian. Editing by Andre Grenon)
bytemarks / FlickrThe Department of Labor just released its latest weekly report of initial unemployment claims. Claims fell to 331,000, which was a tad better than the 332,000 expected by economists. However, last week's reading of¬† 336,000 a week ago was revised up to 337,000. The 4-week moving climbed to 2,996,250 from 2,986,750. "Claims continue to signal no let-up in employment growth," said High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan in a note last night. Click Here For Live Updates ¬ª
The Indian rupee rollercoaster ride continues. After booking its biggest loss in years 18 years, the rupee surged 3.2% against the dollar today. This was the biggest gain since May 2009. Late Wednesday, the Reserve Bank of India said it will enter into USD-INR swaps with state-owned oil-marketing companies. "The RBI will meet the entire daily dollar requirement of three public sector oil-marketing companies through a sell/buy USD-INR swap for a fixed tenor, thereby removing the largest source of dollar demand from the market," noted Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker. Here's the intraday chart via Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg
REUTERS/Pablo SanchezPeople run away from huge waves crashing onto San Sebastian's seafront in Spain.As the Emerging Markets watch their currencies tumble and theirs stock markets tank, central banks are stepping up. Here are three headlines out of the EMs in the last 12 hours: The Reserve Bank Of India Sells Dollars To Oil Companies: In its effort to prop up its collapsing rupee, the RBI said it will enter into USD-INR swaps with state-owned oil-marketing companies. "The RBI will meet the entire daily dollar requirement of three public sector oil-marketing companies through a sell/buy USD-INR swap for a fixed tenor, thereby removing the largest source of dollar demand from the market," noted Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker. The Brazilian Central Bank Raises Rates: Late Wednesday, the BCB raised its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points to 9.00%. In the past four meetings, the BCB has raised this rate by a total of 175 basis points. "Contrary to our ongoing view, the passthrough inflation pressure due to currency depreciation ‚Äì although mostly built into our inflation forecasting model ‚Äì could necessitate a further hike through Q4 and Q1 next year," said Societe Generale's Dev Ashish. "This would particularly be the case if the currency remains at depreciated levels for a long enough period of time." Bank Indonesia Raises Rates: Thursday morning, BI raised its benchmark interest rate 50 basis points to 7.0%.
REUTERS/Gene Blevins An unmanned Delta 4 Heavy rocket, the largest booster in in the U.S. fleet, lifts off from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California to put a classified satellite into orbit for the National Reconnaissance Office August 28, 2013 Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Letís all take a deep breath and step back from the ledges here. †Letís try to actually put things in perspective because I am worried that some Wall Streeters are up to their usual tricks of misreporting how things should be benchmarked and overdramatizing things so they can generate some much needed fear driven attention. First of all, we use the aggregate index to track the WHOLE bond market because anything else is a version of cherry picking. †Just like you wouldnít say ìstocks are getting slaughteredî just because tech stocks fell a lot. †No, you would look at the broad index of stocks and if the index is getting slaughtered then itís fine to say ìstocks are getting slaughteredî. So, hereís the iShares Bond Aggregate (formerly known as the Lehman Bros Aggregate ñ now, Lehman bros, thereís a ìslaughterî) on a one year basis and the brutal 2.5% decline: Pragmatic Capitalism Yes, itís true. †Parts of the bond market have been pretty beat-up. †The long bond is down 10-15% depending on your duration. †But thatís a slice of the overall bond market. †When we back up and take the big picture view it becomes pretty clear that the bond ìslaughterî hasnít really been anything close to a slaughter, but more like another thing that the media and Wall Street has made a big deal of for no good reason.
Flickr/ZoriahAs tensions rise in Syria, economists and investors are scrambling to figure out what the means for the rest of the world. Analysts have been quick to tie the recent rise in oil prices to the Syrian conflict. But as BI's Rob Wile has been reporting, there are other major short-term forces driving prices. Arguably the biggest of those non-Syria forces is Libya. Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid reminds us in his Early Morning Reid note: Although the attention has been on Syria, our commodities research team highlights that the freefall in Libyan oil production is having a more dramatic and immediate impact on the physical oil market. Indeed, Libya normally produces about 10x more oil than Syria. Libyan oil production has dropped to as little as about 200kbd (from an average of 1.4m bbb/day) as of the most recent reporting period as labour strikes disrupted port operations and consequently crude oil exports. They note that the impact of these supply disruptions particularly in Libya is acute for the Brent balance from both a regional as well as crude oil quality perspective. For the most part, analysts believe any supply-related price increases will be short-lived as machinery becomes more energy-efficient and consumers shift toward greener alternatives.
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschUnemployment office, Berlin, GermanyBERLIN (Reuters) - Slightly more people were out of a job in Germany in August than a month earlier but the unemployment rate remained near its lowest level since Germany reunited more than two decades ago, data showed on Thursday. Joblessness rose by some 7,000 to 2.943 million in seasonally adjusted terms in August, the Labour Office data showed. That compared with the consensus forecast in a Reuters poll of 22 economists for a drop of 5,000. The jobless rate stayed close to a post-reunification low at 6.8 percent. (Reporting by Berlin Bureau)
Verizon is working with several banks to raise $10 billion from each to finance about $60 billion of the deal and an announcement could come as soon as September 2, two sources told Bloomberg. (http://link.reuters.com/raz62v) The stake in Verizon Wireless, the leader in the U.S. mobile market, has become increasingly valuable to Vodafone as its fortunes have waned in its core European markets. Chief Executive Vittorio Colao said in May he would stake his reputation on selling the stake at the right time and right price and would not bow to pressure to do any deal. Shares in Vodafone jumped 9 percent to a 12-year high of 207 pence on confirmation of the talks. Reuters reported in April that Verizon had hired advisers for a possible $100 billion bid and was contemplating a roughly 50:50 cash and stock offer for the 45 percent stake in Verizon Wireless it does not already own. At the time, most analysts said the roughly $100 billion figure contemplated by Verizon was too low and that the value of the Vodafone holding was nearer $120 billion. The Wall Street Journal said significant shifts in financial markets, such as rising interest rates as well as changes in the U.S. cellphone business had brought the two sides closer together. A Verizon spokesman declined to comment on the Bloomberg and Wall Street Journal reports. Vodafone Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee had said last month the company would seriously consider an offer if it offered more value to investors than the current status quo. Analysts and investors have previously said that structuring the deal to ensure not too much tax was payable by the seller was a tricky issue that needed ironing out so that more of the proceeds would be available to shareholders. "The tax leakage being rumored is $10 billion, which I think would be a good result for Vodafone holders," one of the 10 largest investors in the UK-listed telecoms company told Reuters. (Reporting by Avik Das and Sakthi Prasad in Bangalore, and Paul Sandle and Sinead Cruise in London; Editing by Edwina Gibbs and Will Waterman)
Wikimedia Commons"Au Salon de la Rue des Moulins" Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec Markets are up early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.6%. Germany's DAX is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.6%. We just learned that Germany unexpectedly shed 7,000 jobs in August. However, the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 6.8%. Developed and emerging markets also rallied overnight. Japan's Nikkei climbe by 0.9%. India's Bombay Sensex jumped 1.8%.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachJosef AckermannZURICH (Reuters) - Josef Ackermann, the chairman of Zurich Insurance &lt;ZURN.VX&gt; and former Deutsche Bank boss &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, resigned on Thursday over the apparent suicide of the insurer's chief financial officer, further roiling the top ranks of the firm. Ackermann said the family of Pierrer Wauthier, who worked at Europe's No. 3 insurance group for 17 years, believed he shared some of the blame for his death. "I have reasons to believe that the family is of the opinion that I should take my share of responsibility, as unfounded as any allegations might be," he said in a statement on Thursday. "As a consequence, I see the possibility of a continued successful board leadership to the benefit of Zurich called into question," he said. On Tuesday, police said Wauthier - found dead at his home in a lakefront suburb of Zug outside Zurich on Monday - appeared to have committed suicide. A spokeswoman did not elaborate on what allegations Ackermann was referring to surrounding Wauthier, who leaves behind a wife and two children. Vice-chairman and former ABN Amro banker Tom de Swaan will take over as acting chairman, the insurer said. Zurich's top ranks have seen considerable change in the last 12 months: former general insurance head Mario Greco left in mid 2012 to become head of Italian insurer Generali &lt;GASI.MI&gt;. Two weeks ago the head of its life insurance arm, Kevin Hogan, left to become AIG's &lt;AIG.N&gt; head of consumer insurance. "When the chairman leaves after you've already lost your head of global life, Mario Greco, and then the unexpected loss of Pierre Wauthier as CFO, it will lead to more uncertainty," Helvea analyst Daniel Bischof said. He rates the stock at buy with a 265 franc target price. On August 15, Zurich said it would be hard pressed to meet certain performance targets after posting a 27-percent fall in second-quarter net profit due to natural disaster payouts, which topped those of European rivals because of its high exposure to the United States. Wauthier's death and the apparent suicide of Swisscom &lt;SCMN.VX&gt; boss Carsten Schloter five weeks ago have prompted calls for greater support for boardroom high-fliers. Since returning to Switzerland after leaving Deutsche in 2012, Ackermann has become a forceful advocate for the Swiss financial sector. He is one of few senior industry figures to keep his job through the financial crisis. (Editing by Louise Ireland)
