REUTERS/China DailyChina just released trade data for October. Exports climbed 5.6% year-over-year. This beat expectations for a modest 1.7% rise and compares with a 0.3% fall in September. Meanwhile, imports climbed 7.6% on the year, slightly above expectations for a 7.4% rise. This compares with a 7.4% rise in September. Meanwhile, the trade surplus surged to $31.1 billion, beating expectations for $24.1 billion. This is up from $15.21 billion in September. The better-than-expected trade data adds to signs that the economy is stabilizing. All eyes are now on the upcoming 3rd Plenum set to begin on Nov. 9, and the economic data out this weekend.
Typhoon Haiyan ó which is being called one of the worst storms of all time ó is bearing down now on the Philippines. The satellite imagery is jaw-dropping. This shot from European meteorological group EUMETSAT†really captures just how massive this storm really is. EUMETSAT
It was an ugly session for the U.S. on Thursday, and that's translating into weakness in Asia. Currently Korea is off 0.7%. Australia is off 0.4%. And here's Japan's Nikkei. Nikkei.com The big event on Friday, of course, is the U.S. Non-Farm Payrolls report.
theprospectgroup / YouTubeMarc FaberI would like readers to consider carefully the fundamental difference between a ‚Äúreal economy‚Äù and a ‚Äúfinancial economy.‚Äù In a real economy, the debt and equity markets as a percentage of GDP are small and are principally designed to channel savings into investments. In a financial economy or ‚Äúmonetary-driven economy,‚Äù the capital market is far larger than GDP and channels savings not only into investments, but also continuously into colossal speculative bubbles. This isn‚Äôt to say that bubbles don‚Äôt occur in the real economy, but they are infrequent and are usually small compared with the size of the economy. So when these bubbles burst, they tend to inflict only limited damage on the economy. In a financial economy, however, investment manias and stock market bubbles are so large that when they burst, considerable economic damage follows. I should like to stress that every investment bubble brings with it some major economic benefits, because a bubble leads either to a quantum jump in the rate of progress or to rising production capacities, which, once the bubble bursts, drive down prices and allow more consumers to benefit from the increased supplies. In the 19th century, for example, the canal and railroad booms led to far lower transportation costs, from which the economy greatly benefited. The 1920s‚Äô and 1990s‚Äô innovation-driven booms led to significant capacity expansions and productivity improvements, which in the latter boom drove down the prices of new products such as PCs, cellular phones, servers and so on, and made them affordable to millions of additional consumers. The energy boom of the late 1970s led to the application of new oil extracting and drilling technologies and to more efficient methods of energy usage, as well as to energy conservation, which, after 1980, drove down the price of oil in real terms to around the level of the early 1970s. Even the silly real estate bubbles we experienced in Asia in the 1990s had their benefits. Huge overbuilding led to a collapse in real estate prices, which, after 1998, led to very affordable residential and commercial property prices. So my view is that capital spending booms, which inevitably lead to minor or major investment manias, are a necessary and integral part of the capitalistic system. They drive progress and development, lower production costs and increase productivity, even if there is inevitably some pain in the bust that follows every boom. The point is, however, that in the real economy (a small capital market), bubbles tend to be contained by the availability of savings and credit, whereas in the financial economy (a disproportionately large capital market compared with the economy), the unlimited availability of credit leads to speculative bubbles, which get totally out of hand. In other words, whereas every bubble will create some ‚Äúwhite elephant‚Äù investments (investments that don‚Äôt make any economic sense under any circumstances), in financial economies‚Äô bubbles, the quantity and aggregate size of ‚Äúwhite elephant‚Äù investments is of such a colossal magnitude that the economic benefits that arise from every investment boom, which I alluded to above, can be more than offset by the money and wealth destruction that arises during the bust. This is so because in a financial economy, far too much speculative and leveraged capital becomes immobilized in totally unproductive ‚Äúwhite elephant‚Äù investments. In this respect, I should like to point out that as late as the early 1980s, the U.S. resembled far more a ‚Äúreal economy‚Äù than at present, which I would definitely characterize as a ‚Äúfinancial economy.‚Äù In 1981, stock market capitalization as a percentage of GDP was less than 40% and total credit market debt as a percentage of GDP was 130%. By contrast, at present, the stock market capitalization and total credit market debt have risen to more than 100% and 300% of GDP, respectively. As I explained above, the rate of inflation accelerated in the 1970s, partly because of easy monetary policies, which led to negative real interest rates; partly because of genuine shortages in a number of commodity markets; and partly because OPEC successfully managed to squeeze up oil prices. But by the late 1970s, the rise in commodity prices led to additional supplies, and several commodities began to decline in price even before Paul Volcker tightened monetary conditions. Similarly, soaring energy prices in the late 1970s led to an investment boom in the oil- and gas-producing industry, which increased oil production, while at the same time the world learned how to use energy more efficiently. As a result, oil shortages gave way to an oil glut, which sent oil prices tumbling after 1985. At the same time, the U.S. consumption boom that had been engineered by Ronald Reagan in the early 1980s (driven by exploding budget deficits) began to attract a growing volume of cheap Asian imports, first from Japan, Taiwan and South Korea and then, in the late 1980s, also from China. I would therefore argue that even if Paul Volcker hadn‚Äôt pursued an active monetary policy that was designed to curb inflation by pushing up interest rates dramatically in 1980/81, the rate of inflation around the world would have slowed down very considerably in the course of the 1980s, as commodity markets became glutted and highly competitive imports from Asia and Mexico began to put pressure on consumer product prices in the U.S. So with or without Paul Volcker‚Äôs tight monetary policies, disinflation in the 1980s would have followed the highly inflationary 1970s. In fact, one could argue that without any tight monetary policies (just keeping money supply growth at a steady rate) in the early 1980s, disinflation would have been even more pronounced. Why? The energy investment boom and conservation efforts would probably have lasted somewhat longer and may have led to even more overcapacities and to further reduction in demand. This eventually would have driven energy prices even lower. I may also remind our readers that the Kondratieff long price wave, which had turned up in the 1940s, was due to turn down sometime in the late 1970s. It is certainly not my intention here to criticize Paul Volcker or to question his achievements at the Fed, since I think that, in addition to being a man of impeccable personal and intellectual integrity (a rare commodity at today‚Äôs Fed), he was the best and most courageous Fed chairman ever. However, the fact remains that the investment community to this day perceives Volcker‚Äôs tight monetary policies at the time as having been responsible for choking off inflation in 1981, when, in fact, the rate of inflation would have declined anyway in the 1980s for the reasons I just outlined. In other words, after the 1980 monetary experiment, many people, and especially Mr. Greenspan, began to believe that an active monetary policy could steer economic activity on a noninflationary steady growth course and eliminate inflationary pressures through tight monetary policies and through cyclical and structural economic downturns through easing moves! This belief in the omnipotence of central banks was further enhanced by the easing moves in 1990/91, which were implemented to save the banking system and the savings &amp; loan associations; by similar policy moves in 1994 in order to bail out Mexico and in 1998 to avoid more severe repercussions from the LTCM crisis; by an easing move in 1999, ahead of Y2K, which proved to be totally unnecessary but which led to another 30% rise in the Nasdaq, to its March 2000 peak; and by the most recent aggressive lowering of interest rates, which fueled the housing boom. Now I would like readers to consider, for a minute, what actually caused the 1990 S&amp;L mess, the 1994 tequila crisis, the Asian crisis, the LTCM problems in 1998 and the current economic stagnation. In each of these cases, the problems arose from loose monetary policies and excessive use of credit. In other words, the economy ‚Äî the patient ‚Äî gets sick because the virus ‚Äî the downward adjustments that are necessary in the free market ‚Äî develops an immunity to the medicine, which then prompts the good doctor, who read somewhere in The Wall Street Journal that easy monetary policies and budget deficits stimulate economic activity, to increase the dosage of medication. The even larger and more potent doses of medicine relieve the temporary symptoms of the patient‚Äôs illness, but not its fundamental causes, which, in time, inevitably lead to a relapse and a new crisis, which grows in severity since the causes of the sickness were neither identified nor treated. So it would seem to me that Karl Marx might prove to have been right in his contention that crises become more and more destructive as the capitalistic system matures (and as the ‚Äúfinancial economy‚Äù referred to earlier grows like a cancer) and that the ultimate breakdown will occur in a final crisis that will be so disastrous as to set fire to the framework of our capitalistic society. Not so, Bernanke and co. argue, since central banks can print an unlimited amount of money and take extraordinary measures, which, by intervening directly in the markets, support asset prices such as bonds, equities and homes, and therefore avoid economic downturns, especially deflationary ones. There is some truth in this. If a central bank prints a sufficient quantity of money and is prepared to extend an unlimited amount of credit, then deflation in the domestic price level can easily be avoided, but at a considerable cost. First, it is clear that such policies do lead to depreciation of the currency, either against currencies of other countries that resist following the same policies of massive monetization and state bailouts (policies which are based on, for me at least, incomprehensible sophism among the economic academia) or against gold, commodities and hard assets in general. The rise in domestic prices then leads at some point to a ‚Äúscarcity of the circulating medium,‚Äù which necessitates the creation of even more credit and paper money. Regards, Marc Faberfor The Daily Reckoning
SG Cross Asset ResearchSoci√©t√© G√©n√©rale economist Brian Jones has the most optimistic forecast for the jobs report on Wall Street for the second month in a row, predicting 175,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in October versus the consensus forecast of 120,000. Jones doesn't stop at a prediction for how many payrolls were created in October, though. He also predicts exactly how markets will move immediately following the release. "The SG forecast is above consensus and a positive intraday impact for risky assets is expected if the SG forecast materialises," writes Jones. "We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to move up by 0.4% and the [10-year] USD swap rate to move up by 3 [basis points] in the first half hour after the release." Interestingly, these two figures are identical to the predictions Jones made in September. Jones says there is a statistical relationship between the deviation of the actual nonfarm payroll print from the consensus forecast and the market's reaction. "The relationship between asset changes around the release and the spread NFP versus consensus is measured by a regression (OLS)," says Jones.
In my Ricochet Money &amp; Politics podcast, I chat with Cowen about his new book,†ìAverage Is Over: Powering America beyond the Age of the Great Stagnation.î†Itís a follow-up to his popular e-book,ìThe Great Stagnation: How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick, and Will (Eventually) Feel Better.î Cowen is the Holbert L. Harris professor of economics at George Mason University and co-author of the popular blog†Marginal Revolution. He†also writes the†ìEconomic Sceneî†column for The New York Times. In addition, he is cofounder of the online education venture†Marginal Revolution University. Here are the edited highlights of my chat with Cowen: Your new book is ìAverage Is Over: Powering America beyond the Age of the Great Stagnation.î† Itís a follow-up to your popular e-book, ìThe Great Stagnation: How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick, and Will (Eventually) Feel Better.î† In ìThe Great Stagnationî you made the case that U.S. was stuck on a growth plateau or on an innovation-productivity plateau after picking those low-hanging fruit that you mention in the title: free land, educating all the smart uneducated kids, huge technological innovations such as public sanitation, the internal combustion engine.† But now, in the new book ìAverage Is Over,î innovation may be ready to re-accelerate, but with mixed results.† As you write: The basic look of our lives in the surrounding physical environment has not been revolutionized all that much in 40 or 50 years.† Thatís about to change.† One day soon, weíll look back and see that we have produced two nationsñ a fantastically successful nation working in a technologically dynamic sector and everything else. So what you do in the book is you sketch a sharply bifurcated American coming decades, one that looks like a mash up maybe between Downton Abbey and Elysium based on these two principles: †First, machine intelligence can replace human labor. And two, machine intelligence can augment the value of other human labor for many individuals, which is where we get your famous 15 percent will do great, 85 percent not so much.† Is there evidence that this phenomenon is already happening. Do we see signs of it already in the current slow recovery?† I think we see signs in the slow recovery that most sectors are still in the great stagnation. But we have already had one dynamic sector, incredibly dynamic, and thatís information technology. So we already see that happening. I just tried to play that out a bit. So imagine that we get driverless cars and get Watson doing medical diagnosis.† We get more smart software and we automate even a lot more manufacturing jobs. That to me is quite plausible for the next 20 years.† And thatís a scenario the book is trying to spell out. Essentially what youíre talking about is a sort of thinning out of the middle class.† Well, since 1999, median income is down about 9 percent, which is really quite a bit.† Even since the beginning of the recovery, median income is down over 5 percent.† I find those both very striking.† Thereís also a lot of evidence from the work of David Autor and others that in areas where you have jobs being automated inequality is tending to rise to a greater degree.† So I think in the numbers already thereís evidence that weíve seen these trends start. But are you also saying that weíre going to get faster economic growth, better productivity statistics in the future than we have in the past? There was this big productivity slowdown in the early í70s.† Productivity picked back up in the í90s, strong for parts of the 2000s, then dropped again.† So what is going to happen with both productivity and innovation going forward and how those gains are distributed? † Keep in mind thereíre several different productivity statistics and they donít always move in the same direction.† So if you look at per hour labor productivity, you can get that up just by firing people essentially.† Weíve also had some of our productivity statistics go up because weíve outsourced more work to other countries.† Thatís a kind of productivity gain, doing things more cheaply, but I distinguish it from major technological advances. So I think since 1973 weíve had a fair amount of productivity gains of the kind lowering costs, but weíve done much less to make American workers more productive.† What I think the future will look like is a world where no single productivity statistic captures very well whatís happening.† You could put it this way; the great stagnation will end for some people, but not for everyone.† And just ask yourself the question: are you more productive working with the computer or is maybe the computer better off without you? So those folks who are good at working with computers ñ and itís broader than just†science, tech, math, engineering, those kind of professions ó that for those folks the economy will be better than itís ever been, right?† Much better. †And you already see this.† There are urban enclaves in the United States where wealth is just fantastically high, real estate prices are booming, social indicators are very good.† This is not a science fiction fantasy.† For part of this country this is already true.† Itís going to be all the more true in the future. And weíre not just talking about the ì1 percent.î In the book, and I†realize this is somewhat of a ballpark number, you talk about the 15 percent.† Much bigger than the 1 percent.† I think thatís an important point, not some sliver of billionaires.† Thereíll still be billionaires of course, but youíll really have large numbers of Americans with lives as good and as happy as those which current millionaires have. The number, of course, is going to depend on your time horizon, but just start by asking what percent of people get a decent higher education.† And I think in the time horizon Iím looking at, which are, say, 20 years from now, those who are really high earners, theyíre going to exceed that percentage.† You know, thereíll be some people who just leave high school and then they become tremendous yoga instructors.† And theyíre yoga instructors for billionaires and they may earn a lot.† But I think when you look at just how well educated are we, thatís a pretty reasonable number. If you look at Singapore today, Singapore measures itself as having about 17 percent millionaires already.† So in essence, you know, weíre running to catch up to Singapore.† We have about 4 percent.† So I think itís a ways to go.† But when you look at how many workers are unskilled or didnít finish high school, which is, you know, 30 percent right there, I think itís really hard to think in the short run, it will be, you know, 60 percent of workers living like millionaires, maybe in a more utopian much longer run.† The book mentions that.† But in the short run, itís still a minority. So the top end sort of the income bracket will be people who can deal with machines.† And then, youíll have machines ó from robots to software taking all sort of those ñ †taking the middle-income group of jobs. †And then the lower skill jobs, thatís your other 85 percent of the carbon-based life form population. †But those jobs donít sound really like the kind of jobs Iíd want my kids to have. †† Well, keep in mind, those people ñ a lot of them will have very happy lives.† Theyíre going to get a lot of free things, for instance, will enjoy a lot of trickle down benefits of tech.† Thereíll be much more free material on the Internet.† So you could think of that as say 85-80 percent of the population living like todayís poor.† A better picture of that is to think of high human capital bohemians who donít necessarily have great jobs, but do interesting things.† They do take some financial risk.† Iím not saying this is going to work out well for everyone. Think of some parts of Brooklyn, but itís not as if weíre simply having most of the United States look like some kind of ghetto. And our norms for status will change also.† I think thatís very important.† So what appears to be a menial service sector job, a lot of those jobs are quite fun.† Theyíre more fun than the old manufacturing jobs we used to have, which were also very dangerous and physically exhausting.† Those jobs will be very mixed in quality.† Again, I donít want to present a Pollyannaish view, but the notion that somehow everyone is simply flipping burgers at McDonaldís is not what is going to be.† Some people will teach chess to the children of rich people.† Other people, you know, will be tutors.† Those can be very challenging, very interesting jobs. So what will the labor market will look like 20 years from now? DO you see a higher level of unemployment or low unemployment, but less labor force participation, people having shorter work weeks?† Because thereís been a lot of talk about technological unemployment, you know, robots taking our jobs.† What would that labor market look like if I were to look at those economic statistic 20 years from now?† The labor force participation rate will continue to fall.† I donít think unemployment as we measure it necessarily will be higher.† It may in some transitional sense, but not in the long run.† People will find jobs again.† In part, it depends how we run our welfare state.† Whether people who have falling incomes, do we pay them to work or do we pay them not to work?† Right now, we do a mix of both.† In general, I prefer to pay people to work.† But thatís up to us, you know, how many of those people will just cash in and not really pursue jobs. And in the 15 percent, people sort of instinctively understand that you might do pretty well if you are computer expert, software expert, somehow involved in technology.† But you also mention other kinds of jobs which people donít think about as technology jobs ñ management jobs, marketing. Well, management is very important.† So computers will make many business enterprises much more productive.† But you still need good people to manage others, right?† So the productivity is there.† Computers are very far from being able to be good managers: sit down, set expectations, measure performance.† You need humans to do that.† Iíve found most human beings are not good managers.† Those who are I think will learn much, much more.† Itís already the case.† Salaries for managers as a category have been rising.† I think managers, motivators, marketersñ when youíve higher inequality, whoever can do things to get the attention of rich people, that becomes much more valuable.† And thatís a very psychological skill.† Itís not really about being a great programmer. I think the best managers and marketers will earn more than a lot of the best tech people because some of those tech jobs, of course, can be and are outsourced. And an example you use of being able to work with machines ó how people working with machines can do a better job than just people by themselves or machines by themselves †ñ †is that of †chess players who work with chess software.†Theyíre actually able to beat either humans working by themselves, obviously, or the machines by themselves. †But that wonít always be the case, which makes me worry about how the scenario that you describe will eventually work out. Wonít machines be able to do more and more, and thereíll be fewer jobs left for people?† You know, thereís a cycle in all of these areas.† So right now, weíre ñ you know ñ weíre maybe barely at the point of where man plus computer is better at chess than just computer.† But thatís expected to flip very, very soon if it hasnít already, if you look at the performance of the very best computers on the very best hardware.† But thatís saving grace, so to speak, is that artificial intelligence comes to an economy slowly.† It comes to it unevenly at different paces in different sectors.† So weíre always going to have a bunch of sectors which graduate into machine-only, and then a bunch of other sectors which come online that machines can do something at all, and then they work together with humans. Very, very far out in time, many, many decades what will this look like, I think weíll have so many smart machines producing so much, either for free or very cheaply, that it will be just fine.†I think the distant future vision is really quite utopian, even though I think the next 20 years or more will have some pretty tough transitions. And when you outline the future, you point to the state of Texas Ö Well, my main point there is simply that Texas has very cheap land.† And one thing smart machines cannot do is produce more lands for us in a way that we can use.† So as income inequality goes up, people who are earning less, they try to cut down on their living expenses.† One relatively easy way to do this is to move to a cheaper area.† So I think weíre going to see more geographic segregation.† States which have cheaper real estate will become more popular.† Cities like San Francisco and Manhattan, they will become more and more the province of the wealthy.† And ghettos will disappear.† Weíll look back on the 20th†century as this strange era when so many poor people lived in these fantastic cities and not quite be able to understand that. There will be great jobs in Manhattan, in San Francisco, service sector jobs, right, for people who do not have a lot of education.† A lot of those jobs will pay pretty well.† The living costs will be a big, big problem.† I mean, Iím talking about the present here too, not just the future.† So you will find people living in significantly smaller quarters or many more people to an apartment or very long commutes or some mix of those.† And I think when it comes to living space, thatís one area of life that will be very much squeezed.† That is ultimately a regulatory decision we are making.† I would say itís a big mistake.† I would much prefer to deregulate building in our best cities.† But I donít think that will happen because homeowners hate it.† And so our poor and lower middle class will find their living quarters more and more squeezed. A concept which youíve written about a lot on your great blog, which you mentioned sort of briefly in the book, is that of zero marginal product workers.† Who are those people?† Those are individuals who find it hard to get a job at all because they are perceived as just not having that much to offer at any wage.† And I see this as a growing problem.† I suspect itís about 1 percent of the workforce.† People you just wouldnít hire no matter what.† So stimulus wonít help them.† Flexible wages wonít help them.† I do think itís an exceptional case.† But I think the more complicated production becomes, the more coordination is involved.† The more people with bad morale can wreck value, and you just donít want to hire them.† Itís not a question of them not being smart enough.† Itís a question of they take way more from an enterprise than they add.† And I think weíve all known workers like this. But do you think that given a society where the workplace is going to become more technologically sophisticated, that those ZMP workers, maybe theyíre 1 percent now, but but that percent will increase over the next decades.† Well, they may be ZMP in tech sectors, but theyíre not in general ZMP in service sectors, right?† Thereís always a service sector job a person can find.† Some people may not take those jobs.† Other people, you may not, you know, even want them flipping burgers.† Theyíre just destructive.† And my point is just the better we get at measuring value, which you will get with surveillance and software and just plain flat out right measurement, the more we will discriminate against those people.† And that is a social problem. Weíve had very slow job growth coming out of the past three recessions. †And people wonder whether there is something deeply wrong with the US economy versus not have enough aggregate demand. And it sounds like†what youíre saying is that really the bigger problem might be that technology is accelerating the trend of companies laying off workers and then turning to machines. You know, employers donít like to fire workers really under any circumstances.† It makes the other workers, the good ones, more worried.† But they run out of money, they have to.† And that accelerates a lot of labor force trends.† So I think what weíve been seeing in the data is very consistent with the picture I paint in my book.† Itís both a cyclical problem and a structural problem.† But the further away we get from 2008, the more itís a structural problem.† You know, if you look at nominal GDP today, thatís more than 10 percent over its pre-crash peak.† So for how long can we say itís all aggregate demand?† I think itís partially aggregate demand, but less and less over time. And also technology is making it easier for employers to fully understand who are the productive workers, right?† Exactly.Employers already check your credit score or they look at your Facebook page.† So weíre just being measured so much more.† I find this somewhat disquieting actually.† I donít see any way to stop it.† It does and will have big benefits.† But Iím not altogether comfortable with it either. Given your thesis, how you can be pro-immigration in the sense that you see the need†for more low skill immigration given these trends? †How would you explain that?† I mean we all understand that it would be great to bring more highly education people, entrepreneurial people to America. But do we still need more low skill immigration?† Well, outsourcing is another big recent trend, moving production to other countries because wages are lower.† If we donít have more low skilled immigration, weíll outsource more.† Ultimately, I would rather have that production in the United States that will be more complementary jobs for people who are already here.† Iím not suggesting immigration will solve our labor market problems.† It wonít.† But I think somewhat counter intuitively, the arguments of the book actually imply we should have some more people living in this country, including at the lower end skilled ñ lower end part of the skillsí ladder. We live in a world of competing economic clusters.† And the main competition right now is some parts of Northeast Asia.† And if you just look at the numbers, numbers alone, North America isnít quite there.† So geopolitically, economically, I would like North America to be the dominant cluster.† So I would like to see the U.S. have a much larger population.† It would address a lot of our fiscal issues.† And again, when the alternative is outsourcing, thereís a lot of evidence that having more immigrants, even low skilled immigrants, it doesnít lower or much lowers U.S. wages at all. I think in the longer run, it will create more complementary jobs by keeping more of the production in this country.† Again, Iím not saying itís a fix to our problems, but itís good for the immigrants and I think itís fine for us.† And geopolitically, I think itís actually very important.† So I absolutely want to go in that direction.† More immigration, high skill, absolutely, but low skill too.† Keep in mind, low skilled laborers free up high skill laborers to be more productive by doing personal services for them.† So you also get more creativity. The general tone of the book is fairly dispassionate: Here are the trends.† Here is the evidence. †Some parts of the book readers may like, others they may find scary. But are these trends so overwhelming that policy is useless?††Or are there policy things we could do to maybe create a more optimal situation? I think we could do a lot to ease the transition.† And one thing I talk about quite a bit in the book is deregulating buildings.† I think in general government is spending too much money on the elderly and not enough on the young.† I think we should get rid of most occupational licensing.† I think insofar as we have welfare, we could rethink and improve it.† But we could do all those things.† I donít think weíre going to prevent rising inequality, but I think we can make it much more bearable. Thereís no reason why should need a state license to be an interior designer or a barber.† I think thatís just crazy.† Itís just drawing value.† Itís hurting lower middle class workers.† Itís just a terrible idea. Do you get any sense that policymakers in Washington really understand these trends?† Are they going to be blindsided by these trends?† Are we doing anything to deal with them?† Or is this just kind of going sneak up on the politicians?† I think at various high levels, these issues are well understood.† Does that mean every or even most policymakers get it?† No, probably not.† But I think people in the world, they know like somethingís changing, somethingís going on.† Itís not just this country.† You look at the United Kingdom.† You look at Germany.† Theyíre seeing economic recoveries and growth.† But you know, they still have falling wages or very flat wages for most workers.† And they know somethingís not quite right compared to what we used to expect. On an earlier podcast, I talked with the Erik Brynjolfsson, a co-author of ìRace Against the Machine,î another book looking at how technology is going to affect labor markets.†How does your work sort of dovetail with that book as well as some other economists, like Robert Gordon, who have looked at whether productivity, innovation, and growth are stagnating?†† Well the Brynjolfsson and McAffee book, ìRace Against the Machine,î thatís a great book.† Itís influenced my thinking.† I just read their second forthcoming book, ìThe Second Machine Age.î† They focus more on automation than I do and less on inequality and much less on social issues.† But I think of myself as thinking along the same lines as they do.† But they and I, we differ a lot about the past.† So they donít think the past has been a great stagnation.† I agree with them a lot about the future, but disagree with them a lot about the past. Gordon, I disagree with him about the future, but agree with him about the past.† So Gordon, like me, sees a great stagnation.† And he thinks it will never ever end.† I think thatís crazy.† Even if it were true, how would you know?† But I see a lot of areas, not only artificial intelligence, but medicine and genomics, where the advances are not on the table now.† But itís hard to believe thereís not going to be a lot more coming.† Science is very healthy.† Thereíre new discoveries all the time. The lags are much longer than weíd like to think, but absolutely progress is not over, and weíre about to see a new wave of progress over the lifetimes of our children. Follow James Pethokoukis on Twitter at†@JimPethokoukis
Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Things Investors Should Consider In A Two-Speed Economy (Advisor Perspectives) "There's a two-speed pattern to the U.S. economy, as manufacturing sector looks healthier but as job growth and consumption stay 'muted,'" writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich in Advisor Perspectives. But he's also seeing this pattern in many economies around the world. With that in mind Koesterich thinks investors should do two things. 1. Investors should consider being underweight Treasuries. "While I still believe that any rise in rates will be contained, there is a floor to how low yields are likely to go, thanks to continued strength in manufacturing and a Fed likely to start tapering early next year." 2. Investors should also increase their "exposure to cyclical companies, which are supported by the rebound in manufacturing." The Risks Of Using A Tax-Loss Selling Strategy To Lower Income Tax Bills (Vanguard)  Investors could see their income tax bills rise because of some new provisions under the American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA). To lower this, some advisors† consider tax-loss selling, "or using realized losses on investments to offset taxable gains," says but Sarah D. Hammer, senior investment analyst at Vanguard. But this strategy has its own risks. A client might want to keep the same risk exposure in their portfolio which could make tax-loss selling hard. "You must be cognizant of the wash-sale rule, which prohibits claiming a taxable loss on a security if there is a purchase of a "substantially identical" security 30 days before or after the sale," she writes. "Another risk involved with the purchase of a new investment is that it resets the investment's cost basis and holding period, whichódepending on circumstancesócould potentially result in a reduction or elimination of the benefit of tax-loss selling," said Hammer. Why One Advisor Rejects The 4% Rule (FA Mag)  There's a rule of thumb that suggests retirees take 4% from their savings in their first year of retirement, and then increase that in coming years in keeping with the inflation rates. But independent financial advisor, Dan Moisand, says he rejects the 4% rule.† "Most of us know someone who has lived at least into his or her mid-90s, but few of us know people that age who spend what they spent when they were 65, adjusted for inflation. The 95-year-old who still plays golf or travels the world is a rare exception, not the norm. It is a simple fact of life that as we get older, we slow down. The elderly tend to spend their time doing things that cost less." Merrill Advisor With $500 Million In Client Assets Joins UBS (The Wall Street Journal)  Scott Harries, a financial advisor who managed over $500 million in client assets at Merrill Lynch, and his team, have joined UBS, according to Corrie Driebusch at The Wall Street Journal. The team has joined UBS' office in Los Angeles. There's Increased Demand For 401(k) Advisors (Think Advisor)  There is a growing demand for skilled 401(k) advisors, Jania Stout, vice president of the Fiduciary Consulting Group at PSA Financial Services Inc, told Think Advisor. And this is a recent trend. "It is a big market. There is a huge shift going on. It used to be that brokers or advisors would have a couple of plans in their whole entire career. Now most of the plans are moving to 401(k) specialists," she said.
Add Goldman Sachs to the growing list of banks wrapped up in the investigation into global currency market rigging. Goldman disclosed in a filing today that its currency and commodity trading practices are under investigation. Regulators will examine Goldman's "trading activities and communications in connection with the establishment of benchmark rates," Bloomberg's¬†Gavin Finch¬†and¬†Michael J. Moore report. Check out our explainer¬†of how traders have been allegedly rigging the¬†$5.3 trillion-a-day forex market. JP Morgan, Citi, Barclays, and other banks have also been implicated in the scheme. Sources told Bloomberg that traders were colluding to manipulate rates, so keep an eye on this story.
Nicholas CarlsonBusiness Insider¬†is looking for an awesome Associate Editor to join our fast-growing Contributors team. This team manages Business Insider's 350+ syndication partnerships. The ideal candidate, above all, is interested in editing, copy editing, packaging, story selection, and is a voracious consumer of news on the web, with a whole roster of interesting blogs and Twitter feeds they follow. To do this job well, this editor needs to be meticulous in their attention to detail.¬†They also must be able to juggle a variety of tasks on a daily basis and know how to communicate effectively with multiple teams. Among other things, this Associate Editor's responsibilities would be to: Qualifications: If interested, please send your resume and cover letter to¬†jliebman@businessinsider.com. Be specific: why are you the one for the job? Please note that this job is full-time out of our Manhattan headquarters.
Flickr/h080The October jobs report will be marred by data collection issues caused by the government shutdown. However, the headline gauge of nonfarm payroll creation ó the one the market likes to pay attention to ó should be relatively clean. The BLS "establishment survey" from which the nonfarm payroll number is derived counts as employed those who were paid during the survey period, and since federal workers furloughed by the shutdown received back-pay, they won't drag down the payroll numbers. "The only way the payrolls data could have been adversely affected by the shutdown is if private-sector government contractors laid off some of their own employees," says Paul Dales, senior U.S. economist at research firm Capital Economics. "The spike in weekly initial jobless claims in October appears to suggest that this was a factor. That said, the most recent claims figures have also been distorted by a couple of states working through a backlog of claims after switching their IT systems. The upshot is that we can't say for sure how much of the most recent surge in claims is shutdown-related." Given that, and an October FOMC statement last week that, on balance, moved up the probability that the Federal Reserve begins to taper down its quantitative easing program before the FOMC's March meeting, the Friday nonfarm payrolls report is probably going to be a market mover. If one word characterizes the market's likely reaction, it's†asymmetric. Most seem to agree that, as Citi global head of G-10 FX strategy Steven Englander puts it, "a good number is unambiguously good, whereas a bad number is ambiguously bad." That is, an unambiguously good number should cause the dollar to rally, Treasuries to sell off, and rates to rise as investors re-calibrate toward the possibility of tapering sooner rather than later ó whereas a bad number may or may not have the opposite effect. Englander thinks a "good number" would be a nonfarm payroll print in excess of 150,000. For comparison, the median estimate of Wall Street economists polled by Bloomberg is 120,000, and September's number was 148,000. Priya Misra, head of U.S. rates strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch, also has 150,000 on her radar. "Anything above 150,000 should result in higher rates," says Misra. "A number below 90,000 will be a rally." Tom di Galoma, managing director and head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets, expects a print even lower than that, and he thinks the threshold to spark a rally in the bond market is also a bit higher. "My view is the NFP figure will be weak (around 50,000) and the [Treasury] market will pop higher in price but will be met with selling due to long-end Treasury supply next week and the ongoing new-issue corporate supply, which has been extremely robust," says di Galoma. "That said, a print below 100,000 should keep the Fed from tapering until March 2014." On the other hand, a good number will likely move up the tapering timetable in the minds of market participants. "FX will take its cue from dataís implications for the timing of tapering," says Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. "Any private payrolls number at 170,000 or more will confirm that December tapering is a very real possibility." Ruskin believes the October FOMC statement, which failed to acknowledge the effects of the government shutdown on the economy, has lowered the threshold for tapering in the minds of market participants. "[There is] a little more willingness to entertain thoughts of a December/January tapering," says Ruskin, as there is "less expectation that NFP has to print 200,000 per month for them to taper." A good number need not necessarily cause a big sell-off in Treasuries, though, according to Gennadiy Goldberg, a strategist at TD Securities. "I think the market reaction to Fridayís nonfarm payroll report risked being a bit asymmetrical earlier in the week, but the market seems to have adjusted as Treasury yields moved higher so far in the week," says Goldberg. "This is largely due to the more encouraging ISM surveys suggesting that the government shutdown did less damage to the economic recovery than previously anticipated." How are investors positioned heading into the release? SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, CFTC, FXCM, TFX, and local central bank data"The market is long EUR/USD and long USD/EM," says Sebastien Galy, senior forex strategist at SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale. "If the NFP is strong, EUR/USD will break sharply lower. Similarly in EM, long USD/EM positions are hedges against EM fixed income flatteners. These EM curves could steepen in line with the U.S. Treasury curve, however the market is already positioned for a bearish outcome. If the NFP data is good but not overly strong, this bearish positioning, which is fairly massive, will start to come under pressure." Citi's Englander agrees. "The most active part of the FX market now looks to be long USD, short EUR, but the market as a whole still has USD to buy, EUR and EM to sell if yields keep backing up," he says. In the rates space, BAML's Misra says investors are positioned for carry trades, which do well in periods of low interest-rate volatility. "People expect the Fed to be paralyzed due to the lack of clean data and therefore a low vol environment," she says. "That could be a risky position ahead of a volatile payroll report."
The stock is down in after-hours trading after the company missed analyst estimates on revenue and gave worse than expected guidance.¬† An immediate 10% after-hour drop followed a 5% drop during the day. Since September the stock has been falling. But, after the company's earnings call the stock made a comeback and was up ~1.5%. The stock's turnaround seems to be thanks to a new plan to allow more sellers on the platform. In addition to announcing earnings, Groupon announced that it acquired Ticket Monster, an e-commerce company from Korea. Here are the big numbers versus expectations: Groupon's core daily deals business ‚Äî those emails you get every day ‚Äî suffered another decline. Here is the daily deals revenue over time: Groupon / BI Here's the full earnings release: CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--¬†Groupon, Inc.¬†(NASDAQ: GRPN) today announced financial results for the quarter ended¬†September 30, 2013. "Our Local business showed continued strength in the quarter, particularly in North America," said¬†Eric Lefkofsky, CEO of¬†Groupon. "Mobile adoption continued to increase in Q3, reflected in our record 9 million app downloads. We're pleased with our progress, but we still have work to do as we transform the business from our daily deal email roots to a full ecommerce marketplace." "We're also excited to announce today that we've signed an agreement to acquire Ticket Monster, one of the leading ecommerce companies in Korea," added Lefkofsky. "Ticket Monster has been successful building a mobile commerce business in one of the largest markets in the world. It will serve as the cornerstone of our Asian business, bringing scale and ecommerce expertise to that region." Third Quarter 2013 Summary Gross billings, which reflect the total dollar value of customer purchases of goods and services, excluding any applicable taxes and net of estimated refunds, increased 10% globally to¬†$1.34 billion¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with$1.22 billion¬†in the third quarter 2012.¬†North America¬†growth of 20% and EMEA growth of 12% was offset by a 13% decline in Rest of World. Revenue increased 5% to¬†$595.1 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with¬†$568.6 million¬†in the third quarter 2012.¬†North America¬†revenue growth of 24% was offset by a 21% decline in EMEA and a 4% decline in Rest of World. Gross profit was¬†$359.6 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with¬†$386.8 million¬†in the third quarter 2012. Operating income was¬†$13.8 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with¬†$25.4 million¬†in the third quarter 2012. Operating income decreased¬†$13.6 million¬†compared with the second quarter 2013. Operating income excluding stock compensation and acquisition-related costs, net, a non-GAAP financial measure, was$39.2 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with¬†$50.5 million¬†in the third quarter 2012. Operating income excluding stock compensation and acquisition-related costs, net, decreased¬†$19.9 million¬†compared with the second quarter 2013. Revenue and operating profit in the third quarter 2012 included a one-time increase of¬†$18.5 million¬†related to breakage, or income related to unredeemed Groupons internationally, resulting from a tax ruling in¬†Germany. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, was¬†$62.3 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, compared with¬†$65.8 million¬†in the third quarter 2012. Third quarter 2013 net loss attributable to common stockholders was¬†$2.6 million, or¬†$0.00¬†per share, including stock compensation and acquisition-related costs, net, of¬†$25.3 million¬†($17.0 million¬†net of tax). Earnings per share excluding stock compensation and acquisition-related costs, net of tax, a non-GAAP financial measure, was¬†$0.02¬†per share. Operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended¬†September 30, 2013¬†was¬†$105.9 million. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was negative¬†$27.0 million¬†in the third quarter 2013, bringing free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended¬†September 30, 2013¬†to¬†$22.3 million. At the end of the quarter,¬†Groupon¬†had¬†$1.1 billion¬†in cash and cash equivalents. Definitions and reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures are included below in the section titled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" and in the accompanying tables. Third Quarter Operating Highlights Share Repurchase Program During the third quarter of 2013,¬†Groupon¬†repurchased 770,900 shares of Class A common stock under its share repurchase authorization at an average price of¬†$11.67¬†per share, for an aggregate purchase price of¬†$9.0 million. Up to approximately¬†$291 million¬†of Class A common stock remains available for repurchase under the¬†August 2013¬†share repurchase authorization. The program, which is intended to offset dilution from employee stock grants, terminates in August 2015. Acquisition of Ticket Monster Groupon¬†also announced today that it has entered into an agreement to acquire Ticket Monster, a Korean ecommerce company, for aggregate consideration of¬†$260 million, including at least¬†$100 million¬†in cash, and up to¬†$160 million¬†in Groupon Class A common stock, with the final cash and stock allocation to be determined upon close. Ticket Monster is a leading ecommerce company in¬†South Korea, and a subsidiary of¬†LivingSocial, Inc.¬†Founded in 2010, the Company serves millions of customers with a broad range of product, local and travel offers, and is one of the fastest growing ecommerce companies in the region. Ticket Monster has more than¬†$800 million¬†of annualized billings. "Ticket Monster is a great fit for¬†Groupon. The team shares our vision, already leveraging a truly mobile marketplace as well as one that has little reliance on email," said Lefkofsky. "Ticket Monster is one of Korea's most recognized and trusted brands, and we're thrilled to have them join the family." The transaction is currently expected to close in the first half of 2014, subject to regulatory approval by the¬†Korean Fair Trade Commission¬†and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. Outlook In the fourth quarter 2013,¬†Groupon¬†anticipates normal seasonal strength and strong holiday sales interest, in addition to email headwinds and further investment in marketing initiatives to drive adoption of the Pull marketplace. As a result, for the fourth quarter 2013, the Company expects revenue of between¬†$690 million¬†and¬†$740 million, operating income excluding stock compensation and acquisition-related expenses of between¬†$40 million¬†and¬†$60 million, and earnings per share excluding stock compensation and acquisition-related expenses, net of tax, of between¬†$0.00¬†and$0.02. Stock compensation is expected to be approximately¬†$30 million, or approximately¬†$20 million¬†net of tax. As a result,¬†Groupon¬†now expects full year 2013 GAAP operating income of between¬†$72 million¬†and¬†$92 million. This outlook includes costs related to the acquisition of Ticket Monster. It does not assume any additional impact of this or other acquisitions or investments, or material changes in foreign exchange rates.
Miller TabakTwitter trades by value on its IPO day.Twitter went public today. Many comparisons were drawn to the Facebook IPO last year, which went nowhere near as smoothly. Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak, provides a visual representation in the chart at right of just how much crazier the Facebook IPO was. In a note to clients, he writes: The sale of $1.82 billion worth of Twitter through 70 million of its shares valued the entity at $26.2 billion¬†following an 80% surge in buying interest. The chart below compares the value traded during IPO day for Twitter and Facebook during its botched May 2012 offering. Each bubble represents the dollar value traded during each 60-minute time bucket, and the bigger the bubble, the greater is the value. Facebook sold almost nine-times as much stock at the time than has Twitter today when it offered $16 billion in shares at $38.00 apiece. Perhaps owing to the delayed start to trading due to a system-crash at the Nasdaq stock exchange, Facebook saw 276mm shares valued at $11.5 billion trade in its first 60¬†minutes of trading. Twitter saw 63mm shares valued at $2.8 billion trade in the opening hour. While Twitter certainly captured both institutional and retail imagination with its launch today, the smoother sailing on the New York Stock Exchange has allowed for improved digestion. During the second hour of trading the value of trades crossing the exchange approached a peak of 30% to the level seen by Facebook during its second hour of trading. Since that point comparable volumes have slackened off to just 13% by 2:30pm. Twitter closed today at $44.90, 72.7% above its opening price of $26 per share.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders look on as the Twitter Inc. IPO begins on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York, November 7, 2013.There was a lot of news today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
The student newspaper at elite New York private school Horace Mann, The Record, recently published some great features on outlandish student-run club parties that make up a key part of the Manhattan private school social scene. The New York Post picked up on some of the juicier aspects of these parties ó where "teens rub against each other, lock lips and flash skin while dancing to the boom of techno beats" ó for a pair of articles this week, but failed to address how they actually happen. How these parties come together is maybe the most interesting aspect of the whole scene. One of the best parts of The Record's coverage was their detailed account of throwing a "fest." The parties are not sanctioned by the school, and they're completely student-run, from planning to financing to running it day-of. Here's a breakdown of how these parties come together, based on The Record's reporting and my own experiences as a student at Horace Mann, from which I graduated in 2009. Party organizers are responsible for finding and booking a venue ó†usually a loft space or nightclub (a recent Halloween Homecoming fest took place at 1OAK)†ó†which can come with a multi-thousand dollar down payment. One student told The Record that he paid the $5,000 down payment on a space using money he made as a summer camp counselor. Because the organizers are seniors, they're almost always 18 years old, and legally allowed to sign contracts on their own. This, of course, comes with some risk. Because these student organizers are 18, they can be tried as adults if anything illegal is discovered, from public intoxication of one of the party goers to underage distribution of alcohol if some enterprising teenager manages to sneak booze into the party ó which is explicitly dry. The organizers make their money back ó and then some ó by selling tickets to fellow Horace Mann students and teens from other NYC schools (who usually pay a bit of a markup). At the end of a party, The Record reports, an organizer can take home over $1,000 in profit. Ticket prices descend depending on what grade you're in, from around $40 for freshmen to $20 for seniors. Students in all grades distribute the tickets, as they better know the underclassmen market, and pocket the difference between what they're able to sell them for and the base price they owe the seniors. Ticket distributors get a discount for buying in bulk from a senior organizing the party, and can make a profit of $5-$10 per ticket, as well as getting their own for free.†The underclassmen students who are best at selling the tickets throughout the school usually inherit party-organizing duties for the next year, when the process starts over again. During the party, the organizers make sure everything runs smoothly. They man the door to make sure no one without a ticket gets in, but also to ensure that no one who is visibly intoxicated makes it in to the party. There is also hired security to make sure everything functions OK and party attendants stay safe. While not all of the parties are shut down, it certainly happens often enough that anyone interested in profiting off of their peers' social lives would be well aware of the potential costs.
ReutersTwitter went public today. Headed into the close, shares are trading above $45, up nearly 75% from the opening price of $26, indicative of strong demand for the stock. Other social media stocks, however, are getting slammed: Groupon reports earnings after the closing bell. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider ¬ª
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonThe most prestigious law gig in the U.S. may be the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan, as noted by Nicholas Lemann in a New Yorker story. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has enjoyed "top-dog status" ever since Teddy Roosevelt appointed former Secretary of War Henry Stimson to the post, Lemann writes in a profile of SEC chair Mary Jo White (a former U.S. attorney in that office). Here's how Lemann describes that office: If youíre not a lawyer, and you meet a quiet, studious-seeming person and ask him what he does for a living, you may hear, ìIím an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.î Sounds dull, like ìIím a tax preparer.î But the answer is a little like the one you get when you ask someone where he went to college and he says, ìUm, Yale?î What you were really meant to hear was: ìIím a member of the Killer Elite, baby! Iím special ops. Iím strike force. Be very afraid!î Assistant U.S. attorneys in the Southern District go to the best law schools and clerked for federal judges, Lemann writes. And, since the office is in the heart of New York City, they get to go after high rollers on Wall Street and mobsters. "This gives them macho points in addition to their academic credentials," Lemann writes. Ironically, these prosecutors are well positioned to get high-paying jobs at corporate law firms after they leave the Southern District ó defending the kind of folks they went after as assistant U.S. attorneys.
ShutterstockSeptember U.S. consumer credit data are out. Total credit expanded by $13.737 billion in September to $3.052 trillion, above consensus estimates for a $12.000 billion rise. August consumer credit growth was revised up to $14.152 billion from $13.625 billion. Revolving credit ‚Äî credit cards and the like ‚Äî fell $2.1 billion to $846.9 billion, marking the fourth straight month of decline. Nonrevolving credit ‚Äî auto loans, student loans, and the like ‚Äî rose $15.8 billion to $2.205 trillion. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª
Michael Musto, the legendary chronicler of NYC nightlife, the man who was once synonymous with the wild rollicking style of the Village Voice, is getting old. And he's not taking it well. In the same crotchety whine as your grandfather talking about walking to school uphill both ways, Musto laments the bygone days of the 1980s saying that nightlife in this town just isn't this same, in this morning's New York Times. He writes: For a city that prides itself on not sleeping, bars and clubs seem to be peaking earlier these days, at least from my vantage point. And from what I‚Äôm hearing from various creatures of the night, it‚Äôs partly because everyone needs a paycheck to stay afloat in the flush, moneyed city. That‚Äôs a far cry from the 1980s, when ‚ÄúYou‚Äôd better work‚Äù was an exhortation to party harder. In that fabled decade, I woke up around noon every day, having spent the previous night out till at least 4 a.m., acting out a nearly pathological escape from the potential tedium of daylight. It helped that there was so much vital clubbing raging on into the wee hours, with seemingly no one watching as you cut up and carried on with other festive loons. He even complains about social media (without which we wouldn't have things like this ‚Äî a live 25-hour dance party streamed from Mexico City, but OK). Musto is likely feeling especially nostalgic because last night, NYC celebrated the 30th anniversary of legendary '80s nightclub, Area. It was a true club ‚Äî an art space, a performance gallery, a hangout for weird kids and princesses and business types and everyone. And after Area closed, revelers could head to NYC's after-hours spots and rage until daylight. Now I bow down to the legendary clubs of old ‚Äî to Paradise Garage, to Danceteria, to The Loft. I recognize that they inhabited a time and space in NYC history that (like all history, you know) will never be repeated. It was special and it was epic. The friends I have who went there, who DJ'ed there, are some of the most creative, interesting people I've met in my life. But they, like Musto, have gotten old. They've stayed in their Manhattan apartments and watched that part of the city turn into a glorified hotel. Or they moved on and put their kids through college (some, after that, have even returned to the scene). But they accept that it's not the way they left it. After 30 years of change ‚Äî of Giuliani, of rising rents, of fussy community boards, of financial crisis ‚Äî how could it be? That doesn't mean the scene is dead, though. It just means it's different. Linette LopezA scene in Queens at 4 a.m. last month.Instead of lamenting the past ‚Äî a useless activity if there ever was one ‚Äî Musto and others of his ilk, if they have the stamina, should do what they did 30 years ago and find the party. If you want to stay out til dawn in NYC, you can do it in Brooklyn and Queens. New nightlife heads like John Barclay over at Bossa Nova Civic Club in Bushwick still know how to throw a weird party that emphasizes culture and sound over being seen. They're dealing with the bureaucracy and the headaches of nightlife because they know that it deserves space. That is something that hasn't changed at all and it's the only thing that matters. It's a deep NYC desire for expression, even if its central command has moved to another borough. For better or for worse, New York is a bigger, meaner, more diverse place than it was when Musto was running wild through it. Money runs Manhattan, that's true, but no one comes to this city to live easy. When RuPaul said "you'd better work," she didn't just mean on the dance floor, as Musto says. Ru is one of the most complex ladies out there. She meant that there's no half stepping if you want to live where it's exciting ‚Äî no half stepping if you want to express yourself. Simply because nightlife isn't the way Musto left it, doesn't mean it died. In his story, he quotes Amy Sacco, the proprietor of the now defunct, bottle-service celebrity-fest Bungalow 8. That former queen doesn't sound too happy either. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no more naughty in New York,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúNo more of the charm and grit that made this city mysterious and interesting. The city that never sleeps took an Ambien a long time ago.‚Äù No Amy honey, you just got old. And you stayed in Manhattan. Your mistake.
St. Louis Fed The U.S. economy has had trouble rising above a 3% growth rate since the financial crisis, a line in the sand often cited as the threshold for achieving "escape velocity" of sustainable expansion. BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett asserts that the underlying conditions needed for such a state are "tantalizingly close" in his latest note, but says there are a few missing links. "We believe the missing links for the economy to achieve 'escape velocity' are real estate, banks, and small businesses," he writes. "Until a virtuous cycle emerges that starts with stronger housing and flows to stronger bank lending and stronger small business hiring, we believe growth in the U.S., Japan, and Europe will struggle to expand at a pace that does not require central bank liquidity injections and zero interest rates." BAC Internal DataLending to small businesses is rising in YoY terms for the first time since 2008, while lending to large companies has accelerated to 13.5% in recent quarters.Bank of America is one of the largest commercial lenders in the United States, so Hartnett is able to cite some interesting internal data to gauge the state of lending growth in the American economy. "The good news is that BofAML data appear to confirm that escape velocity for the U.S. is tantalizingly close, although it appears as if the U.S. economy may require a final push to achieve above trend growth," says Hartnett. "Lending growth data, probably the most critical piece of the growth puzzle, suggest that the credit crunch is coming to an end." Hartnett also highlights mortgage applications, which have been trending lower on a weekly basis. "Even though mortgage applications have yet to recover from the summer mortgage rate shock, we believe they have begun to stabilize," he says. "We would have more confidence in a U.S.-led recovery when strong housing activity coincides with a normalization in interest rates."
In 2010, the analysts at Standard Chartered argued that the huge growth in emerging markets was "driving an economic super-cycle" transition. Three years later, Standard Chartered's Stephen Green is out with a new report examining where the world's major economies are heading over the next few decades. "We have lowered our forecasts for China, India and others, but the case broadly still holds," Green writes. In other words, the economic super-cycle lives on. Come 2022, Green predicts that China will surpass the U.S. in terms of GDP (they had previously predicted it would happen in 2020, but still). "World trade could quadruple in value terms to $75 trillion by 2030," Green writes in the report. "Urbanization and the growth of the middle classes, especially in Asia, are driving forces." Here's the chart: Standard Chartered
Here's an interesting way to look at the world. In a new report titled "The Super-Cycle Lives: EM Growth Is Key," Standard Chartered analysts present this chart of world exports as a percentage of GDP. It's not too surprising. Exports have been clearly increasing as a percentage of GDP. What's interesting about this particular chart is that its data goes all the way back to 1820. The analysts, led by John Calverly, offer some commentary on what's behind the recent slowdown: World trade growth collapsed in 2009, but recovered strongly in 2010-11. Trade growth has been disappointing in 2012-13, expanding only about 2% each year in volume terms, less than GDP growth, which is unusual. There is concern that this slowdown is structural, linked to a deceleration in the expansion of the global production chain (which had been turbo-charged by China‚Äüs WTO accession in 2001), or creeping protectionism since the financial crisis. While there may be elements of truth here, we believe the slowdown is mainly cyclical. Europe comprises a large share of world trade (partly because trade between European countries is large) so the region‚Äüs recession has made a large dent. Moreover, the European recession brought a general slowdown in manufacturing worldwide as an inventory correction occurred. Manufacturing still dominates global trade. "Longer-term, we are optimistic that world trade will resume faster growth and return to its usual pattern of outstripping GDP growth," they add. Standard Chartered
flickr/Tanya ImpeartriceOTC Markets halted earlier today due to a "connectivity issue," the Wall Street Journal's Jacob Bunge reports. Traders were unable to access the market, a main venue for securities not listed on Nasdaq or NYSE. From the Journal: The breakdown on the lightly regulated market for stocks of companies too small, sparsely traded or troubled to be listed on the major markets came on a major news day for two of the market's most closely watched stocks, the government-backed mortgage investors Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. OTC Markets' outage was unrelated to the reports and was "purely a connectivity issue," said a spokeswoman for the company. She said officials at the marketplace didn't know when it would be able to reopen. Another day, another trading glitch. Back in August, the Nasdaq froze trading for three hours thanks to a system bug. Last week, the exchange had to halt options trading after a tech issue. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal†ª
I look forward to seeing what it comes up with. Two hunches, though: First, the CEP will be a strong advocate of sharply higher tax rates given that its director is Emmanuel Saez, an economist whowouldn‚Äôt mind seeing a top tax rate of over 70%. Second ‚Äî and again this is just a guess ‚Äî the CEP will assume that the last few decades have been terrible ones for the US middle-class. Nothing but economic stagnation and exploding inequality.¬†It‚Äôs a claim President Obama¬†has repeatedly made. Except it is simply not true.¬†A new analysis from Scott Winship¬†provides a needed reality check. A review of that data suggests the following, according to Winship¬†click here¬†for a Q&amp;A with the scholar): The story over the long-run is one of strong improvement in living standards, driven in part by greater work and higher wages among women, but in part by continued gains in male earnings, declining family size, lower taxes, and more federal and employer benefits. While the range of estimates is wide, a reasonable conclusion from the totality of the evidence is that poor and middle class households are at least 30 percent richer today than their counterparts from 35 years ago. And that, really, is a conservative estimate. More likely the true number, at least for the middle-class, is somewhere between 40% and 50%. So while income inequality has risen over the period,middle-class stagnation has not been a consequence.¬†And along those lines, I hope the CEP considers¬†that there is a strong argument¬†the increase in high-end inequality is likely the result of market forces mostly, rather than corporate greed or crony capitalism. Still, moving forward since the start of the Great Recession, there may be reason to worry that income inequality and middle-class stagnation will become problems thanks to accelerating automation,¬†as economist Tyler Cowen suggests in his book, ‚ÄúAverage is Over.‚Äù¬†And solid research on economic mobility would also be welcome. Oh, about the lovely CEP logo, which is ‚Äúbased on the mathematics of the Golden Ratio and the Fibonacci spiral. It is composed of forms that grow yet remain proportionally equal.‚Äù www.aei Again, aiming for perfectly shared prosperity ‚Äî which, unlike perfectly shared misery, is impossible ‚Äî is not how the West got rich and not why¬†the income of Americans over the past two centuries went from $2,000 per person to $50,000 in real terms. As economist¬†Deirdre McCloskey has put it, the West became a business-admiring civilization and that changed everything: What changed were habits of the lip. It‚Äôs not a ‚Äúrise of the bourgeoisie,‚Äù but a rise in other people‚Äôs opinion of the bourgeoisie that makes for economic growth ‚Äî as it is now doing in China and India. When people treat the marketeers and inventors as having some dignity and liberty, innovation takes hold. It was so to speak a shift in ‚Äúconstitutional political economy,‚Äù as James Buchanan puts the point. People agreed on the meta-rule of letting the economy go where it will. This contrasted with the earlier mentality, still admired on the left, that treats each act of innovation as an occasion to go looking for its victims. Victims there were, but they were greatly outnumbered by winners. It was ideas, not matter, that made the winners, and brought our ancestors from $3 to over $100 a day. I hope some of that analysis makes its way into CEP research, too.
BirchboxKatia Beauchamp (left) and Hayley Barna (right), co-founders of beauty startup Birchbox.We're constantly amazed by revolutionary new companies, products, and ideas ‚Äî especially when they're launched by young people. We found the most inspiring innovators and entrepreneurs under the age of 40. Whether they're in finance, tech, sports, entertainment, media, science, food, or retail, these people are introducing amazing new products and ideas and shaking up their industries forever.
YouTube / ConsumerReportsTesla's stock is down 6% to $141.88 today,¬†after a third Tesla Model S caught fire in the past two months. It has also taken a beating since it announced Q3 results and missed vehicle delivery expectations.¬† But Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves is sticking to his price target of $200. That would be a 40% premium on the current price. In a Nov. 6 note, Galves argues that Tesla "has the potential to be at the leading edge of a paradigm shift in transportation." He also argues that it benefits from selling directly to the customer instead of going through a dealer. "We expect that they can achieve premium margins vs traditional automakers, as they should be able to maintain a rather substantial premium price (due to fuel / maintenance savings) despite similar cost, while also capturing much of the additional margin that normally goes to a dealer," said Galves. "Volume growth could be massive in the context of an 85MM unit global market. And we see meaningful competitive advantages related to the company‚Äôs supercharger network and its proprietary powertrain technology." Galves expects Tesla to have made 220,000 units by the end of the decade, but thinks the supply chain will probably act as the biggest risk to the company over time.¬† He also explains what's behind the recent sell-off: "We believe that the Q3 results provided positive data points on all these metrics, which we‚Äôll go through below. While we thought the quarter was positive, expectations were very high and the stock was down substantially in after-market trading. We believe that there has understandably been significant profit-taking over the last few weeks by investors that have made substantial returns over the last 6 months." Musk has previously said that he thinks Tesla is overvalued.
Today was a big day for the New York Stock Exchange. It had the Twitter IPO, which in years past might have gone to the NASDAQ, which has successfully attracted most technology companies that list.¬† But, the NASDAQ botched the Facebook IPO, and so Twitter decided to go with the NYSE. On the trading floor today, just about everyone associated with the NYSE was not-so-subtly trashing the NASDAQ process for IPOs.¬† The entire conversation around Twitter's opening price was about the "human" element. At the NYSE, they take in all the orders from investors and establish a stable price, then they opening for wider public trading. This way, according to the NYSE, there is no massive spike, or drop in the stock when it starts trading. And, indeed, that's what pretty much happened. Twitter opened at $45.10, briefly jumped to $50, then settled in at ~$46.¬† The NASDAQ is different.¬†The orders are submitted electronically then sorted out that way. This process broke during Facebook's IPO and the trading didn't start till later than expected. When it did trade, some people complained that their orders weren't right.¬† When Twitter's IPO was taking longer than expected to price, NYSE people kept saying something to the effect that this is the benefit of having people involved. They can keep track of how the stock is being priced and make sure no one gets screwed.¬† One person said that IPOs are more "art than science" and they're based on sentiment, so you couldn't use computers or algorithms to really work on them in the early stage of trading. This was the general message all morning: We have people keeping an eye on things, the NASDAQ doesn't.¬† And if that wasn't enough, after the Twitter IPO, Reuters made this infographic showing that the NYSE is now beating the NASDAQ for tech IPOs: Thomson Reuters via Fortune
The scary-hot London real estate market is, to put it bluntly, stupid expensive. In†October alone, prices†jumped 10%,†in part driven by†foreign buyers.†And as one now-viral London blogger found it, it's potentially cheaper to live in Barcelona and commute four days a week than to call London home. The housing experts at Knight-Frank shared their analysis with Business Insider, showing which of the city's boroughs have seen the most price growth. Kensington and Chelsea rank first with 38% price growth in the past three years, followed by Westminster (33%) and Hammersmith and Fulham (29%).†Southwark, Camden, and Hackney neighborhoods have also seen staggering growth. Knight Frank provided the hottest streets in some of the boroughs with comment on why (price growth from September 2010-September 2013): Hottest Street:†Montague Road "Montague Road†is a wide, quiet residential road with large semi-detached and detached family houses close to the centre of Richmond and all amenities including superb schools. Generally they have good size gardens and off-street parking. In excess of†£1,000 psf, typical property is††£4m+," writes Luke Ellwood, Partner Knight Frank Richmond. Lambeth: 23% price growth Hottest Street: Macaulay Road "A wide tree lined road with very large detached houses many with carriageway drives and coach houses located close to Clapham old town and off Clapham common £4m -£6m+. †£900-1100 psf," writes†Sam Sproston, Partner Knight Frank Wandsworth. Google Maps Wandsworth: 23% price growth Hottest Street: Spencer Park "Spencer Park†has access to a 4 1/2 acres private communal garden to the rear which only 25 houses have the access privilege to. To the front, you have direct common views £4-8 million. £1000-1300 psf," writes Sam Sproston, Partner Knight Frank Wandsworth. Hottest Street:†Alwyne Villas †"£1397 psf (highest recorded in 2012).†Reason: one of only two roads in Canonbury which backs on to and has access to the secret ìAlwyne Gardensî and as such commands a premium," writes Daniel Omell, Partner Knight Frank Islington. Hottest Street:†Napier Avenue "£1200 psf properties average around £4m. Reason:†It has the largest properties in Fulham. Eastside looks over Hurlingham Park and it also runs alongside Hurlingham Club," writes†Anne Soultry, Partner Knight Frank Fulham. City of Westminster: 33% price growth Hottest Street: Hyde Park Gardens "Flats achieving over £2000 price per square foot (psf). Flats on the market range from £3,350,000 to £13,500,000.†Reason: It faces south over Hyde Park with the benefit of beautiful communal gardens. White Stucco fronted - old world glamour, high ceilings, rooms with beautiful proportions, very light (south facing)," writes Fenella Freeland, Partner Knight Frank Hyde Park. Google Maps Kensington and Chelsea: 38% price growth Hottest Street: Kensington Palace Gardens "Kensington Palace Gardens†is the worldís most prestigious address. It comprises approximately 30 substantial detached villas set in a wide, tree lined avenue with manned security gates at both north and south entrances. It is situated at the western side of the Park (Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park) and is adjacent to Kensington Palace, home to Prince William and Kate. The houses range in size from approx. 15,000-40,000 sqft and with carriage driveways to the front and private gardens to the rear. Values are in the region of £6,000-8,000/sqft.†The houses are home to a number of embassies as well as wealthy families including the Mittal, Blavatnik, Abromovich and the Sultan of Brunei," writes†Tim Wright, Partner, Knight Frank Prime Central London.
Twitter is going public today on the New York Stock Exchange.† Its shares are priced at $26.† Business Insider's Jay Yarow is on the floor right now. Here's what it looks like.† @EDUTEILBFMFirst, here it is from the outside. Jay Yarow/Business InsiderTwitter execs will ring the opening bell at 9:30 am. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The Twitter logo (L) is displayed on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange a day before the company's IPO, November 6, 2013. Jay Yarow/Business Insider Jay Yarow/Business Insider Jay Yarow/Business Insider Jay Yarow/Business InsiderHere's Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey. Jay Yarow/Business InsiderTwitter CEO Dick Costolo. Jay Yarow/Business InsiderPatrick Stewart, an actor best known for his role as Professor Xaxier in X-Men, ringing the opening bell NYSEPatrick Stewart with 9-year-old Vivienne Harr and a Boston police officer. Jay Yarow/Business Insider Jay Yarow/Business Insider NYSENYSENYSENYSENYSENYSENYSE
dailysunny/FlickrConstruction has gotten a little safer than thisToday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released its report on non-fatal workplace injuries and illnesses for 2012, based on an annual survey of employers. Here are some of the highlights of the report: Overall injury and illness rates are down to 3.4 cases per 100 full-time workers, from 3.5 per 100 workers in 2011. The public sector is more dangerous than the private sector. State and local workers had 5.6 cases per 100 workers, whereas private employees only suffered 3.2 cases per 100 workers. Medium-sized business had the most injuries and illnesses, as can be seen in the following chart: BLS Injury and illness rates vary across states. Somewhat surprisingly, Maine had the highest injury rate. The BLS will be releasing more detailed state-by-state data on November 22. BLS Injury and illness rates also vary by industry type. Overall, private sector manufacturing had an incident rate of 4.3 per 100 workers, whereas the private service sector just had 3.2 injuries and illnesses per 100 workers. It is riskier to work in air transportation than rail transportation. 7.4 in 100 air transportation workers suffered illnesses or injuries compared to just 1.8 in 100 for rail workers. Working in construction for the government is more dangerous than working for a private employer. Private construction workers suffered 3.7 injuries and illnesses per 100 workers, whereas construction workers under state governments had an injury rate of 4.5 per 100 workers, and over one in ten construction workers for local governments (10.2 per 100) got sick or hurt on the job. Working in nursing and residential care centers is bad for your health. Privately owned nursing centers had an injury and illness rate of 7.6 per 100 workers, 9.6 out of one hundred workers in centers run by local governments were hurt or sick at work, and state government run centers had an incredible 13.6 incidents per 100 workers.
That didn't take long! Twitter already has a sell rating from Brian Wieser at Pivotal Research.¬† "Twitter is simply too expensive," he says.¬†He has a $30 price target.¬† He doesn't think the company's revenue is going to justify the $45.10 opening price valuation. Here's his explanation: BOTTOM LINE:¬†We are downgrading our rating on Twitter to SELL as opening trading levels on Twitter fall well above a 15% range above our price target of $30 (modified from $29 previously to account for additional cash raised at the final $26 IPO price vs. the previously indicated $25 level). At a price in the high 20s or low 30s (which seems to us a reasonable price range) and based on our best assessment of Twitter's growth prospects and appropriate drivers of our discounted cashflow valuation (all determined on a basis that is relative to the variables we use to value Google and Facebook), Twitter would be fairly valued. However, with a price that pushes into the high 30s and beyond, Twitter is simply too expensive. At a $45 price level (the stock opened at $45.10), the enterprise value is approximately $30bn...or almost the same valuation as Discovery Communications, and nearly the same valuation as CBS or the combined Publicis Omnicom Group...or even Yahoo (some will argue that Yahoo's¬†stake¬†in Alibaba is worth this much, too). Put another way, our price target equates to a 2018 EV/FCF multiple (which we think is an apt comparison, because by that point in time the business should be relatively mature, if still faster growing than peers) of 21x, vs. Facebook at 17x and Google and 16x. At $45, Twitter would be worth 32x. We do note that one way to justify a $45 price in our model would involve presuming that Twitter could generate more than $6bn in annual revenue by 2018. However, we think that would seem overly optimistic to us given our best assessment of the industry and the business at this point in time. Click here for live coverage of Twitter's IPO &gt;&gt;
REUTERS/Mike SegarJob seekers speak with recruiters from retailer Abercrombie and Fitch at a career fair at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey, January 6, 2011.Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Co. laid out its strategy Wednesday to win back teen shoppers after reporting a steep drop in sales for the third quarter.¬† But investors are clearly wary of the plan, sending shares tumbling more than 12% since the company reported earnings.¬†Investors' low confidence can be partly explained by these four statements made by company executives on Wednesday: 1. Abercrombie isn‚Äôt willing to drop its logo-centric strategy, even though that‚Äôs a primary reason why young shoppers have been flocking to other brands, such as H&amp;M and Forever 21. ‚ÄúWe cannot walk away from the logo business,‚Äù said Leslee Herro, executive vice president of planning and allocation for Abercrombie. ¬† 2. The company is reinvesting in storefronts, even as mall traffic continues to decline across the country. ‚ÄúWe believe that while digital is becoming a more important channel, stores will continue to to be the key channel by which our target customer will engage with our brands,‚Äù Senior Vice President of Marketing Craig Brommers said.¬†New Hollister storefronts marked by giant video displays will be opening by fall 2014. 3. The company is sending a mixed message about its business model. CEO Mike Jeffries said Wednesday that he wants the company¬†to behave more like a fast-fashion retailer, such as Forever 21, by turning around new styles more quickly. But Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Ramsden explicitly said Abercrombie is not going to "become a fast-fashion company." 4. Company executives appear to have only just begun researching millennials, Abercrombie's target demographic, and they admittedly know very little about kids in their early teens. Senior Vice President of Marketing Craig Brommers said Abercrombie has brought in consultants to ‚Äúbetter understand the markets we compete in‚Äù and to "better understand our target.‚Äù Based on the research so far, the company has concluded that its former target, Generation X, was well-suited for Abercrombie because it ‚Äúembraced exclusivity, standardization and brand loyalty.‚Äù Then came Generation Y, or millennials. ‚ÄúThey embrace inclusivity and diversity, are budget conscious, have relatively low brand loyalty, seek customization and assume the use of technology,‚Äù Brommers said. ‚ÄúWe are working to maximize our relevancy to this new generation.‚Äù But while the company works on targeting millennials, an even younger generation is taking their place, of which the company admittedly doesn‚Äôt know much about. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs too early to make definitive statements on Generation Z, or kids in their early teens,‚Äù Brommers said. Here's Abercrombie's visual representation of each generation from the slideshow presented at Wednesday's meeting with analysts. The year ranges represent the dates that people in that generation were born: Abercrombie
In the lead up to today‚Äôs Twitter IPO it has been nearly impossible to speak of the company, the valuation, the growth opportunity and even the mechanics of the deal and not speak of Facebook‚Äôs now infamous May 2012 public offering. ¬†I suspect Finance majors will be studying the botched FB deal for years to come. ¬†Goldman Sachs, the lead underwriter of today‚Äôs TWTR deal, and the NYSE who won the listing, have a fairly fresh ‚ÄúDo Not Do‚Äù playbook from Morgan Stanley and Nasdaq, who by all accounts miss-managed the FB offering. ¬† It is my sense that the TWTR is likely to go off without a hitch, at least from an operational standpoint. The opening print and where it goes after that is another story all together. ¬†But let‚Äôs be clear, there has been little drama in the lead up, aside from the fact that the investment community and the financial press are in universal agreement that the $15-$30 billion market cap that the company will likely have at some point this morning is a bit ludicrous for a company that is expected to lose money for the next couple years, and like FB at the time of its IPO, has not really proven its revenue model. ¬† There is one big difference in my mind though ‚Äì in the weeks leading up to the FB deal, the lead underwriter‚Äôs own analysts cut revenue estimates on the social media company prior to the deal, and those ‚Äúspecial‚Äù investors who got the wink wink nod nod pulled back on their interest and caused the deal to fail. ¬†In hindsight, the size, the pricing, the mismanagement of the offering, the sketchy inside downgrade and general irrational exuberance doomed the the deal, as Henry Blodget of Business Insider famously labeled it in the days prior to the FB IPO as ‚ÄúMuppet Bait‚Äù. TWTR will not have this problem, at least not for a few months when they report Q4 earnings in January or February. ¬†But the stock will be subject to what has been an increasing loss of momentum by tech high-fliers and runs the risk to becoming the ‚Äúposter-boy‚Äù for the momo stocks (move over TSLA, you were so summer 2013). ¬† By all accounts, the allocations on the deal are going to be very tight. ¬†Speaking to some people who allocate such deals at competitor banks to GS, they suggest that of the 70 million shares being offered on the IPO, probably 30 -40 accounts will get close to 50% of the shares. ¬†Those big mutual funds are not likely to sell a share. ¬†Actually those 30-40 accounts will then give GS (or the other co-leads) aftermarket orders to buy at least the amount of shares they are allocated, which should help absorb the stock that is flipped by smaller hedge funds that get their small allocations and then take the money and run. Given the fact that the deal is one fifth the size of FB‚Äôs offering, there should be great institutional demand and I would be very surprised if the stock does not close tonight above $35 after its $26 pricing last night. The deal will obviously work, but the extent of the stock‚Äôs ability to levitate at what will be new heights for Web 2.0 valuations will be in the hands of you, the retail investor and how much risk you are willing to take to own the $1.8 billion money transfer from institutional investors to Twitter‚Äôs treasury that‚Äôs all but completed. ¬†Now, it‚Äôs all about pure animal (hopefully not muppet animals) spirits.
Jay Yarow/Business InsiderTwitter CEO Dick Costolo on the floor of the NYSE.Twitter had a relatively steady first day as a public company. The IPO was priced at $26 a share. The opening trade was at $45.10.¬† That price took a little longer than expected for the NYSE. Trading opened at 10:49. People were expecting to start at 10 AM.¬† The extra time was spent getting the price just right, and it worked. The stock briefly hit $50 during the day, then settled in at ~$46. At the end of the day it lost some steam and closed at $44.9o. Not too bad!

REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinBrent crude was down more than -1.4% to about $103.70/barrel on reports a deal addressing Iran's nuclear ambitions is in sight. The AP's George Jahn and John Heiprin write six world powers have accepted Iran's pitch to curb some nuclear production in exchange for partial relief of sanctions.¬†More details were expected to be released Friday. Meanwhile, OPEC released its annual World Oil Outlook today¬†and projected¬†prices to remain at an average of $110 through 2020 thanks in part to gains in North American production, but then climb to $160 by 2035. WTI was off -0.95% to $93.90. FinViz
APPetra and Tamara EcclestoneLife is easy enough if your parents have millions upon millions of dollars ‚Äî but it's even sweeter if you have dashing good looks, too. That's the case with these 27 beautiful children of businessmen, fashion moguls, and rock stars. And while some of these heirs have cashed in on their family names, many are striking out on their own, starting charities or taking over the family business. Noah Plaue also contributed to this story.
Jay Yarow/Business InsiderFrom the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Thursday, Nov. 7.North American stocks have been sliding all morning. The S&amp;P 500 index is down 0.6%, trading at 1760, 14 points off the highs of the morning. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.2%, but the NASDAQ is the big lagger, down 1.0%. The index is being dragged lower by QUALCOMM (down 3.8%), Whole Foods (down 8.9%), and Tesla (down 7.5%), which all missed expectations on earnings this week. And after a boost earlier, European indices are now giving up gains. The Italian FTSE MIB is down 1.6%, and the London FTSE 100 and the Spanish IBEX 35 are in negative territory as well. Meanwhile, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures are up 0.2%, and the yield on the 10-year note is at 2.62% (down 3 basis points from yesterday's close), while gold is down 0.6%, trading at $1310 an ounce. So far, it's been a pretty crazy morning. We had a surprise rate cut by the ECB, which sent the euro plunging and European stock indices ‚Äî as well as U.S. futures ‚Äî higher (at least for a while). Then, at 8:30 AM ET, we got both the first look at Q3 U.S. GDP growth (which unexpectedly accelerated) and the latest initial jobless claims (which fell, but came in just slightly above expectations). Now, all the buzz is about the Twitter IPO. Shares just opened for trading, and right now, they are north of $47, up 81.5% from the opening price of $26.
REUTERS/Eric Thayer Slade Deitrich is pictured as he helps his girlfriend Kari Howard move into a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) trailer in Joplin, Missouri August 16, 2011.Poverty is an astonishingly common experience here in the world's richest country. As I¬†wrote this morning, almost 40 percent of American adults experience it for at least a year by age 60.¬† But you know who poverty is especially common among? Young adults.¬† Based on the data I shared earlier, which were given to me by Washington University in St. Louis professor Mark Rank, I've pulled together a few more graphs that I think illustrate the difficulty of making ends meet in your twenties and early thirties (particularly if you're not lucky enough to, say, have a college degree). Exhibit a) between the ages of 25 and 34, 41.3% percent of Americans will spend at least a year earning less than 150 percent of the poverty line, which is a technical way of saying "being pretty broke." By age 35, a little more than a quarter will have lived under the actual poverty line, which is the technical way of saying, "really truly broke."Mark Rank, Thomas Hirschl, and Kirk Foster, Why are young adults so poverty prone? Partly because, by definition, they tend to lack work experience and earn less than later in life. But as a group, we're also prone to getting fired and laid off. Almost half of young adult households face a period of unemployment at some point.Mark Rank, Thomas Hirschl, Kirk FosterPerhaps surprisingly, they're only slightly more likely than 35 to 44-year-olds to take advantage of the safety net. But that still means almost a third of young adults end up using a program like food stamps or Medicaid to get by for a while.¬† Mark Rank, Thomas Hirschl, Kirk FosterMind you, these numbers aren't just a snapshot of today's economy, which has been notoriously dreadful for Millennials. Rather, they're drawn from an analysis of the Panel Study of Income Dynamics data collected between 1968 and 2009. So in a sense, they're a longterm assessment poverty through the American lifecycle. What they tell us, then, is that twenty and early thirty-somethings have lived financially wobbly lives in the U.S. for a very long time. Every generation has its horror stories about being young and poor.¬† Read more from the Atlantic: The Workforce Is Even More Divided By Race Than You Think How the GOP Establishment Tea-Partied the Tea Party Why Are American Schools Still Segregated? 
Twitter went public this morning and a lot of photos and interviews have been emerging from the trading floor of the New York Stock Exchange. But this birds-eye view of Twitter's founders and CEO captured by a NYSE camera is the best photo by far. Check it out: @NYSEcamDick Costolo, Biz Stone, Jack Dorsey and Evan Williams are all looking up at the camera.
CorcoranThe investment bank called Lehman Brothers may be dead and gone, but the legacy of the Lehman family lives on. The midtown home of Philip Lehman, son of the founder of Lehman brothers, was just sold for $40 million as a "trophy office space", according to The Real Deal.† The gorgeous Beaux-Arts home was commissioned by Philip to be built in 1899 by John Duncan, one of the best known American architects of the 20th century. It was later home to Philip's son Robert, who took over the reins of the company in 1925. Both Philip and Robert were avid art enthusiasts and philanthropists.  According to Corcoran, Robert made the house a gallery that housed the family's famed art collection, which included pieces by Rembrandt, Goya and Renoir. Robert bequeathed the collection to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.† The broker, Paula†Del Nunzio told the Wall Street Journal that the building "starts at museum quality and goes far beyond."
Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) has been quiet lately. It's likely the outspoken critic of Wall Street has been pretty busy with the government shutdown, health care website debacle, NSA spy scandal ... We don't blame her. This morning, however, Warren's back in her home state making a speech for the National Consumer Law Center, and it looks like the crusade is back on. Moreover, having spent some time in Washington, it looks like she's learned a thing or two that she wants to share with the people who sent her there. From her speech (via Massachusetts Live): Since I got to the Senate, Iíve often been asked: ìElizabeth, what have you learned since you got back to Washington, and do you see the world any differently now that you are in this new position?î Since I am among friends, I want to be a little blunt. I ran for office because I believe the playing field is rigged. Evidence of that is everywhere. Now Iíve been in the Senate for nearly a year and believe as strongly as ever that the system is rigged for powerful interests and against working families. Thatís why I wanted to be here with you today. Next week, the agency Warren helped to create, The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will deliver its semi-annual report to Congress ó so Warren-watchers can expect her to make a solid showing there. And while the Senator hasn't been running around doing media as much as she was earlier this year, she has still been working behind the scenes on the issues she ran on, namely policing Wall Street. Last week, she and four other Senators signed a letter asking the Attorney General not to allow JP Morgan to write off part of its potential $13 billion legal settlement as a business expense. In other words, she hasn't gone anywhere. Check out the rest of her†National Consumer Law Center speech below: Remarks by Senator Elizabeth WarrenNational Consumer Law CenterConsumer Rights Litigation ConferenceAs Prepared for Delivery Thank you, Will and Janet, for that introduction and for inviting me to join you today.Iíve now been in the U.S. Senate for almost a year. In fact, yesterday was the one-year anniversary of Election Day. You might not know it from the way the President is treated around Congress, but he beat the other guy by about five million votes. So itís a very special anniversary. Since I got to the Senate, Iíve often been asked: ìElizabeth, what have you learned since you got back to Washington, and do you see the world any differently now that you are in this new position?î Since I am among friends, I want to be a little blunt. I ran for office because I believe the playing field is rigged. Evidence of that is everywhere. Now Iíve been in the Senate for nearly a year and believe as strongly as ever that the system is rigged for powerful interests and against working families. Thatís why I wanted to be here with you today. I have been fighting shoulder to shoulder with NCLC for a very long time now, and I have seen how hard you work to stand up for consumers and to level the playing field for working and middle class families. Weíve fought to protect consumers from tricks and traps in the credit industry time and again. Weíve fought together for the new consumer agency. Weíve fought to make sure more families have access to mortgage modifications that can help them stay in their homes. And so I wanted to be here today to thank you for everything you are doing, day in and day out, in Washington and across the country, to fight for people. We could talk about a lot of ways the system is riggedólobbyists, campaign finance, the court system. But I want to raise a very specific issue that we need to spotlight: how much powerful interests benefit from a system that is complicated and opaque. For me, it all started with fine print. When credit card deals get long and complicated, when they are loaded with odd terms and complicated definitions, when they are just plain long, then the field just tilted. The company that wrote the forms could hire an army of lawyers and research all the variations in the law and carefully word every line so that it works for the company and not for the customer. Fine print gave companies a chance to hide in all kinds of traps in the bushes, and that was true not just for credit cards, but also for bank fees and mortgages and all kinds of other agreements. If customers, people who are trying to cook dinner for the kids, check homework and pay the bills, canít really assess the costs and risks, then the market breaks down. Lenders who build business models based on tricking and trapping people will make big profits, and honest dealers will have a hard time competing. Government helpsóor can helpólevel the playing field. Governmentódecent rules, fairly enforcedócan make sure that customers and investors have the information they need to make informed choices. But that information canít be buried in the fine print. The information has to be useful and clearly explained. It has to be easy to compare one product with another. In other words, complex disclosures arenít real disclosures at all. For years, consumer safety agencies have made sure that customers get what they see. When a bottle is labeled ìaspirin,î the Food and Drug Administration makes sure thatís exactly what it is. When a new car is sold, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration makes sure it has adequate brakes and seat belts. When a new parent buys a crib, the Consumer Product Safety Commission makes sure that it is a safe place for sleeping and not set up to strangle infants. And, my personal favorite, when someone buys a toaster, they donít have to read a wiring diagram to know that it wonít explode. The work of those agencies enjoys widespread support, and it puts some limits on risks that consumers cannot detect on their own at the time of purchase. Itís thanks to federal agencies that no one can compete in the appliance industry by leaving the safety switches out of toasters. Itís thanks to federal agencies that no one has to worry that those white pills are baking soda instead of antibiotics or that the slats on the babyís crib are far enough apart for the babyís body or head to slip through. Itís thanks to federal agencies that consumers can comparison shop knowing that sellers arenít offering a cheaper price by putting their familiesí safety at risk. Those agencies have made the markets they regulate work better. When they clamp down on deceptive and dangerous innovations, they make room in the marketplace for good innovations. And while many of our regulatory agencies have experienced controversy, over time they have built up a lot of support from the American public. You tell me: When was the last time you heard someone call for regulators to go easier on companies that want to use lead paint on our childrenís toys or leave the safety switches off toasters? There are a lot of regulatory successes, and a lot of people are alive today because of the basic rules of the road NCLC and others have fought for. But there are still too many places where the world remains complicated and opaque. There are still too many places where armies of lobbyists are fighting to rig the system so that the public remains in the dark. Earlier this year, for example, we had a major national debate on gun violence. If as many people were dying of a mysterious disease as innocent bystanders are dying from firearms, a cure would be our top priority and weíd still be talking about it. Gun violence is an epidemic, an epidemic that kills our children, our friends, our neighbors. But we donít even have good data on gun violence. Why? Because the NRA and the gun industry lobby made it their goal to prevent any serious effort to document the violence. In 2012, the CDC, which conducts research on how other forms of violence affect public health, spent $100,000 out of its $5.6 billion budget on firearm injury prevention. Just for comparison, the NIH spent $21 million studying headaches. Think about that. If thatís not bad enough, hereís another one: When cities and local governments collect data about guns used during crimes, the ATF is banned from using an electronic database to manage the data. Keeping the public in the dark is dangerousóand it makes it that much harder to keep our children safe. Or take our system of elections ñ the very heart of democracy. When the Supreme Court decided in Citizens United that it would let corporations spend as much money as they pleased on elections, they unleashed a powerful group of millionaires and billionaires who could spend hundreds of millions of dollars to influence outcomesóall in secret. And when there was a push in Congress to require disclosure of corporate spending on elections, armies of corporate lobbyists used their influence to kill itóand to keep the American people in the dark. And then thereís the consumer agency. The CFPB was designed from the very beginning to cut out tricks and traps in consumer finance and add transparency to the marketplace. We fought for that agency together! And we won! The agency is about making consumer credit clearóno more hiding fees and penalties in a thicket of fine print. It is about letting consumers see the dealóand putting them at ease about the things they canít see. And itís already starting to make some real progress. Look, no agency is perfect and no rule is flawless. But just look at what has already been accomplished. The agency has put in place new mortgage and credit card rules so that millions of people wonít be trapped into buying exploding mortgages. It has forced credit card companies to refund about three-quarters of a billion dollars that they tricked consumers out of. Its complaint center is giving tens of thousands of people a chance to fight back when they are cheated. The agency has begun to make the consumer financial markets work more efficiently and dial down the kinds of risks that nearly sparked a second Great Depression. This new agency matters, and it is already starting to make a real difference. But we all know that the fight isnít over and that the lobbyists are still working to undercut the agencyís work. And we know the progress weíve made didnít happen because reform falls out of the sky. It didnít happen because the industry learned its lesson and called for a tough new watchdog. It happened because we fought, and when we fought, we won. We got a strong, independent agency designed to look out for working families. The people in this room and the consumers you represent all across the country are fighters. We are tough, resourceful, and creative. We can take steps to level the playing field. We have succeeded in so many critical areas in the past, and I know we will succeed again in the future. Reform isnít easy, but when we succeed ñ when we increase transparency and fight for fairness - we get safer and we get stronger. I admire all you have done on behalf of hard-working, play-by-the-rules families. I know there will be many battles ahead, and I look forward to standing shoulder to shoulder once again with NCLC. Thank you for having me here today, and thank you for all you do. †
Whole Foods is down 11.5% to $57.06. The stock took a beating after hours on Wednesday after the company reported Q4 earnings. While the company beat earnings expectations by a penny it lowered guidance and disappointed on same-store sales. Brian Sozzi, CEO and chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, pointed out three unhealthy details from the Whole Foods earnings report. ¬† First, he pointed out that same-store sales growth had moderated. Second, Whole Foods gross margin seems to be driven by lower costs suggesting they're pricing more competitively. Third, the company lowered guidance. "Food retailing is more competitive than ever and with the growing demand for fresh healthy foods, it seems like everyone is adding to or expanding their offering of natural and organic products," Whole Foods CEO John Mackey said on a conference call with investors.  The Nasdaq is down 1.9% and is being dragged down by Whole Foods, Tesla, and Qualcomm. Here's a look at how Whole Foods' has been trading: Google Finance
A Tesla Model S car caught fire on Wednesday in Smyrna, Tennessee, according to Tesla Motors Club blog (via ValueWalk). This is the third Tesla to Model S vehicle to catch fire in the past six weeks, a Tesla spokesperson confirmed to Reuters. The driver of the vehicle was said to have sustained no injuries and a Tesla team is on its way to Tennessee to see what happened. Tesla again pointed out that the fire was the result of an accident and not¬† "spontaneous." @Nashvillian_ on Twitter posted this image: I-24 #tesla #teslafire pic.twitter.com/ia9tbftn4V Before that, another Model S caught fire after colliding with a large metallic object on¬† Washington State Route 167, in early October. At the time Tesla CEO Elon Musk took to his blog to defend the Model S saying, he reiterated that it was because of the powerful impact with the metal object on the road. He also said the fire department was wrong to "puncture the metal firewall, as the newly created holes allowed the flames to then vent upwards into the front trunk section of the Model S." "For consumers concerned about fire risk, there should be absolutely zero doubt that it is safer to power a car with a battery than a large tank of highly flammable liquid," Musk wrote. But in its 10-Q Tesla has previously pointed out that the lithium ion batter cells "have been observed to catch fire or vent smoke and flame, and such events have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional concerns, about the batteries used in automotive applications." The stock is down 6% today to $142.12, but has been taking a beating since the company announced Q3 results on Tuesday.
UniversalMost Wall Street employees can look forward to year-end bonuses growing 5 to 10% on average this year, according to a new survey from Johnson Associates. But fixed-income traders won't fair as well. Banks will let their employees know about bonuses in a few months. Compensation can range from hundreds of thousands of dollars into the millions. Fixed-income traders, dogged by a crazy year of interest rate fluctuation,†are the only subgroup likely to see a dip in bonus pay, according to the survey. From the New York Times's Rachel Abrams: The predictions reflect a new reality for Wall Streetís biggest banks, whose fixed-income revenues have plummeted amid a choppy bond market. Banks including†Morgan Stanley†have expanded their wealth-management divisions, which generate fees from the assets they handle, to balance the instability from fixed income. ìWhatís interesting is, for decades almost every year the big Wall Street firms were the highest-paid firms in financial services,î said Alan Johnson, managing director of Johnson Associates. Now, however, the big asset managers are ìon parî with what those big firms are making, he said. Bloomberg reported recently that bonuses will likely disappoint this season†"amid investor pressure to improve return on equity." Read the full report at the New York Times†ª

REUTERS/John SchultsEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi.ECB president Mario Draghi just held his monthly ECB press conference. The central bank¬†shocked markets with a surprise decision to lower its benchmark refinancing rate to 0.25% from 0.50% earlier today. The euro is down 1.1% against the dollar, and European stock indices are surging. In his opening remarks, Draghi said the central bank took a number of decisions in line with its forward guidance. The ECB will extend fixed-rate refi tender procedures with full allotment until mid-2015. Draghi acknowledged falling inflation, saying the decline was stronger than expected and that inflation should remain at low levels in the coming months as underlying price pressures remain subdued. However, he also acknowledged recent survey data, which point to tentative stabilization in the euro area economy. During the Q&amp;A, Draghi said the ECB discussed the deposit facility rate, which it chose to leave unchanged at 0% in November, but it did not discuss long-term refinancing operations (LTRO) in any significant way. He also asserted that exchange rates were not a part of the Governing Council's discussion today ‚Äî as the ECB does not target exchange rates ‚Äî though they are important for growth and inflation.
Facebook/Arden ReedThe Arden Reed "tailor truck."MIDTOWN ‚Äî These bespoke suits literally come off the back of a truck. Arden Reed, the so-called custom-suit "Tailor Truck" launched by a pair of former investment bankers, has hit the streets of¬†Manhattan, joining the technicolor food-trucks parked each day outside high-end office buildings in¬†Midtown,¬†Union Square, the¬†Financial District¬†and, occasionally,¬†Morningside Heights. "It's super-convenient," said Carlos Solorio, 25, who founded the truck with former co-worker Mike Abadi, 27. The concept allows shoppers to step from the street into the truck's cargo bay, ducking through a metal roll-down door leftover from the vehicle's days as a delivery van for FedEx. Inside, wood panels, soft track lighting, and layered suit jackets cover the truck's metal walls and ceiling, turning the space into a warm, miniature fitting room, complete with a curtained dressing area up front. Facebook/Arden ReedThe inside of the Arden Reed truck.In a technological twist, the fitting is done by computer, with each shopper stripping to his skivvies to be scanned three times into a 3D modeling program, which spits out his suit and pants measurements. Once dressed again, a fourth measurement is then taken by hand to confirm the data. "It's an algorithm that does the work," Solorio explained. "We do that last measurement by hand because each body is different." In all, the measurements take just five minutes. Shoppers then simply pick from the 200-plus fabrics on offer, add finishing touches such as peak lapels, then step back onto the sidewalk. Their custom suits, made from Australian wool, designed in Italy and manufactured in China, arrive four to six weeks later. The cost is about $500 to $1,100, depending on style and fabric quality. "It's nice and easy," Solorio said. "Someone on Wall Street, he's not going to take lunch to come up, head to Midtown, get measured, and then come all the way back down. But we just park outside the building." The truck, which hit the road in Solorio's home state of Arizona earlier this year and arrived in New York City this summer, spends most Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays in Midtown, Tuesdays in the Financial District and Thursdays in Union Square. It is also scheduled to make stops at¬†Columbia and¬†Fordham¬†universities. For the truck's schedule, check out the Arden Reed¬†website¬†or follow the truck on¬†Twitter¬†or¬†Facebook.Facebook/Arden ReedThe Arden Reed truck parked in Manhattan.
http://www.businessinsider.com/chinas-smog-satellite-photos-2013-1Bloomberg Markets Magazine just published the findings of the organization's tireless billionaire hunters ‚Äî a list of the 100 richest people in the world. This year, there are nine financiers that made the cut, meaning that a few familiar names were lopped off. It's been a volatile year in finance, after all. Abigail Johnson of Fidelity didn't make the cut this year, while Carl Icahn's fortune jumped a whopping 24%.¬† The Heinz deal has worked out very well for Warren Buffet and 3G Capital's Jorge Paulo Lemann, whose wealth rose by 22% and 14% respectively. 
Earlier today, J.C. announced that comparable store sales climbed 0.9%, which is good news for a retailer that saw sales fall 25% in 2012. CEO Myron Ullman added that the company's gross profit margin was hurt by lower clearance margins. And that's about all they said. "Although JC Penney continues to stress that trends in sales are heading in the right direction (disclosure: am intrigued by the trajectory in gross margins as mentioned by Mike Ullman), there remains a little overlooked aspect to the entire newfound ‚Äúbull‚Äù opinion on the stock," warned retail guru Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors. "[M]entions of profits are non-existent, as is further color on the 3Q13 cash burn rate," added Sozzi. "I believe receiving factual numbers on each topic are required in order to think that JC Penney will win the ‚ÄúComeback Kid of 2014‚Äù in the stock market; for the time being it‚Äôs apparent that a gross margin still under intense pressure from two angles (lower margins on clearance merchandise and increased promotional events) are what‚Äôs driving the profound sales rebound, therefore constraining profit potential and maintaining caution on the liquidity of the company." J.C. Penney will announce its full Q3 financial result on November 20 before the opening bell.
REUTERS/Nir EliasThe first look at Q3 U.S. GDP growth is out. The American economy grew 2.8% at an annualized pace in Q3, accelerating from Q2's 2.5% pace of growth and coming in well ahead of consensus estimates for 2.0%. Personal consumption growth slowed to 1.5% from 1.8%, however, worse than the slowdown to 1.6% predicted by economists. The headline number was boosted by a rise in inventories. "Private businesses increased¬†inventories $86.0 billion in the third quarter, following increases of $56.6 billion in the second quarter¬†and $42.2 billion in the first," said the BEA in the release. Below is a breakdown of the data from the release: Real personal consumption expenditures increased 1.5 percent in the third quarter, compared¬†with an increase of 1.8 percent in the second. Durable goods increased 7.8 percent, compared with an¬†increase of 6.2 percent. Nondurable goods increased 2.7 percent, compared with an increase of 1.6¬†percent. Services increased 0.1 percent, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 1.6 percent in the third quarter, compared with an¬†increase of 4.7 percent in the second. Nonresidential structures increased 12.3 percent, compared with¬†an increase of 17.6 percent. Equipment decreased 3.7 percent, in contrast to an increase of 3.3 percent.¬†Intellectual property products increased 2.2 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 1.5 percent. Real¬†residential fixed investment increased 14.6 percent, compared with an increase of 14.2 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 4.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with an¬†increase of 8.0 percent in the second. Real imports of goods and services increased 1.9 percent,¬†compared with an increase of 6.9 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.7 percent¬†in the third quarter, compared with a decrease of 1.6 percent in the second. National defense decreased¬†0.7 percent, compared with a decrease of 0.6 percent. Nondefense decreased 3.3 percent, compared with¬†a decrease of 3.1 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross¬†investment increased 1.5 percent, compared with an increase of 0.4 percent. The change in real private inventories added 0.83 percentage point to the third-quarter change in¬†real GDP after adding 0.41 percentage point to the second-quarter change. Private businesses increased¬†inventories $86.0 billion in the third quarter, following increases of $56.6 billion in the second quarter¬†and $42.2 billion in the first. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 2.0¬†percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 2.1 percent in the second. Click here for the full release ¬ª "This GDP report should be more preliminary than usual due to the government shutdown, and the attendant delays in data releases," says Citi economist Peter D'Antonio. "The first print of GDP growth always includes Commerce Department assumptions for missing final month readings on construction spending, inventories and capital spending. However, because of the data blackout due to the shutdown, important information on August capital spending figures also will be missing."

"JCPenney has made significant progress in addressing the challenges it faces, and we believe the Company is on the right track to return to long-term profitable growth," said CEO Mike Ullman. "We are proud of our October sales improvement, which we achieved despite the federal government shutdown and a challenging consumer environment. Not only did we deliver positive same store sales for the first time since December of 2011, we also saw significantly improved sales trends in Home and Men`s apparel, as well as Women`s accessories." While 0.9% seems like a small game, it is a welcome reversal from the double-digit losses it had been experiencing in recent months and years. Sales fell 25% in 2012.
The Bitcoin Foundation ó a sort of non-profit industry lobby group for the online crypto-currency ó has welcomed an academic paper published by researchers at Cornell University which claims Bitcoin could collapse if "selfish" owners begin colluding with each other. But the foundation did not specifically deny its claims. In a blog post, foundation board member Gavin Andresen says: Let me start with how fantastic it is that weíre seeing more academic interest and research in Bitcoin-the-system. In the coming months, I expect weíll be seeing a lot more research claiming to have found ways of making various pieces of Bitcoin better. Some of it will even turn out to be both practical and correct. He doesn't specifically knock down the Cornell paper's central claim, which is that Bitcoin "miners," who create new Bitcoins by crunching code which churns out the currency according to a set formula that prevents inflation, could collapse the system by colluding until one group of collaborators owns a majority of all Bitcoins. Andresen does express doubts about the study: ... Iím not going to write about the specific claims in the paper; lots of smart people are, or soon will be, thinking really hard about the issues raised and whether or not the researcherís model matches reality. However, it is good to note that in my initial review, I believe the paperís assertion of a fundamental flaw is based on some over-simplified assumptions about how the bitcoin mining market works. What's interesting about the foundation's forthcoming response ó or lack thereof ó is how it will advance the debate over whether Bitcoin is a reliable non-sovereign internet currency, or merely the ultimate example of a fiat currency (that only exists because people believe in it) caught in a speculative bubble. Because if the Cornell researchers are right, and the people minting new Bitcoins can control the market for them, then Bitcoin is essentially worthless, because who would want to make transactions in a currency whose value was decided by a single entity?
The ECB's shocking interest rate cut announcement has markets going totally wild. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 1.1%. Germany's DAX is up 1.0%. Spains IBEX is up 1.2%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.7%. U.S. stock market futures are also rocketing higher with Dow futures now up 87 points. Here's a look at Dow futures via FinViz. FinViz
Bloomberg.comThe ECB just announced a surprise 25 basis point interest rate cut, and the euro is tanking. The euro is now at $1.3354, down from its intraday high of $1.3529 Most economists were expecting the central bank to keep its benchmark rate unchanged at 0.5%. However, some economists like UBS's Ronald Cluse warned that a rate cut would come with inflation low and unemployment persistently high. But Cluse also warned that such a cut could be a desperate move. "If the ECB were to cut rates, as we expect, it would still leave the bank in an uncomfortable position," said Cluse ahead of the announcement. "After all, the ECB would then have essentially depleted its orthodox toolkit. The only easy solution left would be for the ECB to signal ‚Äì soon, we think ‚Äì that it will stay in "full allotment mode" even after July 2014, the commitment it has given so far."
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA man uses his mobile phone to take a picture of the euro sculpture outside the head quarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt, November 5, 2013.The ECB cut rates in November. Only three economists expected this. The central bank elected to lower its benchmark refinancing rate to 0.25% from 0.50%, while the rate on the marginal lending facility was reduced to 0.75% from 1.00%. The euro is plunging. Right now, it's trading 1.1% lower against the dollar. Meanwhile, European stock markets are surging after spending most of the morning in the red. The Spanish IBEX 35 is leading the way, up 1.4%. Follow the ongoing press conference and Q&amp;A with ECB president Mario Draghi LIVE ª Below is the full text of the release: At todayís meeting the Governing Council of the ECB took the following monetary policy decisions: The interest rate on the main refinancing operations of the Eurosystem will be decreased by 25†basis points to 0.25%, starting from the operation to be settled on 13 November 2013. The interest rate on the marginal lending facility will be decreased by 25 basis points to 0.75%, with effect from 13 November 2013. The interest rate on the deposit facility will remain unchanged at 0.00%. The President of the ECB will comment on the considerations underlying these decisions at a press conference starting at 2.30 p.m. CET today. With a persistently appreciating euro and the†release of data last week†revealing that eurozone consumer price inflation plunged to 0.7% year over year in October from 1.1% in September, a few notable firms (BofA Merrill Lynch, UBS, and RBS)†predicted the ECB would cut the refi rate†to 0.25% today, while a few others (Morgan Stanley and SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, to name two) thought it would do so at its December meeting.
The new issue of TIME features a brilliant triple entendre featuring Chris Christie. The newly re-elected New Jersey †governor is currently the premier Republican candidate, he's a large presence, and he's making his entire party uncomfortable with the way he's crushing it. Time says that the new issue explores why Chris Christie was "born to run," an allusion to Christie's musical idol†Bruce Springsteen. Check it out:† TIMEThe new issue of TIME
@NYSEEuronextGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Bitcoin ChartsEarlier this year, the price of the electronic currency Bitcoin exploded upwards, making its early advocates rich and smug and leaving everyone else shouting "bubble!" Then, the price of Bitcoin crashed, making everyone who had cried "bubble" feeling smart and smug. And then, a few weeks ago, the price of Bitcoin started exploding again. And, so, once again, Bitcoin believers are crowing, and everyone else is mumbling about "bubbles." So, who's right? Most likely, everyone. Why? Because Bitcoin is the perfect asset bubble. There is absolutely no way to value Bitcoin, which means there is nothing constraining its price other than supply and demand. As long someone new can be convinced to buy Bitcoin, its price can keep rising. Bitcoin prices could literally go to 1,000 or 10,000 or 100,000 or 1 million per coin, and there would be no way to prove that these prices were ridiculous. What's more, even if Bitcoin is a bubble, prices could keep rising for years. As everyone who has ever been involved with asset bubbles can attest, they usually have a few defining characteristics: The premise and promise of Bitcoin--the part that appeals to folks who don't happen to be gold bugs, conspiracy theorists, or cryptography geeks (obviously they all love it)--is that the plan is for only a finite number of Bitcoins to be created. This is in contrast to standard government-issued currencies, which governments can always print more of. If the supply of Bitcoins remains finite, this should theoretically eliminate inflation, which is one of the biggest drawbacks of paper money. (Although inflation has remained low in recent years, it ravages the value of paper money over time. A dollar in 1900 is only worth about $0.04 in today's currency.) So Bitcoin is conceptually interesting, especially since it is not issued by a government agency. (Here's a great presentation on what Bitcoin is and why some people are so excited about it.) What has suddenly grabbed the public's attention about Bitcoin, however, is the recent explosion in the value of the currency. Because the number of Bitcoins is limited, their value increases rapidly when more people want them. And when the value of something increases rapidly, even more people want them. So the initial price increases fuel future price increases which fuel more future price increases...at least for a while. Of course, this dynamic has fueled the inflation of every asset bubble in history. So it behooves people to analyze the sustainability of such price increases carefully. When Bitcoin was launched in 2010, the currency initially had very little value. Quickly, however, the price of each "coin" soared above $25, making the initial Bitcoin believers rich. Then prices collapsed, with coins trading down to $5 again. And then Bitcoin prices began a slow and steady rise that has suddenly gone parabolic. At the beginning of March, Bitcoins could be exchanged for about $35. Then they blasted up to about $250. Then they collapsed to about $100 again. And now they've soared through $300. Importantly, this behavior is exactly like the price behavior of prior bubbles. Internet stocks, for example, were first described as a "bubble" in 1995, a full five years before the peak. And the amount of money made in the rolling booms and busts of the next five years made everyone who was skeptical early on look and feel like a fool. House prices, meanwhile, were described as a "bubble" as early as 2002 and 2003. And it wasn't until 2007, many years later, that house prices finally peaked. Driving prices in all bubbles, of course, is the possibility that the price action might not actually be a bubble. And that applies to Bitcoin, too. If Bitcoins become an accepted currency everywhere in the world, if governments don't intervene and make Bitcoin transactions illegal, and if the supply of Bitcoins remains finite or Bitcoin isn't superseded by some new currency like Ripple, then Bitcoin prices could go much higher. After all, how much would you pay for a currency that could be used everywhere in the world and would never demolish your savings by losing value to inflation? You might pay a lot for it. And, as with any asset, it would be hard if not impossible to determine how much value was "too much"--because determining the value of any asset or means of exchange is always a subjective exercise. At the same time, though, there are many big risks that could bring the Bitcoin frenzy to a quick and brutal end. Governments, for example, might decide that Bitcoin undermines the value of their own legal currencies--and ban it. In the U.S., only Congress has the power to print money, and Congress might well decide that Bitcoin is money (which, it is). Or, Bitcoin's technology could be hacked, allowing Bitcoins to be stolen from their owners. Or someone could make counterfeit Bitcoins. Or Bitcoin could never gain mass-market acceptance. Or some other Bitcoin could replace Bitcoin, just as new toy fads eventually replaced Beanie Babies. (After all, it wasn't long ago that many of today's Bitcoin fanatics were going on about how you had to own gold.) In short, there are lots of reasons why Bitcoin might not be the ¬†"store of value" that Bitcoin fanatics say it is--and, instead, might just become the next tulip bulb or dotcom stock bubble. But in the meantime, Bitcoin believers are coining it. SEE ALSO: Bitcoin Is A Joke

The rebound in forward P/Es has been widespread among the major stock markets of the euro zone. They are mostly back to 2009 levels prior to when Greece hit late that year and early in 2010. In other words, investors no longer seem to be worrying about a ‚ÄúGrexit‚Äù or any other threat to the integrity of Europe‚Äôs monetary union. The question is whether there is more upside for the region‚Äôs valuation multiples. I think there might be, but forward earnings, which has been flat-lining since 2011, as I noted yesterday, needs to show some signs of life. That, in turn, requires that European economic indicators show that the region‚Äôs economy hasn‚Äôt just bottomed, but is actually recovering. The latest batch of these indicators does show a recovery, but a slow-paced one that may already have been discounted by the rebound in valuation multiples. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Sentimental Journey. (1) Stampeding bulls. (2) The Bull/Bear Ratio jumps to 3.54. (3) A melt-up signal: Rising BBR and rising stock prices. (4) Q3 earnings season didn‚Äôt lower bullish 2014/15 earnings estimates. (5) Next big deal from the Fed: Less QE-Forever, More NZIRP-Forever. (6) Rosengren sees full employment at 5.25% unemployment rate. (7) A Fed model recommends lowering jobless threshold from 6.5% to 5.5%. (8) An idea whose time is coming. (9) Investors no longer worrying about euro disintegration. (10) Is there more upside for euro zone valuations? (More for subscribers.)
TwitterBillions of messages are fired off each week via Twitter, many of which capture defining moments in history, or in the evolution of the San Francisco-based firm. Below is a sampling of 10 memorable tweets since the Twitter era began. "just setting up my twttr" @jack March 2006 Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey sent the first tweet, an automated message saying "just setting up my twttr." That same day, he sent the first live tweet, "inviting coworkers." ---- "Arrested" @jamesbuck April 2008 US university student James Buck got off a one-word tweet after being taken into custody by Egyptian authorities at an anti-government protest in that country. In what is seen as an early demonstration of the power of Twitter to rally people to a cause, the resulting outcry prompted authorities to quickly restore his liberty. He proclaimed his release in a tweet reading "Free." --- "There's a plane in the Hudson. I'm on the ferry going to pick up the people. Crazy." @jkrums January 2009 A US Airways jet crash-landed on the Hudson River in New York. This tweet and others by witnesses and passengers was accompanied by a link to a picture of the scene, breaking the news well ahead of mainstream media outlets. ---- "HI TWITTERS. THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY" @Oprah April 2009 Talk show queen and media royalty Oprah Winfrey took Twitter mainstream with her debut post and now has more than 21 million followers. --- "From orbit: Launch was awesome!! I am feeling great, working hard, &amp; enjoying the magnificent views, the adventure of a lifetime has begun!" @astro_mike Astronaut Mike Massimino makes history with the first tweet from space. --- "Twitter Revolution" June 2009 Not a specific tweet, but an unofficial name given to a bold movement by thousands of Iranians who took to the streets to protest what they saw as a rigged presidential election and used Twitter to thwart government efforts to block them from communicating with one another and the world. Two years later, Twitter would become a vital tool used in "Arab Spring" series of uprisings in an array of countries in the Middle East and North Africa. --- "Helicopter hovering above Abbottabad at 1AM (is a rare event)." @ReallyVirtual May 2011 IT consultant Sohaib Athar unknowingly tweeted about US Navy Seals raiding a nearby home in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was hiding. Bin Laden was killed during the operation. --- "Four more years" @BarackObama November 2012 US President Obama put out word of his election victory along with a picture of him and his wife, Michelle, hugging. The post was "retweeted" more than 800,000 times, becoming the most shared Twitter message to date. --- "Dear friends, I am pleased to get in touch with you through Twitter. Thank you for your generous response. I bless all of you from my heart." @Pontifex December 2012 Pope Benedict XVI launched the first papal Twitter account, which was continued by his successor, Pope Francis. The English-language papal account has more than three million followers, and a Spanish-language version four million. --- "Power Out? No Problem. You can still dunk in the dark." @Oreo February 2013 A tweet fired off by the makers of Oreo cookies when a power outage interrupted the American football spectacle known as the Super Bowl was an instant hit, demonstrating the potential of Twitter to adapt cleverly to the real-time messaging platform. ---- "Breaking: Two Explosions in the White House and Barack Obama is injured." April 2013 Hackers from a group calling itself the Syrian Electronic Army commandeered a news wire account and posted this bogus message, showing that Twitter has become such a trusted place for the latest information that it had become a target. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Carlos Barria People looks at Mercedes-Benz cars during the the 15th Shanghai International Automobile Industry Exhibition in Shanghai April 21, 2013.New data out of Germany is pretty ugly. Industrial production fell 0.9% in September. Economists were looking for an unchanged level. This comes after a 1.6% gain in August. Today's report was also much worse than High Frequency Economics' expectation for a 1.6% increase. But before the report, they warned that they saw "nothing but downside risk to our forecast, given the miserable declining trend in exports on a year-over-year basis." "For Q4 however, growth may decelerate slightly further in line with mixed survey data recently, but should still be sufficient to deliver annual growth of around 0.4%," said Societe Generale. "So far, we have not seen any signs of major troubles coming from the negotiations for a new government in Germany, which should provide sufficient stability for growth to remain close to potential over next year, with the potential of both monetary and fiscal stimulus in response to faltering growth in Europe."
APMOSCOW (Reuters) -¬†Russia¬†on Thursday acknowledged for the first time that its economy would lag global growth in the next 20 years, setting the stage for an era of stagnation that could threaten President¬†Vladimir Putin's grip on power. Economy Minister¬†Alexei Ulyukayev¬†forecast that¬†Russia's economy would grow by an annual average of 2.5 percent during that period - down from an earlier projection of 4 percent. "The pace of¬†Russia's economic growth will fall behind the global average in the forecast period (until 2030)," Ulyukayev told journalists, presenting a revised long-term economic strategy. The downward revision makes¬†Russia¬†a poor relation in the BRICS group of large emerging markets - also comprising¬†Brazil,¬†India,¬†China¬†and¬†South Africa¬†- which in recent years has closed the gap on the industrialized world. Russia's $2 trillion economy has slowed sharply since Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third presidential term last year, in stark contrast to his first two terms, when he set a goal of doubling the economy's size in a decade. The lack of reforms in an economy hamstrung by red tape, corruption and weak rule of law has led some economists to suggest that the government has no recipe to avert a slide into stagnation. Prime Minister¬†Dmitry Medvedev¬†almost admitted as much in an interview with Reuters last week when he said "there is no magic formula to boost growth. In any case, if there is, we do not know what it is." The pessimistic outlook presented by Ulyukayev may increase pressure on Medvedev, who served a single term as president from 2008 until 2012, and whose political demise has been repeatedly predicted by analysts since he became premier in May 2012. (Reporting by Lidia Kelly, Editing by Douglas Busvine and Timothy Heritage)
The Fed recently released the latest Senior Loan Officer Survey data. The results are important because they allow us to get a glimpse of how the increase in long-term rates impacted lender and borrower behavior. Here are a couple of conclusions: 1. Higher rates did not have a negative impact on banks' underwriting standards. In fact some banks reported loosening their requirements. WSJ: - Nearly 80% of banks said their credit standards for mortgages remained basically unchanged from July through September ... about 15% of banks said their standards for mortgages have eased somewhat. 2. Demand for mortgage loans has dropped quite sharply as rates increased. WSJ: - More than 40% of banks said they saw a lower volume of mortgage applications since the spring, prior to the increase in mortgage rates. About a third of banks said demand was about the same or stronger. Fewer home owners refinanced their mortgages in the period due to rising interest rates, the banks said. More than 90% of banks have received moderately to substantially lower volumes of applications compared with the spring. The chart below shows the two trends. Sober LookFederal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (domestic banks only) It is important to note that the bulk of the drop in loan demand has been in refinancing rather than home purchases. That means higher rates did not have a substantial impact on the overall credit growth. Barclays Research: - A net 17% of banks reported that volume of applications for purchases had declined, while 93% reported that application volumes for mortgage refinancing were moderately or substantially lower than in the second quarter of this year. These data are consistent with trends in Mortgage Bankers Association applications for purchases and refinancing, which reveal a much sharper drop in applications for refinance than for purchase.
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ‚Äî Too open. Too crowded. Too difficult. That's why some Twitter users in South Korea and Japan say they are spending less time on the site or have quit for other services. After selling shares in a highly anticipated initial public offering, Twitter is set to face minute ongoing scrutiny from a legion of new shareholders and Wall Street investment analysts. The price of $26 per share values Twitter, which has never made a profit, at more than $18 billion. Waning appeal in parts of Asia, once the fastest growing market for the social network that revolves around users posting 140-character messages online, shows the challenge Twitter faces in keeping overseas users engaged. And in generating enough advertising to be profitable. International users accounted for about three quarters of Twitter's members but only a quarter of revenue in the first nine months of this year. About 25 percent of Twitter's 232 million active users are in Asia. Led by Japan, Indonesia, South Korea and India, Asia was the fastest growing region for Twitter in summer 2010, according to Semiocast, a Paris-based social media research company. Millions of new users joined in the wake of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and during election campaigns. Celebrities, pop stars, politicians and opinion leaders flocked to Twitter, turning an experimental playground for early adopters into a dynamic online forum. But growth has slowed in South Korea and Japan, a red flag for Twitter since both countries are wealthy and have high rates of mobile device usage ‚Äî now the predominant way Twitter is accessed. New mobile applications from companies such as South Korea's Kakao Corp. and Japan's Line Corp., have experienced explosive growth, making them potent competitors for eyeballs and advertising. A desire for a less open, more exclusive social networking experience is part of the explanation. "In South Korea and Japan, open type social networking services like Twitter and Facebook are losing steam," said Justin Lee, an analyst of mobile messengers and games at BNP Paribas. "Closed social networking services where messages are shared among a small group of people will become more popular." Twitter remains blocked from China's vast market but another giant, India, is open to Twitter and it has amassed 27 million users there, according to Semiocast. Yet Twitter acknowledged in IPO filings that low use of smartphones in the poor country could hamper the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements and hurt its earnings potential. "Indian people are still warming up to Twitter," said Karthik Srinivasan, Bangalore-based head of social media at Ogilvy &amp; Mather. The concept of interacting with strangers instead of friends and colleagues takes getting used to in a society that remains family-oriented, he said. "People probably don't know what to do on Twitter, since you don't see your friends and family on it right away." In South Korea the number of new users signing up has plunged since December while more Twitter citizens are going dormant, according to CYRAM, a Seoul-based analytics company that specializes in social networks. Some 40,000 new users signed up in August, about a quarter of new users in December. It estimates there are 7 million Twitter users in South Korea and only 1 million of them send more than one tweet a month. In August, 64 percent of Twitter accounts based in South Korea had not sent a tweet for more than six months, up from 56 percent in December of last year. South Korean entrepreneur Richard Choi is one of those dormant users. After sending more than 18,000 messages to his 8,200 followers in the last few years, he has been silent on Twitter since June 25. Choi said he has been busy running his startup company but still found time to share pictures of his birthday cake and a homemade shepherd's pie with friends on KakaoStory, an Instagram-like mobile application that has been a hit in South Korea. "Twitter is for news and information but there are other channels to get news," Choi said. "I don't feel like I need to come back." In Japan, Twitter's status was elevated after it functioned as a virtual lifeline for many people following the 2011 tsunami. Japanese were able to communicate with others through Twitter immediately after the disaster as the Internet kept working but phones didn't. It remains a go-to destination for discussing popular television shows. Twitter is a special arena for "when a certain incident calls for everyone's participation at one time," said Will Tachiiri, a social media producer and CEO of Logkr Media. But a trend for defections and growing dormancy of accounts in Japan partly reflects that Twitter has also become a nasty battleground, with users hiding behind anonymity to launch vitriolic attacks on those they disagree with. "Sometimes one can be forced to leave the space or close the account since they were seriously offended, annoyed or traumatized," Tachiri said. There are bright spots as Twitter courts advertisers overseas including the social networking service's ability to draw people who set trends and influence opinion. In South Korea, "Twitter is SNS of 1 million people," said Song Seulki, a consultant at CYRAM. "But its impact is valid given that it is the SNS used by people from the 20s to the 40s who are public opinion leaders." ___ Yuriko Nagano in Tokyo and Kay Johnson in Mumbai, India contributed. ___ Follow Youkyung Lee on Twitter: www.twitter.com/YKLeeAP Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughton Artist and poet Barry Edgar Pilcher, age 69, poses for a photograph as he plays the saxophone on the Island of Inishfree in County Donegal May 1, 2012.DUBLIN (Reuters) - Three years after going cap in hand to international lenders for a bail out, Ireland is set to step out on its own again. The European Union and International Monetary Fund are due to sign off later on Thursday on the last part of a 85 billion euro ($114 billion) bailout, leaving Ireland to exit the process by the end of the year, the first crisis-hit euro zone country to do so. Debts resulting from a rescue of its crashing bank sector in 2008 helped force Ireland into seeking aid from its EU partners and the European Union two years later as the euro zone's debt crisis deepened. The official "troika" of lenders - the European Commission, European Central Bank and IMF - are conducting their final review of the bailout and given Ireland has met every major target, are widely expected to release the final funds. They are expected to release statements after about 1200 GMT (7:00 EDT). The main issue remaining is whether the government will take out an insurance policy of asking for a precautionary credit line when the bailout ends. It has indicated in recent weeks it may go it alone as it has funding into 2015. "The assessment of the European Commission, the ECB and the IMF is largely positive, though they remain wary of unresolved problems in the banking sector," said Dermot O'Leary, economist at Goodbody stockbrokers. The process may also be complicated by German efforts to form a new government given that Berlin is one of the main contributors to aid programs. The country of 4.6 million has endured five years of austerity with little of the unrest that has rocked Greece and Spain and is now a much-needed success story for the EU, which wants to show that the discipline of tax hikes and spending cuts can work. Irish debt yields have dropped from a 2011 peak of 15 percent to about 3.5 percent and the budget deficit has fallen from nearly a third of gross domestic product in 2010 to an estimated 7.3 percent this year. That is still the highest deficit-to-GDP in the EU, partly because Ireland's economy is barely growing and it needs growth rates of 2-3 percent to make hefty national debt sustainable. Unemployment, though falling, is above 13 percent and one in five home loans, worth 25 billion euros, are not being fully repaid. So all is not fixed. The improvements have been enough to gain the government some market access, highlighted by a 10-year bond issue in March, but forgoing a precautionary line could leave it vulnerable to future market shocks and unable to access the ECB's government bond purchases scheme. Concerns also persist over the health of Ireland's banks and the lenders are reviewing the quality of their assets - an exercise conducted in advance of full Europe-wide stress tests next year - before giving the final all clear to exit the bailout. But finances and commitment have improved enough to lift Ireland to the brink of an exit. "In Ireland, consumer confidence has improved and the (building supplies) and DIY markets have stabilized at very low levels of activity," said Gavin Slark, chief executive of supplies group Grafton &lt;GRF_u.L&gt;, which reported higher revenues on Thursday. (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt)
Flickr/HowzeyROME (Reuters) - Global food prices rose in October after five months of falls, lifted by a surge in sugar prices and rising cereals and edible oils prices, the United Nations food agency said on Thursday. The Food and Agriculture Organisation's (FAO) price index, which measures monthly price changes for a basket of cereals, oilseeds, dairy, meat and sugar, averaged 205.8 points in October, up 1.3 percent from September. FAO also said it had raised its forecast for world cereal output in 2013/14 to 2.498 billion tonnes (1.1023 ton), about 10 million tonnes higher than its estimate in October. (Reporting By Catherine Hornby)
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonMarkets are pretty much lower everywhere this morning. Japan fell. Europe is down. And US futures are off a bit. There are three big events happening today: First is the ECB meeting, where there's growing thinking that there might be a rate cut. You can see a full preview of that here. Then at 8:30 AM, there's going to be the first reading of Q3 GDP. Analysts expect growth of 2.0%. And then at some point today, Twitter will hit the public market, and that will be a major event that everyone will be watching. Very exciting!
Bitcoin, the Internet's cryptocurrency, is exploding to new all-time highs. But it's not a legal currency, and you'll have an extremely difficult time finding anyone that will accept it in exchange for goods. Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal appeared on CNBC's Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo to debate the merits of Bitcoin with NetNet's Jeff Cox. "Why not Bitcoins? Cox said arguing the bull's point which often points to currency debasement by central banks. "I think this is just a natural hedge." "So, Bitcoin has gone from $100 to $280," rebutted Weisenthal.† "It's completely reckless to call it a natural hedge. This has nothing to do with central banks. "This is just beanie babies and pogs and another bubble," added Weisenthal. "What gives a currency value is that it's a legal tender. "The difference between bitcoin and the U.S. dollar is that it has a legal backing. It has a government that says "You must use the dollar to pay taxes."" Cox argued that the stock market is often just as volatile as Bitcoin. But Weisenthal reminded Cox that "there are real companies backing stocks." "Jeff, would you like to be paid in Bitcoins?" asked Bartiromo. "I don't know if it would be for me," said Cox. Here's the exchange: 
Earlier this week, top Goldman economist Jan Hatzius made a splash when he said that the Fed would soon lower its unemployment rate threshold for considering a rate hike. Basically right now the Fed operates under what's called "Evan's Rule" whereby it's told the market that it won't consider hiking rates until the unemployment rate hits 6.5% or inflation hits 2.5%. Hatzius believes that next year, the Fed will drop the unemployment rate side of the rule down to 6%, with the idea being that this will operate as further stimulus because it will imply lower rates for longer. Economist Tim Duy (via Calculated Risk) has a great blog post explaining what this is all about, and why the Fed might take this step. This paragraph is really key: †Policymakers would like to normalize policy by moving away from asset purchases to interest rates. Emphasizing forward guidance is part of that process. Incoming research suggests not only that threshold based forward guidance is effective, but has room to be even more effective. That should be a comfort to policymakers who worry that ending asset purchases will excessively tighten financial conditions; they have a tool to change the mix of policy while leaving the level of accommodation unchanged. Whether they use it or not is another question. There has clearly been some discomfort among policymakers regarding changing the unemployment threshold. This suggests it would not necessarily be an immediate replacement for ending asset purchases. That said, it is difficult to see how the current threshold is meaningful at all if the Fed is still purchasing assets when the threshold is breached. Indeed, the current low level of unemployment relative to the threshold, combined with clear indications that the Fed has no intention of raising rates anytime soon, argues by itself that a change in the thresholds is a likely scenario in the months ahead. Basically, QE is of limited effectiveness, and there are fears about the size of the Fed's balance sheet, and how much of the market in certain fixed income assets the Fed has become. Thus the goal is to move away from asset purchases, and use more robust forward guidance as the primary Fed tool.
Yesterday morning we were talking about Bitcoin $260. This morning? BITCOIN $300. Actually $305. That peak earlier in the chart was from May, the last time it went on a huge run. ClarkMoody
BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchFor the first time in a while, people are talking about a European Central Bank policy decision. The consensus forecast on Wall Street is that the ECB will maintain its benchmark refinancing rate at 0.50%, where it's been since May. Yet with a persistently appreciating euro and the release of data last week revealing that eurozone consumer price inflation plunged to 0.7% year over year in October from 1.1% in September, a few notable firms (BofA Merrill Lynch, UBS, and RBS) predict the ECB will cut the refi rate to 0.25% Thursday, while a few others (Morgan Stanley and SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale, to name two) think it will do so at its December meeting. "We believe that the ECB will cut the refi rate by 25 basis points at [the November] meeting, not so much because of concerns over falling inflation ñ which will likely stabilize in the course of 2014 - but rather to advocate the view that it is still able to (re)act," writes BofAML economist Laurence Boone in a preview of the decision. "Indeed, the ECB has been reluctant to address the deteriorating inflation outlook for a while, and the EONIA curve has steepened on the back of ECBís forward guidance discussion, suggesting the efficacy of forward guidance is limited. By cutting the refi, the ECB will underline that it is vigilant." While inflation is low ó and unemployment is high ó recent survey data point to a modest economic recovery in the eurozone, which may ease any pressure on the ECB to make changes to interest rates at this stage. Furthermore, the central bank will publish updated macroeconomic forecasts at its December meeting, so if a rate cut is in the cards, it may make more sense to wait one more month. St. Louis FedRegardless of what happens with the refi rate, though, market participants will be listening closely to what ECB president Mario Draghi has to say about recent euro appreciation, which could become a headwind to the nascent economic recovery currently underway. "We expect Draghi to deflect the exchange rateís relevance via its impact on inflation forecasts," say Deutsche Bank economists Mark Wall and Gilles Moec. "This will be seen as adding to the risk of low inflation ó in reality the incremental impact is small ó but it might well be the ECB strategy to use the fear of lower inflation to strengthen the credibility of forward guidance. By ensuring well-behaved market interest rate expectations, the ECB may hope to ensure a well-behaved FX market and reduce the risk of a currency overshoot." The ECB announces its decision on interest rates Thursday at 7:45 AM ET, followed by a press conference and Q&amp;A with Mario Draghi at 8:30. Follow it all LIVE on Business Insider ª
