PoliedroIn a world where people live more mobile lifestyles than they have for centuries, cities are facing a problem they rarely planned for: their citizens move away. ¬†When jobs and resources start to decline, modern¬†cities, such as Detroit, suffer difficult and often wasteful processes of urban contraction.¬† In contrast to this, Manuel Dominguez‚Äôs ‚ÄúVery Large Structure,‚Äù the result of his thesis project at ETSA Madrid, proposes a nomadic city that can move on caterpillar tracks to locations where work and resources are abundant. Of course this is not the first time that the idea of a nomadic city has been proposed.¬†Ron Herron‚Äôs¬†Walking City¬†is one of the more recognizable¬†Archigram¬†designs from the 1960s, and has been influential to architectural theory ever since. The design for the ‚ÄúVery Large Structure‚Äù expands on the Walking City by including strong proposals for energy generation on board the city. Dominguez admits that the impulse to design the ‚ÄúVery Large Structure‚Äù came from his desire to stand out from his peers: ‚Äúknowing that all final thesis are ‚ÄòUtopical‚Äô, I decided to do a¬†self-consciously utopical one, utopic for real.‚Äù Dominguez also felt it was important that his design be theoretically feasible, however, which is why he looked to the world of heavy engineering to inspire the structure‚Äôs colossal steel frame and caterpillar tracks. With all these additions, Dominguez‚Äôs design seems less of a fantasy than Herron‚Äôs giant shell on stilts. Moreover,¬†the Very Large Structure, despite its enormous size, has much less of an impact on its surrounding ecosystem. Its mobility is proposed as a way to encourage reforestation of the static cities which it replaces, and part of its day-to-day function is the management of this environment. The specific social conditions of the Spanish territory it is designed for also add to its relevance: it provides work for the high number of unemployed citizens in Spain. Although almost 50 years have passed since a moving city was first proposed, when one considers how¬†many western cities are currently experiencing devastating slowdowns, both economically and in terms of their population, Manuel Dominguez‚Äôs intriguing, fantastical proposal begins to seem far less absurd ‚Äì and far more relevant ‚Äì than it may at first seem.Poliedro Poliedro Poliedro
Eddie Adams / APThe markets are seemingly in a state of Nirvana. The economy is growing just strong enough to avoid a decline, but not so strong that the Fed will tap the brakes (goldilocks). And for the first time in awhile, there's no obvious threat from abroad (China and Europe are not perceived to be particularly worrisome at the moment). So what's there to worry about? Well, it seems like the big worry is simply the market itself, that it's gotten too expensive, and too complacent. Dan Greenhaus at BTIG has a fascinating observation in his latest nightly note: It was a very uneventful and quiet day with virtually all indices on either side of unchanged. The ìinformation vacuumî we recently discussed was certainly in play today with virtually no macro data, no Fedspeak and no earnings of note. Generally, whenever thereís a vacuum, it gets filled by something and these days, it appears to be those calling for not simply a market top but rather an outright bubble in equities. The WSJ ran three stories today, one worrying about growing inequality (a concern we share), another discussing ìwhy internet stocks are getting too priceyî and a third characterized the level of stock and bond issuances as a ìdanger sign.î There was the video ìwhat to buy as the market topsî and a moneybeat column entitled ìFrothy Asset Markets Now the Worry.î So there you have it. The worried are not economic or political or anything. All the talk is about the market itself, the valuations, and the risk of a bubble.
mikecogh / FlickrTwo weeks ago I wrote: Comment: Looking for Stronger Economic Growth in 2014 Fiscal austerity probably subtracted 1.5% to 2.0% from GDP growth in 2013, and the foolish government shutdown probably subtracted a little more. But†even with contractionary fiscal policy, it looks like the US economy will grow in the 2% range this year. Ex-austerity (and ex-shutdown), we'd probably be looking at a decent year - maybe this would have been the best year since Clinton was President! Right now it looks like 2014 will be a better†than 2013†for a number of reasons: 1) The housing recovery should continue. 2) Household balance sheets are in much better shape.† See: NY Fed: Household Debt declined in Q2 as Deleveraging Continues and Fed: Household Debt Service Ratio near lowest level in 30+ years  3) State and local government austerity is over (in the aggregate) [updated link]. 4) There will be less Federal austerity in 2014 (hopefully the sequester cuts will be minimized). And a government shutdown is unlikely. ... 5) And demographics are favorable going forward. Here is some more analysis on 2014: From Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and Kris Dawsey: Looking beyond Q4, we continue to expect a meaningful acceleration of GDP growth<U+2015>to 3% in 2014Q1 and 3.5% for the remainder of the year<U+2015>as the economy moves over the "hump" of fiscal contraction. From Merrill Lynch economists: Getting the exact timing of the acceleration in growth is tough, but the case for better growth next year is strong. The economy has healed significantly since the 2008-9 crisis. In particular, the government, households, businesses and banks have gone a long way toward fixing their balance sheets, allowing them to slowly shift their focus from balance sheet repair to expansion. ... We expect GDP growth to exceed 3% in the back half of next year as the federal fiscal drag drops from ~1.5pp in 2013 to ~0.5pp in 2014. Right now it looks like 2014 will be a solid year.
The US didn't do anything during Monday trading. But Japan continues to go on a tear. Nikkei.com Not surprisingly, the sharp rally is accompanied by a fresh bout of yen weakness.
For proof of this fact, one need look no further than Apple‚Äôs gold iPhone 5s. The precious metal is an important signifier of affluence and upward mobility in Chinese culture, so much so that China is poised to overtake India this year as the world‚Äôs largest gold importer. Despite questions from skeptical Apple-watchers in the lead-up to the launch, it turned out that the Cupertino tastemaker once again knew better than the rest of us, and Chinese customers have been in a frenzy to get their hands on what they see as the ultimate status-symbol accessory since its release in September‚ÄîiPhone sales in China surged 25 percent year-over-year in the quarter ended Sept. 28. Chinese media have gone so far as to dub the new phone ‚ÄúTuhao Jin,‚Äù which translates as ‚Äúlocal tyrant‚Äôs gold.‚Äù So Apple is in on the streets of Beijing and Shanghai. What‚Äôs out? The logo-emblazoned designer handbag. Louis Vuitton developed the Chinese market from scratch when the brand opened its first store there in 1992, but according to the latest China Luxury Survey from Credit Suisse, its logo-heavy wares are starting to lag more subtle latecomers. ‚ÄúLouis Vuitton and Gucci are more established in China than other labels,‚Äù explains Fujimori. ‚ÄúBut today, they‚Äôve got real competition. Prada, in particular, is doing well with its less flashy, more low-key style.‚Äù Others making inroads, according to Fujimori: Bottega Veneta, Burberry, Chanel, Coach, Herm√®s, Tiffany, and Hong Kong-based Chow Tai Fook. The challenges facing two other storied brands, Rolex and Cartier, are quite different. ‚ÄúLuxury watchmakers have been hit hard in the last 15 months,‚Äù Fujimori says. Watch companies selling mid-priced timepieces, on the other hand, such as Tissot and the rest of the Swatch Group, are excelling. That‚Äôs not because wealthy customers suddenly can‚Äôt afford Rolexes ‚Äì it‚Äôs because of a major crackdown on official corruption by China‚Äôs top leadership. That, in turn, put a brake on sales of the high-end timepieces that served as the gift of choice for those seeking to curry favor with government officials. Coach and Tiffany are the only American luxury brands currently hitting the right notes in China, says Fujimori. And the powers that be have taken note: U.S. Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour felt the need to encourage American brands to make a bigger push in China during a November 2010 speech at¬†the Central Academy of Fine Arts¬†in Beijing. Not that Wintour had exactly raced there herself ‚Äì the trip was her first-ever visit to the country. Luxury brands have another problem in China, though, and it‚Äôs that unlike in the U.S. and elsewhere, Chinese women do not necessarily do what Anna Wintour tells them to do. That role belongs to a bevy of local actresses, models and retailers, such as 25-year-old Liu Wen, the first Asian model to walk a Victoria‚Äôs Secret show in 2009, and who was dubbed ‚ÄúChina‚Äôs first bona fide supermodel‚Äù by the New York Times last year. A black leather jacket from a capsule collection called ‚ÄòThe New Icons‚Äù that Wen helped design for H&amp;M sold out rapidly. With 57 million fans, 34-year-old actress Yao Chen is the most-followed person on Sina Weibo, China‚Äôs enormously popular microblogging service. When she posts photos or comments from a fashion show, her preferences are re-shared by millions of young women. Vogue¬†China‚Äôs editor-in-chief Angelica Cheung is also an active user, as are Wen and another popular model, Sun Fei Fei. Savvy brands have embraced the service, too. Louis Vuitton launched a Weibo presence in October 2010, followed in 2011 by Burberry, Chanel, and Gucci. Earlier this year, high-end online retailer Net-a-Porter launched a Chinese site helmed by Adrienne Ma, the youngest daughter of Hong Kong fashion maven Joyce Ma. The elder Ma opened Joyce Boutique in 1970 and brought labels like Prada and Giorgio Armani to Hong Kong. Her daughter wants to do it all over again in China, but this time over the Internet, selling currently hot brands like Miuccia Prada‚Äôs Miu Miu and the French label Chloe. While broadband access and e-commerce are both skyrocketing in China, consumers have yet to fully embrace the purchase of ultra-expensive goods online. That‚Äôs for three reasons, says Fujimori‚Äîconcerns about authenticity, the desire for a sumptuous shopping experience and a price advantage that comes from buying abroad. ‚ÄúIn China, you need to worry more than in other countries about fakes,‚Äù he says. ‚ÄúPlus, luxury shopping is all about the experience.‚Äù Many shoppers choose to have that experience overseas, rather than online. The Chinese are buying more luxury goods in Europe than ever before, partly because international travel is on the rise, but also because luxury goods are actually cheaper in Paris or Milan than in Beijing or Shanghai. Still, the desire to serve customers who can‚Äôt or don‚Äôt want to wait for a European vacation to splurge has created fierce competition for prime retail locations in Shanghai and Beijing, proving that brick-and-mortar is still king in the Chinese world of high-priced designer clothes and accessories. ‚ÄúPerhaps more than any other market, flagship stores really are the face of the brand in China, so you need to be in the right location,‚Äù Fujimori says. Stores are ramping up customer service and offering VIP areas and special events, he explains, all aimed at maintaining an air of exclusivity for well-heeled shoppers. If Chinese consumers‚Äô new selectivity has made it a little harder for luxury goods makers to make each and every sale, the good news is that the total number of those sales is only going to get bigger. China is home to less than 4 percent of the people worth $1 million or more in the world, but the proportion is expected to rise to nearly 47 percent by 2073, according to Credit Suisse‚Äôs Global Wealth Report, which projected how the world‚Äôs wealth distribution would change in 60 years if current growth trends continue. It‚Äôs always hard to predict how tastes will change in a rapidly expanding market, but one thing is for sure ‚Äì as European fashion houses and other luxury purveyors shape their lines in coming seasons, it will be with Chinese consumers in mind.
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsShoppers crowd outside a Daka store as they wait to shop for electronic goods in Caracas, November 9, 2013.  CARACAS (Reuters) - President Nicolas Maduro's government announced arrests of both store managers and looters on Sunday as part of what it calls an "economic war" in Venezuela between the socialist state and unscrupulous businessmen. In a major pre-Christmas campaign reminiscent of the late President Hugo Chavez's dramatic style, Maduro has sent soldiers to "occupy" one chain of electronics stores and inspectors into scores of others to check for price-gouging. Thousands of Venezuelans have been flocking to electronics stores, hoping to take advantage of new "fair prices" the government is imposing, sometimes half the previous cost. However, scenes of looting on Saturday at a store belonging to the occupied electronics chain, Daka, have left many Venezuelans ashamed and fueled opposition claims that Maduro is stirring chaos rather than defending the poor. Authorities announced that five managers, from the local Daka, JVG and Krash companies, would be prosecuted on charges of unjustified price increases after importing products with dollars obtained at the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars. Officials have displayed for cameras televisions, washing-machines and air-conditioning units whose prices they say have been jacked up 1,000 percent or more by get-rich-quick businessmen. Many shop owners justify this year's spiraling prices - annual inflation has hit 54 percent - by saying they are forced to buy greenbacks for imports on an illegal black market at nearly 10 times the official rate. Five people accused of looting Daka's store in the central city of Valencia have also been arrested, the Attorney General's office said in a statement. Some Twitter users circulated more images on Sunday of crowds and jostling outside some shops around Venezuela. But there appeared to be no more outright looting as was seen in Valencia, where dozens of people were caught on camera running out of the Daka outlet with flat-screen TVs and boxes. 'BOURGEOIS PARASITES' In a speech to the nation late on Sunday, Maduro promised there would be no let-up in what he called an "economic offensive" against Venezuela's "bourgeois parasites." Maduro said he would use decree powers that Congress is expected to grant him this week to set legal limits on businesses' profit-margins. "Zero tolerance with speculators," he thundered, flanked by most of his Cabinet and quoting biblical, Koranic and Taoist exhortations against usury and materialism. Food, textile, footwear, hardware, toy and vehicle businesses would be targeted this week to check for price-gouging, Maduro said in the latest of his lengthy daily speeches, this one winding up just before midnight. Seven months after Maduro narrowly beat opposition leader Henrique Capriles at a presidential election to replace his mentor Chavez, Venezuela is once again consumed by bitter politicking ahead of local municipal elections next month. At the heart of the campaign is who takes the blame for the country's economic problems: price rises that are hitting the poor majority hard despite the government's oil-fueled subsidies and welfare programs, shortages of basic products from toilet paper to milk, and a convoluted currency market. Former bus-driver Maduro, 50, is calculating that his attacks on private businessmen will appeal to his working-class support base. But critics say the government has only itself to blame for the problems due to excessive state controls, persecution of the private sector, corruption, failed nationalizations and lack of foreign currency for importers. Capriles, the 40-year-old governor of Miranda state, and other opposition leaders are urging Venezuelans to punish Maduro's mayoral candidates at the December 8 nationwide vote. They hope that may be a prelude to his exit from power, though unless Maduro were to resign, the only constitutional tactic the opposition has is a recall referendum in 2016. "It's clearer and clearer every day that Maduro is a failed puppet of the Cuban government," Capriles fumed on Sunday. "Every time he opens his mouth, he scares away the investments that create employment and he worsens the crisis." While plenty of economists believe Venezuela is in a mess, with foreign exchange reforms urgently overdue, they also point out that the South American nation has the world's largest oil reserves with ample capacity to repay its debt. An increasing number of Venezuelans of all political persuasions are fed up with the continued polarization of their nation after 14 years of aggressive confrontations under Chavez, who died of cancer in March. "I'm past caring if we have a socialist, capitalist or Martian in power. He can be a bus-driver or a bourgeois. I just want competence and calm," said Andreina Gonzalez, a 41-year-old housewife, leaving a Roman Catholic church in Caracas where prayers were said for the state of the nation on Sunday morning. "This is one of the most beautiful and resource-rich countries on earth. Why are we all messing it up?" Illustrating that disenchantment, ratings for both Maduro and Capriles have fallen since the April poll, when just 1.5 percentage points or about 210,000 votes separated them. Among the raft of new government measures announced in the last few days, Venezuela's telecoms regulator Conatel said at the weekend it would require eight local internet providers to block websites publishing black market currency prices. (Additional reporting by Eyanir Chinea; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)
The Treasury is hosting a conference in London on Monday to discuss the crisis in economics teaching, which critics say has remained largely unchanged since the 2008 financial crash despite the failure of many in the profession to spot the looming credit crunch and worst recession for 100 years. Michael Joffe, professor of economics at Imperial College, London, said he was disturbed by the way economics textbooks continued to discuss concepts and models as facts when they were debunked decades ago. He said: "What if economics was based more on empirical studies and empirical evidence? There are lots of studies and economists are often very good at finding the evidence for how things work, but it does not feed into or challenge what's in the textbooks. "I asked a textbook author recently why a theory that is known to be wrong is still appearing in his book he said to me that his publisher would expect it to be there." Joffe, a former biologist, called for more evidence in economic teaching in the October edition of the Royal Economic Society newsletter. He said many reformers had called for economics courses to embrace the teachings of Marx and Keynes to undermine the dominance of neoclassical free-market theories, but the aim should be to provide students with analysis based on the way the world works, not the way theories argue it ought to work. "There is a lot that is taught on economics courses that bears little relation to the way things work in the real world," he said. The Treasury-hosted conference will debate the state of economics teaching, with leading figures from the profession invited to speak, including Bank of England director Andy Haldane. Sponsored by the Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET), it aims to highlight reforms to address the shortcomings of the core economics curriculum. Headed by economics professor Eric Beinhocker of Oxford University, the INET has grown into a large international lobby group with the aim of reforming mainstream economic teaching in the world's leading colleges. The conference comes only a fortnight after Manchester University economics students criticised orthodox free-market teaching on their course, arguing that alternative ways of thinking have been pushed to the margins. Members of the Post-Crash Economics Society said their course was dominated by models and equations that trained undergraduates for City jobs without a broader understanding of the way economies and businesses work. Joe Earle, a spokesman for the society and a final-year undergraduate, said academic departments were ignoring the crisis in the profession and that, by neglecting global developments and critics of the free market such as Keynes and Marx, the study of economics was "in danger of losing its broader relevance". The profession has been criticised for its adherence to models of a free market that claim to show demand and supply continually rebalancing over relatively short periods of time ‚Äì in contrast to the decade-long mismatches that came ahead of the banking crash in key markets such as housing and exotic derivatives, where asset bubbles ballooned. Joffe said university economics department were continuing to teach concepts that had been disproved. In one example he said the idea that companies suffer "dis-economies of scale" when they increase production beyond certain capacity was true in only a small number of firms. The U-shaped curve shows that unit costs are high when production begins and become cheaper as economies of scale allow a company to spread costs over more units. Units become more expensive to produce after a factory reaches capacity. Joffe said: "We ought to stop teaching the U shape as the typical relationship between costs and scale, for the simple reason that it is false." ‚Ä¢ This article was amended on 10 November 2013. The original said that Wendy Carlin heads the Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET) when she chairs the INET's CORE curriculum group. This has been corrected This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Data Doesn't Support Correction Talk And Investors Waiting To Buy The Dip Will Be Disappointed (BMO Capital Markets)  Following the run up in stocks this year many are talking about a stock market correction. But Brian Belski and BMO Capital Markets this isn't likely. "We believe performance patterns alone are not enough to justify directional market calls," he writes. Almost all bull market corrections are triggered by a Fed rate hike or a spike in oil prices, and both of these conditions are "nonexistent in the current environment." "Instead, investors should consider the macro and fundamental backdrop along with risk-taking levels to determine whether or not the performance is justified. From our perspective, the data simply do not support the correction talk and we remain committed to our optimistic market outlook through year-end and into 2014. As such, we believe those investors waiting to ‚Äúbuy on the dip‚Äù are likely to be disappointed." There Is A New Valuation Opportunity In Emerging Markets (Vanguard) Despite the recent worry about emerging markets, Rama Krishna of ARGA Investment Management who manages a portion of the Vanguard International Value Fund, thinks there is a new valuation opportunity there. "As developed market economy has recovered, and equally, interest rates in the United States rose, the other investors who were focused in emerging markets suddenly became more aware of emerging market risks and decided to sell down or reduce their exposure in those markets," Krishna told Vanguard.¬† "On the other hand, when they did that, very clearly, prices went down, even though the long-term earnings power of those businesses hadn‚Äôt really changed. That, in turn, created a new valuation opportunity for us. And as a result of which, we did research on those companies, and we increasingly and steadily increased exposure to both businesses, which we believe are extremely attractively valued." Registered Investment Advisors Are Preparing For Massive Growth (CNBC)  70% of registered independent advisors (RIAs) surveyed in Charles Schwab's Independent Advisor Outlook Study, are "very optimistic" about growth opportunities, reports Anthony Volastro at CNBC. The survey polled 800 RIAs with a collective $228.5 billion in assets under management. And advisors said competition would be driven by "regulatory changes and the new generation of clients who are likely to seek advice from multiple advisors, not just one," writes Volastro.¬† The survey also found that 34% of advisors want to increase tech resources and 27% are willing to move to cloud. 55% of advisors also said to firms would have to offer low cost index funds. LGBT Investors Are More Bullish Than Other Investors (UBS) 63% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) investors are bullish about the future of the U.S. economy in the medium-term, compared with 49% for straight investors, according to UBS. One of the reasons for this optimism is the Defense of Marriage Act ruling which the report states "has had a profound emotional and financial impact on their lives." UBSIt Doesn't Matter When The Fed Tapers ‚Äî QE Is Running Out Of Gas Anyway (Bridgewater Associates) All the chatter on Wall Street focuses on when the Fed will begin to taper its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. But Ray Dalio's Bridgewater Associates thinks what's more important is that quantitative easing has stopped working.¬† "We think the question around the effectiveness of continued QE (and not the tapering, which gets all the headlines) is the big deal. Given the way the Fed has said it will act, any tapering will be in response to changes in US conditions, and any deterioration that occurs because of the Fed pulling back would just be met by a re-acceleration of that stimulation. So the degree and pace of tapering will for the most part be a reflection and not a driver of conditions, and won't matter that much. What will matter much more is the efficacy of Fed stimulation going forward. In other words, we're not worried about whether the Fed is going to hit or release the gas pedal, we're worried about whether there's much gas left in the tank and what will happen if there isn't."
We've been telling you how low 2013 gas prices have provided a significant lift to the economy. For instance, Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna has a rule of thumb which says that every penny of lower gas prices per gallon yields $1 billion in economic stimulus. In the past 12 months, prices have fallen about $0.25 to a national average of $3.19 (a level not seen since last December) ‚Äî which means other expenditures could have climbed by $25 billion. Today, Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus reminds us this all bodes well for the economy in Q4. "Average gasoline prices fell 2.05% over the last five trading sessions," writes Stoltzfus. "Average prices are $0.23 or 9.4% below their year average.¬†Should average prices continue to fall, it could provide a boost to consumer confidence and even an increase in consumer spending heading into the holiday season." FRED/Business Insider
The auction house posted a loss of 44 cents per share, which is better than expected. Analysts expected the auction house to post a loss of 46 cents a share on sales of $70.25 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.† The stock was slightly lower during extended trading hours.† Sotheby's has been the recent target of a handful of activist hedge funds, including Third Point LLC (Daniel Loeb), Marcato Capital Management (Mick McGuire) and Trian Fund Management (Nelson Peltz).† Here's the release:† NEW YORK, 11 November 2013 -†Sotheby's (NYSE: BID) today reported financial results for the third quarter and first nine months ended 30 September 2013. Sotheby's reported improved results in the third quarter of 2013 as compared to one year ago, with sizable revenue growth due to an $11.3 million, or 77%, increase in private sale commissions and a $6.6 million, or 16%, increase in auction commission revenues, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Third quarter net loss of ($30.1) million reflects a $2.4 million, or 7%, improvement over the prior year. Due to the seasonal nature of the art auction market, third quarter auction sales have historically represented only approximately 7%-10% of annual auction sales, resulting in a loss period for the Company. Third quarter results are typically not indicative of expected full year results. Management believes that investors should focus on results for six and twelve month periods, which better reflect the auction market business cycle. For the nine months ended 30 September 2013, net auction sales increased $108.1 million (5%) to $2.4 billion and private sales increased $255.8 million (37%) to nearly $1 billion, generating growth in both auction and private sale commission revenues. Despite the improved third quarter results and the year-to-date revenue growth, when compared to the first nine months of 2012, income before taxes decreased $13.7 million (22%) to $48.8 million principally due to the cost of strategic investments, as well as inflationary pressures across most expense categories. For the first nine months of 2013, net income decreased $2.9 million (7%) to $39.3 million and included a discrete net $6.8 million income tax benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2013. "Our third quarter results have improved since a year ago, with sizable revenue growth. Private sales, which continues to be an area of focus for Sotheby's, contributed more than a third of auction and related revenues in the third quarter - a significant shift from just a short time ago," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Ruprecht. "We're very pleased to say the fourth quarter is off to a remarkable start," continued Ruprecht. "Our Hong Kong sales series brought a record $538 million last month, a 105% increase over the previous year and a clear validation of our strategic investments in this region of the world. Last week, our Impressionist and Modern Art sales in New York achieved $348 million, up 71% and the second-highest series total in this category in the Company's history. "We have an outstanding calendar of sales to finish the year, with a $60 million Pink Diamond being offered in Geneva and our Contemporary Art sales in New York with a pre-sale estimate of $368-515 million, both this week; a $60-80 million motor car auction in association with RM Auctions next week; the extremely rare Colonial-era Bay Psalm Book, which we expect will sell for a record price during Thanksgiving week; and an amazing group of Norman Rockwell paintings in our American Art sale and our highly anticipated Modern and Contemporary Art sale in Beijing, both in December," said Ruprecht. Since September, Sotheby's has been actively engaged in a review of its capital allocation and financial policies. The Board of Directors has pledged to share the results of that examination with shareholders in early 2014. "The financial review we have undertaken goes beyond capital allocation, and includes an in-depth examination of our strategy, business and cost structure," said Patrick McClymont, Sotheby's Chief Financial Officer. "We are committed to ensuring that our resources are appropriately allocated to the most attractive opportunities for value creation. To that end, we are taking a close look at both our current businesses and potential growth areas where we can leverage our expertise and brand. The goal of this review is not only to determine the right use of capital going forward, but also to identify new opportunities to drive value for shareholders. "From a growth perspective, Sotheby's has continued to invest in those areas that best serve its clients, promote business expansion and enhance shareholder value. These investments include significant and well-received improvements to the Company's digital offerings and the development of Sotheby's business in China and other emerging markets," continued McClymont. "In addition to making strategic investments in Sotheby's future growth, we remain committed to growing with discipline. As part of our annual planning process, we are conducting a thorough review of our cost structure to identify expense savings in 2014," concluded McClymont. Based on the review thus far, the Company expects direct costs as a percentage of net auction sales will decrease in 2014 and that material savings can be achieved in areas of discretionary spending. Specific results of this review will be announced in early 2014 alongside the results of the capital allocation and financial policies review. Ruprecht continued, "Sotheby's core philosophy continues to deliver for our clients. Today's art collectors have a remarkable understanding not only of quality, but also of value. The key to our success for nearly 300 years has been matching our clients' discerning taste with the right combination of fresh, unique and exquisite artwork and responsible estimates. In addition to our expertise, our sustained commitment to clients is the key to best serving them, our business and our shareholders." "Demand and prices continue to be strong and this is an exciting time at Sotheby's. The breadth and quality of our offerings as well as the results in our global salesrooms, private galleries, retail wine and diamond, and finance businesses are all encouraging. I continue to have great confidence in the art market and the future of Sotheby's," concluded Ruprecht. Fourth Quarter Sales To DateLaunching the fourth quarter were our record sales in Hong Kong in the first week of October. After five days and sixteen auctions, Sotheby's realized $538 million in auction sales, the highest grand total ever achieved by a global arts business operating in Asia and a 105% increase on the prior year. Highlighting the sales were a Massive Ming Gilt-Bronze Figure of a Seated Shakyamuni Buddha which brought the world auction record for a Chinese Sculpture with $30.3 million; a 118.28 carat Oval D-Colour Flawless Diamond which brought the world auction record for a white diamond with $30.6 million; and Zeng Fanzhi's†The Last Supper†which brought the world auction record for Contemporary Asian Art as well as the world auction record for a work by a living Chinese artist with $23.1 million. At Sotheby's London last month, our Contemporary Evening Sale totaled $34.3 million, with more than half the lots exceeding their high estimates. The top lot, Glenn Brown's†Sci-Fi Spectacular Ornamental Despair, sold for $5.7 million, more than 100 times the price paid for it in 2002. Earlier in the evening, four fresh-to-market works from the celebrated collection of the late Stanley J. Seeger sold for more than twice their estimates and were among the highlights of the successful 20th†Century Italian Art sale. The three sales achieved a combined total of $78.0 million. Last week in New York, Sotheby's Impressionist and Modern Art sales brought a total of $347.9 million, up 71% from the prior year, near the high end of the pre-sale estimate and our second best total ever in the category. Highlighting the sales was Alberto Giacometti's†Grande tÍte mincewhich met its pre-sale high estimate of $50 million. Works by Pablo Picasso brought exceptional prices throughout the night, led by†TÍte de femme, his 1935 portrait of Marie-ThÈrËse Walter that brought $39.9 million - well in excess of its $30 million high estimate. Global participation was evident throughout the sale process, with works consigned from 13 countries sought after by participants from 36 countries, representing both established and emerging markets. Upcoming Sales Contemporary ArtBeginning on Wednesday, we look forward to our Contemporary Art sales here in New York. The undisputed centerpiece of those offerings is Andy Warhol's†Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster). At over 8 by 13 feet, the monumental painting is one of only four Car Crash works of this scale in the pivotal†Death and Disaster†series which explored many of the key themes that defined his artistic career and is considered to be one of the most provocative and brilliant projects undertaken by any artist in the 1960s. This work is the only one remaining in private hands and has a pre-sale estimate in excess of $60 million. Also highlighting the sales is Willem de Kooning's†Untitled V†which is a prime example from the watershed period from which de Kooning returned to painting after a period in which he focused on sculpture. The piece carries a pre-sale estimate of $25-35 million. The total sales series has a combined pre-sale estimate of $368-515 million. Magnificent JewelsAlso this week, Sotheby's will be offering the most valuable diamond ever to come to auction in its Magnificent Jewels sale in Geneva. The Pink Star is a 59.6 carat Internally Flawless Fancy Pink Vivid Diamond and has a pre-sale estimate in excess of $60 million. The Magnificent Jewels sale will comprise over 370 lots, including iconic jewels, such as the "Walska Briolette Diamond" brooch (pre-sale estimate in excess of $8 million), gems with important provenance, impressive diamonds and gemstones, as well as fine period creations signed by the world's most celebrated jewelers. The total sale carries a pre-sale estimate of $123-167 million. Art of the AutomobileProudly presented by RM Auctions and Sotheby's, 'Art of the Automobile' is the first major collector car auction to be held in Manhattan in over a decade. With an emphasis on bespoke design and best of category examples from the world's most admired automotive marques, the sale will feature one of the most significant collections of motor cars offered in auction history. In total, some 30 automobiles will go under the gavel next week at the 21 November auction with a combined pre-sale estimate of $60-80 million. Bay Psalm BookIn New York on 26 November, Sotheby's is proud to offer one of the finest surviving copies of the†Bay Psalm Book†- the first book printed in what is now the United States of America. The Congregationalist Puritans who emigrated to Massachusetts Bay in search of religious freedom quickly set about to translate and produce a version of the Book of Psalms that was a closer paraphrase of the Hebrew original than the one they had carried from England. The first edition of the resulting†Bay Psalm Book†was printed in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1640, and Sotheby's will auction one of the 11 surviving copies. The present example comes from the collection of the Old South Church in the heart of Boston, Massachusetts - one of two remarkable copies presently in its collection - and the proceeds of the sale will benefit the church's mission and ministry in the Greater Boston area. The book carries a pre-sale estimate of $15-30 million. BeijingTimed to the height of Beijing's prime sale season, Sotheby's is excited to hold an exciting series of arts events from 28 November to 1 December in Beijing, including selling exhibitions and an educational programme. Culminating the four day series is our auction of Modern and Contemporary Chinese Art on 1 December. The sale will be led by†Abstraction, a 1958 painting by Zao Wou-ki, one of the leading Chinese artists of his generation. The work has a pre-sale estimate of $5.7-7.3 million and comes from the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The total sale has a pre-sale estimate of $20-27 million. American ArtAnd on 4 December in New York, Sotheby's is excited to offer in its American Art auction, an extraordinary selection of paintings by Norman Rockwell from the family of Kenneth J. Stuart, Sr., the artist's longtime friend and art editor at the†Saturday Evening Post. The seven works are led by two icons of Rockwell's extensive oeuvre - his masterpiece†Saying Grace†(pre-sale estimate of $15-20 million) and†The Gossips†(pre-sale estimate of $6-9 million). The collection has descended in Stuart's family to the present owners, and is estimated to achieve more than $24 million. The American Art sale has a combined pre-sale estimate of $43-62 million. Old Master PaintingsTurning to London, also on 4 December, Sotheby's will present two of the most important works by Canaletto to come to market in recent times. Painted between 1738 and 1742, at the height of the artist's career, these majestic canvases depict two of Canaletto's most celebrated Venetian subjects: the Rialto Bridge over the Grand Canal and St. Mark's Square. Coming from HSBC's Corporate Art Collection, the two works will be offered as a pair in our Old Master Paintings sale with a pre-sale estimate of $13-19 million. The total sale series has a pre-sale estimate of $56-84 million. All Sotheby's Press Releases and SEC filings are available on our web site at†www.sothebys.com. An outline of the conference call will be available at†http://investor.shareholder.com/bid/events.cfm. Sotheby's will host a conference call at 4:45 PM EST on 11 November 2013, to discuss its third quarter and first nine months 2013 financial results. Please dial 888-371-8897 and for callers outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada, please dial 1-970-315-0479, approximately 15 minutes before the scheduled start of the call. The call reservation number is 68780657. The conference call will also be accessible via webcast on the Investor Relations section of the Sotheby's web site athttp://investor.shareholder.com/bid/events.cfm. Forward-looking StatementsThis release contains certain "forward-looking statements" (as such term is defined in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) relating to future events and the financial performance of the Company. Such statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties, resulting in the possibility that the actual events or performances will differ materially from such predictions. Major factors, which the Company believes could cause the actual results to differ materially from the predicted results in the "forward-looking statements" include, but are not limited to, the overall strength of the international economy and financial markets, political conditions in various nations, competition with other auctioneers and art dealers, the success of our risk reduction and margin improvement efforts, the amount of quality property being consigned to art auction houses and the marketability at auction of such property. Please refer to our most recently filed Form 10-Q (and/or 10-K) for a complete list of Risk Factors.
REUTERS/Damir SagoljThe bond markets were closed for Veterans Day, and there was very little action in the stock markets. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Alex Davies / Business InsiderThe age of house flipping may have faded. But the super rich have found a new path to instant profits: flipping their megajets. Demand for the biggest, most expensive†Gulfstream†jetóthe G650óis so strong that owners have started flipping them to other buyers. In some deals, the sellers are pulling in profits of between $5 million and $7 million per flip. Billionaire Bernie Ecclestone, the Formula One tycoon, recently flipped his G650 to an Asian businessman for $72 millionóat least $6 million more than his purchase price, according to people familiar with the deal. The transaction, first reported by BizjetBlogger, came just weeks after Ecclestone received the plane from Gulfstream. (Ecclestone couldn't be reached for comment, but BizjetBlogger said the plane was too large for some of Ecclestone's favorite airports). (Read more:†What rich men want in a woman) Jet brokers and consultants said at least two other buyers have flipped their G650s recently for more than $70 million. At least two other deals are in the works, they said. One of these is an American billionaire negotiating with a buyer in Asia. The other deals involved billionaires in Russia, Latin America and the Middle East. The flips highlight the strong demand for large-cabin planesóthe biggest, most expensive private jetsóat a time when the rest of the private jet market is still languishing. Business jet deliveries are still down more than 30 percent from their peak in 2008, and prices for some planes have fallen by more than half, brokers say. But large-cabin planes are a hot commodity among billionaires and global companies. With their long range and ample cabins, they can carry more passengers over longer distances and in greater comfort. The G650, with a base price of $64.5 million, is the king of the large-cabin private jets, with a range of well over 7,000 miles and a maximum speed of Mach 0.925. The G650 also is very scarce. Only around 30 to 35 have been delivered since its launch last year, according to brokers. Still, the jet has become the must have plane for the world's billionaires, withRalph Lauren†and†Oprah Winfrey†both lining up for one. Demand is so strong that a buyer signing a contract today won't get their G650 until the third quarter of 2017. That's why many buyers are willing to pay more than $70 million to get their planes today. (Read more:†Just your average Joe billionaire) "These are billionaires who are willing to pay a premium to avoid the wait," said Philip Rushton, founder of Aviatrade, an aviation consulting and brokerage firm. The deals are a double-edged sword for Gulfstream. While they highlight the strong demand and value of its aircraft, they also show that customers are now making millions off of its product. The company said that it is "not privy to the details" of any flips, "if customers are, in fact, getting a premium for the aircraft, it's a testament to the amazing capabilities of the G650." The real problem for Gulfstream is clients trying to sell their planes before they are delivered. Gulfstream said that "Customers cannot sell the aircraft before they've physically taken delivery of it. This prevents speculation, which isn't good for the market." The company has a "non-assignability" clause in its contracts, meaning the ownership can't be reassigned after a contract is signed. (Read more:†Here are 10 ways yachts are going high tech) Some customers tried to get around the clause by buying the plane under the name of a newly created aviation company. They would then sell the company to a new buyer, essentially transferring ownership of the plane through the company sale. Brokers said Gulfstream caught on to the game and is now requiring the signer of the contract to be involved in the final delivery. "They're really doing their best to deter this," said Jay Duckson of Central Business Jets. 
JCPenney is getting desperate.¬† Once one of the top department stores in America, the company has struggled to turn a profit since failed CEO Ron Johnson's aggressive reinvention plan drove away more than a million of JCPenney's customers.¬† Even though Johnson was fired in April, his legacy continues to haunt the business.¬† We recently toured some JCPenney stores in suburban New York with Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, and took photos showing why JCPenney is struggling to survive.¬† Disorganization was a common theme at JCPenney. This clothing rack, which appears to have clothes for older women, is awkwardly placed in front of Joe Fresh, which is for younger women. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider A cart of unattended hardware awkwardly sits in front of home goods:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider And a piece of garbage sits on a display:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider The cash register sits unattended in the shoe department, which Sozzi says could pose a security risk at the company. It's also problematic because customers who want to buy something could end up changing their minds.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider The new store layouts under Ron Johnson look modern, but fail to make the most of the space, Sozzi said. "JCPenney‚Äôs shops were constructed in a manner that reduces the¬†amount of goods available for sale on the floor," Sozzi said. "This is a major structural issue." Ashley Lutz/Business Insider We also see this at work with this Joe Fresh display, which takes up space that could be better utilized with racks of merchandise:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This sofa costs thousands of dollars, but because it's encased in plastic, potential customers can't even see it. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Same for this furniture:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Entire racks that should hold merchandise are completely empty. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This clearance rack contains pants and shorts for $1.97. "I've never even seen prices that low," Sozzi told us.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Some stores appeared in disrepair. This "Customer Service" sign is falling down. "How long until that falls down on a customer?" Sozzi said.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This carpet is shoddy and stained, which stands in stark contrast to the modernized shops in other sections of the store. "JCPenney is basically two companies: 500 remodeled stores and 500¬†un-remodeled stores (aka zombie stores), so consumers are seeing two different and confusing views of the brand," Sozzi said.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider These racks of merchandise are totally empty:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This display does nothing to draw shoppers in:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Then, there's the matter of the overpriced home department. This bed set costs $2,375 ‚Äî an exorbitant sum for JCPenney shoppers. That price is better-suited to an upscale store like West Elm.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider "JCPenney just isn't moving items through the home store," Sozzi told us. The lack of interest in home goods is evidenced by rows and rows of merchandise on clearance:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider JCPenney can't even get its logo straight. The store is full of mixed messages, evidence of the company's many facelifts in recent years.¬† There's the store sign:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider A logo immediately upon entering the store:¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider  And this credit card sign immediately upon entering the store.¬† "There is no consistency, rather an array of facelifts on display in the store that reflect failed attempts to revitalize a business that operates in a super competitive, low margin arena," Sozzi says.¬† Ashley Lutz/Business Insider 
REUTERS/Bobby Yip A stunning $202 billion in "ill-gotten funds are channeled through Macau each year," according to The Congressional-Executive Commission on China Annual Report 2013. Diplomatic cables released by Wikileaks claimed that the casino and hospitality sector accounted for over 50% of Macau's GDP but that, "its phenomenal success is based on a formula that facilitates if not encourages money laundering." And a lot of that money comes from China. Macau casinos pulled in a record 36.5 billion patacas ($4.57 billion) in revenue in October, largely driven by Chinese visitors. In 1999, Macau saw†800,000 mainland Chinese tourists.† That figure exploded to about 12 million in 2008 and then 17 million in 2012*. In 2012, another 11 million visitors came from Hong Kong and Taiwan. How exactly does it work? China only allows 20,000 yuan ($3,200) to be moved out of the Mainland at a time and $50,000 a year. To circumvent that, Chinese high rollers can do one of two things. They can deposit money with junkets in the mainland and use that money in Macau, or they can borrow from junket agents.† If they choose to deposit the money, the junkets, who are basically gaming promoters, ferry money across borders. The gamblers can then use that money in Macau. Once they're done gambling they can take their winnings in U.S. funds or Hong Kong dollars and invest it in property or offshore tax havens. These junket agents vary from sole proprietorships to publicly listed companies. They help arrange for visas and accommodations, including VIP rooms. They also collect gambling debts.† Frequently, the money that ends up here has come through illegal means, through bribes or embezzlement. A paper from Jorge A. F. Godinho, at the University of Macau ó Faculty of Law explains how junkets play a role in money laundering in Macau. "According to the FATF and Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering (APG), there are several vulnerabilities regarding promoters, including the fact that their intervention enables the creation of an additional layer which may not contribute to knowing the identity of the players and the source of funds, in addition to the fact that not all jurisdictions regulate gaming promoters and/or their representative offices. "...Gaming promoters may assist in the transfer of funds to the casinos of Macau. In the case of VIP Baccarat, the amounts involved can be very significant. Moreover, in many cases, there will be no actual transfer of funds, but rather a simple balancing of accounts between credits in mainland China and debits in Macau. This is one of the reasons why the gaming promoter sector is rather developed. "There is no doubt that this channel can also serve for the movement of funds of an illicit origin, whether coming from corruption, embezzlement of public or private entities, or any other sources. Hence the particular need for rules and procedures for the detection of illegal transfers." REUTERS/Bobby YipA Grease themed slot machine in Macau Triads Triads, or Chinese organized crime units, "dominate the junket industry," according to Benjamin Carlson at Foreign Policy. Since Chinese courts don't recognize or enforce payments on casino debts and since gambling is illegal in China, junkets often rely on triads to collect their debt. Triads that operate in Macau and around the world, partake in everything from money laundering to drug and human trafficking. Diplomatic cables released by Wikileaks that date back to 2009 explain how unregulated junkets are: "Although they must register and are subject to nominal regulation in Macau, these facilitator organizations allegedly work closely with organized crime groups in mainland China to identify customers and collect debts. Junket operators work directly with Macau casinos to buy gaming chips at discounted rates, allowing players to avoid identification.† "Know-your-customer (KYC) and record-keeping requirements are significantly looser than in other international gaming venues.† Government efforts to regulate junket operators in Macau have been aimed at limiting competition, rather than combating illicit activities. "Oversight of both casinos and junket operators is limited and remains a serious weakness in Macau's AML regime.† Periodic tightening of Chinese Individual Visitor Scheme permit requirements may reflect Chinese government concern about corrupt officials laundering money in Macau." Another way illicit money finds its way to Macau's casinos is through pawn shops. Visitors buy goods from a pawn shops with a debit card and then sell it back for cash. Cracking Down Since the Chinese handover late last year, Beijing has been cracking down on corruption which has included efforts to regulate the gambling industry. In December, some junket operators were arrested. Last year, Senator John McCain raised concerns about illicit money from Macau making its way into the American political sphere by pointing out that CEO of Las Vegas Sands Corporation, Sheldon Adelson, got his profits from Macau. Macau is considering implementing a cross-border cash declaration system to restrict money laundering, though no specifics were unveiled. A real crackdown on money laundering seems to still be a ways away. *The article was corrected to show that mainland Chinese tourists increased to 17 million in 2012, not 17 billion. 
REUTERS/ Alfred Cheng JinIs a Dectaper coming?After a week of surprisingly good economic data and the likelihood of another government shutdown approaching zero, the Federal Reserve will likely taper in December if it sticks to the plan it laid out over the summer. If it does not do so, it will lose the credibility that it built up at its September meeting. Back in June, Ben Bernanke outlined when the Federal Reserve would begin to reduce its asset purchases. The chairman specifically emphasized that the taper was not guaranteed. It would all depend on the incoming data. Here's the June FOMC statement: The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. Unfortunately, Fed watchers and the market didn't listen to what the central bank was saying. Interest rates on the 10-year Treasury flew upwards while stocks plummeted. Everyone thought that a taper was certain. This trend continued over the summer as rates rose, but a funny thing happened in September: the Fed didn't taper. This shocked the market and financial analysts alike, but was not particularly surprising given the subpar economic data that had come to light over the previous few months combined with higher mortgage rates and the potential for a government shutdown and debt ceiling fight. The outlook for the labor market had fallen off so the Fed delayed reducing its purchases. This non-taper regained the Fed's credibility as many analysts are now factoring in the economic data when they make their Fed forecasts. As for the economy, it's almost three months later and the outlook is now above the Fed's June forecast. Thanks to a surprisingly good report last Friday, the last three months have created an average of 202,000 jobs per month. Third quarter GDP came in surprisingly high as well at a 2.8% annualized rate, despite some more worrisome numbers underneath the top line. Mortgage rates have fallen a bit and the possibility of another government shutdown starting in January is increasingly small. The job numbers should be taken with a grain of salt thanks to distortions caused by the government shutdown, but the overall outlook is still positive. The Labor Department estimates that without the shutdown, the unemployment rate would have fallen to 7.0%. None of this means that the Fed should taper, but if the FOMC wants to retain the credibility it earned this past Fall, it will have no choice but to do so. Bernanke laid out the baseline economic conditions necessary for when the Fed would reduce its asset purchases. Those conditions have now been met. If the November data reverts back to its pre-shutdown trends or below them, then the Fed will reevaluate its actions. But if the numbers come in consistent with what we saw last week, then a Dectaper will likely be in the cards.¬†
NordstromJohn Varvatos Star USA 'Perkins' PeacoatDays are getting shorter, temperatures are dropping, and the first snowfall is right around the corner. And while it might not be clunky boots and scarf weather yet, it's definitely time for guys to put some serious thought into coats. Bulky jackets and layers-on-layers aren't exactly our idea of cool, but thankfully, there are an abundance of coat options to keep you warm, if not stylish at the same time. From classic pea coats to leather motorcycle jackets and parkas, take a look at the best men's coats of the season.
Alibaba GroupShopping Festival full-day sales data is shown at the Alibaba Group corporate campus in Xixi District, Hangzhou, China on November 11, 2013China's biggest online shopping day of the year ended Monday with a record $5.7 billion in sales for Alibaba Group, the country's top e-retailer. Alibaba's two shopping platforms, Tmall and Taobao Marketplace, were expecting sales of at least $4.9 billion during the 24-hour online shopping blitz, which is held on Nov. 11 every year.†Last year, sales for Alibaba totaled $3.1 billion. By comparison, U.S. consumers spent $1.5 billion on "Cyber Monday" last year. The shopping day coincides with a Chinese holiday called "Singles' Day," which†started out in the 1990s as a protest to Valentine's Day.
TomoNews One of the biggest stories this weekend was that the Bloomberg had allegedly been holding back controversial stories about China for fear of angering a huge business market. While the New York Times took the story mainstream, it was actually broken by Taiwan's Next Media Animation, which first published the video on TomoNews, its official news site.  What's really strange about this is that NMA is not exactly a traditional media organization ‚Äî rather it is a subsidiary of¬†Next Media, a Hong Kong media conglomerate, that creates simple CGI-animated coverage of recent news stories with a humorous twist. Since a video about Tiger Woods went viral, the organization has been¬† famous around the world as the "Taiwanese Animators." For example, here's the most popular video on their YouTube channel, a review of Miley Cyrus' VMA performance. It has been viewed almost one million times.  Business Insider reached out to NMA to ask a few questions about how they started breaking news. Michael Logan, director of content and business development for NMA‚Äôs International division, was kind enough to respond: Business Insider: Is this the first time NMA has broken news with an animation? Michael Logan: This is the first time we've broken news using our satirical format. In Hong Kong and Taiwan, we have a large news reporting organization via the Apple Daily and Next Magazine, so they use animation to break news all the time. And this story was reported from Hong Kong. But for the most part, for our international audience (the US and Japan) we're doing satire and so we typically follow the news cycle ... not lead it. So yes, this is the first time we've used satire to break a story. BI: Do you plan to do it more often? ML: We would do more breaking news if the opportunity presents itself. We have reporters on the ground in Taiwan and Hong Kong, so if there is a story that is of international importance I can definitely see us breaking that. Outside of Taiwan and Hong Kong, we concentrate on the US and Japan, but we don't have reporting organizations set up there. We do visual news and we pay up to $2,000 for exclusive UGC video in the US and Japan. So with that, there might be an opportunity to come across something that is potentially breaking. BI: Why choose to break the news with an animated video, rather than a more traditional medium? ML: Our print medium is Chinese and circulated in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Few people outside of Hong Kong or Taiwan would see it. On the other hand, our satirical animations (even though in Chinese) circulate widely in the English-speaking world ... so doing a satirical animation was the best opportunity to get this particular story out to the right audience. BI: Were you in contact with the New York Times reporter Edward Wong before he wrote his story on the subject? ML: We weren't in touch and we didn't coordinate. After we published our animation, we pushed it out to various media and it was up to them to follow up. Edward Wong did his own reporting, which corroborated what we had and also brought forward some details we didn't animate.  BI: Were you upset that the Times' story got a lot more attention (and, I believe, credit) when NMA had the story first? Ml: Not at all upset. We're part of a digital ecosystem ... and¬†there was acknowledgment from the NYT, the Business Insider and others of our work. We operate in the shadow of China, so we don't take our freedom of press for granted. It doesn't matter who gets credit, so as long as the story gets told. 
Market research analyst PrivCo has uncovered an amazing stat about Twitter's† IPO: It created 1,600 new millionaires, mostly from rank-and-file employees, it said in a blog post. PrivCo†keeps detailed records on private companies and calculated the new millionaires based on the shares held by insiders a day after the IPO, when shares closed at about $40. Just for fun, PrivCo calculated the tax bill this IPO created, too: $2.2 billion:
I donít think buying the department store chainís shares was a mistake. Investing is a probabilistic adventure: You assess upside and downside probabilities of a potential investment, and if at the end the balance is significantly favorable, you pull the trigger. Uncertainty is the nature of investing. Let me illustrate. Suppose you were offered a coin-flip game: Heads you win $10, and tails you lose $1. It makes complete sense to play this game; the expected return (probability times outcome) is overwhelmingly in your favor. So if you flip the coin and get tails, was playing the game a mistake? No, of course not. In the case of J.C. Penney, the story was fairly straightforward. The company had been neglected and undermanaged. Old management was fired, and brilliant new management was brought in. New management developed a plan for completely redesigning the stores, giving them a real face-lift, upgrading merchandise and turning J.C. Penney into one of the best-looking stores in the mall. The new CEO, Ron Johnson, had been instrumental in creating Appleís stores and was a very well-respected retailer. At the time Johnson was executing on his plan ó remodeling stores as J.C. Penney continued to bleed money ó this is what I wrote: ìThe best thing about Penney is that the bar for success is set very low. Since he took over, Johnson has taken out $900†million in costs. Sales per square foot should rise with every redesigned store. If Penney achieves the pre-Johnson level of $150 per square foot and gets to keep $700†million of cost cuts, its earnings power will be $3 to $4 per share. If sales per square foot come back to the 2007 peak of $170, earnings will jump to $6 a share.î We thought there was a very high likelihood ó 70 percent or so ó that Johnson would be successful; if so, the upside would be threefold or more. If he failed ó a 30 percent chance ó the downside was probably 40 percent or so. The risk-reward scenario was very attractive. Johnson failed...
Robert Libetti/Business InsiderLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender investors are more bullish about the future of the U.S. economy than their straight counterparts, a new UBS report has found. In the medium-term, 63% of LGBT investors polled by UBS were optimistic about the U.S. economy, versus 49% optimism for straight investors. In the long-term, LGBT investors were even more bullish ‚Äî 67% were optimistic versus 57% for other investors. One reason for the optimism: the Defense of Marriage Act ruling, "which has had a profound emotional and financial impact on their lives," according to the report. In June, the Supreme Court ruled the controversial 1996 law that barred federal recognition of same-sex marriage unconstitutional. LGBT investors are less worried about rising health care costs and the national debt and "are more¬†likely to feel highly confident they will achieve their financial goals and feel stronger momentum regarding their financial situations."¬† On the bearish end, LGBT investing concerns include retirement savings, marriage equality, and the ability to find LGBT-friendly care facilities in old age. UBS
flickr/mattbuck007Mariana Zanetti had been working as a product manager for Shell in Buenos Aires when her husband got a promotion to a new job in Madrid. One of her colleagues, a Harvard Business School graduate, suggested that the Argentine native go to business school for her MBA while in Spain. She took his advice, enrolling in the one-year MBA program at Instituto de Empresa (IE) Business School In Madrid. Zanetti borrowed money from her family to pay for the degree. And when she graduated in 2003, it took her a full year before landing a job as a product manager for a Spanish version of Home Depot at exactly the same salary she was earning three years earlier without the MBA. For years, Zanetti says, she wanted to write the just-published book but didn‚Äôt for fear that it would hurt her professional career, which included stints as a product manager for Saint-Gobain and ResMed, a medical supplier. Now that she has left the corporate world, Zanetti says, she can tell the truth about the MBA degree. Her take, in a self-published book called "The MBA Bubble": It‚Äôs just not worth the investment. ‚ÄúThere is an education bubble around these kind of degrees,‚Äù she says. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think they have much impact on people‚Äôs careers. There are exceptions of course in management consulting and investment banking where the MBA is always valued. But for the rest, it‚Äôs a nice-to-have degree. It‚Äôs not that it harmful to you, but every market expert I interviewed for the book says that what is needed today is specialized knowledge and skills and an MBA is generalist training.‚Äù Zanetti, now 40 and living in France, says it‚Äôs not like the degree had no value. ‚ÄúI met wonderful people. I met brilliant professors. I learned some interesting business concepts that gave me a global vision about business. It just wasn‚Äôt worth the cost in time and money. I could have had both those things by staying in the marketplace.¬†I had the same salary as everybody else doing the same job, working the same endless hours. MBAs get high salaries but the degree has nothing to do with it. I was hired because of my previous work experience at Shell. She is even advising people to apply to a top school, get an acceptance and then decline to go. Put the fact on your resume and Zanetti thinks it will have nearly the same value as going to an MBA program for two years. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs like being an Academy Award nominee instead of an Academy Award winner,‚Äù she writes. ‚ÄúBut the difference between the two is mortgaging our future and accepting the risk of getting stuck with a monumental student loan.‚Äù When an employer asks why you didn‚Äôt go to Kellogg or Yale for your MBA, she advises, just tell them, ‚ÄúI preferred to use that time and money to develop strategic skills to benefit my employers‚Äô competitive advantage‚Ä¶‚Äù Her initial mistake, she says, was to blindly follow the advice of her Harvard MBA colleague instead of just getting a job when she moved to Europe with her husband. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt ask myself the right questions. Everyone was getting an MBA. Unfortunately, many people take the same position.‚Äù Asked if she thinks her opinion would apply to MBAs from Harvard, Stanford and other elite business schools, Zanetti has no doubt. ‚ÄúThe same would apply to Harvard or whatever school because Harvard is three times more expensive,‚Äù she insists. ‚ÄúThe benefits would have cost much more. The arguments I make are against all business schools. The improvement is marginal. It breaks a tie if you‚Äôre competing with someone who doesn‚Äôt have the degree, but people who have scarce skills an employer needs will get the job over you.‚Äù Join our lively and provocative discussion on the value of an MBA and read more about The MBA Bubble at¬†PoetsandQuants.com: An MBA Trashes The Degree's Value Read more by LinkedIn Influencers: What REALLY Kills Us The Essentials Of Leadership Part 2: Vision, Authority, Command The Tiny Adjustment That Could Change The Course Of Your Next Interview
The yoga instructor, the decorator, the kid's tutor ó these are people that can make up the entourages of the super rich. After a while, they become part help, part friend ó and that's where things get complicated. New York Observer Richard Kirshenbaum breaks down the complexity in his latest 'That's Rich' column about the daily lives of those on Manhattan's Upper East Side. In his reporting, Kirshenbaum found that this particular 'paid friend' topic to be particularly sensitive to his subjects ("there's nothing more painful than a paid friend break up," said one). Very few parties on either side of the relationship ó those paying or those getting paid ó were willing† to admit that the relationship was one of convenience. But then, if no one with a paid friend will bite, you can always talk to someone else in the situation. Like an ex-wife (from the NYO): ...one evening, I found myself at a dinner party seated next to the glamorous ex-wife of one of New Yorkís most enigmatic commodities traders, noted for his custom suits and contraband supply of Cubans. Having received a lucrative divorce settlement, she was more than willing to open up about her ex-husbandís assortment of paid friends. In fact, after I artfully plied her with AviÛn and an orange twist, she couldnít seem to talk about anything else.ìEveryone, and I mean everyone, was on the payroll.î She played with her chestnut-size South Sea pearls. ìWhen we first started dating, I was annoyed that so many people were always around. But I learned that powerful men all have posses.îìWhy?î I asked.ìI think many really successful men donít actually have time for real friends. Their old friends are either resentful or bitter or ask for money, and the new friends are often competitive. In my opinion, very rich men have paid friends as an expensive filter, because they can control them. They love to manipulate everyone... Look, letís be real. If he didnít have any money, heíd be sitting all alone in his apartment with a container of H‰agan-Dazs and a bottle of vodka.î Kirshenbaum writes that it's hard to be on the other side too ó to constantly be on someone else's schedule, even if that means you get the royal treatment everywhere. Sounds rough. For the full story (definitely worth the read) head to the New York Observer&gt;
Alessandro Bianchi/ReutersTesla's stock took quite a battering last week. Now, the electric vehicle maker that is said to be a darling among celebrities seems to have lost one. In an interview with Esquire's Tom Junod, George Clooney let on that he isn't a fan of Tesla's cars. From Esquire: "I had a Tesla. I was one of the first cats with a Tesla. I think I was, like, number five on the list. But Iím telling you, Iíve been on the side of the road a while in that thing. And I said to them, ëLook, guys, why am I always stuck on the side of the f*****g road? Make it work, one way or another.í<U+2009>" We imagine Clooney is referring to his early edition Roadster which he auctioned off in 2012. Tesla discontinued sales of the Roadster in 2011. In its S-1 filing at the time,†the company said it doesn't plan on "selling our next generation Tesla Roadster until at least one year after the launch of the Model S." Read the entire piece at Esquire ª
flickr / Mark TurnauckasThe U.S. dollar is indisputably the world's reserve currency. It comprises the majority (62%) of foreign exchange reserves held by central banks, with the euro a distant second, accounting for 24% of reserves. And despite concerns that the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programs are debasing the dollar, perhaps throwing its reserve status into question, BofA Merrill Lynch strategist John Shin argues that "there still has not been much diminishment in the U.S. dollar's role," which is "likely to remain unchanged for the time being, especially given the lack of external competitors that could supplant the dollar." In a note, Shin explains the main reasons why the dollar works so well as the world's reserve currency, and why it's unlikely to cede its position: The need for such an international currency depends on its usefulness as a reserve, a vehicle currency for intervention, and as an anchor for a currency peg, all of which the U.S. dollar clearly holds unique significant value. But when considering what would be the most important features of being the dominant reserve currency , there are four key determinants: (1) economic and trade patterns; (2) financial market depth; (3) confidence in the value of the currency and (4) inertia from previous use. In all these features, the U.S. still remains in front by far. It is still the largest single economy in the world and forecast to remain larger than the overall eurozone. Still, the most important factor may be the size of the financial market, as there is none that can match U.S. Treasuries in terms of liquidity and depth, especially during times of crisis. No other bond is comparable to the U.S. Treasury market in these attributes. But confidence and inertia also play a large part in securing the U.S. dollar's role as well. Concerns about a decline in the role of the U.S. dollar are often preceded by a substantial depreciation over a long period of time, and at the moment the real value of the U.S. dollar is around its historical lows. Our own view is that fundamentals such as stronger U.S. growth and energy independence will reverse much of this weakness, including an end-2014 EUR-USD target of 1.25. Moreover, currency shares in reserves have been very persistent and still feature the U.S. dollar, reflecting the inertia among reserve managers as well as in goods markets for the use of particular currencies. Oil-producing economies have long been trying to move away from dollar-invoicing of petroleum trade since the 1970s, but with little progress. Shin points out that perhaps the next two currencies most likely to become reserve currencies ó the euro and the Chinese yuan ó would have to clear major hurdles to take on reserve status. The euro, of course, still arguably faces "core†existential issues," as Shin puts it, and the lack of a mutualized eurozone sovereign debt market means the U.S. Treasury market remains far and away the deepest bond market in the world. And the Chinese yuan, Shin says, is "still effectively an industrial policy instrument for the government, which makes it highly unfavorable as a store of value." Bank of International SettlementsThe U.S. claims the world's deepest financial markets. "Moreover, financial depth still has far to go for China," writes Shin. "As one particular measure of depth, FX turnover for the Chinese yuan still remains quite small compared to the massive trading of the U.S. dollar and euro, ranking just ahead of the New Zealand dollar (Chart 3). But longer-term issues also revolve around the lack of financial market development. While China has been taking some steps toward internationalization of their currency, accumulation of renminbi as a reserve currency is likely a process to be measured in decades or generations." Meanwhile, gold and IMF Special Drawing Rights could also potentially serve as reserve currencies, but like all other currencies other than the U.S. dollar, both make up only tiny portions of central bank reserves, and both would be "difficult to use for actual intervention for actual currencies," says Shin. So, given the lack of external threats to the U.S. dollar's status as an international reserve currency, what's left? Shin says U.S. economic policies are really the only primary threat to dollar dominance. Inflation would be one of them. But given the stagnation in U.S. inflation, this particular threat seems remote. The other threat is perhaps the most relevant, given ongoing fiscal crises in Washington. "In our view, the most plausible immediate threat to the U.S. dollar's reserve currency status would be domestic political events that purposefully lead to a U.S. debt default," says Shin. "Even that particular possibility, which is still highly unlikely, would not immediately cause a shift in U.S. reserve currency status, as the main impact would depend on how damaged the U.S. Treasury market was in terms of being the risk-free asset. But, relatively speaking, the impact of a debt default could reduce the U.S. dollar's value of standing in front of the deepest financial market, and induce a faster diversification into other currencies."
REUTERS/Mike SegarJohn Childs, who lost his home in the New Dorp Beach section of Staten Island in Hurricane Sandy holds the American flag as he stands on the edge of the beach on the south shore of the island during an event to commemorate the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Sandy in the Staten Island borough of New York City, October 29, 2013.As 2013 inches toward its close, Wall Street's strategists are rolling out their 2014 forecasts for the stock market. Today, UBS's Julian Emanuel predicts that the S&amp;P 500 books another double-digit gain in the coming year. From his note: 2014 looks to be another positive year for US equities. Our year end 2014 S&amp;P 500 Price Target of 1,950 represents a gain of 10.1% from the current price of 1,771. On forecast 2014 earnings of $116 ‚Äì 6.9% growth from 2013's forecast $108.5 ‚Äì 1,950 represents a 16.8x trailing multiple. Supported by strong corporate balance sheets, a Fed mindful of keeping conditions on course for 3% GDP growth and the first signs of a pickup in earnings growth - multiple expansion, consistent with historical precedent, is achievable. Since the financial crisis, S&amp;P 500 companies have slashed their debt and ramped up their cash balances, making them less vulnerable to tighter credit conditions. UBS Emanuel sees politics acting as a wildcard. Arriving at the yearend 2014 destination of 1,950 will be a more volatile journey than the relatively smooth ride of the past year. The January 15th US Government funding deadline, February 7th Debt Ceiling deadline and the Fed transition/QE tapering dialogue are sources of near term risk. Looking further into 2014 - assuming a "Kick of the Can" redux in Washington - an acceleration of investor inflows into equities and potential for positive developments from the Middle East, China, or perhaps even Washington DC as the 2014 Congressional election approaches, could cause an overshoot to 2,050. Here are some other strategists' forecasts 2014 S&amp;P 500 forecasts: According to Bloomberg, the median 2014 forecast is 1,900.
While it seems like everyone in the market that cares about QE is talking about whether there will be a taper in December or in March, Ray Dalio's hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, thinks there's a bigger issue to consider. Bridgewater thinks the real question is whether QE is going to keep working whether we want it or not. In fact, Bridgewater thinks the policy may almost be out of gas right now. In its 'Bridgwater Daily Observations' note the fund laid out its vision of a world where the taper is irrelevant and the Fed is basically out of policy options. (via Zero Hedge): The dilemma the Fed faces now is that the tools currently at its disposal are pretty much used up, in that interest rates are at zero and US asset prices have been driven up to levels that imply very low levels of returns relative to the risk, so there is very little ability to stimulate from here if needed. So the Fed will either need to accept that outcome, or come up with new ideas to stimulate conditions. We think the question around the effectiveness of continued QE (and not the tapering, which gets all the headlines) is the big deal. Given the way the Fed has said it will act, any tapering will be in response to changes in US conditions, and any deterioration that occurs because of the Fed pulling back would just be met by a reacceleration of that stimulation. So the degree and pace of tapering will for the most part be a reflection and not a driver of conditions, and won't matter that much. What will matter much more is the efficacy of Fed stimulation going forward. In other words, we're not worried about whether the Fed is going to hit or release the gas pedal, we're worried about whether there's much gas left in the tank and what will happen if there isn't. So calm down with the taper talk, guys. It's time to get worried about something we haven't imagined yet. Comforting, no? For more of this note, head to Zero Hedge&gt;
Mark Cuban has seen all types of aspiring entrepreneurs in the past five seasons of ABC's reality pitch show "Shark Tank." He's seen idea people, sales people, and numbers people. But the only thing that actually gets his attention, and keeps it, is hard work and measurable business results. The billionaire investor and owner of the Dallas Mavericks, who himself has built several successful companies, recently talked with Business Insider about the best and worst pitches on the show, the fastest way to lose his interest, and the best advice he ever got. Below is a transcript of that conversation, edited for clarity. Business Insider: What do you consider the all-time worst pitch on ìShark Tank?î Mark Cuban: The worst was easily the two doctors that came on this season. They kept on throwing out buzzwords about social media as if that would wow us. They had no company. No business. No clue. BI: What was the best?† MC: I actually liked the Plate Topper guy [in season four]. He was the longest deal we have ever had. It went on for two and a half hours. The entrepreneur was a J.D., Ph.D., and MBA, I believe. He knew every answer to every question.†But he thought he was smarter than all five of us. Every time he thought he had an advantage one of us would tell him where he was wrong.† What I loved about him is that he never quit and kept coming back at us with confidence and eventually got a deal. BI: What could a hopeful entrepreneur do to immediately get your attention?† MC: Have a real, operating company that has started to get real traction in a new industry that has a ton of upside. BI: And what do they often do to lose it? MC: The worst thing you can do is give a long backstory. It's not the time to talk about your struggles and hard work.†Every entrepreneur has a similar story. You have to get right into the meat of the business.† BI: What is the worst investment youíve made so far on ìShark Tank?î MC: The worst is Toygaroo, [a subscription service for toys]. They went out of business.† BI: The best? MC: I have a lot of best companies. I canít pick one. That wouldn't be fair. BI: It seems like you and the other Sharks bicker a lot onscreen. Whatís your relationship like off-screen? MC: We get along and will hang out all the time, but that doesn't reduce our competitiveness with each other. I can deal with losing, but I don't like it. BI: Which deal are you most bitter about losing to another Shark? MC: I don't recall ever losing a deal I really wanted. BI: Whatís your best advice for up-and-coming entrepreneurs? And whatís the best advice you ever got? MC: They are the same. Do the work. Out-work. Out-think. Out-sell your expectations. There are no shortcuts. My dad [told me that] when I was in high school. My dad did upholstery on cars, and he was always very encouraging but also realistic. BI: What are three books that you believe are required reading for an entrepreneur, and why? MC: ìThe Fountainhead,î ìThe Innovatorís Dilemma,î and ìHow To Win At The Sport Of Business.î† They motivate me and force me to be self-critical. One of the biggest mistakes entrepreneurs make is that we lie to ourselves. We don't step back and look at ourselves like a competitor would. These books helped me take those steps.
Most men use one tie knot their entire lives. You could say itís because weíre creatures of habit ñ that weíre boring ñ that we donít like to experiment &amp; try new things. Well, I think thatís a bunch of BS. No, I think most of us tie one necktie knot as we donít have an easy guide showing us why &amp; how to experiment with others ways to tie a tie. Well now you do! Here are 18 very clear &amp; succinct diagrams showing you how to tie various necktie knots for work &amp; casual wear. The Knots listed are: Also ñ note that we give the features of each. †How common is the tie knot, difficulty to tie, knot size, and knot shape. Antonio Centeno/Real Men Real Style FYI ñ You can get a larger poster size image along with step-by-step instructions when you†grab my bestselling Menís Necktie Book on Amazon.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA paramilitary policeman standing guard is silhouetted on a large screen showing propaganda slogans on Tiananmen square next to the Great Hall of the People, where the closing ceremony of the Chinese Communist Party plenum is going to be held on Tuesday, in Beijing, November 11, 2013. Chinese credit growth slowed in October. New loans fell to 506 billion yuan, down from 787 billion yuan in September. Outstanding loans climbed 14.2%, down from 14.3%.¬† M2, a broad measure of money supply climbed to 14.3% on the year, compared with 14.2% the previous month.¬† And total social financing (TSF) slowed to 856.4 billion yuan, 1.40 trillion the previous month. This was in part because of slower new bank loans in October which fell to 506.1 billion yuan.¬†¬† "Shadow banking deleveraging remained the case, as new trust loans shrank to a 15-month low of CNY 40bn and outstanding bankers‚Äô acceptances contracted CNY 39.8bn mom ‚Äì the sixth monthly contraction in the past seven months," wrote Societe Generale's Wei Yao.¬† Based on all of this Yao expects that total credit growth slowed to a 13-month low of 19.2%, down from 20% in September. Yao has previously said that policymakers are aware of China's debt problem and are trying to "engineer a gradual deleveraging process." And it is finally registering in official statements. In its Q3 2013 monetary policy report, the People's Bank of China, emphasized the deleveraging process. "One major change in the statement is that it sees the economy in a prolonged process of deleveraging and capacity reduction," said Dong Tao of Credit Suisse. "The central bank described that the old growth model, which was driven by export and local government investment, should be revamped, but a new growth engine has not been established," added Tao. "This is the first public confirmation that the monetary policy may become tightening biased, though the official stance remains neutral." October's credit data seems to support this idea, and is a negative for near-term growth.
The Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart has an interesting piece today about how fund managers are starting to worry more about income inequality. America's rich-and-poor chasm has been a longstanding political issue. Recently, for example, it was the bedrock of Bill de Blasio's progressive (and victorious) mayoral campaign in New York. But in terms of investors, "even if they have found the widening gulf between America's haves and have-nots troubling, inequality isn't something fund managers have worried about professionally," Lahart reports. Until now, maybe. From the Wall Street Journal: Bill Gross, manager of the world's largest bond fund by assets at Pimco, in a recent note said he believed increases in inequality had made the U.S. less productive. "Developed economies work best when inequality of incomes are at a minimum," he wrote. Several fund managers at a Heard on the Street conference last month also voiced concerns, among them Kynikos Associates founder James Chanos, who worried people have less incentive to participate in the economy if they have concluded "the game isn't fair." When inequality increases as a result of, say, corruption, it clearly causes economic harm. But for the U.S., where much of the increase in inequality results from market mechanisms like changing pay patterns for skilled workers and rising global competition for lower-skilled jobs, its effects are more ambiguous. Well that's nice. Of course, Lahart is wise to point out the flip-side of this argument. Say companies raised wages or paid higher taxes and their profit margins fell. We might see more income equality, but "it would also leave less money flowing to the bottom line, something that will grab fund managers' attention." Here's the chart that goes along with the story ó Lahart tweeted it out last night. Very compelling. RT @jdlahart: Here's the chart that goes with my inequality story http://t.co/yKNcMmiRK2 pic.twitter.com/9hZ6TyfAKx Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal†ª
APFederal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke seen on a television screen on the floor of the NYSE.Late last week, two key economic datapoints surprised to the upside ‚Äî U.S. GDP on Thursday, which suggested the economy grew at a 2.8% annualized pace in Q3 (versus the 2.0% consensus estimate), and the jobs report, which suggested 204,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in October (versus the 120,000 consensus estimate). Both releases have market participants and Fed-watchers moving up the timetable for when the FOMC announces the first tapering of the Federal Reserve's $85-billion-a-month quantitative easing program. As the economy now appears to have largely shrugged off the government shutdown that spanned the first two weeks of October, a tapering announcement before the FOMC's March meeting has become a very real possibility. In a new report, Deutsche Bank strategist Keith Parker highlights "a few positioning inconsistencies that have the potential to unwind on renewed taper fears and USD strength"¬†if a tapering announcement sooner rather than later really does become the case. There are five, according to Parker, who writes: Japan equity underweight and global emerging markets overweight likely to reverse on USD strength. Japanese equity mutual funds are notably underweight despite the Nikkei being a big beneficiary of USD strength; in contrast to the large Yen short, Japanese equity funds are not positioned for another leg down in the Yen. On the other hand, GEM equity fund beta is quite elevated and a Fed taper is likely to see this GEM overweight unwind and outflows pick up.  15y+ rates long and 5y short despite potential taper/guidance tradeoff. Since June, positioning in 15y+ rates has increased and is now notably long; a decline in Fed buying of the long end together with extended positioning raises the risk for longer maturity bonds. On the other hand, investors have surprisingly turned net short 5y rates even though the recent Fed papers raise the idea of strengthening forward guidance by reducing the unemployment threshold and pushing out the first rate hike.  Gold longs have risen as USD positioning has stayed neutral. USD longs were cut on the no taper decision and US shutdown, but positions have basically stayed neutral since September. Gold is most exposed to a turn up in the USD and global growth, yet gold positioning has risen the last few weeks back to April levels. Oil positioning is also very long and continues to be pared. In short, according to Parker, investors are too bearish on Japanese stocks and 5-year Treasuries, while too bullish on emerging markets stocks, longer-dated Treasuries, and gold.
Library of CongressChild labor has a dark history around the world. But banning child labor outright may not work in countries with systemic, widespread poverty and no social security programs to help out poor families in dire straits.¬† This is according to a new NBER study by Prashant Bharadwaj of UCSD, Leah Lakdawal of Michigan State University and Nicholas Li of the University of Toronto.¬† The study uses data from India, a country where the problem of child labor is particularly egregious. According to official estimates, the number of child laborers between the ages of 5 and 14 lay at nearly 5 million in 2010.¬†¬†In 1986, India instituted a ban on child labor through the¬†Child Labor (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, which sought to ban children under the age of 14 being employed in "hazardous" occupations, which included construction work, some factory work and work in automobile garages. It also restricted the number of hours children could work in "non-hazardous" occupations, such as food service.¬† The ban's intended effect was to make it riskier, and hence more costly for employers to employ child labor.  But the only people sending their children out to work were the poorest and most desperate families who had no other means of reaching a minimum level of subsistence. Employers took advantage of this desperation and responded by cutting the wages they would pay a child laborer as a means of passing on the higher cost of the risk of employing them. ¬†Families that would earlier have sent only one of their children to work, were now forced to send more of their young children into the workforce. The¬†fall in child wages due to the ban actually led to an increase in child labor. The research found that child labor increased 12.5% over the pre-ban average, and the likelihood of a business employing a child versus employing an older person increased by 1.7 to 1.9 percentage points.¬† Additionally, for the households most affected by the ban, there was a nearly one-to-one correlation with a reduction in the schooling their children received.¬† However, the paper only looks at the immediate impact of the ban on child labor and not the long-term benefits. Since 1981, when child labor stood at over 13 million, the number has now fallen to 5 million.  Read the whole paper at¬†NBER.org.¬†
While I have no experience as an Activist investor, I suspect that its is very much an art rather than a science. †Some of the most successful activists are nothing short of very rich big mouths, while others are thoughtful and patient considering each brushstroke that they will apply to such investments. †It appears the loudest guys in the room of late have been stealing most of the headlines, which in a bull market has equated to healthy profits. And then there is Dan Loeb, who runs hedge fund Third Point. †Over the last decade, Loeb became infamous for his aggressive literary tactics with the managements of his corporate targets (see Vanity Fairís compilation of the 10 most prolific†here, but be sure to read their entire hatchet job on the guy, it is a classic here). †I once worked for a guy who got into what you would call a pissing match with Loeb over Bloomberg messaging that went on for hours, so I have witnessed his tenacity nearly first hand (wouldnít wish that wrath on an enemy), and if I remember correctly the disagreement had little to do with stocks or corporate raiding and might have had all to do with their opinions of a piece of overpriced canvas with a bunch of paint splatters on it. By all accounts, Loeb has chilled out with his aggressive tactics, but this has not meant that he has gotten soft in his old age, or less profitable. †Use his investment in YHOO for example, he got long in size in 2011 when few investors saw the possibility of a meaningful turnaround for its core business. †He became the largest shareholder in the company with a 60 million share stake with an average below $14. He made his case for the shares, started a proxy contest, got 3 board seats, pushed for a partial sale of Alibaba stake to fund huge share buybacks, helped get rid of a CEO that lied on his resume, and then he sat and watched as the stock rose on what felt like every day of CEO Marissa Mayerís young tenure in 2012 and 2013. †Earlier this summer, with more than a double on his hands, Loeb sold two thirds of his stake back to the company at $29.11 at multi-year highs. †Nothing short of a work of art! Which brings me to his latest ìPick to Clickî so to speak, Sothebyís (BID) where he has recently amassed a 9.29% position in the company where he is now the largest shareholder. †And its not just Loeb, activist investor Mercato Capital has a 6.7% stake and is the third largest shareholder and they are pushing for sales of BIDís lucrative real estate in London and New York and to better tap the value of their lending business (here from WSJ). †Make no mistake, these guys have forgotten more about investing than I may ever know, but the BID situation does not seem to offer the same risk reward for those of you playing at home looking to ride some hot shot investorís coattails. BID is up 52% year to date and just a few % from multi year highs. †For those of you bubble watchers, this is the exact sort of situation that bears would point to when they talk of irrational exuberance when you consider they just completed their second most successful impressionist sale in history selling $16 million Monets. †While the activists are looking to †unlock value and use the proceeds to buyback a third of the stock, I am hard pressed to see in the near term how this could be a decent entry point for new shareholders or for that of the company to retire shares, regardless of the near term positive implications for earnings. The existence of activists obviously places on the BID on the shares, but just as we got towards the end of the LBO boom in 2007, deals started going sour and fast, and some by well known deal artists in the space. BID reports Q3 earnings tonight after the bell, and the options market is implying about a 5.5% move, vs the 4 qtr avg of about 3.3%. †Implied vol is bid as options traders are looking for any acknowledgment by the company of activists demands. †For those looking to play long, it could make sense to sell short dated calls that are BID for earnings and set up to own longer dated calls as it may take some time for activists to effect change, I prefer defined risk in these situations.
Popular Science / Jesse LenzFor shelter and supplies after a devastating storm, communities turn to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). But for a clear sense of how bad things are, FEMA turns to Waffle House. Nearly a decade ago, Florida‚Äôs emergency management chief, W. Craig Fugate, noticed that when information was scarce after a disaster, the status of a 24-hour Waffle House restaurant often indicated whether an area had electricity, gas, and passable roads. So he created a three-color rating: green (fully open), yellow (limited menu), and red (closed). Then he brought it with him to his current post as FEMA‚Äôs administrator. Fugate isn‚Äôt the first to extrapolate large trends from unconventional indicators. Economists at Vanderbilt University recently used Big Mac prices to evaluate economic differences among countries that use the euro and those that use their own currency. Investment funds trading on oil reportedly hire aircraft to fly over the Port of Singapore (through which half the world‚Äôs crude oil is shipped) to gather anecdotal data on the number of tankers. In China, authorities employ an index of the sales of pickled mustard tubers (a food favored by its working class) to track its migrant workers in the country more accurately than official statistics do. ‚ÄúThe shared, underlying idea is that there are good measures, or proxies, for phenomena that might take a long time to measure rigorously,‚Äù says David Lazer, a computer and political scientist at Northeastern University. Lazer and his colleagues work in a field known as network science, which looks at correlated phenomena to find meaning. Network scientists usually work on problems involving large data sets. For example, in much the way that Google Flu Trends analyzes search data (rather than medical data) to try to predict flu outbreaks faster than the CDC, Lazer‚Äôs team has developed algorithms that comb through mobile text and voice data (rather than meteorological or seismological data) for patterns generated by real-time emergencies such as earthquakes, bombings, and blackouts, often detecting them before local authorities do. Useful correlations can also be derived from small data sets, Lazer says, provided that each point carries a strong signal. That‚Äôs the virtue of the Waffle House Index: Rather than distilling a meaningful signal from a noisy, large data set, it uses a few data points with high-quality signals. Popular Science Cloudy With a Chance Of Waffles The nearly 1,700 Waffle House restaurants nationwide [red] are clustered near the tracks of the Atlantic hurricanes and tropical storms [gray] that have hit the continental U.S. since 1851. Katie Peek So what makes Waffle Houses so telling? For one, the chain has 500 similar locations throughout hurricane zones on the Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard as well as hundreds more across the flood- and tornado-prone Midwest. More important, Waffle House is a leader in disaster preparedness. It maintains its own fleet of portable generators, operates a mobile command center to assist in disaster recovery, and trains employees in crisis management to ensure that it can resume operations as quickly as possible‚Äîoften within hours. And since 2012, it reports all this information directly to FEMA via email. The Waffle House Index is by no means a scientific indicator (a 2011 tornado destroyed or damaged one third of Joplin, Missouri, yet the area‚Äôs two Waffle Houses remained open), but its accuracy continues to improve. Last year, the company began using tropical-storm-tracking software to help it predict‚Äîdown to the minute‚Äîwhen any Waffle House will be affected and when it‚Äôs safe to reopen. This allows the chain to pass its operational status to FEMA sooner, which in turn helps FEMA respond faster. It also helps Waffle House get hot meals and coffee to the victims and weary first responders. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs been a real shift in the last few years toward the private sector and public sector working together to get communities back up on their feet after a storm,‚Äù says Waffle House vice president of culture Pat Warner. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre just glad to play a part.‚Äù This article originally appeared in the November 2013 issue of Popular Science. 
The latest deal at Brooklyn's¬†Greene Avenue Market¬†is an unusual one:¬†10% off if you pay with Bitcoin. We were tipped off to this by¬†Marc Hedlund, the VP of engineering at software firm Stripe, who Tweeted the following photo this morning from one of the market's locations:¬† He actually had to call us back, as he was checking out a customer who just paid btc¬†0.013995¬†($4.99) for milk. He told us the sale has been on for a week as a promotion for what he believed was Brooklyn's first Bitcoin Meetup group.¬†But the five Greene Avenue Market stores have been accepting Bitcoin since this spring, when prices began to climb. We've been telling you why we think Bitcoin has some fundamental¬†flaws. But Lee makes a good case for why it's actually pretty great for retailers. "There are lower fees, and you don't have to worry about chargebacks, which is beneficial for merchants," he says. "It's better than Visa or Master Card." Indeed, Bitpay has zero transaction fees and only requires a monthly payment. Bitpay also allows for instantly converting the Bitcoin into dollars, so Lee doesn't have to worry about the recent wild fluctuations. All you need to pay for your groceries in Bitcoin is a phone with a Bitpay or similar app that can transact Bitcoin. Lee puts the dollar amount into his app, which shows the price in Bitcoin. A QR code for the transaction then pops up on his screen, and the customer scans it. Lee says they now get 5 to 10 customers a week paying in Bitcoin, which may not seem like a lot, but it's up substantially from when they barely got any when they first started offering the service, he says. But he plans to keep the sale on for awhile. "We have¬†no reason to stop soon, we don't do huge amounts of transactions, it's just so we can keep the interest alive."
That means two things ‚Äî first, that young, single Chinese people will love themselves by spending tons of money on online shopping. And second, that young single Chinese people ‚Äî mostly girls ‚Äî will figure out how get through the holiday season with their families by renting significant others to take home for events. The story around Chinese Single's Day is that it originated around 20 years ago at Nanjing University. The date, 11.11, is supposed to symbolize "bare branches" ‚Äî or bachelors. And that, apparently, is a serious matter ‚Äî serious enough to warrant the biggest online shopping day of the year. Alibaba, China's leading e-commerce site, saw $500 million spent in the first 20 minutes from their 'big data' war room, according to Tech In Asia: It has just turned November 11 in China, commencing the nation‚Äôs craziest day of online shopping discounts and spending. It‚Äôs called 11/11. At Alibaba HQ, China‚Äôs top e-commerce company is watching its consumers spending in real-time in what I like to call its ‚Äòbig data‚Äô war-room. Alibaba‚Äôs Tmall, its open marketplace for merchants, saw $177 million spent in the first six minutes. That leapt to $266 million (RMB 1.64 billion) after the first ten minutes, and then to very near $500 million (RMB $3.021 billion) at the 20-minute mark [1]. (UPDATE: After the first 50 minutes, $1 billion has been spent). Question is ‚Äî are singles buying themselves presents to celebrate themselves or to make themselves feel better? Young Chinese people, especially women, are under a lot of pressure to find themselves a mate. That's why on Single's Day, presents aside, some singles spend money on making mom and dad happy. To do that, they find a nice, sensible boy with a nice sensible job to rent and take home during the upcoming holiday season. From Shanghai Daily: Clean-cut, bespectacled and financially secure Matthew Fan, 27, started to ‚Äúrent‚Äù himself out as a fake boyfriend two years ago. He‚Äôs single... On Chinese Single‚Äôs Day today, Fan and other rentable young men note that as the year ends, there‚Äôs more need for their services at New Year‚Äôs Eve parties with parents and the endless Spring Festival family parties of the Chinese Lunar New Year (beginning on January 30, 2014). Mid-Autumn Festival is another lucrative period of family reunions... Fan, and advertises online ‚Äî charges 800 yuan (US$131) per day in China and 1,500 yuan per day in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau. There‚Äôs a three-day minimum and his employer pays transport, accommodation, dining and other fees. ‚ÄúI only rent my time, not my body ‚Äî you know what I mean,‚Äù Fan says. He has a girlfriend who doesn‚Äôt know about his moonlighting. Sounds interesting. Happy shopping, guys.
In the past seven weeks, three Tesla Model S electric cars have caught on fire. That news, along with a less than perfect earnings report, has sent the company's stock tumbling. Compared to other automakers, Tesla is small, young, and closely watched by the media, and each of the three fires was widely reported. So it's good to keep in mind just how often non-Tesla cars ‚Äî most of which are filled with gasoline ‚Äî catch fire. Try 17 every hour in the United States, between 2006 and 2010. That's more than 150,000 annually, which kill some 209 civilians every year. Those numbers come from a September 2012 report by the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA),¬†brought to our attention by Reddit user lapearce. And while vehicle fires hurt more than 750 people every year, the three Tesla fires caused no injuries. CEO Elon Musk, in a blog post explaining the first Model S fire, also drew on stats from the NFPA, writing: Americans drive about 3 trillion miles per year according to the Department of Transportation. That equates to 1 vehicle fire for every 20 million miles driven, compared to 1 fire in over 100 million miles for Tesla. Even when that number triples, the Tesla fires are no real reason for concern.¬†
en.wikipedia.orgThe ivory stockpile in the secure government warehouse ‚Äì six tonnes of scarred tusks, glossy Confucius statuettes with $10,000 (more than ¬£6,000) price stickers, coffee table items, and too many chunky cuff bracelets to count ‚Äì represents millions of dollars and the slaughter of thousands of African elephants. On 14 November, at Barack Obama's instruction, and in front of visiting dignitaries and television cameras, every last intricately carved and high-dollar item will be fed into the jaws of an industrial strength rock-crushing machine and smashed to splinters. The hope is that this public act of destruction will serve as a turning point. White House officials and conservation groups calculate that demonstrating the president's commitment to breaking up the illegal ivory trade will persuade other governments to take similar measures, and help put the wildlife traffickers on the run. But it may be too late. Two decades after an international ban on ivory sales, an explosion in wildlife trafficking has once again brought African elephants to the brink of extinction. Nearly 100 African elephants are killed every day for their tusks to feed a huge demand for ivory trinkets from newly wealthy buyers in Asia who see ivory as a status symbol. US security officials say the global trade in illegal ivory has grown to $10bn (about ¬£6.2bn) a year ‚Äì just behind drugs and human trafficking. The huge profit potential has also turned ivory into an important line of financing for terrorist networks such as al-Shabaab, the al-Qaida affiliate that carried out September's attack on the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi. "This is not the kind of poaching that we have dealt with in the past," said Dan Ashe, the director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, the agency leading the US fight against wildlife trafficking. "It's syndicated and sophisticated criminal organisations that are driving the trade." The grisly results are visible in the vast storehouse outside Denver ‚Äì ordinarily off-limits to the public ‚Äì where six tonnes of ivory seized by US law enforcement officials over the past 25 years is heaped among stuffed tigers, caiman ashtrays, and other artifacts of the illegal wildlife trade. The smuggled ivory was seized by US agents at airports and cargo ships, hidden in the false bottoms of suitcases and shipping crates, buried in jars of face cream, or disguised by being stained dark brown with tea. Some of the ivory ‚Äì the big display case of bracelets ‚Äì made it as far as a jewellery shop off Times Square in New York city, before it was seized by agents. "There could be several hundred elephants represented on this pallet alone," said Bernadette Atencio, the supervisor of the US Fish and Wildlife repository. America is one of the top destinations of illegal ivory from Africa, as well as an important transhipment point for the carved ivory trinkets bound ultimately for the leading markets in China, Japan, Thailand and other Asian countries. But the six-tonne haul is only half that seized in China this week alone ‚Äì 3,1888 pieces of elephant tusks were found in Xiamen city, with an estimated value of 603m Yuan ($99m or ¬£62m) on the black market. The sheer volume of trade is depleting populations of African adult male elephants, Atencio said, reaching for a polished tusk, carved with renderings of the "big five" in African game. "I think the baby tusks are the most heartbreaking," she said. "What I see here are lost generations of elephants, many many generations of elephants that will never be because these elephants were not allowed to mature and to reach an adult size. By ordering the destruction of the ivory haul in Denver, American officials hope to send a definitive message to traffickers that the bottom is about to fall out of the ivory trade, and that there is no use hanging on to stores of ivory, because it will eventually end up being destroyed. The strategy has been endorsed by leading conservation groups, such as the World Wildlife Fund, and wildlife officials in Kenya and other states which depend on African elephants for their tourism industries. "It does send a signal that ivory is not going to be a good investment for very much longer," said Allan Thornton, who heads the Environmental Investigation Agency. US diplomats are now reaching out to other governments to carry out similar high-profile acts of destruction. Kenya has destroyed its stores of illegal ivory in the past. The Philippines carried out a crush earlier this year. The Obama administration is stepping up aid and training for park rangers in Africa to try to stop the traffickers on the ground. The Clinton Global Initiative has also aligned with the US government efforts, with Hillary Clinton in September announcing an $80m initiative to train park rangers and sniffer dogs at 50 poaching hot spots across Africa. Meanwhile, the Obama administration is promising to strengthen penalties against those caught smuggling ivory, a White House adviser said. "The laws need to be changed. They need to be stiffened," said David Hayes, a former deputy secretary of interior who was appointed last September to a new White House council on wildlife trafficking. "I think that's going to be a primary focus for the advisory council ‚Äì enforcement penalties, and what we allow and what we don't." The push to end trafficking comes at a desperate time for African wildlife, with rhinos and elephants under threat from mass poaching gangs. The explosion in poaching threatens to reverse a conservation successory story, with African elephants showing signs of a comeback after a 1990 ban on ivory sales. But conservation groups say that positive outcome was undermined by a misguided decision by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), the entity set up to protect at-risk wildlife, to allow limited sales of ivory. In 1997, Zimbabwe was granted permission to conduct a limited sale of 50 tonnes of ivory. In 2008, China was also allowed to import 60 tonnes of ivory. The idea was to slake the demand for ivory among the newly wealthy elites of China. But the result was a catastrophe for African wildlife, said Paula Kahumbu, chief executive of Wildlife Direct. "We have seen in Kenya an eight-fold increase in poaching since 2009," she said. "The volume of ivory being taken across the country is just staggering." Campaign groups said the combination of new buying power in Asia ‚Äì where there is a surge in demand for ivory ‚Äì and armed groups was overwhelming poorly paid and trained rangers in African wildlife parks. A new breed of traffickers, armed with night-vision goggles and high-powered rifles, began staging mass attacks ‚Äì such as last September's cyanide poisoning of 300 elephants at a Zimbabwe watering hole. What put elephants on the top of the US agenda however was terrorism. Over the past few years, US intelligence officials have accumulated evidence that wildlife trafficking is funding rebel armies and causing instability in Africa. US security officials and campaign groups have said the militant group al-Shabaab was getting up to 40% of its funds from the illegal wildlife trade, with ivory financing their operations and paying their footsoldiers, by acting as middlemen in the wildlife trade. The result is a grisly kill-to-order system, with brokers paying poachers as little as $20 a pound for the raw tusks, and selling them onwards for as much as $800 a pound in some parts of Asia. Finished pieces sell for up to $4,000 a pound. By last year, Clinton, then secretary of state, was so concerned about the links with terrorist groups that she designated wildlife trafficking a national security threat. Barack Obama during a visit to Africa in July also pledged action against the traffickers. On 14 November, the international community ‚Äì and the traffickers ‚Äì will witness the first instalment of Obama's anti-trafficking plan. It's far from certain, though, whether Obama will be able to pull African elephants back from the brink, yet again. "I believe that the scope and impact of the poaching crisis has now reached the highest levels of the US government," said John Webb, a former Department of Justice environmental prosecutor who is also a member of the new White House advisory council. "But, unfortunately, I think it's going to take a huge effort to turn it around this time." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Despite some signs of overbuilding, America's apartment rental market will remain robust as 20-somethings begin to move out of their parents' homes, Wells Fargo's Anika Khan writes in a new note. † Since the recession, there's actually been a substantial boom in in multi-family housing starts. Wells Fargo The surge didn't emerge out of nowhere: Khan says demand has moved at a "breakneck" pace since 2010, fueled by tighter lending standards for home loans and slowly recovering household formation. Today, the apartment vacancy rate is at a low not seen in more than a decade.† Wells Fargo Still, Khan says there are now fears in the market that supply has grown too rapidly. Those fears would be misplaced, as it now appears junior is ready to enter the real world: "...due to the slower pace of hiring, the number of young adults living at home with an older family member swelled during the early stages of the economic recovery.†The large number of young adults living at home with parents suggests there is a good amount of pent-up demand for apartment space. The so-called ìecho-boomî generation (18 to 30 years old) hits the prime age for renters (20 to 29 years old). According to the U.S. Census Bureau, there were 44 million people in the prime renter age group in 2012. With this younger age cohort having a higher propensity to rent, especially with lending standards still relatively tight and the large burden of student loan debt, rental demand should remain robust.† Some markets are probably seeing overly strong supply growth. Khan charts metros where projected completions as a percent of stock is greatest: Wells Fargo Elsewhere, the market will remain tight as employment improves. Khan calculates a ratio fo projected employment to completions. Wells Fargo Khan concludes: "On a national basis, apartment demand is expected to continue to outpace supply. However, all real estate is local."†
Russia's central bank is asking its citizens to vote on a new logo for the country's currency¬†in an effort to buttress the rouble's brand after a history of hyperinflation, Reuters reports. "The introduction of the graphic symbol of the rouble will help promote a positive image of Russia, the capital of which aspires to the status of an international financial centre," the bank told Reuters. Voters can choose from five options on the bank's website.¬†From the report: The rebranding faces a challenge because, in Russia's Cyrillic alphabet, the first letter of the word rouble resembles the Latin "P", a possible source of confusion for many foreigners. Two options plump for the Cyrillic version, with horizontal or vertical 'strokes' reminiscent of the symbols for the dollar, euro or Japanese Yen. The other three are based on the Latin "R", with diagonal or curved strokes that have drawn comparisons with ski tracks, or even a ski jump, leading cynics to suspect they are advertising the forthcoming Winter¬†Olympics¬†hosted by Russia. And here are the options:REUTERS
This is how you play perfectly nice with Carl Icahn. The world's largest off-shore drilling company, Transocean, has just agreed to a deal with the activist investor that pays shareholders and gives The Icahn Group more power on Transocean's board. In short, these are the days that Carl Icahn gets out of bed for. Here's what Icahn gets in the deal (from Trancocean's press release): ¬† Naturally, Icahn said that he was very pleased with these developments in the statement, and that he was also glad Transocean would engage in some cost cutting. "I am pleased that the Board has agreed to add Vince Intrieri as a nominee, and to reduce the Board size to eleven and I am especially happy about the commitment to pursue a MLP, raise the dividend and increase margins by $800 million through cost cutting and increased efficiency. I believe that Transocean is now on the road to realize its great potential. We look forward to continued collaboration with the Board of Directors and management." The stock is up 2.16% in pre market trading. Check out the full press release below: ZUG, SWITZERLAND-Transocean Ltd. (RIG) (RIGN.VX) today announced that it entered into an agreement with Carl Icahn and certain investment funds managed by Mr. Icahn (the "Icahn Group"). Under the terms of the agreement, Transocean's Board of Directors has agreed to propose and support at the Company's 2014 Annual General Meeting ("AGM") that the company's shareholders approve the following: A dividend out of additional paid-in capital in the amount of $3 per share, subject to applicable law; The re-election of Samuel Merksamer and election of Vincent Intrieri to its Board of Directors. Mr. Merksamer is employed by Icahn Capital LP, a subsidiary of Icahn Enterprises L.P., and was elected to the Company's Board of Directors at its 2013 annual general meeting. Mr. Intrieri has been employed by Icahn-related entities since October 1998 in various investment-related capacities; and A reduction of the maximum number of directors on its Board of Directors to eleven (11) from fourteen (14). The Board previously proposed that shareholders approve a reduction in the maximum number of directors at the 2011 AGM but the presence quorum required under the Company's articles of association was not satisfied and the proposal was not voted upon. If the required quorum at the 2014 AGM is not satisfied, the Board intends to leave three seats vacant. As part of the agreement, and in addition to certain standstill restrictions, the Icahn Group has agreed to vote in favor of the Board's slate of director nominees and certain other proposals Transocean's Board may recommend at the 2014 AGM. "We are pleased that Mr. Icahn recognizes the changes currently underway at Transocean and the continued focus of the Board and management on creating shareholder value. We anticipate that Mr. Merksamer and Mr. Intrieri will provide new perspectives and insights as the company continues to improve its long-term competitiveness and deliver value to all its stakeholders," said Steven L. Newman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Transocean Ltd. Carl Icahn remarked, "I am pleased that the Board has agreed to add Vince Intrieri as a nominee, and to reduce the Board size to eleven and I am especially happy about the commitment to pursue a MLP, raise the dividend and increase margins by $800 million through cost cutting and increased efficiency. I believe that Transocean is now on the road to realize its great potential. We look forward to continued collaboration with the Board of Directors and management." The agreement has been filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as an Exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K and will be viewable with Transocean's recent filings at www.sec.gov on the next trading day following this press release and immediately through the company's website, www.deepwater.com by selecting the Investor Relations tab. Additionally, as the result of an extensive evaluation, the company has concluded that a Master Limited Partnership-type yield vehicle ("MLP") could complement its capital structure by providing additional financial flexibility, and enhance the execution of its asset strategy. The initial public offering of an MLP is anticipated to be completed around the middle of 2014 with a minority interest sold at that stage. The anticipated offering is subject to the approval of Transocean's Board of Directors, market conditions and the effectiveness of a registration statement. Transocean has previously discussed its objective of achieving additional efficiencies beyond those associated with the shore-based support infrastructure cost reduction initiative. In this regard, to continue to increase its competitiveness with its comparable peers, the Company is reiterating and clarifying its commitment to expand operating margins by an incremental $500 million, all else being equal, by the end of 2015 through operational improvements and additional cost reductions. The preliminary 2014 cost guidance provided by the Company on its third quarter 2013 conference call reflects this commitment. In conjunction with the previously disclosed $300 million in cost savings associated with the shore-based initiative, this represents a total targeted operating margin improvement of approximately $800 million by the end of 2015. As previously disclosed, the Company expects to realize approximately $200 million in cost savings related to the shore-based initiative by the end of 2014. Additionally, as a key element of its balanced capital allocation strategy, Transocean will continue to renew its fleet by investing in high-return, premium drilling rigs, both floaters and jackups. Transocean's senior executive team will provide an update on the various strategic initiatives underway at the Company to continue to improve its long-term competitiveness, including the MLP and margin improvement efforts, at its previously announced Analyst/Investor Day on November 21, 2013. Forward-Looking Statements The statements described in this press release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements which could be made include, but are not limited to, board recommendations, actions and dividend projections, growth and market positioning, and future company strategies and operational or financial results. Factors impacting these forward-looking statements include but are not limited to operating hazards and delays, risks associated with international operations, actions by customers and other third parties, the future prices of oil and gas and other factors, including those discussed in the company's most recent Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and in the company's other filings with the SEC, which are available free of charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the other consequences of such a development worsen), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements including, without limitation, that our business plans may change as circumstances warrant, we may not ultimately form the MLP or offer its common units to the public and we may not be able to complete proposed actions on any timetable indicated. No registration statement is anticipated to be filed prior to March 2014, and any such registration statement would be subject to being declared effective by the SEC. No assurance can be given as to the value of any MLP, the price at which its securities may trade or whether a liquid market for its securities will develop or be maintained. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the company or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by reference to these risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. All non-GAAP financial measure reconciliations to the most comparative GAAP measure are displayed in quantitative schedules on the company's website at www.deepwater.com. Securities Law Legend This press release or referenced documents does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities, and this press release does not constitute an offering prospectus within the meaning of article 652a or article 1156 of the Swiss Code of Obligations or a listing prospectus within the meaning of the listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange. Any offer, solicitations to offer or any sales of securities will only be made in accordance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an exemption therefrom. This Announcement is being issued pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 135 under the Securities Act of 1933. Investors must rely on their own evaluation of Transocean Ltd. and its securities, including the merits and risks involved. Nothing contained herein is, or shall be relied on as, a promise or representation as to the future performance of Transocean Ltd. About Transocean Transocean is a leading international provider of offshore contract drilling services for oil and gas wells. The company specializes in technically demanding sectors of the global offshore drilling business with a particular focus on deepwater and harsh environment drilling services, and believes that it operates one of the most versatile offshore drilling fleets in the world. Transocean owns or has partial ownership interests in, and operates a fleet of, 80 mobile offshore drilling units consisting of 46 high-specification floaters (ultra-deepwater, deepwater and harsh-environment drilling rigs), 22 midwater floaters and 12 high-specification jackups. In addition, the company has seven ultra-deepwater drillships and five high-specification jackups under construction.

In markets across the world, housing is back in a big way. But to the chagrin of those living in some of the globe's hottest cities, a booming housing market doesn't always mean that locals are the ones who can afford to buy. In many cities, foreign buyers ‚Äî particularly Chinese and Russian investors ‚Äî are buying up real estate like crazy and driving property prices to pre-financial crisis levels. Here are four markets being spurred by foreign investors. Milos Bicanski/Getty Images1. Cyprus Cyprus has its economic issues, but before March's harrowing economic shock, foreign buyers were heading to Cyprus' sunny shores en masse.¬†As the Guardian's John Hooper reported in February, "The carnival will be a way of celebrating a most unusual boom in a country which, like others in southern Europe, has been stricken by the eurozone crisis. Property prices in Cyprus have fallen by around 15% since 2007. Yet an official survey published last month found that between last August and October more than 600 properties were sold to Chinese buyers, 90% of which were in Pafos" ‚Äî a small Cypriot city. It will be interesting to see if foreign investors stick around in the beleaguered island nation. Business Insider Video2. Brooklyn New York City's real estate market is red-hot in general, with low inventory juicing big-time bidding wars. But foreign buyers have been buying up townhouses in Brooklyn¬†in particular, according to Brownstoner. From the report: We spoke to six real estate agents, four of whom said they had encountered investor groups buying houses to rent out. Some of the firms are European and Israeli, they said. One broker had high praise for one of the private European investment groups he had encountered, a boutique firm with local buyers that focused on buying high end properties with historic detail to rent. He also said that in the first quarter, the bulk of¬†all-cash buyers he dealt with were families, not investors. One such outfit, operating under the name Newtown Jets, has purchased 24 properties in Brooklyn since March, including 12 in May, according to PropertyShark. The transactions were all over the map geographically and pricewise, from Park Slope ($2,675,000) and¬†Carroll Gardens ($1,699,000) to Bushwick ($662,500 and $599,000). Few homes, rich buyers, sky-high prices. It's tough to find a place in Brooklyn. Wikimedia Commons3. Australia Australia eased some of its federal laws restricting foreign property ownership, and according to¬†Paul Thornhill at RealEstate.com, the change "has opened the door to a flood of interest from overseas purchasers." Buyers from Hong Kong, China, and Singapore have been buying up property on Sydney's north shore, Thornhill writes. He lists three reasons why Australian markets are prime for foreign investors: 1. "Aussie real estate has proved a secure investment, while perennial favorites ‚Äì think U.S. shares and European bonds ‚Äì have been surprisingly volatile." 2. "Wealthy families are investing part of their portfolio offshore because of concerns about political stability or the sometimes arbitrary actions of government officials." 3. "Purchases are tied in with establishing a residency for a family member in a safe prosperous country like Australia." Enzo Figueres/ Getty Images4. London Real estate price¬†jumped 10%¬†in October, and a new report from Deutsche Bank shows that much of that price growth has come from foreign investors. Russian and Eastern Europeans have lapped up some of the ultra-pricey homes ‚Äî considered a "safer" investment than other assets. In fact, now that foreign buyers comprise 70% of all newly-built property sales in central London,¬†Britain is considering¬†a capital gains tax on foreign property investors.
So super that producers have cratered prices for their product amid a wash of new supply coming on from shale plays around the country.And to the south there‚Äôs Mexico, whose petroleum industry has squandered its cash (or had the cash squandered for it by the wider federal government). To the point where a lack of reinvestment in producing infrastructure has cratered production by 15% since 2008. At a time when politicians are desperate to move away from expensive oil-fired generation for electricity.The obvious solution to both problems being a few short miles of pipeline to redirect ample U.S. gas supplies south and ample Mexican gas prices north.But this is far from just a satisfying economics exercise. If U.S. natgas exports to Mexico can indeed be achieved at scale, it could represent one of the biggest investible opportunities of the decade.‚ÄúAt scale‚Äù is exactly the plan right now. At least six new or expanded export projects are on the books, with capacity to send an additional 3.5 billion cubic feet per day of gas to Mexico. Doubling current export capacity.These added flows could bring total US-Mexico exports to several billion cubic feet per day. Eating up 5 to 10% of total U.S. gas production. That‚Äôs a slug of new demand big enough to push prices higher quickly. Which would crate investment opportunities in both the commodity itself, and the shares of U.S. gas producers who would see profits soar.It will thus pay to know if and when the Mexican export boom is going down. Which means watching a few key indicators‚Äîboxes that if ticked will tell us it‚Äôs time to go long gas and the U.S. E&amp;P sector.Below are four critical issues that will shape the fate of U.S.-to-Mexico gas trade‚Äîand signal when the time is right for this mega-trade.Regulators approving export pipelinesOne of the major questions around exports is the permitting process. Several new U.S. pipelines are needed to move gas to the Mexcian border for export‚Äîand those developments require regulatory approval. A step that is proving challenging for other export outlets like LNG.But just last month, we got some positive indications on the permitting front. The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) gave tentative approval to the Sierrita gas export pipeline in Arizona, being built by El Paso Natural Gas. FERC gave the pipeline a more-or-less clean pass‚Äînoting only a few environment issues that could be brought to ‚Äúless-than-significant levels‚Äù through proper handling by El Paso.Crucially, FERC avoided some semantic pitfalls that could have complicated the approvals process. There was some push for environmental approval to cover not just pipelines on U.S. soil but also end-use Mexican power plants taking gas exports. Such extra-territorial consideration seems odd, but it has happened.FERC however, decided solidly against blowing up the scale of the Sierrita approval. The agency noted that, ‚ÄúThere is no jurisdictional basis for the Commission to approve, mitigate or reject any of the Mexico facilities.‚Äù This greatly simplifies the permitting process. Setting the stage for easier approvals of additional export projects going forward.Gas buyers getting testyEnvironmental approvals are not the only part of the permitting process for would-be gas exporters. Firms building new export lines will also have to deal with potential objections from local gas users in the U.S.That‚Äôs because FERC is also tasked with ruling on the need for export projects. Project operators must therefore make their case in demonstrating how their gas exports will help the overall market. The Commission will then have to decide if these projects are in the best interest of the American energy sector and the public.A battle looks to be brewing on this front. This summer, one of the largest U.S. gas-fired power generators Calpine (NYSE: CPN) filed a motion to intervene in the approval of one major Mexican export project.In filing the intervention, Calpine noted that ‚Äúthe terms and conditions for natural gas service to [Calpine] may be affected by the outcome of this proceeding.‚Äù Certainly true if a big rise in gas exports to Mexico triggers price increases‚Äîthus making Calpine‚Äôs fuel of choice more expensive, and reducing the company‚Äôs operating profits.With gas-fired power growing rapidly in the U.S., such opposition could become a force to be reckoned with. In September, speakers from the power sector at the Marcellus Shale Coalition's Insight 2013 conference in Philadelphia noted that gas demand in the American power sector is likely to grow even faster than most experts are projecting. In fact, one consultant said that new environmental regulations in America have made natgas the ‚Äúonly new baseload option that is economically viable.‚ÄùThis is likely to create a rapidly-growing lobby that doesn‚Äôt want to see U.S. gas go anywhere but into domestic power plants.Building major pipeline arteriesSeveral planned export projects will tie into Mexican pipelines that don‚Äôt yet exist. This includes the above-mentioned Sierrita pipe, which is planned to connect with the Sasabe-Guaymas pipeline--a 338 mile pipe that will take gas to power plants near the towns of Puerto Libertad and Guaymas, located west of Chihuahua on the Gulf of California.The only problem is that the Sasabe-Guaymas pipeline is currently only a concept. It‚Äôs supposed to be built by an affiliate of Sempra Energy.While this line looks like it will go ahead (the tender is already complete), other key parts of the Mexican natural gas infrastructure are less certain. Earlier this month, the Mexican government released a tender for the 740 kilometre Ramones pipeline‚Äîdesigned to connect the new Sempra-built line further into the industrial heartland of north-central Mexico.But the project fell over when only one company bid for the construction. This is a major set-back for a key part of Mexico‚Äôs gas infrastructure. The price tag for the project‚Äîat $3.3 billion‚Äîcould make it tough for the government to go it alone without private-sector help. Thus endangering a key piece of the Mexican pipeline network‚Äîand raising the risk that new U.S. pipelines may end up being a ‚Äúbridge to nowhere.‚Äù¬†Mexican demand growth actually appearingAnother key risk is whether Mexican gas demand will in fact materialize at all.On the surface, the situation looks promising in this regard. Overall Mexican gas demand has been surging‚Äînearly doubling over the last 15 years. At the same time, weak production has led to a gap between supply and demand of at least 500 billion cubic feet yearly, according to estimates from the U.S. Energy Information Administration.That gap however, could be filled by imports of just 1 to 2 billion cubic feet per day‚Äîwell within capacity for existing export pipelines.The rush to build new export capacity is being driven mainly by expectations that gas use will increase in northern Mexico. Driven by plans from state-owned power generator CFE to switch the bulk of power plants in this region from fuel oil to natgas.The economic driver for CFE‚Äôs switch to gas is certainly real. The utility is running big losses ($474 million in the third quarter of this year alone), mainly due to high fuel-oil costs at its generation facilities.But constructing or even converting a fleet of power plants is costly and time-consuming. It‚Äôs notable that little of this switching has yet begun. Creating considerable uncertainty over how much demand will actually be there by the time gas starts flowing into export pipelines. By Dave Forest, of¬†Oil &amp; Energy Insider, a premium publication that gives subscribers an information advantage when investing, trading, or doing business in the energy sectors. Regulators are finally cracking down on manipulations and fraud in the capital and commodity markets. So timing is perfect for four traders from the NYMEX to sue BP, Shell, Statoil, and Vitol Group for collusion and manipulating Brent oil trades to fix reported prices. Read....¬†What You Need to Know about the Latest Oil Trading¬†Scandal. Read more posts on Testosterone Pit ¬ª
The evolution of the Chinese economy has arguably been the most important economic story of the last several decades. As the world's second biggest economy matures, it has been increasingly becoming one driven by consumption rather than manufactured exports. This more recent trend is demonstrated perfectly by the retail success of China's Single's Day, a sort of anti-Valentine's Day. Bloomberg TV's Scarlett Fu shared this chart comparing Alibaba.com's Single's Day sales and U.S. Cyber Monday sales. Cyber Monday, which is the Monday following Black Friday when American's rush to take advantage of online holiday shopping deals, was eclipsed by Single's Day last year. This year is expected to be even bigger. Bloomberg Television
APTwitter CEO Dick CostoloTraders trying to work out the future of Twitter shouldn't be looking at the front end of the site, but behind the scenes. In the last couple of years, Twitter has built all the infrastructure it needs to be able to flick a switch and increase its revenue almost instantly. That's good news for users as well as shareholders: if Twitter's front end already contains all the hooks it needs to turn it into a profitable company, then the sudden much-feared increase in advertising on the site might never materialise. "We are expecting Twitter ad revenues to grow significantly over the next 12 months without the need for Twitter to make any substantial changes," says Matt Wheeler, the chief executive of digital marketing firm Driftrock¬†which has been experimenting with different strategies for building revenue via Twitter. Wheeler sees three major events that will drive up Twitter's ad revenue without the site needing to substantially change its image to users. The first is the fact that adoption of the mobile web is hampering Twitter's value to advertisers. While businesses still have clunky, desktop-only sites, the return on investment spent on Twitter adverts is going to stay low. "With Twitter mobile usage at 80%, once businesses catch up with the mobile revolution Twitter‚Äôs ad products become viable for far more companies," says Wheeler. There's no point in advertising to users who can't take action if they click through to the site. The second is that Twitter has changed the focus of the sort of ad products it produces. "Twitter‚Äôs initial portfolio of ad products focused on brand advertising, but they have begun releasing ad products designed for direct response like Twitter‚Äôs Lead Cards," Wheeler explains. Brand advertising is the Twitter equivalent of John Lewis' annual Christmas adverts. It's designed to build awareness of companies and their brands, but not necessarily lead directly to sales. That means it's the province of brands with deep pockets: perfect for a company trying to get a bit of early revenue, but not the makings of a balanced diet. The company's new Lead Cards are of more interest to the small and medium businesses who currently don't bother with much Twitter advertising. They let advertisers ask for users' email from within Twitter, letting them follow up with direct adverts as and when they have something to sell. Wheeler predicts that "as more advertisers see returns from direct response, revenues are likely to scale fast". The biggest potential gains for Twitter are the ones that can be had by just flicking a switch. At some point soon the company will roll out self-service ad buying in territories other than the US. Currently, only American businesses can sign up and purchase ads with just a credit card and an online dashboard, but once that changes, a whole new segment of the market opens up. Twitter would still need a small outlay to enable payment processing in further territories, but once it happens we "should see fast growth in ad revenues as [small and medium] advertisers join the party", Wheeler argues. And advertisers will be likely to join the party in droves. Some of Driftrock's clients have found customer acquisition costs drop to single-digit pounds with the use of Twitter¬†‚Äì¬†and even overtake Google Adwords as the main way of getting new business. But the crucial aspect of these changes for users is that none of them will result in a drastically changed experience. The same ads will be where they always have been, but they'll be sold for more at the back-end, and offer more options to the user at the front. That's small comfort for people turned off by the company's last major pre-IPO alteration ‚Äì inline image previews. Those are here to stay. But Twitter's future isn't necessarily as ad-laden as we might have feared. ‚Ä¢ On the day of their IPO, Twitter "were overly cautious and it cost them some money" This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoEmpty coffins lie on a street near houses damaged after super Typhoon Haiyan battered Tacloban city, central Philippines November 10, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
On Sunday '60 Minutes' ¬†detailed the video revolution brought about by GoPro cameras, which allow a person to record video anywhere. GoPro¬†CEO¬†Nick¬†Woodman¬†told Anderson Cooper on '60 Minutes'¬†that¬†the world's best-selling camera was created so that surfers could record themselves looking good on the waves but became a necessity for people who wanted footage of themselves. "Before GoPro, if you want to have any video of yourself doing anything, you not only needed another human being and if you wanted to the footage to be good, then you needed that other human being to have skill with he camera," Woodman said. "The result was that most people never had any footage of themselves doing anything." It has become the camera of choice of adventurists, actions athletes, and home video aficionados all over the world. And no wonder, given some of these shots: CBS  CBS CBS CBSCBSCBS Woodman goes on to talk about his first failed venture ‚Äî a tech startup called FunBug.com ‚Äî as well as the moment he realized that GoPro needed "to go from a wrist-camera company to being an everything camera company." Check out the report: 
This was spotted in a Hong Kong pre-school. @sanchanta
REUTERS/Pablo SanchezLast week, the ECB stunned markets by cutting interest rates. Now the question is being asked: Are we about to see a big, new wave of central bank easing? SocGen economist Klaus Baader identified this question as the #1 thing on clients' minds right now. In his note last night, he wrote: ...the ECB is not the only developed economy central bank that we suspect will move to an even more expansionary stance. Although the series of upside surprises in economic data releases in the US recently ‚Äì such as PMI/ISMs, GDP, and crowned by Friday‚Äôs strong payrolls ‚Äì has increased the risk of an earlier taper, we believe forward guidance could be used by the Fed to signal that policy will remain ultra-loose for considerably longer than currently indicated. As regards tapering, although the recent data suggest that the US economy has been remarkably and surprisingly little affected by the government shutdown in the first half of October, we put the chances of tapering beginning in December at still less than 50%. But the chances of tapering beginning before March are clearly rising, and the 15bp surge in 10- year US government bond yields to the highest level since September, clearly reflect that this is the general perception. However, while the announcement of tapering and an eventual end to the Fed‚Äôs asset purchases will signal that the policy stance is at last stabilizing rather than being loosened continually, we suspect that the forward guidance could be shifted substantially. Specifically, a recent research paper from the Fed opened the door to a possible change in the unemployment threshold which will trigger the start to normalization of the Fed funds rate, currently 6.5%. The implication would be that the rate hiking cycle in the US would start considerably later than currently anticipated ‚Äì our current forecast is mid-2015. In other words, policy would be loose for longer. We also believe that the Bank of Japan is likely to add to its current, highly-aggressive monetary policy easing sometime next year, mainly to support government efforts to minimize the contractionary effects of the consumption tax hike. In short, it looks as if developed economies‚Äô central banks will unleash further monetary easing on their economies and hence the global economy. Continuing on this theme, Josh Brown writes about the obvious implication of all this central bank activity: In hindsight, buying stocks seems like the obvious reaction to all of this stimulus coming from everywhere at once, does it not? Three years ago I started thinking about the tsunami the Fed was sending toward the stock market. In october 2010, I talked about how "the more agile among us may want to start paddling their surfboards in front of the right wave now." It took a year from there before the wave could be spotted offshore in the form of QE2, but ever since then... The lesson here is one you've already heard before - don't fight the Fed and especially don't fight every Fed around the world when they begin to ease all at once. If the entities in control of trillions of dollars all want asset prices to be higher at the same time, what the hell else should you be positioning for? Read Josh's full post here &gt;
REUTERS/khamenei.irIran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei attends Friday prayers at Tehran University February 3, 2012.(Reuters) - The 82-year-old Iranian woman keeps the documents that upended her life in an old suitcase near her bed. She removes them carefully and peers at the tiny Persian script. There's the court order authorizing the takeover of her children's three Tehran apartments in a multi-story building the family had owned for years. There's the letter announcing the sale of one of the units. And there's the notice demanding she pay rent on her own apartment on the top floor. Pari Vahdat-e-Hagh ultimately lost her property. It was taken by an organization that is controlled by the most powerful man in Iran: Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. She now lives alone in a cramped, three-room apartment in Europe, thousands of miles from Tehran. The Persian name of the organization that hounded her for years is "Setad Ejraiye Farmane Hazrate Emam" ‚Äî Headquarters for Executing the Order of the Imam. The name refers to an edict signed by the Islamic Republic's first leader, Ayatollah¬†Ruhollah Khomeini, shortly before his death in 1989. His order spawned a new entity to manage and sell properties abandoned in the chaotic years after the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Setad¬†has become one of the most powerful organizations in Iran, though many Iranians, and the wider world, know very little about it. In the past six years, it has morphed into a business juggernaut that now holds stakes in nearly every sector of Iranian industry, including finance, oil, telecommunications, the production of birth-control pills and even ostrich farming. The organization's total worth is difficult to pinpoint because of the secrecy of its accounts. But Setad's holdings of real estate, corporate stakes and other assets total about $95 billion, Reuters has calculated. That estimate is based on an analysis of statements by Setad officials, data from the¬†Tehran¬†Stock Exchange and company websites, and information from the U.S. Treasury Department. Just one person controls that economic empire ‚Äî Khamenei. As Iran's top cleric, he has the final say on all governmental matters. His purview includes his nation's controversial nuclear program, which was the subject of intense negotiations between Iranian and international diplomats in Geneva that ended Sunday without an agreement. It is Khamenei who will set Iran's course in the nuclear talks and other recent efforts by the new president, Hassan Rouhani, to improve relations with Washington. The supreme leader's acolytes praise his spartan lifestyle, and point to his modest wardrobe and a threadbare carpet in his¬†Tehran¬†home. Reuters found no evidence that Khamenei is tapping Setad to enrich himself. But Setad has empowered him. Through Setad, Khamenei has at his disposal financial resources whose value rivals the holdings of the shah, the Western-backed monarch who was overthrown in 1979. How Setad came into those assets also mirrors how the deposed monarchy obtained much of its fortune - by confiscating real estate. A six-month Reuters investigation has found that Setad built its empire on the systematic seizure of thousands of properties belonging to ordinary Iranians: members of religious minorities like Vahdat-e-Hagh, who is Baha'i, as well as Shi'ite Muslims, business people and Iranians living abroad. Setad has amassed a giant portfolio of real estate by claiming in Iranian courts, sometimes falsely, that the properties are abandoned. The organization now holds a court-ordered monopoly on taking property in the name of the supreme leader, and regularly sells the seized properties at auction or seeks to extract payments from the original owners. The supreme leader also oversaw the creation of a body of legal rulings and executive orders that enabled and safeguarded¬†Setad's asset acquisitions. "No supervisory organization can question its property," said Naghi Mahmoudi, an Iranian lawyer who left Iran in 2010 and now lives in Germany. Khamenei's grip on Iran's politics and its military forces has been apparent for years. The investigation into Setad shows that there is a third dimension to his power: economic might. The revenue stream generated by Setad helps explain why Khamenei has not only held on for 24 years but also in some ways has more control than even his revered predecessor. Setad gives him the financial means to operate independently of parliament and the national budget, insulating him from Iran's messy factional infighting. Washington has acknowledged¬†Setad's importance. In June, the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on Setad and some of its corporate holdings, calling the organization "a massive network of front companies hiding assets on behalf of ‚Ä¶ Iran's leadership." The companies generate billions of dollars in revenue a year, the department stated, but it did not offer a detailed accounting. The Iranian president's office and the foreign ministry didn't respond to requests for comment.¬†Iran's embassy in the United Arab Emirates issued a statement calling Reuters' findings "scattered and disparate" and said that "none has any basis." It didn't elaborate. Setad's director general of public relations,¬†Hamid Vaezi, said by email in response to a detailed description of this series that the information presented is "far from realities and is not correct." He didn't go into specifics. In a subsequent message, he said¬†Setad¬†disputes the Treasury's allegations and is "in the process of retaining U.S. counsel to address this matter." He added: "This communication puts you on notice that any action by your organization could prejudice our dispute in the¬†United States¬†and harm our position for which we hold you responsible." When Khomeini, the first supreme leader, set in motion the creation of¬†Setad, it was only supposed to manage and sell properties "without owners" and direct much of the proceeds to charity.¬†Setad¬†was to use the funds to assist war veterans, war widows "and the downtrodden." According to one of its co-founders,¬†Setad¬†was to operate for no more than two years. Setad¬†has built schools, roads and health clinics, and provided electricity and water in rural and impoverished areas. It has assisted entrepreneurs in development projects. But philanthropy is just a small part of¬†Setad's overall operations. Under¬†Khamenei's control,¬†Setad¬†began acquiring property for itself, and kept much of the funds rather than simply redistributing them. With those revenues, the organization also helps to fund the ultimate seat of power in Iran, the Beite Rahbar, or Leader's House, according to a former¬†Setad¬†employee and other people familiar with the matter. The first supreme leader, Khomeini, had a small staff. To run the country today,¬†Khamenei¬†employs about 500 people in his administrative offices, many recruited from the military and security services. A complete picture of¬†Setad's spending and income isn't possible. Its books are off limits even to Iran's legislative branch. In 2008, the¬†Iranian Parliament¬†voted to prohibit itself from monitoring organizations that the supreme leader controls, except with his permission. But Reuters has put together the fullest account yet of the organization's holdings. They include: * A giant property portfolio The head of¬†Setad's real-estate division said at a ceremony in 2008 that the unit was worth about $52 billion. The value of Iran's currency has plunged since then, while property values have soared. The property portfolio has also changed, so its current value is hard to establish. Setad¬†regularly conducts large auctions of its real estate - at least 59 to date, according to a review of Iranian newspaper advertisements and auction websites. One recent auction took place in May, when nearly 300 properties went on the block - including houses, stores, tracts of farmland and even a spa-and-pool complex in Tehran. The required opening bids totaled about $88 million, based on the official exchange rate that month. * An investment unit worth tens of billions of dollars In June, the U.S. Treasury Department sanctioned¬†Setad¬†and 37 companies it controls over the organization's alleged role in "assisting the¬†Iranian Government's circumvention of U.S. and international sanctions." The Treasury also said¬†Setad¬†played a role in "generating revenue for the Iranian leadership," and that one of its investment companies alone was worth about $40 billion in late 2010. But the June action covered just part of¬†Setad's corporate holdings. According to a Treasury spokesman, sanctions only apply to subsidiaries if the targeted entity "owns 50 percent or more of a company." In practice,¬†Setad¬†controls many businesses in which it holds very small stakes. Reuters identified at least 24 public companies in which¬†Setad¬†‚Äî or a company it invested in ‚Äî held less than 50 percent. Those holdings that are publicly traded are worth more than $3.4 billion, Reuters calculated. That figure includes about $3 billion¬†Setad paid in 2009 for a stake in Iran's largest telecommunications firm. Reuters also identified 14 companies¬†Setad¬†has invested in ‚Äî directly or through other companies ‚Äî that couldn't be valued because they are not publicly traded. All told, Reuters was able to identify about $95 billion in property and corporate assets controlled by¬†Setad. That amount is roughly 40 percent bigger than the country's total oil exports last year. It also surpasses independent historians' estimates of the late shah's wealth. After toppling the monarchy, the Islamic Republic filed suit in the¬†United States¬†against the shah and his wife, Farah Pahlavi, claiming they had stolen $35 billion in Iranian funds, according to court records. In today's dollars, that sum would be worth about $79 billion. The suit was dismissed. Abbas Milani, director of the Iranian Studies program at¬†Stanford University¬†who wrote a biography of the shah published in 2011, told Reuters he believes the estimate of the shah's fortune was "extremely exaggerated." He said the monarch led a truly opulent lifestyle - including owning an automobile collection that may have included 120 fancy vehicles. But, he wrote in the biography: "Those most likely to know estimate the Shah's fortune to be close to a billion dollars." With inflation, that would equal about $3 billion in today's money, a fraction of the worth of¬†Setad's holdings. Setad¬†officials have offered two justifications for their property activities: that the assets were acquired legitimately, and part of the profits go to charity. In an interview in April with the Iranian reformist newspaper¬†Shargh,¬†Ali Ashraf Afkhami, who was identified as the head of¬†Tadbir Economic Development Group¬†- the main unit that handles¬†Setad's financial investments ‚Äî called the organization a "custodian" of "property without owners," and suggested that none had been confiscated. He also described the way¬†Setad¬†had accumulated its real estate as nothing unusual. "Imagine that a property or piece of land has been left behind by someone after their death without any heirs or, for example, property that has been freed by customs but remains without an owner," he said. "These properties must be managed somehow. If the lack of ownership is confirmed through the order of the court, then the property is given to¬†Setad." "Like I said," he added, "everywhere in the world systems have been created to take control of property or pieces of land that have no owners and the profits are put toward activities for the public good." Charities have played an important role in the Islamic Republic.¬†Setad¬†controls a charity. Other charitable trusts, known as "bonyads," served as a vital safety net during and after the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq War, assisting disabled veterans, widows and orphans, and the poor. According to the son of one slain soldier,¬†Bonyad Shahid¬†(Martyrs Foundation) provided his and other families' accommodation, wages and household items. A list of current veteran services on its website includes discount airplane tickets, technical training and the installation of wheelchair lifts on vehicles. Setad, however, is a much broader operation than these foundations. It's unclear how much of its revenue goes to philanthropy. Iranians whose properties have been seized by¬†Setad, as well as lawyers who have handled such cases, dispute the argument that the organization is acting in the public interest. They described to Reuters what amounts to a methodical moneymaking scheme in which¬†Setad¬†obtains court orders under false pretenses to seize properties, and later pressures owners to buy them back or pay huge fees to recover them. "The people who request the confiscation ... introduce themselves as on the side of the Islamic Republic, and try to portray the person whose property they want confiscated as a bad person, someone who is against the revolution, someone who was tied to the old regime," said¬†Hossein Raeesi, a human-rights attorney who practiced in Iran for 20 years and handled some property confiscation cases. "The atmosphere there is not fair." Ross K. Reghabi, an Iranian lawyer in¬†Beverly Hills,¬†California, said the only hope to recover anything is to pay off well-connected agents in Iran. "By the time you pay off everybody, it comes to 50 percent" of the property's value, said Reghabi, who says he has handled 11 property confiscation cases involving¬†Setad. An Iranian Shi'ite Muslim businessman now living abroad, who asked to remain anonymous because he still travels to Iran, said he attempted two years ago to sell a piece of land near¬†Tehran¬†that his family had long owned. Local authorities informed him that he needed a "no objection letter" from¬†Setad. The businessman said he visited¬†Setad's local office and was required to pay a bribe of several hundred dollars to the clerks to locate his file and expedite the process. He said he then was told he had to pay a fee, because¬†Setad had "protected" his family's land from squatters for decades. He would be assessed between 2 percent and 2.5 percent of the property's value for every year. Setad¬†sent an appraiser to determine the property's current worth. The appraisal came in at $90,000. The protection fee, he said, totaled $50,000. The businessman said he balked, arguing there was no evidence¬†Setad¬†had done anything to protect the land. He said the¬†Setad¬†representatives wouldn't budge on the amount but offered to facilitate the transaction by selling the land itself to recover its fee. He said he hired a lawyer who advised him to pay the fee, which he reluctantly did last year. This was not the only encounter the businessman's family has had with¬†Setad. He said his sister, who lives in Tehran, recently told him that¬†Setad¬†representatives had gone door-to-door at her apartment complex, demanding occupants show the deeds for their units. Several other Iranians whose family properties were taken over by¬†Setad¬†described in interviews how men showed up and threatened to use violence if the owners didn't leave the premises at once. One man said he had been told how an elderly family member had stood by distraught as workmen carried out all of the furniture from her home. According to this account, she sat down on a carpet, refused to move and pleaded, "What can I do? Where can I go?" "Then they reached down, lifted her up on the carpet and took her out." Several Iranian foundations, such as Bonyad Mostazafan (The Foundation of the Oppressed), also have been granted legal authority to confiscate certain properties. Those organizations generally are open about the practice, listing their names and logos in real-estate advertisements.¬†Setad's role in confiscations is more hidden. Neither¬†Setad's logo nor its full name appear in newspaper advertisements listing upcoming auctions. Instead, the organization uses a vague title that doesn't make clear the seller is connected to¬†Setad. A call by a reporter to one of the phone numbers listed in an advertisement in May for property in the northeastern city of¬†Mashhad¬†was greeted by a recording that said: "You have reached¬†Setad¬†Ejraiye Farmane Hazrate Emam." Many of the newspaper ads found by Reuters also referred readers to a website for further information. That site doesn't contain¬†Setad's proper name either. Internet website ownership records show that the site, which lists auctions for many types of confiscated goods - including boats, motorcycles, flat-screen televisions, automobiles and even fertilizer - is registered to an office in¬†Tehran. When a reporter called it, the person who answered confirmed it was¬†Setad's office. Some of the properties under¬†Setad's control were confiscated from religious minorities, including members of the Baha'i faith, a religion founded in Iran that is seen as heretical by the Islamic Republic. Baha'is are a persecuted religious group in Iran, with some followers blocked from jobs and universities. Baha'i shops and cemeteries also have been vandalized. Figures compiled by the¬†United Nations¬†office of the Baha'i International Community, a non-governmental organization, show that¬†Setad¬†was occupying 73 properties seized from its members as of 2003, the most recent data available. The real estate was then worth about $11 million. That figure captured only a fraction of the value of Baha'i properties taken by¬†Setad. Not on the list were several that belonged to a Baha'i named Aminullah Katirai. According to his daughter,¬†Heideh Katirai, who now lives in Toronto,¬†Setad¬†has been pursuing her family's property for more than two decades. Her father owned a house and land around the city of¬†Hamedan¬†in¬†northwest Iran, she said. In the early 1990s,Setad¬†confiscated about 750 hectares (1,853 acres) ‚Äî the family's entire land holdings in the area. Court records documenting the property seizures that were reviewed by Reuters claim Katirai had collaborated with the prior government of the shah. Katirai's daughter says her father never had any ties to the shah's government. He tried to appeal to government authorities: He wrote a letter to a parliamentary commission in 1993 stating he was being targeted solely because of his religion. In a response seen by Reuters, a commission representative cited Article 13 of Iran's constitution, which says that only Zoroastrians, Jews and Christians are recognized as religious minorities and have the right to practice their religion within the limits of the law. "The Baha'i faith is not among religion minorities," a translation of the letter stated. The commission refused to consider his case. Setad¬†did not stop there. According to his daughter,¬†Setad¬†representatives showed up several years later at a three-story building her family had owned in central¬†Tehran¬†for 44 years. At the time, Katirai lived on the ground floor, and the upper floors were rented out. According to his daughter, the¬†Setad¬†representatives claimed the building's owner had left the country and had abandoned it. Katirai told the¬†Setad¬†representatives repeatedly that he owned the building. They left, but¬†Setad soon began court proceedings to take it over. In 2008, Katirai died. For the past five years,¬†Setad¬†has been trying to evict the tenants, including Katirai's son, producing court notices and threatening fines. "Each corner of that house is a memory for us," said Katirai's daughter. "I took my kids there every Friday to see the family." "What has my family done to deserve this kind of treatment?" she asked. "We know that Islam is a religion of peace. But how can a government that claims to be an¬†Islamic government¬†allow this to happen?" Mohammad Nayyeri, a lawyer who worked in Iran until 2010 and now lives in Britain, said he handled a case involving¬†Setad¬†in which a Muslim man's house had been confiscated in part based on rumors that he had converted to the Baha'i faith and had ties with the monarchy. The man - Nayyeri declined to name him because he still has family in Iran - relocated to the¬†United States¬†soon after the 1979 revolution. The new government seized the man's home, in a wealthy¬†Tehran¬†neighborhood. "The Baha'i rumor was one of the triggers of this," Nayyeri said. "They found that this house is empty and the owner had left the country so they came and seized the place." Around 1990, the property was given to¬†Setad, which sold it at auction. Nayyeri said that in 2008, the owner's son contacted him. By then, the man had died. The son ‚Äî who told the lawyer his father had never converted to the Baha'i faith and had no ties to the monarchy ‚Äî wanted to clear his name and try to recover the house. Nayyeri said he lodged a complaint against¬†Setad¬†and the current owner and successfully challenged the original confiscation. He ultimately obtained a judicial order that the property be returned to the son. But¬†Setad¬†refused to give it back unless the son offered a "khoms," a religious payment mandated under Islamic law, Nayyeri said. It totaled $50,000 ‚Äî 20 percent of the property's assessed value. According to the lawyer, the son had no choice, and paid it. Reghabi, the Iranian lawyer based in¬†California, said he, too, won a number of property seizure cases involving Setad. But he said no case was simple - the hurdles involved not only untangling a property's ownership and challenging decades-old court decrees, but also identifying and paying off people with connections to the key decision maker. "The real stuff is what goes on behind the doors," he said. "You have to find the right person." Reghabi said his clients were responsible for paying the various fees, which were all "subject to negotiation" and could reach millions of dollars. He added that he always advised clients whose properties had been sold by¬†Setad¬†to try to recover some of the sale proceeds in cash. "That is my advice to them - don't try and be stupid and get your property back." The case of Vahdat-e-Hagh, who is Baha'i, involved several Iranian organizations over the years, but none was more relentless than¬†Setad, she said. She said her troubles began in 1981 when her husband, Hussein, began working for a company called Asan Gas that had been set up in part to assist unemployed members of the faith. In September 1981, he was arrested and imprisoned in¬†Tehran. According to Vahdat-e-Hagh, after five months, a cleric from a court sentenced him to death, with no chance to appeal. He was executed in February 1982. "He was shot with nine bullets," she said, her voice cracking. To protest her husband's execution, she began writing letters to senior government officials, including¬†Khamenei, then Iran's president. In 1985, she said, she was jailed for three months. Her protests continued, including a call to¬†Khamenei's office. "I kept begging them to tape my voice, to take my message to¬†Khamenei," she said. Instead, she said, the clerk recorded the conversation and turned the tape over to the intelligence ministry. The widow's account of what happened next is supported by legal notices and official correspondence seen by Reuters. A court later ordered the confiscation of her family's apartments in an affluent area of north¬†Tehran. Her children were out of the country at the time and the court order accused them of proselytizing the Baha'i faith abroad, she said. Two Iranian foundations pressed Vahdat-e-Hagh to turn over her properties to them. She refused, and both eventually dropped the matter, she said. Then, in November 1991,¬†Setad¬†entered the picture. Another court authorized it to confiscate the family's properties in¬†Tehran¬†and the southern city of¬†Shiraz. According to Vahdat-e-Hagh,¬†Setad¬†representatives came to her apartment and threatened to beat her if she did not leave. "One even had his fist balled up one time to punch me," she said. "I told them, ‚ÄòYou can come and kill me.'" In January 1992,¬†Setad¬†wrote to the property registry office requesting that the names of Vahdat-e-Hagh's children be removed from the deeds to their apartments. A year later,¬†Setad¬†sent a letter to Vahdat-e-Hagh offering to sell her one of the units. Setad¬†ultimately sold the apartment to an official from¬†Tehran's revolutionary court, she said, who flipped it within a month for a quick profit.¬†Setad¬†later sold three more apartments that belonged to her two other children and late husband. In the fall of 1993, Vahdat-e-Hagh quietly left Iran, telling only a few friends and relatives. It took six years before Setad¬†authorities realized she was no longer living in her apartment, which she had been renting out. In a letter in November 1999,¬†Setad¬†offered to sell her own apartment to her at a discount. She refused. It then demanded she pay rent on the unit. She refused again. The organization eventually sold it. Vahdat-e-Hagh said she later telephoned the new buyer. "This was my property and my family's property that was built with the blood of myself and my husband," she said she told the man. She said he offered her some money, which out of principle she refused. Today, the building appears to be vacant, except for a business on a lower level. Merchants in the neighborhood said the property's present ownership isn't clear and the building may be under the control of an Islamic organization. On the top floor, where Vahdat-e-Hagh once lived, most of the windows are broken. Next, Part 2: National Champion: How¬†Setad¬†became a corporate giant (Additional reporting by Humeyra Pamuk in¬†Ankara; Edited by Michael Williams and¬†Simon Robinson)
With the booming financial sector and incredibly pricey property market, London is on a tear again. The rest of the UK? Not so much. Chris Williamson of Markit just tweeted this great map which breaks down economic activity by region. As you can see, London's business activity as it a 201-month high! Other Southern, nearby regions are similarly smoking. But get out of the South and head to the Northwest (4-month low) or Scotland (3-month low) and you have a very different story. Chris Williamson, Markit
Monday was "Single's Day" in China. What's Single's Day you ask? Our Haley Peterson described it last week as essentially a protest to Valentine's Day. Instead of celebrating your love, you celebrate being single. It started in the 1990s. And like all holidays, it's now become a gigantic excuse for shopping and sales. In fact, it's the single biggest one-day online shopping day anywhere in the world. Xinhua.com describes the activity this year: Taobao.com, a key sales platform under Alibaba Group, operator of China's biggest e-commerce platforms, launched a shopping festival on its consumer-oriented platform, Tmall.com, highlighting big discounts on Singles' Day. Journalists from more than 200 news outlets waited at the data broadcast hall of the company's headquarters in east China's Hangzhou City early Monday morning to witness its sales data soaring on a huge electronic screen. The applause roared as revenues topped 10 billion yuan at 6 a.m., when more than 100 million consumers had placed orders via the online portal. On the same day last year, it took 13 hours for the company's sales to top the 10-billion RMB benchmark. Here's an image of the journalists watching online sales explode on a giant monitor. REUTERS/China Daily (Via @sardonicax)
REUTERS/Andrew Biraj DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) ‚Äî Garment workers demanding higher pay clashed with police and attacked factories on Monday in an industrial belt on the outskirts of Bangladesh's capital. The workers have rejected a proposed 5,300 takas ($66.25) monthly minimum wage, a raise by 77 percent. They demand 8,114 takas ($100) instead in place of 3,000 takas ($38) they currently get. A government-appointed panel voted last week to raise the minimum wage for millions of garment workers to about $66 a month ‚Äî still the lowest in the world. But factory owners have not endorsed it and urged the government to revise the proposed amount. They argue that the proposed amount for an unskilled newcomer would destroy the industry amid fiercely competitive global market. They say, if effective, their production cost would increase significantly while global brands bargain hard amid a protracted economic crisis in the West. The Ministry of Labor would still have to approve the proposed amount to make it a law. Bangladesh's burgeoning garment industry has come under global scrutiny for its often harsh and unsafe conditions after the collapse of an eight-story factory building killed more than 1,100 people in April. In another horrific case, a fire last November killed 112 workers. Mustafizur Rahman, director of the Industrial Police, said at least 100 factories were closed Monday in Ashulia and Savar areas to avoid further violence after the clash started in the morning. Rahman would not say if there were any injuries, but Somoy TV station says up to 30 people were injured. "The situation is under control now, but there is no chance to resume work in factories today (Monday)," he said. "We have remained alert." Another top police official of Dhaka district told The Associated Press by phone that they called in paramilitary border guards to aid police in the troubled areas as part of heightening security. The official spoke on condition of anonymity for safety reasons. Monday's chaos came amid a nationwide general strike enforced by the country's main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party and its 17 other allies to demand a caretaker government with people from outside political parties to oversee national elections due by early January. Monday was the second day of an 84-hour general strike that ends Wednesday. Despite disruptions during such strikes, authorities usually keep garment factories open to confirm shipment. At least 19 people have died and hundreds have been injured in similar opposition protests since Oct. 26. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina wants to form an all-party caretaker government to hold the eelctions, but Zia has refused the proposal and asked Hasina to resign to pave the way for forming a government in line with her formula. Hasina says she would go ahead with the plan to hold the elections by January taking other parties even if Zia does not come forward. Bangladesh, the world's second-largest garment manufacturing country after China, earns more than $20 billion a year from garment exports, mainly to the United States and Europe. The sector employs about 4 million workers, mostly women. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
This is definitely one of the sleeper stories in the economy right now. Gas just keeps getting cheaper and that's a form of stimulus to consumers. This chart, via Calculated Risk, shows gas near a 3-year low. Gasbuddy.com
Bryce Canyon National Park UtahGood morning and welcome to a new week! This is expected to be a pretty quiet week in the world of economics and markets. Earnings season is coming to an end. There's no major central bank meeting. And there isn't much economic data to key off of. Fittingly, markets are off to a quiet start this weekend. Across Europe stocks are down just slightly. Same with US futures. Japan, however, did stage a solid 1.3% rally.
