DETROIT (Reuters) - Detroit's emergency manager voiced confidence on Wednesday that the city could emerge from bankruptcy before his term expires in October 2014 and possibly without having to borrow more money. Even so,¬†Kevyn Orr, the bankruptcy expert who was appointed in March to a post that gives him almost unlimited power over Detroit's finances, warned that the path back to financial health will not be painless for Detroit's creditors. If the city wins court approval to proceed with the Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing it made last month, virtually all of the city's creditors will have payments on their bonds reduced, he said. "We may need a little bit of cash, or we may be able to stay cash-flow free-and-clear without borrowing anything for the purposes of the bankruptcy," Orr told Reuters in a wide-ranging interview. "The schedule we're on, we should be able to get this done in 14 months, so I don't anticipate a need for me to stay on." Detroit's bankruptcy has marked a new low for a city formerly renowned as the cradle of the U.S. auto industry and central to¬†America's role as the "arsenal of democracy" in World War Two. The city's population has fallen from its peak of 1.8 million people in 1950 to around 700,000 as manufacturing jobs moved elsewhere along with the white population. Financial mismanagement and political corruption have made things worse. The bankruptcy process is expected to be protracted and rough on creditors, who have been offered pennies on the dollar for the city's $18.5 billion in long-term debt. Orr said he anticipates "a lot of jousting" between creditors in federal bankruptcy court but warned that he expects virtually all the city's creditors, even investors in the city's general obligation bonds, will have to accept reduced payments as part of the bankruptcy process. "Most unsecured debt in bankruptcy gets a haircut," Orr said. "That's just what happens." General obligation bonds, which are backed by tax revenue, have long been considered the safest class of municipal debt. Michigan¬†Governor¬†Rick Snyder, a Republican, appointed Orr as emergency manager in March to tackle Detroit's financial crisis. In mid-July Snyder approved Orr's request to file for a Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy. 'DRAFT HORSE' Orr said his team of lawyers and advisers is seeking to make it through a grueling schedule in federal bankruptcy court at a pace viewed as aggressive by most outsiders. It would leave Orr little time to focus on corrupt practices in the city's past or on whether its borrowing was properly handled over the years. "I'm a draft horse with blinders on going uphill," he said. The emergency manager said he did not anticipate any form of bailout from the state of¬†Michigan¬†during the bankruptcy process but thinks there will be "a lot of state support upon exit (from bankruptcy), and I expect I'll probably recommend to the governor and the state that there be some additional legislative oversight." U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes is to rule on whether Detroit is eligible for Chapter 9 protection in a trial to begin on October 23. Orr expressed confidence the bankruptcy filing would be approved. Rhodes has ruled that the federal bankruptcy proceeding overrides challenges from retirees and pension funds to¬†Michigan's emergency manager law that started in state court. Orr said he believes he has legal arguments to overcome any effort to use state law to prevent the bankruptcy from going ahead. He said talks with Detroit's neighboring counties over the creation of a regional water and sewage authority were progressing well, with the suburbs keen on playing a role in the new authority. He ran through a long list of possible assets the city could sell, including its airport and parking meters. The city said on Monday that it had hired Christie's auction house to appraise the city-owned portion of the Detroit Institute of Art's 60,000-piece collection, a move Orr said was mostly to determine what exactly the collection contains. He left open the option of selling off some of the DIA's works. "Whether you have to sell grandma's heirloom china and your wedding silver is a big issue," Orr said. Detroit "shouldn't have to sell that stuff, but it's not a resolved issue by any measure." Orr also addressed one of the biggest concerns: what will happen to pension benefits for Detroit's public employees. The city's retirees outnumber the active workforce by more than two to one. "There are assets in both pension funds," he said. "So there's going to be pensions. The question becomes how do you divvy that up." Orr said current retirees in particular could argue they should receive more than younger workers who have decades left in their careers. "The guy or gal who's 35, they have a chance to go to defined contribution, get another job, get a second-job supplement, get married, handle their affairs," he said. "Frankly there's some validity to that kind of argument." 'ZERO' POLITICAL ASPIRATIONS If Detroit is found eligible for bankruptcy, the case will generate immense interest since there have been relatively few municipal bankruptcies over the past eight decades and none on the scale of Detroit's. When asked if he was concerned about the precedents Detroit might set, Orr said: "I'm a fiduciary for this city. I cannot be concerned about what dreams may come from the result of what we do." The emergency manager acknowledged that his mission was not a popular one. Orr's appointment has rendered the city's elected council largely powerless and critics have described him as a dictator. "I think a lot of Detroit residents will be very happy to see me go," he said. Still, he is not concerned for his safety. "I've been hung in effigy in several venues in my lifetime." Detroit held a primary on Tuesday that selected two mayoral candidates who will square off in a general election in November. Whoever wins is likely to take over once Orr leaves. He said both candidates for mayor seem to love the city and want to move forward. "I hopefully will leave them with a clean balance sheet - the first time in a long time for the city - (and) a more agile city government," he said. Asked whether he had had any political aspirations himself before being appointed or based on his experiences in Detroit since March, Orr said: "Zero. And after this, negative zero." (Additional reporting by David Greising, Deepa Seetharaman, Ben Klayman, Bernie Woodall, Paul Lienert and Joseph Lichterman; Editing by Leslie Adler and Prudence Crowther)
Shares of Fusion-IO are tanking in after-hours trading Wednesday night, thanks to disappointing quarterly results. Shares are down by about 19% to about $12. Fusion-IO reported revenue of $106.1 million, essentially flat from $106.6 million reported in the year-ago quarter. Analysts were expecting $110.2 million. Net loss was $23.8 million, or 3 cents a share, which met analysts expectations. The company makes enterprise storage drives based on flash, the same storage used in smartphones and thumb drives. It is known as the biggest of the enterprise flash companies, with¬†Facebook and Apple as customers. It's also known for employing Apple cofounder Steve Wozniak. This was the first earnings report for Fusion-IO's new CEO Shane Robison, who joined mid-quarter in May after the two cofounders, David Flynn (CEO) and Rick White (CMO), suddenly left the company. Robison's last job was as Chief Strategy Officer for HP, a post he left in October, 2011. The company blamed higher marketing costs and costs related to absorbing 60 employees from its acquisition of Colorado-based NexGen Storage, reports Reuters' Lehar Maan. The company now has about 940 employees. Fusion-IO was one of the most anticipated tech IPOs in 2011. But last month Forbes Nathan Vardi called the stock's performance a "debacle." He explained: "It went public in 2011 at a sky high multiple of 41 times the previous year‚Äôs sales, valuing the company at $1.48 billion. Fusion IO raised $233 million in the IPO by selling shares for $19 each and the shares jumped to as high as $39.60 in its first five months as a public company. Since then the shares have crashed."
Tesla reported its Q2 financial results today, and it shocked investors with a surprise profit. The stock surged 14% in after-hours trading. During the earnings conference call, Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas asked Tesla CEO Elon Musk for his thoughts on BMW's i3, the German automaker's latest electric car. It has a range of 80 to 100 miles and is priced at $41,350.† Immediately, Musk giggled. Then he answered, "I'm glad to see that BMW is bringing an electric car to market. That's cool. There's room to improve on the i3 and I hope that they do." There was more laughter in the background, which set Musk off. About 10 seconds later, Musk pulled himself together and finished answering the question. "I really do encourage other manufacturers to bring electric cars to market," he said.† "It's a good thing, and they need to bring it to market and keep iterating and improving and make better and better electric cars, and that's what going to result in humanity achieving a sustainable transport future. I wish it was growing faster than it is." Listen here:
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Hedge Fund Manager Paul Singer Doesn't Think Benchmarking Is Useful (HedgeFund Intelligence/Absolute Return) Paul Singer CEO of hedge fund Elliot Management Corporation thinks benchmarking isn't useful. In an investor letter he wrote, "the fact is that sometimes when we outperform another fund, their results should actually be viewed more favorably than ours because we should have done even better, and sometimes the opposite is true. "But as much as we sympathize with investors who want a basis for understanding when their managers are doing well or not, benchmarking is not helpful to us. We are proud of our very long-term consistent results obtained with an extremely low variability of return. That result is what really counts ó not what the other person is doing." How Advisors Can Help Wealthy Families With Estate Planning (The Wall Street Journal) There's often a gap between what high-net-worth family enterprises want from their estate planners and that they get, writes Amy Renkert-Thomas of Connecticut-based Withers Consulting Group in a WSJ column. There are a few things advisors can do to help bridge the gap.† "First, understand a client family's DNAñnot all families are the same. Advisers should start by talking about a family's mission and values, as well as the different attitudes and intentions of family members. It's also important to determine how individual family members differ in their involvement with the family enterprises. "ÖThere are also pieces of the estate planning puzzle specific to ultra-high-net-worth families. For example, some families use a lot of trusts and they don't always have the time to choose trustees effectively. So it's important to educate and help families think through their criteria for trustees." Why Investors Should Care About Mutual Funds Dropping Managers 'At An Alarming Clip' (U.S. News &amp; World Report) Mutual funds are shaking up their management teams and dropping managers "at an alarming clip" writes Ron Silverblatt at U.S. News and &amp; World. And mutual fund investors should care about the shake-up, according to Silverblatt. "First, a new manager can mean a change in a fund's strategy, which in turn can mean that a product that was once a good fit for an investor no longer belongs in that investor's portfolio." "On top of that, management has everything to do with fund performance. He points out a 2010 report by the United Kingdom's Pensions Institute which found "losing a top-decile manager results in a 1.44 percentage points lower performance in the following year compared with winner funds that keep their star manager." Here Are 4 Reasons Why Stock Market Volatility Will Make A Comeback In September (BlackRock) The VIX index which measures market volatility has declined in recent weeks. But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich thinks volatility will rear its ugly head again for 4 key reasons.† 1. September has historically been the worst month for stocks going back to 1896 and "this September swoon phenomenon extends beyond the United States." 2. "Anxiety over Fed tapering is likely to climb as we approach the Fedís September meeting. 3. ""Europe is likely to re-emerge as a source of volatility as Germany holds an important federal election in September. 4. The U.S. budget debate will pick up steam again.
The decision to spend on research &amp; development can be a tough one for corporate finance managers as they make budgeting decisions. However, you have to spend money to make money. And that's the conclusion of Goldman Sachs' Robert Boroujerdi and his team. In a new report titled, "The Search for Creative Destruction," the Goldman analysts examine the connection between R&amp;D spending, revenue growth, and stock price returns. "We review Technology, Internet and Biotech names currently in the NASDAQ 100 and find a strong correlation between R&amp;D and Sales Growth (8-year CAGR through 2012; R2 75%) and between the latter and stock price returns over this period (R2 71%)," they wrote. In effect, companies with strong R&amp;D spending also see the best stock returns. The relationship between sales growth and stock price gains may already be intuitive. But it's interesting to see the the connection made to R&amp;D, which is an expense. "In our view, R&amp;D reflects the continued commitment to adapt to and stay ahead in an ever-evolving competitive landscape," they write. "While not all R&amp;D spend implies that the money is being well-spent ‚Äì i.e., it does not necessarily translate into new and innovative products or services, we do find a strong correlation with revenue growth." And that's something that should make investors happy. Goldman Sachs, Business Insider
JPMorgan Chase is reviewing its $70-80 million digital advertising business. The intriguing nugget from this fairly standard practice comes in details sources told Adweek about how the company is going about finding a new agency. Normally, companies contact individual ad agencies and ask them to pitch new ideas for the account. In this case, JPM has gone over their heads, to the corporate layer above them, Adweek says: "JPMorgan Chase has reached out to advertising holding companies via a request for proposals, leaving it up to them to decide which of their agencies will pitch the business," Adweek reports.† That's unusual. Rather than going directly to ad agencies based on past impressive work, JPMorgan appears to be adopting a more hands-off approach, and allowing their parent companies Dentsu, WPP, Interpublic, Publicis, and Omnicom to do it for them. It isn't unheard of for clients, particularly in the financial services sector, to go to parent companies for holding company solutions ó but that's usually done when it is reviewing its entire ad business. For example, in 2005 Bank of America selected Omnicom Group to take over all its marketing services. Different Omnicom agencies were assigned to every portion of BofA's advertising account, from creative to digital. Sources within the ad world tell us that it would be strange for JPMorgan Chase to go to go to holding companies for a slice as small as its digital business. JPMorgan Chase confirmed to Business Insider that it was doing a digital review, but it didn't comment further about its search process. But it didn't deny that it was going directly to holding companies, either. So what's going on here? This could be a sign that JPMorgan Chase is considering a complete agency overhaul rather than just the digital review it has confirmed. Its total ad business was $2.35 billion in 2011, according to Ad Age's Data Center. Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, McGarryBowen, and other agencies from an assortment of holding companies currently do a lot of JPMorgan Chase's ad business and would stand to lose if this were the case. Or perhaps it is going an untraditional route and putting a lot of power in holding company hands.
YouTube Screengrab Godfrey Bloom, a Member of European Parliament (MEP) for the anti-EU British party Ukip, is in a bit of trouble. On Tuesday the Guardian published a video taken at a meeting of Ukip supporters in the West Midlands in which Bloom suggested the United Kingdom needed to stop sending aid to "Bongo Bongo Land."  Bloom argued that the residents of "Bongo Bongo Land" were spending the aid money on "Ray-Ban sunglasses," "Ferraris," and "apartments in Paris." While Bloom never explicitly said where "Bongo Bongo Land" was or who these people were, the video caused a storm and Ukip was forced to tell Bloom to never use the phrase ever again. It's a tricky situation for the nationalistic, anti-Europe party ó they are frequently accused of being the party of xenophobic (if not racist outright) and they do a lot to avoid that stigma. Party leader Nigel Farage even personally expelled an Italian MEP from an alliance after the MEP said Italy's first black MEP had created a "bongo bongo" administration. "We have sent out an unmistakable signal that racist comments are unacceptable,î he said at the time. To make matters worse, Bloom appeared on Channel 4 news tonight hoping to explain himself. It didn't go well. Saying that he didn't feel like he had done anything wrong, that he didn't understand if it was a "racist" phrase, and suggested he might have said it in reference to the late President Omar Bongo of Gabon. In the end, Bloom walks out of the interview, telling host Krishnan Guru-Murthy that he wants to talk only about the serious issues. 
Wikimedia CommonsStocks have reached record highs this year, with the S&amp;P climbing past 1700 for the first time in its history. And Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin believes the fun isn't about to stop any time soon. "We forecast a 4% rise through year-end and a 7% return during the next 12 months," he writes in a letter to clients. Kostin's targets the S&amp;P at 1750 in 6 months and 1825 in 12 months. Kostin believes earnings growth through 2013 and 2014 will support "a continued market rally." In his new US Monthly Chartbook, Kostin offers a list of the 40 stocks with the most upside relative to Goldman analysts' price targets. One stock has the potential to surge 60% before it hits fair value.
Tesla reported Q2 profit of $0.20 per share, on revenue of $405 million.¬† This beat expectations for a loss of $0.19 per share, on revenue of $387.9 million. Taking into account lease accounting, non-cash items and one-time charges of $16 million with the repayment of the Department of Energy loan, GAAP net loss was $31 million or $0.26 per share. Overall revenue remained flat because of the decline in zero-emission vehicle (ZEV) credits. Q2 production rate improved 25% to 500 cars a week. 5,150 cars were delivered in the quarter, beating the company's expectations for 4,500 deliveries. The company had $747 million cash at the end of the second quarter. The press release offered some color on how Tesla managed to lower costs.¬† "Significant cost improvements were achieved as a result of execution of our roadmap including redesigning many elements of Model S for greater ease of manufacturing, economies of scale and supply chain improvements. Importantly, we were able to make nuanced improvements to the car at the same time, as reducing cost does not count if it makes a product worse. Further execution on our cost reduction roadmap is expected to continue to improve non-GAAP automotive gross margin to our target level of 25% (excluding ZEV credits) in Q4 this year. We are cautiously optimistic that a number above that level may be achievable in future quarters." Tesla is on track for 25% gross margin ex-ZEV credits in Q4, according to the release. What's more, the company's lease-buy program also turned out to be popular with 30% of vehicles delivered in Q2 taking advantage of it. Tesla expects to deliver "slightly over 5,000 Model S vehicles in Q3, and remain on plan to deliver 21,000 vehicles worldwide for 2013." The company expects to spend $150 million in the second half of the year in capital expenditure. "R&amp;D expenses are expected to increase significantly in Q3 as we accelerate product development efforts on Model X, Model S right hand drive, and localization of Model S for international markets.¬†¬† ¬†SG&amp;A expenses will also rise, driven by the growth in our retail locations, service centers and Supercharger facilities. "Going forward, we expect to be non-GAAP profitable and generate positive cash flow from operations every quarter this year excluding any benefit from ZEV credits." The stock is up a whopping 14% after hours and is over $153. Tesla reported its first ever quarterly profit in Q1 2013. Since then its stock has been on a tear. Following the Q1 profit, Donn Vickrey at Gradient Analytics said¬† "the company‚Äôs results have been driven by nonrecurring boosts and accounting gimmicks, all of which are either unsustainable or purely cosmetic," giving the company's earnings an 'F'. But there have been analysts who have come out in support of Tesla. Adam Jonas at Morgan Stanley called Tesla 'America's fourth automaker' and raised his price target to $103. Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves raised his price target to $160. Meanwhile, Andrea James of Dougherty &amp; Co., raised her price target to $200 from $90.
screencap"Like a fat kid in dodgeball, these need to stay on the sidelines." That's how one Bank of America trader described the substandard, Alt-A mortgages the bank wanted to stuff into mortgage-backed securities in 2008, according to a new filing from the Justice Department. In the Justice Department's new lawsuit (there's a separate†SEC filing too), the government argues BofA misled investors over the quality of loans in $850 million in mortgage-backed securities. The "fat kid" line is the most colorful detail (the filing shows how traders actually opposed including some bad mortgages, with moderate success). Essentially the government says BofA sold the loan pool as AAA-rated when 70% of the residential mortgages originated through brokers and were, as the financial crisis reminded us, riskier than loans originated by the bank itself. From Bloomberg: More than 40 percent of the 1,191 mortgages in the pool didnít ìsubstantially complyî with the bankís underwriting standards, the Justice Department said in the complaint. Employees who worked on the origination of the mortgages said that the bank ìemphasized quantity over qualityî and that they were instructed by supervisors that it wasnít their job to discover†mortgage fraud, according to the complaint. Bank of America decided not to conduct loan-level due diligence on the mortgages used as collateral in the securitization, in part to save about $15,000 in expenses, according to the complaint. Either way, litigation expenses may dog BofA earnings, and shares were down 1.7% this afternoon.
REUTERS/Heino KalisYamaha MotoGP world champion rider Jorge Lorenzo falls during the Valencia Motorcycle Grand Prix at the Ricardo Tormo racetrack in Cheste, near Valencia, November 11, 2012.It's been a couple of days since we've seen the market close up. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach In the past month, the S&amp;P500's VIX index, which measures market volatility, declined nearly 14% thanks largely to so-so economic news. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich says this patch of calm is unlikely to last. In a new blog post, he explains why market volatility will soon climb again. "While I still believe US and global equity valuations are reasonable and stocks can advance over the next year, market volatility is likely to increase in September for four reasons: While last September didn't exactly fit into this pattern, Koesterich says, that was largely the result of unexpectedly aggressive Fed moves.
ShutterstockJune consumer credit data are out. Total credit expanded by $13.82 billion to $2.85 trillion in June, shy of forecasts for a $15.0 billion rise. Revolving credit ‚Äì credit cards and the like ‚Äì fell $2.7 billion to $853.6 billion. Nonrevolving credit ‚Äì auto loans, student loans, and the like ‚Äì rose by $16.5 billion to $1.99 trillion in total. May consumer credit growth was revised down to $17.54 billion from $19.62 billion. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
statigr.am/kimbo_ks13President Barack Obama fielded questions today from Americans in an interview organized by Zillow's CEO Spencer Rascoff. His answer to a question from a recent college graduate should be gut churning for Millennials to listen to.† The question of interest was†from a recent grad who is still stuck living with his parents, a situation endured by one in three Millennials. He wanted to know what the president planned to do to help his generation. † "We need more affordable, quality rental housing," said the President. †"Jacob looked like a pretty young guy, renting is probably the best option."† Then, he correctly said "What for their parents would have been the down payment on a home right now is going to service their student loan debt.†," an observation that I can personally attest to.† Great, one might think. So what do we do now? The president then pivoted to his suggestions for student loan reform, and, even more perplexedly, immigration reform.† "If we get immigration reform done, suddenly youíve got all kinds of families coming out of the shadows," which the President argued would help to raise the cost of real estate.† Which, by the way, is the opposite of what our Millennial questioner really wants. How, precisely, does more expensive real estate aid young renters screwed over by student loans seeking affordable housing? But let's first look at the student loan proposal that the President said should give that young professional faith.† You can read the whole proposal here. It would limit payments to 10% of income, forgive debt that remains after 20 years (10 years for nurses, teachers and military folks), and give out more Pell grants.† Sounds awesome.† But here's the thing: None of that affects the people who already have student loan debt.† The key caveat is that it only affects students enrolling in 2014 or later.† Are you in college or recently out of college? Are you one of the many, many millennials who retreated into grad schools instead of braving a failing or mediocre economy? Well, you're out of luck then. This isn't a small segment of the economy, either.† Roughly 10% of the country is in the age bracket of a recent college graduate, according to the Census. These are people aged 21-26 years old, with college graduation years somewhere between the economic wasteland the 2009 graduating class walked into and the economic "meh" the forthcoming 2014 graduating class is about to join. So when the president is asked by a member of this huge segment of the American people what he hopes to do with them, then goes on to acknowledge the fact that this is a problem, but then states his proposals to fix two other problems that don't help this 10% in any way, shape, or form, that cuts somewhat deep.† And the striking answer is the President doesn't actually have a solution for this problem at all.† It's understandable that he wants to fix the problem ó crippling student loan debt ó at the source, which I imagine is potentially great for my younger sister, someone currently looking at schools.† But what does the President plan to do about the major problems 21-26 year olds are facing, exactly? This is the generation that†watched people from his generation crash the economy. This group is still reeling from its effects.  But the most galling part of all of this is how the president handled a question asking about that. †He's proposed helping everyone older than Millennials (through his HARP proposal) and everyone younger than Millennials (through student loan reform) but not, precisely, Millennials.†The president hopes to see housing prices rise as a result of immigration, which also screws Millennials.† It's to be expected that the President dodged the question. That's what politicians do. But he didn't have to rub it in.† UPDATE: Here's the full text of the President's response to the question via the White House Press Office: † MR. RASCOFF:† This next question comes from Jacob.† Jacob is among the one in three Millennials who lives with his parents because he can't find affordable housing.† So letís watch Jacobís video. † †††† Q††† Good morning, President Obama.† My name is Jacob and I live in LA.† Iím a recent college graduate with a full-time job, but I still live at home with my parents.† Iím wondering, with massive student loan debt, will I ever be able to move into a house of my own?† Not even looking to buy, just looking to rent. † †††† THE PRESIDENT:† Well, Jacob asks a question that a lot of young people are asking right now.† And there are two components to it.† Number one, we need more affordable, quality rental housing.† And what I said in my speech yesterday, all of us, long term, have the aspiration of a home of our own.† But in a lot of markets, renting is a great option, especially if you're still young.† And so as we look at the various housing proposals that Iíve put forward -- making sure that people can refinance, making sure that weíre reforming these GSEs -- one of the components is also making sure that weíve got more resources to construct or get on the market more affordable housing. † †††† And that is not something that people should shy away from, deciding that at this stage in their lives -- Jacob looked like a pretty young guy -- that renting is probably the best option, until you know that you can actually purchase safely, soundly and make your payments.† Part of what happened during the housing bubble was that people who probably should have been renting were encouraged to go into the housing market, and they got hurt and the economy as a whole got hurt. † †††† But he also mentioned something else, which is the fact that a lot of young people, what for their parents would have been the down payment on a home right now is going to service their student loan debt.† So I know that Zillow is focused on housing and not college education, but I will say that some of the initiatives that Iím putting forward to drive down the cost of college and the debt burdens that young people have when they get out of school can make a huge difference in the housing market over the long term, because the $30,000 or $25,000 on average that young people from state universities are coming out with in terms of debt, that's a down payment on a house.† † And so weíve got a whole range of ideas about how we can drive tuition down, work with universities to be more efficient, help young people graduate faster so that they're not ending up spending more money, reducing the interest rates on student loans.† All that will have an impact on the housing market† † † †††† I should add, by the way, thereís another issue that doesn't seem like itís related to the housing market, but actually is related, and that's immigration reform.† We know that if we get immigration reform done, suddenly youíve got all kinds of families coming out of the shadows, paying taxes, paying penalties, but they're also going to be really likely to buy homes, oftentimes in some of the neighborhoods where you have the most foreclosures, the most trouble.† They add value to a community, increase property values.† † And over the long term, itís one of the reasons why itís estimated that immigration reform would actually add a trillion dollars to the overall economy, partly because theyíd be buying houses.
YouTube ScreenshotTesla Motors will announce Q2 earnings after the closing bell. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected an adjusted loss of $0.19 per share, on revenue of $387.9 million. Tesla reported its first ever quarterly profit in Q1 2013. Since then its stock is up 156%. Tesla shares hit an all-time high of $145.73 on Tuesday, before closing at $142.15. Following the Q1 profit, Donn Vickrey at Gradient Analytics graded the earnings report. "Thus far, the companyís results have been driven by nonrecurring boosts and accounting gimmicks, all of which are either unsustainable or purely cosmetic," he said at the time, giving the company's earnings an 'F'. One of the reasons profit is expected to take a hit in the second quarter is because of lower sales of zero emission vehicles (ZEV) credits and other credits that helped prop up Q1 profits. John Rosevear at The Motley Fool points out that Tesla's launch in key European markets (think investing in infrastructure) and changes to its accounting because of its new financing program would also weigh on second quarter earnings. But there have been analysts that have come out in support of Tesla. Adam Jonas at Morgan Stanley called Tesla 'America's fourth automaker' and raised his price target to $103. Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves raised his price target to $160. Meanwhile, Andrea James of Dougherty &amp; Co., raised her price target to $200 from $90. We'll soon find out if Tesla can continue to surprise its investors.
Dan Frommer, Business InsiderThe General Assembly founders are among the faculty at Startup 2013Founding a company is like getting an MBA in realtime. It feels like there are a million things you have to learn to be a successful entrepreneur. Building a great product is just the start. How do you build a great company?¬† Wouldn't it be tremendous if you could spend a morning learning entrepreneurship from the experts? Well, you can. This year at Business Insider‚Äôs Startup 2013 conference we have partnered with General Assemb.ly to run ‚ÄúStartup University.‚Äù You'll soak up business lessons from industry leaders in a series of classes you select yourself. The roster includes some 15 sessions such as: For a full list of classes and afternoon programming, see the Startup agenda. In the afternoon, you'll hear from top entrepreneurs from NYC and the Valley, VCs, and other experts. We're particularly excited to have the CEO of Indeed.com -- a company that had one of NYC's biggest exists -- on stage, sharing how he did it. And after a full day, enjoy a networking reception with stunning views of the Hudson.¬† Grab your early-bird tickets (at entrepreneur-friendly rates) before they expire.  If you are interested in sponsorship opportunities at Startup 2013, please contact events@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter for Startup updates.
APA FINRA panel has ordered Citigroup and one of its former branch managers to pay $11 million to John Fiorilla, a "legal adviser" to the Holy See. On Wall Street reports Fiorilla brought his business to Citigroup in 2006 and requested the firm hedge his $16 million exposure to RBS. Despite repeated pleas to hedge the stock, the firm did not, according to Fiorilla's lawyer.  When the market crashed in 2008, the pal of the Pope's account became, in essence, holy crap. From On Wall Street: The claim accused the firm of ìbreach of fiduciary duty, negligence and gross negligence, failure to supervise and control, breach of contract,î and other legal violations. It also named a former branch manager, Edward J. Mulcahy, for failing to supervise. Fiorillaís broker was not named because he had cooperated and had been told by others at Citigroup that the account would be de-risked, Conway said. "We are disappointed with the award, which was not supported by the facts," Citigroup told On Wall Street. Read the full report at On Wall Street&gt;
Tesla's stock was down as much as 6% today, but has since pared some losses.¬† It's at $134 and change right now. The electric car company is scheduled to release Q2 earnings after the closing bell.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg are looking for an adjusted loss of $0.19 per share, on revenue of $387.9 million. The stock reached a record-high an intra-day high of $145.73 on Tuesday, and a closing high of $144.68 on August 5. Here's a look at how the stock has been trading today: Google Finance
REUTERS/ Siu ChiuThe developing economic slowdown in China didn't stop Macau from netting huge revenues last month. The gaming metropolis posted a 20% increase†in July year-over-year, according to the Macau Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Macau, a betting hub located outside Hong Kong, took home $38 billion in gaming revenue last year. That's†six times larger than that of†Las Vegas, the world's second largest gaming town. Sin City is also beset with one of the nation's worst unemployment rates, at 10.1%.† Once just a high-stakes gambling destination, Macau is beginning to lure China's middle class. "Many Chinese tourists come here for shopping purposes, because despite the 30% luxury tax, these top-tier products are still less expensive than if they were bought in Europe," wrote†poker.co.uk's Frankie Price. Of course, Macau's bread and butter remains baccarat, where VIP games account for two-thirds of the town's casino revenue.
Fung Global InstituteNomura chief economist Richard Koo.Perhaps the biggest market-moving event that seems like an inevitability to market participants in the coming years is the Federal Reserve's exit from quantitative easing (QE), the bond-buying policy it has employed since the financial crisis, in the process growing its balance sheet to over $3 trillion in an attempt to stimulate the U.S. economy. Right now, the Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds every month, indefinitely: $45 billion of U.S. Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities. Yet over the past three months, a vicious sell-off has gripped the Treasury market, sending bond yields soaring as fears that the Fed will begin to taper back the amount of purchases it makes each month have permeated the marketplace. "The surge in the 10-year yield came on the mere mention that the Fed might reduce its purchases of bonds," writes Nomura chief economist Richard Koo in a note. "If the central bank were to actually begin selling the securities it has accumulated, rates would probably react much more violently. Making matters worse is†the fact that bank reserves injected into the system under QE already amount to 17.8 times the statutory reserves needed to sustain the US money supply. In other words, the Fed has a long way to go." The trillions of dollars worth of bonds accumulated on the Fed's balance sheet over the past several years thus put the central bank in a tricky spot. Koo argues that the Federal Reserve will probably need the Treasury's help to pull off the normalization of its balance sheet:† Treasuryís cooperation should be enlisted in ending QE  The next question is how to mop up the excess reserves that now amount to 17.8 times statutory reserves in the US. Given the size of the problem, I think any answer will have to involve the Treasury Department.  A substantial portion of the funds supplied by the Fed were provided via the purchase of long-term Treasury securities. This means the securities the central bank has to sell as it winds down QE will consist largely of long-term bonds.  But if the Fed begins selling long-term Treasurys at a time when the private sector has completed its balance sheet repairs and is starting to borrow money again, the result will almost certainly be a steep rise in interest rates that could stop the long-awaited economic recovery in its tracks.  Fed should first shift portfolio from long-term to short-term bonds  When the BOJ ended its first experiment with QE in 2006, banks held deposits with the central bank equal to seven times statutory reserves. But since all of these funds had been supplied via the money market, the impact on long-term interest rates when the funds were absorbed (again via the money market) was limited. The 10-year JGB yield rose about 40bp when the removal of QE was announced but returned to its previous level within a few months.  If the Fed similarly hopes to minimize the impact on long-term rates of ending QE, I think it will have to end the program in two stages, with the cooperation of the Treasury Department. First, the Fed needs the Treasury to reduce issuance of long-term debt while QE is being unwound and instead issue mostly short-term debt. The Fed can then sell its long-term bonds in the market while purchasing an equivalent amount of short-term debt, in a reversal of Operation Twist. The impact on long-term rates should be limited if the Treasury Department agrees to minimize issuance of long-term debt during this operation. Shorten duration, then mop up excess reserves Most of the bonds held by the Fed would then be short-term securities with a shorter duration (average remaining maturity), and the Fed could mop up the excess reserves in the money market just as the BOJ did. Following this two-step procedure would substantially reduce the impact on the yield curve of winding down QE and limit market turmoil, assuming market participants understood what was being done. There are other tools that couldóand probably willóbe used as well, including increases in statutory reserve ratios, capital adequacy ratios, and liquidity ratios. But close cooperation with the Treasury Department would be especially effective in minimizing the impact on the yield curve, and particularly on the long end of the curve. Other economists have considered how the Treasury ñ through adjustments to fiscal policy ñ could help the Fed eventually stage an exit from QE and normalize its balance sheet. "Tight†fiscal†policy could offset easy monetary†policy until the Fed's portfolio begins to shed enough assets to tighten†policy (an event that may take until 2018)," wrote UBS economists in a November report. "As growth accelerates in 2013 and 2014, it would appear†to make sense that tighter†fiscal†policy be put into place, not just for†the positive impact on the deficit, but also because such an action may†be the only way for the Fed to extract itself from its quantitative†easing programs ñ a feat that would make the Federal Reserve the only†central bank to successfully exit a†QE†program."
At the time, the press talked about it like it was another War of Northern Aggression. Back in 1982, a 46 year-old Carl Icahn tried to take control of a 100 year old textile company called Dan River Mills, located in Danville Virginia. The corporate raider's siege lasted less than a year, and he was only repelled when the entire town banded together to buy shares of the company. This was nothing like the now 77 year-old Icahn's current fights fellow hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, or Dell founder, Michael Dell. In Danville, automobile and appliance salesmen offered shares of the company with purchases, and local businessmen paid millions for full page newspaper ads reading "''KEEP DAN RIVER AT HOME - BUY DAN RIVER STOCK!'' Residents lined up outside brokerages to buy stock to stop Icahn's hostile takeover. The raid still lingers in the town's memory, in an article about the Mill written only two years ago, former employees remember the raid and the raider. From Virginia's WSLS10: ‚ÄúIcahn was the worst ‚Ä¶ you had your ups and downs, but the period of fighting Icahn was probably the most intense,‚Äù said Rodney Reynolds, who retired as senior vice president and chief financial. Icahn started building up a position in Dan River in September of 1982 when the stock price was only $15 a share. In October company started issuing 1.7 million shares preferred stock to employees in an attempt to dilute Icahn's voting power, according to the Christian Science Monitor. By November Icahn owned 15% of the company and offered 16.50 for 2 million shares (and under 50%) of the company. He was rejected. Google News, Milwaukee Journal screenshotIcahn's rejection in the Milwaukee Journal, December 14, 1982Never daunted, he increased his bid to $18 a share and was rejected yet again in December. Meanwhile, behind the scenes Icahn was making moves. As his offer was getting trashed by Dan River's board, he was bringing his stake in the company up to 19.2%. At one point, Icahn increased his stake to 29% of the company. The town retaliated to all of this by hiring New York law firm¬†Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison and filing a lawsuit against Icahn, charging him with racketeering in a Virgina Court. From the New York Times, in October of 1982: In a complaint filed here in the Federal District Court for the Western District of Virginia...Dan River charged that Mr. Icahn had acquired its stock with ''proceeds derived through prior acts of extortion, mail fraud and securities fraud.'' ''Dan River is the latest victim of Icahn's tactics,'' the complaint charges. ''Icahn and his group have already successfully dislodged over $83 million from various American corporations in the last two months alone.'' And Icahn's response? 'I consider it an abomination that a company's management should resort to these gutter and smear tactics,'' Mr. Icahn said in a statement. ''These allegations are completely unfounded and are simply designed to dissuade me from continuing my interest in the company.'' None of this stopped the onslaught, of course. So Dan River went for the (potentially) nuclear option. In January the company's board got permission to form¬† a separate, private, employee-owned corporation to buy the company. By February Chemical Bank had signed on to provide the $150 million loan it would take purchase it. Now ‚Äî this option was nuclear because that loan would be (and was) crushing for the company, bringing Dan River's debt-to-equity ratio from 49 percent to 125 percent. From WSLS: ‚ÄúIt was survival,‚Äù recalled Odell W. Hutson Jr., who worked as an engineer in the maintenance department, about the employee ownership plan. In the 1980s, business got tough with plant shutdowns and a cutback on employee hours and some layoffs, Hutson said. The fear that Icahn would take over lasted about a year, recalled Diana Raines, who worked as an invoice clerk. Employees knew Icahn‚Äôs reputation of shutting down companies and selling off assets to make money. ‚ÄúIt was scary when the Carl Icahn thing was going on,‚Äù Raines said. Dan River tapped employee pension money, sold off collateral assets, and took Chemical Bank's crushing loan in order to wrest control from Icahn. Eventually, after all the dust settled and the lawyers flew back to New York City, Icahn made $8 million and Dan River stayed in the hands of locals. It is said, however, that the debt Dan River took on to stave off Icahn made it hard to modernize. The mill was bought by three businessmen in 1989, rallied profits through the 1990s, but filed for bankruptcy in 2004. Dan River's last plant closed in 2007. So in case you were wondering whether or not Carl Icahn ever loses, the answer is yes he does ‚Äî but that doesn't mean his opponent will survive the battle. You can watch a video of one of the Dan River's old smoke stacks getting demolished below: 
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA demonstrator holds a sign that reads "Safe Fracking Is A Bad Fairy Tale" as police escort a lorry to a site run by Cuadrilla Resources, outside the village of Balcombe in southern England August 6, 2013. Protesters have been blocking access to a drilling site in southern England as part of a campaign against the controversial "fracking" process used in shale gas exploration, illustrating the potential battle ahead for Britain's nascent shale industry. A new poll from research group YouGov shows the British are deeply ambivalent about using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, to produce natural gas. 41% of respondents favored extracting shale gas versus 33% who were against. And 68% said doing so would be good for the economy.¬† But 47% also said fracking would damage the environment.¬† And 43% said they do not want it done in their town. Recently, the British Geological Survey doubled its estimates of the country's shale gas deposits to 1,300 tcf. The UK lifted its fracking ban in May, but no gas company has yet engaged in the process, which involves shooting large volumes of water and solution into the ground to free up hydrocarbon deposits. U.S. researchers have found evidence natural gas production is correlated with increased methane in water aquifers, and some evidence drilling chemicals can enter water supplies. Former EPA administrator Lisa Jackson has said there has been no definitive proof linking fracking to contamination. The agency is conducting an extensive study of the issue. Studies have also linked fracking wastewater injections into the ground with earthquakes. Gas companies have in many instances settled complaints with homeowners over contamination without admitting or denying fault. Recent comments from UK energy minister Michael Fallon ‚Äî a vocal proponent of fracking ‚Äî reported by the Telegraph seem to embody the two minds of the British populace: ‚ÄòAll these people writing leaders saying ‚Äúwhy don‚Äôt they get on with shale?‚Äù ‚Äì we are going to see how thick their rectory walls are, whether they like the flaring at the end of the drive!‚Äô Protesters recently clashed with police in Balcombe, Sussex‚Äî about an hour's drive south of London ‚Äî where initial test drilling has begun.
Stuart Wilson/Getty ImagesCall it the battle of the silver foxes. Last week George Clooney, the Oscar-winning mega star, slammed Third†Point Capital CEO Dan Loeb over the hedge fund manager's recent critical remarks about Sony Entertainment's performance. Said Clooney: "[Loeb] calls himself an activist investor, and I would call him a carpetbagger, and one who is trying to spread a climate of fear that pushes studios to want to make only tent poles." So how did the notoriously sharp-tongued investor strike back? Not with a bang but a whimper. From an interview with Variety: ìNotwithstanding the fact that the media likes to create a stir, I admire Mr. Clooneyís passion for Sony and his loyalty to Sony and his friends there,î said Loeb,†suggesting that he and†Clooney share a ìcommon goalî in that ìa more disciplined company with better allocation of capital means less money spent on bureaucracy and more investment in motion pictures.†We are all for intelligent investment in creative content. I believe our interests are aligned in a way he probably doesnít realize.î Loeb stuck to Sony and didn't say more about Clooney (PS:†don't mess with Clooney). ìWhat we would expect is more disclosure and a more detailed plan for how they will improve profitability in their entertainment division, including specific profitability targets,î he said. ìWe will monitor their performance in coming quarters and revisit Sonyís progress around the time of next yearís annual meeting.î He said that Third Point will ìcontinue to be highly engaged, maintain a dialogue with management, and expect to offer further suggestions to increase shareholder value.î "It is probably unfair to focus on one or two bad movies, just in the way that Third Point from time to time can have one or two bad months or a bad year. What is important is the overall profitability and margins over a period of time," Loeb added. Read the full interview at Variety&gt;
Student loan debt continues to swell, with more than $1.2 trillion worth of loans issued so far in the U.S.† The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recently took a look at our student debt addiction to figure out exactly how well consumers are working at paying it down. It isn't looking too good. Out of $1 trillion in federal loans, $214 billion are in deferment or forebearance and $89 billion are in default. It's the 7 million borrowers in default that really have the CFPB worried.† "Defaulting on a federal student loan has serious consequences," Rohit Chopra, the bureauís student loan ombudsman, says. "Unlike other consumer credit, borrowers in default on a federal student loan might see their tax refund taken and their wages garnished without a court order." No kidding. Earlier this year, we spoke with Florida mother†Alice Cortes, who is on the hook for $25,000 worth of student loans she co-signed for her son. Because she can't afford the payments, twice a month $360 is taken out of her paycheck by student lender Sallie Mae, which sued for wage garnishments last year. It was enough to force her to give up her home and move in with her son. "I can't afford what they're doing to me," she told us. "I don't want to live with my son. He needs a life that's separate and apart and they've made it damn near impossible for that to happen at this point." In Cortes' case, there is no way out, especially since she is on the hook for private student loans. Borrowers who have taken out federal loans have far more options for flexible repayment, such as income-based repayment plans, deferment, loan consolidation, and rehabilitation plans.† But from the findings in the CFPB report, it's becoming apparent that millions of borrowers are missing out.† A mere 40,000 consumers are enrolled in the federal income-based repayment plan, Pay As You Earn, which can lower payments to just 10% or less of annual income for borrowers with loans issued after 2011. "If borrowers were aware of and able to easily enroll in income-based plans through their servicer, many federal student loan defaults could have been avoided," Chopra says. All you need to know about options for paying down student loans can be found here:†http://www.consumerfinance.gov/students/
Photo courtesy of Stratford Dennis For the past couple of weeks, we have been speaking with Goldman Sachs managing directors in different divisions about summer internship advice and how to turn these summer-time stints into a full-time job offer from the bank.† For our final installment, we spoke with Stratford Dennis, a vice president in Goldman Sachs securities division. Dennis told us the biggest mistake an intern can make on the trading floor. He explained that there's a tendency for some interns to group together and not engage other senior people on the floor. He admitted that the trading floor can be intimidating, but interns who isolate themselves with other interns†prevent senior people at the firm from getting to know them and seeing their talents and abilities that would add value as a full-time employee. † Dennis, who interned at Goldman during college, also told us what an intern can do to impress him and how they can prepare for an internship.† We've transcribed our full Q&amp;A below.† JL: First off, can you give me a little bit about your background and how you go to where you are today?† SD: I grew up in Connecticut. I went to an all-boys high school and then went to the University of Pennsylvania where I majored in philosophy, politics and economics with a concentration in economics. I actually interned at another bank in between my sophomore and junior year and then interned at Goldman between my junior and senior year. I've been here since 2004. I started off trading equity options on the S&amp;P and for the past four years I've trading emerging market equity options.† JL: OK. So we're going to talk about the securities division today and internships. I can imagine the securities division is pretty broad, can you talk about just briefly some of the jobs just to give our readers an idea of what they do?† SD: If we had to talk about all of them we'd be here quite some time. The groups that we could use are sales and trading and other. You know sales people are spending their days talking to professional money managers, pension funds, hedge funds, mutual funds and working with them to come up with strategies to better their performance. And, trading is managing the firm's risk and providing liquidity for these clients. In the other group, there are probably countless other types of jobs ranging from working with lending or things like that to support for the sales and trading function. JL: Can you describe the typical day for an intern in your division? What sort of responsibilities do they have?† SD: Again, it kind of varies by desk. If they sit on a sales or trading desk they are limited in what they can do given that they don't have their licenses, so they are not exactly sitting here actually trading or actually selling. They get in any where between 6:00 and 7:30 a.m., which is when the full-time professionals get in as well. They are working with them, you know, they might be doing things like helping with putting together presentations or things like that. Once they get ramped up they could be doing analysis for the desk or helping out in ways that you obviously have to have some insight to do so. JL: How do you decide how much responsibility to give an intern?† SD: You start small and you see how much they can chew. Like I said before, you start off with something that's a bit more simple and you see that they can do that and they prove that they can do that, you give them a little more and give them a little more and give them a little more. And you can see kind of what their bandwidth is, which is quite frankly is very similar to the way that it works on the full-time side.† JL: Do you mentor an intern at Goldman?† SD: I mentor, it's funny, I mentor quite a bit of interns. I'm involved with working with our diversity program, so some of underrepresented diversity I'm looking over their performance, seeing how they're doing, helping them out where I can and things like that?† JL: So what sort of advice would you give an intern? †What would be the best piece of advice or couple pieces of advice? SD: What I tell them is that your job as an intern is to do two things. One is to prove that you have the aptitude, the ability to do the work. Given that our recruiters do a great job on choosing talent, you know nine times out of ten the interns absolutely have that. Then, the next step is proving that you have the desire, the hunger and that you're assertive and you can perform well on a trading floor environment.† JL: You mentioned before that you interned, did anyone ever give you a piece of advice that stuck with you during your career?† SD: There are so many. I think one of the great things about this place is that you do have a lot of senior people willing to help you. I would say that one that has been told to the interns recently in a room that I was in that resonated with me was, 'Tell your story.' It might sound simple, but I think a lot of times these interns are extremely impressive. They've done a lot of things. Some of them have started small companies already, some of them have spent time overseas already, learned different languages already, some of them have worked and paid for their own college. Often times, that story doesn't get vetted and the advice that was given was just 'tell your story and make sure people understand all the great things you have done and can do.' †I think a lot of time people don't want to come across a certain way so they don't tell their own story. JL: That's good advice.† JL: What's something that impressed you about an intern?† SD: There was an intern who was telling me a story about how he was in a business competition and the business competition had like 5,000 people who entered into it. He gave his pitch and he came in third out of all 5,000. I thought that was the end of the story. I thought 'Wow, that's a great story. You're obviously a very sharp guy.' And he said, 'I was so disappointed because I came in third. I didn't come in first. I wanted to come in first.' Again, I thought that was the end of the story and that he had learned a lesson. Then, he went back the next year with an even better presentation and even better product and ended up winning. Again, out of 5,000 people. That may not be the exact number, but roughly. It was an example where he had kind of persevered and come back and triumphed. I thought it was interest because 1.) In my mind, you know third place was pretty strong and 2.) That he was able to come back and win the next year was pretty impressive. JL: What's the biggest mistake an intern can make?† SD: Outside of the obviousócoming in late or not giving the maximum effort, things like thatóI think there can be a tendency amongst interns to do what feels comfortable and what feels comfortable is to you know congregate amongst each other and to not necessarily engage other people who seem very busy. The trading floor is a loud place and it can be intimidating, but if you curl up in your shell then some of those things I mentioned earlier like telling your story and making sure people know your skills those things don't happen. And at the end of the summer you could be in a situation where you have all the talent in the world, but a lot of people aren't aware of your potential and the things that you can do.† JL: Let's talk about advice you would give to someone who wants to turn their internship into a job. What should they do? And how should they do it?† SD: Well, again, I think make sure your story is heard. Make sure you prove that you have the intellectual capacity and make sure you prove that you have the desire and that you have the work ethic to do this. I think what I'd add to that is be direct. Make sure people understand what you want. Make sure people understand that 'I want to work for you. I want to work for you in this group. This is my top choice.' Be very forward. Again, the trading floor is place where there are a lot of assertive people. If at the end of the summer you did a good job, but if I don't really know that you want to work with me then that's not a good thing. So be very open about what you want.† JL: We have a really competitive job market out there, so what are some of the details which make a difference in an interview or on a resume?† SD: I'm going to assume that you have good grades and things like that already because ultimately that is kind of a prerequisite of sorts. I don't know the exact details of what you have to have, but people want to see that you're working hard towards your academics. Outside of that, you want to get your name in the small pile somehow whether it's international experience, speaking another language or 'hey, I started my own business' even if it wasn't necessarily you know the next Apple, that's OK, but 'hey, I tried at this. This is what I learned.' Things like that can kind of separate you from the people that are just 100% academics and maybe not as well-rounded is certainly important.† JL: Any advice on preparing for an internship in this division? Anything that they can do beforehand?† SD: Absolutely. The one thing is to contact any desk that you think you want to be on or think you will be on and find out what books you can read. You know I trade options and we tell our interns to read a certain book before the come in if they ask. That's a book that we're going to ask them to read during the internship. So to the extent that you can, get a head start on it.† JL: What's the book?† SD: It's a book called Options Pricing and Volatility†by Sheldon Natenberg. It goes over the basics of options.† SD: Then I would say reaching out to people that you know within the firm. Mentorship and sponsorship is key. You know, you want someone to kind of teach you the lay of the land before you come it. That's certainly going to give you an advantage. Check out our interviews with a Goldman investment management managing director here and a Goldman technology managing director here.†
Iím on Cape Cod for two weeks with my family.† On the occasion of my re-entry to Red Sox Nation I thought Iíd revisit this story of public investment in private enterprise ñ gone horribly wrong. I love Curt Schilling.[1]† And I love the Red Sox.[2]† And (once upon a time) I loved video games.[3]† So you might expect me to hold in my heart a deep well of forgiveness for Curt Schilling driving his tech startup, a video game business, into the ground last year. But I donít have such a deep well of forgiveness.† In fact, the whole episode disgusts me. Most importantly, it reminds me that government-directed ëEconomic Developmentí is a stupid plan which usually ends in waste, corruption, influence-peddling, and tears. Schillingís 38 Studios In 2009, the retired pitcher Curt Schilling founded a video game company to develop MMORPs (massively multiplayer online role playing games), apparently based on the premise that he loved playing video games.[4] To pursue the dream, Schilling invested his own money from a successful baseball career, but he needed more capital to build the video game empire of his dreams. Although Bostonís venture capital community turned him down, Schilling had other strengths, namely his stature as a New England hero and his reputation as an articulate, albeit partisan, spokesman. Rhode Islandís then-governor Don Carcieri persuaded his stateís Economic Development Corporation to issue $75 million in municipal bonds to provide funding for 38 Studios if they located their office in Providence, RI.† The idea seemed to be that an innovative software company could jump start Providenceís economy, especially in the dark economic times, post-2008 Crisis. Schillingís company promised Rhode Island strong starting salaries, a great health care plan, and the attraction of ìknowledge workers.î What happened When 38 Studios filed for bankruptcy in 2012, it left a giant question mark about whether the state of Rhode Island would make bond-holders whole on their losses. With $150 million in debt and just $22 million in assets, Schilling fired hundreds of employees by email. Schilling complained about $14 million in additional undelivered tax credits from the state, and accused the newly-elected Governor Chafee of publicly undermining his company. Chafee, for his part, has directed lawsuits against not only Schilling and his partners, but also former state officials, banks and law firms involved in the deal. In retrospect In retrospect, the most insightful comment, before the state invested, came from the now-Rhode Island State Treasurer Gina Raimondo who said in July 2010: ìIn general, I would proceed very carefully on this.† [The company] is in the Boston area where there are 200 venture capital firms, and it is in a very hot area of gaming so if it were in fact a compelling investment I would have to think it would be well funded already by venture capitalist; the fact that many have looked at it and passed is a red flag.î That pretty much sums it up.† The state officials who signed off on putting $75 million into a gaming start-up essentially bet, without explicitly saying so, that all those smart venture capitalists were wrong ñ that the venture capitalists had missing something in Schillingís 38 Studios, that they saw. When I hear about government officials these days investing in or subsidizing everything from electric cars, to solar panel manufacturers, to incentivizing companies to relocate through tax breaks, I worry.† Why do you think the private markets turned down this idea?† If you give away public money now, what do you think youíre going to really get? Not a Democratic or Republican thing I also want to clarify that this isnít an ideological, Democrat or Republican issue, or a Left vs. Right issue. The city where I live now is dominated by Democrats (pretty hard-core ones, too), while the State where I live is dominated by Republicans (very hard-core ones).† Public officials on both sides of the aisle and at the city and state levels love subsidizing specific private enterprises in the name of economic development.[5]† Sure, itís often natural gas drillers on the Republican side and renewable energy companies on the Democrat side, but theyíre both wrong. †All kinds of political stripes in government are convinced they can help incubate or grow businesses or business sectors. As a rule, they canít, although they can help themselves in the process. †By that I mean they can capture public goods ñ such as tax-breaks or outright grants ñ and direct them to private individuals and companies.† Which same private individuals and companies in turn, out of the pure goodness of their hearts, know who to support in the next election. Another way to explain the problem of governments getting in the economic development business Beyond the obvious opportunities for influence peddling, however, I recently re-read a book which helps explain why governments are just plain bad at kick-starting economic development. In Jane Jacobsí†Systems of Survival†[insert link to book review here] she lists the attitudes and precepts which guide the function of government, and then compares them to the attitudes and precepts that guide successful commercial enterprises.† More often than not, the government precepts directly contradict the commercial precepts. Re-reading the Guardian Syndrome (for governments) Iím struck by how Curt Schilling seems to personify many of these Jane Jacobs-enumerated traits: Exert Prowess Be obedient and disciplined Adhere to tradition Respect hierarchy Be loyal Take vengeance Dispense largesse Be exclusive Show fortitude Be fatalistic Treasure honor. If those arenít a great description of Curt Schilling leading the Red Sox to victory in Game 6 over the hated Yankees in the 2004 ALCS ñ in a bloody freaking Red Sock no less! ñ then I donít know what is. And yet, these same traits can be death in an entrepreneurial venture, where many of the following opposite characteristics lead to success.† From Jane Jacobsí list of the Commercial Syndrome (for successful companies): Come to voluntary agreements Collaborate easily with strangers and aliens Compete Use initiative and surprise Be open to inventiveness and novelty Be efficient Dissent for the sake of the task Be thrifty When I reread Jacobsí book, I thought of Curt Schilling, and the fact that heís a natural ëGuardianí-type trying to do a ëCommercialí-type activity.† Probably it never was going to work.† He should have just run for office. What is to be done about economic development? So what should government officials of either the right or left do when they want to promote jobs, economic opportunity, prosperity, and upward financial mobility in a given area? The best answers are long-term, and the benefits diffuse, and therefore difficult to attract the attention of elected and appointed public officials, who tend to need short-term and identifiable results, in order to gain election and re-election. But, despite the barriers, what should an elected or appointed economic development official try to do? I would like my public officials to focus on projects with wide-ranging, inter-generational impact. Such as improving public education, and access to higher education. Such as reducing crime and enforcing regulations. Such as creating and maintaining transportation infrastructure with a view to lowering inter-generational costs. Such as beautifying public spaces like parks but also virtually any high-traffic pedestrian area. Such as encouraging art and creativity in public spaces. Such as lowering barriers to private enterprise by removing layers of bureaucracy at the city and state level.† Anyone who has tried to start a small business, or re-develop a building inside a city, or open a restaurant, has found themselves crushed by innumerable codes, fees, inspections, permits, and signage requirements.† Some of this is well-intended, or was once useful, but now much of this is the accumulated detritus of years of ëgood policy.í Our governments already do all of these things, and often very successfully.† Importantly, they all lead to economic development.† Just as importantly they can benefit the largest portion of the public, rather than narrow groups.† Iím really objecting to the tendency of public officials to get impatient and try to channel the public purse to particular private projects or narrowly defined interests. What kinds of thing do we often get instead, which I hate? We give targeted tax breaks for a particular favored industry. We get tax breaks to incentivize a particular company to move to the city, encouraging a race-to-the-bottom mentality between competing cities in a zero sum game of beggar-thy-neighbor. We give tax breaks to companies to ëcreate certain #s of jobsí hoping people donít notice, or donít understand, that business owners are ñ rightly so ñ not in the ëjob creatingí business, but rather the ëprofit increasingí business.† As soon as possible, or as soon as the tax incentives expire, business owners will try to eliminate jobs, because thatís what theyíre supposed to do.† Thatís what helps keep businesses sustainable.† To think otherwise is to fundamentally misunderstand business. We give subsidies both direct and indirect to favored real estate developers and favored real estate developments and then justify it with the idea that weíre ëincreasing the long-term tax base.í† Curt Schillingís 38 Studios catastrophe is the kind of monstrous hybrid Jane Jacobs predicted would be the result of bringing a Guardian (government) mindset to a Commercial (for profit) enterprise.† I think thatís an inherent danger for economic development folks who work in government. In the meantime, this could be the year.† Go Sawx.† [1]†I mean, let me clarify.† I hate his stupid politics.† But Shilling was a key figure ñ and played a bloody martyrdom role ñ basically the consecrated Jesus figure ñ in the 2004 Mother of all Sports Championships.† So thatís how Iíll always love Curt Shilling. [2]†Iím wearing my grimy blue, autographed, ìRick ëRoosterí Burlesonî cap as I write this.† He was my favorite player from the earliest years when I fell for the Sox, which included boyhood heroes Freddy Lynn, Jim Rice, Carl Yastremski, and Dwight Evans.† I chatted with Burleson at a Las Vegas convention for debt-buyers a few years ago.† At that time he coached a minor-league team in the Indiansí farm system.† But thatís an entirely different story, and not the point here at all. [3]†We had the Atari 2600 pretty early on, among the neighborhood kids.† Hours, upon hours, of Space Invaders and Missile Command. [4]†We all know from Tony Robbins that we should just pursue our passions and the money will flow. [5]†I keep linking to this article because itís really good, on†Texas Republican Rick Perryís idea of economic development.† But the Democrats in my city engage in lower-profile economic development projects with similar merit,†one of which I wrote about here.
GoogleA customer... and a "cost."One of the big reasons the U.S. economy is so lousy is that big American companies are hoarding cash and "maximizing profits" instead of investing in their people and future projects. This behavior is contributing to record income inequality in the country and starving the primary engine of U.S. economic growth ó the vast American middle class ó of purchasing power. (See charts below). If average Americans don't get paid living wages, they can't spend much money buying products and services. And when average Americans can't buy products and services, the companies that sell products and services to average Americans can't grow. So the profit obsession of America's big companies is, ironically, hurting their ability to accelerate revenue growth. One obvious solution to this problem is for big companies to pay their people more ó to share more of the vast wealth that they create with the people who create it. The companies have record profit margins, so they can certainly afford to do this. But, unfortunately, over the past three decades, what began as a healthy and necessary effort to make our companies more efficient has evolved into a warped consensus that the only value that companies create is financial (cash) and that the only thing managers and owners should ever worry about is making more of it. This view is an insult to anyone who has ever dreamed of having a job that is about more than money. And it is a short-sighted and destructive view of capitalism, an economic system that sustains not just this country but most countries in the world. This view has become deeply entrenched, though. These days, if you suggest that great companies should serve several constituencies (customers, employees, and shareholders) and that American companies should share more of their wealth with the people who generate it (employees), you get called a "socialist." You get called a "liberal." You get told that you "don't understand economics." You get accused of promoting "wealth confiscation." You get told that, in America, people get paid what they deserve to get paid: Anyone who wants more money should go out and "start their own company" or "demand a raise" or "get a better job." In other words, you get told that anyone who suggests that great companies should share the value they create with all three constituencies instead of just lining the pockets of shareholders is an idiot. After all, these folks say, one law of capitalism is that employers pay their employees as little as possible. Employees are just "costs." You should try to minimize those "costs" whenever and wherever you can. This view, unfortunately, is not just selfish and demeaning. It's also economically stupid. Those "costs" you are minimizing (employees) are also current and prospective customers for your company and other companies. And the less money they have, the fewer products and services they are going to buy. Obviously, the folks who own and run America's big corporations want to do as well as they can for themselves. But the key point is this: It is not a law that they pay their employees as little as possible. It is a choice. It is a choice made by senior managers and owners who want to keep the highest possible percentage of a company's wealth for themselves. It is, in other words, a selfish choice. It is a choice that reveals that, regardless of what they say about how much they value their employees, regardless of what euphemism they use to describe their employees ("associate," "partner," "representative," "team-member"), they, in fact, don't give a damn about their employees. These senior managers and owners, after all, are earning record profits while choosing to pay their employees so little in many cases that the employees have to live in poverty. And the senior managers and owners add insult to injury by blaming the employees for this: "If they want to get paid more, they should start their own company. Or get a better job." It is no mystery why America's senior managers and owners describe the decision to pay employees as little as possible as a "law of capitalism": Because doing this masks the fact that they are making a choice. But it is a choice. Importantly, if big American companies were struggling to earn money, as they were in the early 1980s, we would not be having this conversation. Even if big American companies were only earning average profits, this wouldn't be an issue. But the "efficiency" and "shareholder-value" drive that began in the 1980s has now gone too far the other way. Just look at these charts... CHART ONE: Corporate profits and profit margins are at an all-time high.†American companies are making more money and more per dollar of sales than they ever have before. Full stop. This means that the companies have oceans of cash to invest. But they're not investing it. Because they're too risk averse, profit-obsessed, and short-term greedy. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART TWO: Wages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low. Why are corporate profits so high? One reason is that companies are paying employees less than they ever have as a share of GDP. And that, in turn, is another reason the economy is so weak. Those "wages" represent spending power for American consumers. American consumer spending is revenue for other companies. So the profit maximization obsession of American corporations is actually starving the rest of the economy of revenue growth. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART THREE: Fewer Americans are employed than at any time in the past three decades.†Another reason corporations are so profitable is that they don't employ as many Americans as they used to. This is in part because companies today regard employees as "costs" instead of human beings who are dedicating their lives to the organizations that, in turn, are supporting them and their families. (Symbiosis! Imagine that!) As a result of frantic firing in the name of "efficiency" †and "return on capital," the U.S. employment-to-population ratio has collapsed. We're back at 1970s-1980s levels now.†Business Insider, St. Louis Fed CHART FOUR: The share of our national income that American corporations are sharing with the people who do the work †("labor") is at an all-time low. †The rest of our national income, naturally, is going to owners and senior managers ("capital"), who have it better today than they have ever had it before. Business Insider, St. Louis Fed, Bureau of Labor Statistics In short, the obsession with "maximizing short-term profits" that has developed in America over the past 30 years has created a business culture in which executives dance to the tune of short-term traders and quarterly earnings reports, instead of balancing the value created for employees, customers, and long-term owners. That's not what has made America a great country. It is not what has made some excellent American corporations the envy of the world. It's also hurting the economy.
Mortgage rates have been rising for some time now. Fannie Mae's July national housing survey showed that 62% of respondents think mortgage rates will continue to rise over the next 12 months, this is up from 57% in June. But, "consumers have taken the interest rate rise in stride," said Doug Duncan, chief economist at Fannie Mae in a press release. "Expectations for continued improvement in housing persist, and sentiment toward the current buying and selling environment is back on track from its dip last month." 53% of respondents believe home prices will go up in the next 12 months, down from June's high of 57%. Meanwhile, 74% say it is a good time to buy a house, compared with 72% in June. And 40% think it is a good time to sell a house, compared to 36% in June. Fannie Mae The survey also showed that only 54% of respondents think the economy is on the wrong track. While this was a modest improvement on June, the number of respondents who expect their personal financial situation to improve over the next 12 months fell 3 percentage points to 43%. Fannie Mae
First Solar shares are off about -11.8%. The market is not happy with the company's disappointing earnings announcement, which included across-the-board downward revisions to guidance. Chart:¬† Yahoo
U.S. stock futures have been weak this morning following a 4.0% down day on Japan's Nikkei 225 stock index overnight, but the sell-off is getting worse in the first hour of morning trading in the United States. The U.S. dollar continues to weaken against the yen as investors pare back bets that Japan's experimental economic stimulus program known as "Abenomics" will lead to further gains, and it's dragging U.S. stocks down with it. Yesterday, the index closed down 0.5%.¬†Right now, S&amp;P 500 futures are down another 0.7%, trading right around 1683. Thinkorswim

Video ad company Adap.TV should be congratulated for its deal to be acquired by AOL for $405 million. The company had raised $48.5 million from investors ó now they have their money back and Adap.TV has a whole new gigantic customer base to serve. But the deal will not be celebrated at Adap.TV's competitors. For one company in particular, the deal is a sobering moment: YuMe also provides "programmatic" video ad services (meaning it serves video ads in real-time bidding auctions). Late yesterday, it reduced the target price of its upcoming IPO from ~$13 to just $9. That means YuMe ó which has taken $72.9 million from investors ó will realize only $46 million from the IPO, not the $65 million it had hoped for. (That's right ó YuMe is raising less money from its IPO than investors have plowed into it.) That reduction came on the heels of two negative factors: A fourth video ad network, LiveRail, has already confirmed it will not seek an IPO, in part after watching what happened to Tremor: "The impact of their IPO will be felt well beyond the Tremor offices," [CEO Mark] Trefgarne said after the filing. "Whether it was their intention or not, they are being viewed as the bellwether for our industry. All eyes are on their stock's performance, today and over the coming months. It will either open or close the IPO market for other video-ad networks and will be viewed as the go-to comparable when pricing private market deals for other ad networks in video and mobile." Brightroll has also reportedly been considering an IPO. The Adap.TV deal, however, would appear to indicate that acquisition, not an IPO, is the preferred way to go for programmatic video companies. Companies get a guaranteed amount of cash from a buyout exit, and they don't have to expose their financials to the public. (Both Tremor and YuMe have turned out to be modestly sized businesses.)
flickr/IvanWalsh.comThe U.S. dollar is down more than 1.0% against the Japanese yen this morning, trading around •96.70. Overnight, the Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 4.0%. The Bank of Japan is in the midst of its two-day policy meeting, the results of which will be announced Thursday morning in Japan. Economists expect little change to policy from the meeting. "This may well be the move that sees yen bears throw in the towel for the rest of this summer," says SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale global strategist Kit Juckes.†"The [Bank of Japan] is unlikely to make policy changes this week, but that doesnít justify the yenís recent strength. Iím not inclined to put it down to anything other than repeated failure to see USD/JPY settle above 100, or benefit from the combination of higher Treasury yields and higher U.S. equity indices." "Letís face it," says Juckes. "The yen has weakened a lot this year, and settling in a USD/JPY 95-100 [range] with reduced volatility probably suits both the U.S. and Japanese authorities far better than it suits our forecasts." Thinkorswim
1) Financial institution stress tests could raise worries about specific banks 2) Plans for dealing with problematic banks could lead to Cyprus type situation 3) Portugal‚Äôs debts problem signals worries for other countries as well 4) France‚Äôs continuing debt build up could cause serious problems 5) International attention to all these problems could exacerbate the issues. They go on to detail several core problems in Europe. ¬†I‚Äôve maintained a similar message in recent years though stated a bit more simplistically. ¬†In my opinion, the single currency system remains unworkable because it has no rebalancing mechanism. ¬†Any single currency system like the Euro or the Dollar will create trade imbalances (for its users ‚Äì the states in the USA and the countries in Europe). ¬†If those trade imbalances are not rebalanced by a federal tax that redistributes funds then the heavy lifting results in deflationary wage and price rebalancing. ¬†Obviously, there can be no currency rebalancing because they all use the same currency. ¬†So we get what‚Äôs going on in places like the periphery of Europe where a crushing deflation is ravaging the economy. Now, I know ‚Äúredistribution‚Äù is a dirty word, but when you lock yourself into a currency union you have to realize what you‚Äôre signing up for and the basic math behind such an arrangement. ¬†And the math in Europe remains ugly. ¬†The debt outstanding in many of these peripheral countries is not declining relative to GDP because the growth in the peripheral countries is not outpacing the rate of debt increase. ¬†So we‚Äôre actually seeing debt:GDP levels increase despite austerity. ¬†From a political perspective, this is a disaster because improvement in these ratios is central to the sustainability of the ECB‚Äôs bond buying programs. ¬†And yes, that bond buying program is about the only thing holding the Euro together at this point. The bottom line is, Europe isn‚Äôt fixed until the single currency is either broken up or built up into a full union with a proper form of redistribution as exists in the USA (yes, poor states regularly get more federal funding than they pay into the system and that keeps them from turning into Greece). ¬†Until then, it ain‚Äôt over til it‚Äôs over!
REUTERS/David McNewA flurry of new energy price forecasts released this week predicts the price of U.S. crude oil will retreat below $100 for the second half of the year. This, after the price of benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) surged 16% to $108 between mid-June and mid-July.¬† The August futures contract now stands at about $105. Here's the rundown of 2h2013 price calls: This comes on the heels of a Deutsche Bank note from a team led by Rocky Fishman that U.S. crude was heading toward a "major pullback" near term. So what's driving these bearish calls? Basically, there's still lots of supply. Here's Walker: We think some of the reasons for WTI‚Äôs strength will be short-lived and the spread to Brent will widen again. Canadian crude output problems are largely resolved; fears about a significant slowdown in US production appear unfounded; the Whiting coker start-up will leave more sweet crude available, even while US refineries start to lower runs. In other words, the Cushing glut is not yet resolved. The EIA pretty much says the same thing: EIA expects the WTI discount to begin widening again, to $6 per barrel by the end of 2013, as crude oil production in Alberta, Canada, recovers following heavy June flooding, and midcontinent crude oil production growth outpaces increases in capacity to transport crude oil from the region to refining centers on the Gulf and East Coasts. One trader we spoke with remains unconvinced, saying inventories in Cushing, Oklahoma are relatively low, and that lots of have missed the top.  We'll know more about Cushing inventories today when the EIA releases its latest petroleum report. For now, it looks like there's a consensus.

China‚Äôs economy is already slowing. That‚Äôs partly because the labor force is growing much less rapidly as a result of the one-child policy first introduced in 1978. In addition, the government is attempting to reverse years of horrible environmental pollution caused by rapid industrialization over the past few decades. Sunday‚Äôs NYT had a disturbing account of the problem titled, ‚ÄúLife in a Toxic Country.‚Äù There is also a new official campaign to reduce corruption by government officials, who have been building lots of glitzy office buildings for themselves and driving luxury cars to get to work. This week, the government started to audit the books of all these officials in an attempt to measure how much public debt they‚Äôve accumulated during their spending sprees. All these issues could come to a head just in time for the completion of Sky City. No wonder that China‚Äôs stock market has been among the worst performing in the world. The China MSCI stock price index is down 8.9% ytd. It seems cheap, selling at a forward P/E of 8.5, which matches most of the lows since 1995. However, forward earnings has been essentially flat for the past two years. Net earnings revisions have been negative for 23 of the past 25 months through July. Dr. Ed's Blog There has been a great deal of criticism about the quality and accuracy of China‚Äôs official economic data, especially trade statistics. One way around the problem is to monitor the value of exports to China compiled by the countries of origin. The results aren‚Äôt pretty. Data through May show that dollar-denominated exports (on a 12-month sum basis) to China from the US, the euro zone plus the UK, Japan, and South Korea have been mostly flat to down in recent months. All together, they were down 4.9% y/y through May. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Sky City. (1) Can superbull leap over tall buildings? (2) Shanghai Tower this year. Sky City next year. (3) China has world-class pollution and corruption. (4) Taking the glitz out of growth. (5) China's MSCI has lots of negative earnings revisions. (6) World trade at record high, but not growing much. (7) More upbeat indicators out of Germany (orders) and UK (output). (8) US exports rise to record high. (9) US oil trade deficit narrowing as domestic output soars. (10) ATA trucking index at record high. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation. (More for subscribers.)
Earlier this morning, we saw Bank of England's Mark Carney introduce forward guidance to UK monetary policy alongside it's inflation report. While the FTSE is down 0.6%, the sterling seems to love the news. The GBP was at $1.5304 ahead of the announcement. Immediately after Carney introduced forward guidance the GBP fell to to $1.5205 immediately after the announcement, but has since climbed to $1.5438.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Carolyn Kaster/Associated PressFuture homebuyers could feel the pinch from plans in Congress to scrap Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî Homebuyers could feel the pinch if Congress follows through on plans to shut down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage guarantee giants that were rescued by a $187 billion taxpayer bailout during the financial crisis. Borrowers would probably end up paying slightly higher mortgage rates under House and Senate bills that would phase out Fannie and Freddie over five years and shrink the government's huge role in guaranteeing mortgage securities. Fannie and Freddie teetered under a crush of massive losses on risky mortgages before being bailed out. The House Republican bill would virtually privatize the mortgage market. The Senate's bipartisan plan envisions a continued but more limited government role in insuring mortgage securities. Supporters say that would keep mortgages available and affordable. Congressional efforts to overhaul the nation's mortgage finance system got a boost Tuesday from President Barack Obama's call for changes that are generally in line with the Senate's bipartisan plan. "For too long these companies were allowed to make huge profits buying mortgages, knowing that if their bets went bad, taxpayers would be left holding the bag. It was 'heads we win, tails you lose,' and it was wrong," Obama said. "The good news is right now there's a bipartisan group of senators working to end Fannie and Freddie as we know them. And I support these kinds of reform efforts." The idea behind both plans is to shift more mortgage financing risk from the government to the private sector to prevent taxpayers from having to pay for future bailouts. But there's a price homebuyers would likely pay for having private investors shoulder more risk to protect taxpayers. "It will mean higher mortgage rates," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics. "The question is how much higher." Typical borrowers could pay about $75 per month in extra interest payments, about half a percentage point, on an average mortgage under the Senate proposal, Zandi estimated, and about $135 more under the House plan. That's on a conforming loan of about $200,000 with the borrower providing a 20 percent down payment. "You have to assume that almost in any future model being drafted, loans will be more expensive," said David Stevens, CEO of the Mortgage Bankers Association and a former Obama administration housing official. Most Democrats tend to favor a continued government role backstopping the mortgage market because they say it stabilizes the housing market. Many House Republicans, especially conservatives, want to end government involvement and let the free market rule. Given the split, the rival bills stand as opening markers in a long fight. "We all agree that the system with Fannie and Freddie needs to be changed," said Rep. Michael Capuano, D-Mass., ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services subcommittee on housing and insurance. "The real question is, do we reform it or kill it the way House Republicans want to." Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, said the vast majority of housing industry groups such as real estate agents, mortgage bankers and homebuilders support keeping a government role insuring mortgage securities. House Republicans, led by the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, say their bill to vastly reduce the government's involvement in the mortgage finance system will be a boon to consumers, spurring competition and innovation in the private sector and giving borrowers more choices. They blame Fannie and Freddie for inflating the market before the housing crash, contributing to the boom-bust cycle. Hensarling, in a statement Tuesday, said his plan "puts private capital at the center of the housing finance system, ends the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and sustains the 30-year fixed rate mortgage - all goals the president today says he supports." Hensarling's bill recently cleared his committee without any Democratic votes and is expected to get a House vote in the next few months. Housing advocates warn that if the government's role is scaled back too far, mortgages could be pushed out of reach for people with lower credit scores and smaller savings for down payments. They say 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, long a staple of the housing market, could become harder to find and more expensive for borrowers with modest incomes because lenders would be less willing to offer such longer-term loans without government guarantees. "Those people are now going to be locked out of the system or many will end up paying a premium because of these changes," said John Taylor, chief executive of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a housing advocacy group. Fannie and Freddie own or guarantee nearly half of all U.S. mortgages and 90 percent of new ones. They buy mortgages from lenders, package them as bonds, guarantee them against default and sell them to investors. That helps banks get rid of risk from their balance sheets, freeing up more money to lend. During the financial crisis, as house prices tanked and foreclosures surged, the government rescued Fannie and Freddie from a flood of defaults on risky loans the agencies had guaranteed, many aimed at providing affordable housing for lower-income borrowers. Like many banks, the two companies had relaxed their standards on loans they bought or guaranteed during the boom. High-interest loans, some with low "teaser" rates, were given to risky borrowers. Now under government control, Fannie and Freddie are hugely profitable, and thanks in large part to the housing recovery they're pumping billions of dollars into the U.S. Treasury. Fannie and Freddie have paid the Treasury $132 billion, more than two-thirds of the bailout. In the Democratic-controlled Senate, a bipartisan bill by Sens. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., and Mark Warner, D-Va., would gradually replace Fannie and Freddie over five years with a new agency having a more limited role insuring mortgage securities against catastrophic losses. The bill would create a new Federal Mortgage Insurance Corp. that would provide backstop insurance available only after a substantial amount of private capital is used up. Investors would pay insurance fees to the corporation while agreeing to put a substantial amount of their own capital at risk. The bill in the GOP-controlled House nearly eliminates the government's role in the mortgage financing system. It would limit the Federal Housing Administration to insuring loans only for first-time and lower-income borrowers. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
REUTERS/Jason AldenThe Bank of England's press conference on the inflation report and Mark Carney's announcement on forward guidance has begun. Carney has announced that the UK will get forward guidance. The Bank of England upgraded its GDP forecast to 1.5% in 2013 and 2.7%* in 2014. "The MPC intends at a minimum to maintain the current exceptionally accommodative stance of monetary policy until economic slack has been substantially reduced," said Carney. "That means the MPC intends not to raise Bank Rate above its current level of 0.5%, at least until the Labour Force Survey headline measure of unemployment has fallen to a threshold of 7%. ...But until the unemployment threshold is reached, and subject to maintaining price and financial stability, the MPC intends not to reduce the stock of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank reserves." he said. Carney has made clear that forward guidance won't be time contingent, instead it will be state contingent.¬†Guidance is based on 2.5% consumer prices and 7% unemployment and rates will be on hold till 2016. "It is strong stuff to some extent but it was widely expected," according to Societe Generale's Sebastien Galy. Carney also said "guidance will cease to apply" if "material risks to price stability or financial stability are judged to have arisen." The three knockouts are 1. Above target inflation. 2. Un-anchored medium term inflation expectations and 3. Threat to financial stability. "The economy won't have to do very well for inflation to be above 2.5 and the unemployment rate to be below 7pct by the. The risk - rates are here in three years and a good bit higher in five," said Societe Generale's Kit Juckes. During the press conference, Carney refused to comment on the members' votes in favor of forward guidance and to use the unemployment rate as the variable for guidance. The UK economy has begun growing again but there is little "satisfaction" from this, Carney said. The FTSE is down 0.6% after the announcement. Meanwhile, the GBP fell to $1.5205 immediately after the announcement, but has since climbed to $1.5438. *A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that 2014 GDP forecast was 3.7%. Here is the Bank of England's Forward Guidance report. ------------------------------------------------------------------ Here is Mark Carney's statement: In the Monetary Policy Committee's (MPC) latest remit, you asked the MPC to provide its assessment of the case for adopting some form of forward guidance, including the possible use of intermediate thresholds, as well as its view of the trade-off between growth and inflation. The attached document fulfills that request. In its assessment the MPC has concluded that explicit forward guidance can enhance the effectiveness of the exceptionally stimulative monetary stance in three ways. First, it provides greater clarity regarding the MPC's view of the appropriate trade-off between the horizon over which inflation is returned to target and the speed with which growth and employment recover. Second, it reduces uncertainty about the future path of monetary policy, in particular helping to avoid the risk that market interest rates rise prematurely as the recovery gains traction. Third, it gives monetary policy greater scope to explore the potential sustainable level of employment and output without putting price and financial stability at risk. In these ways, forward guidance can help to secure the recovery that is now in train. In light of that assessment, the MPC agreed at its meeting on 1st¬† August - and is announcing today - forward guidance about the future path for monetary policy. In essence, the MPC intends at a minimum to maintain the current exceptionally accommodative stance of monetary policy until economic slack has been substantially reduced, provided that this does not put at risk either price stability or financial stability. In practice, that means the MPC intends not to raise Bank Rate above its current level of 0.5%, at least until the Labour Force Survey headline measure of unemployment has fallen to a threshold of 7%. While the unemployment rate remains above 7%, the MPC stands ready to undertake further asset purchases if additional stimulus is warranted. But until the unemployment threshold is reached, and subject to maintaining price and financial stability, the MPC intends not to reduce the stock of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central bank reserves. Consistent with that, the MPC intends to reinvest the cashflows associated with all maturing gilts held in the Asset Purchase Facility. The MPC has considered how forward guidance could best be captured in the form of intermediate thresholds. The attached document contains its assessment of the various alternatives. The MPC has concluded that forward guidance is best implemented using an unemployment threshold of 7%. This is not to say that Bank Rate will automatically be increased when the unemployment threshold is reached. Moreover, it would be wrong to think of 7% as a target for unemployment. The rate of unemployment consistent with price stability - a rate that monetary policy can do little to affect - is likely to be lower than this. So 7% is merely a 'way station' at which the MPC would reassess the state of the economy, the progress of the nascent economic recovery, and, in that context, the appropriate stance of monetary policy. The threshold is specified in terms of unemployment for two reasons. First, we consider measures of unemployment to be reliable and well understood. Second, an unemployment threshold allows monetary policy to test the scope for a rebound in productivity, while the knockouts ensure that price and financial stability will not be put at risk. As you are well aware, productivity in the UK is currently significantly below its pre-crisis trend, and there is considerable uncertainty around the degree to which that shortfall will unwind as the recovery gains strength. The unemployment threshold is robust to this uncertainty. If productivity growth accelerates as output recovers - such that unemployment falls only slowly - there would be more scope for the economy to expand without generating inflation. Consistent with that, our forward guidance makes clear that Bank Rate would then be held at its current low level for longer than otherwise. The opposite is also true. The guidance will cease to apply if material risks to price stability or financial stability are judged to have risen. In that event, the unemployment threshold would be 'knocked out'. Again, this would not be a trigger for raising Bank Rate; it would simply be a prompt for the MPC to reconsider the appropriate stance of policy. The price stability knockouts allow the threshold guidance to remain in place only if, in the MPC's view, CPI inflation 18 to 24 months ahead is more likely than not to be below 2.5%, and medium-term inflation expectations remain sufficiently well anchored. The design of the financial stability knockout - in which the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) is asked to judge whether the stance of monetary policy poses a significant threat to financial stability that cannot be contained through the considerable &gt;supervisory and regulatory policy tools of the various authorities - takes advantage of the new institutional structure put in place by the Financial Services Act. These price stability and financial stability knockouts ensure that our forward guidance is consistent with the MPC's primary objective of ensuring price stability, and the requirement in its remit to have regard to the policy actions of the FPC. The MPC's current assessment is that, with Bank Rate remaining constant at 0.5% during the three-year forecast period ending in 2016 Q3, it is as likely that unemployment will reach the 7% threshold sometime beyond the three-year forecast horizon as before. It is important to be clear, however, that forward guidance does not mean the MPC is promising to keep interest rates low for a particular period of time. The path of Bank Rate and asset purchases will, as always, depend on economic conditions. Instead, we are setting out the conditions that will need to be met before we consider increasing Bank Rate or reducing our stock of asset purchases. The introduction of forward guidance adds to the MPC's policy toolkit. It is part of a mixed strategy that includes Bank Rate at a historic low, asset purchases - with scope for further asset purchases possible should conditions warrant - and the Funding for Lending Scheme. Our strategy is also complemented by the use of the Bank's other policy tools, in particular, the recent actions taken to increase the resilience of the UK banking sector. The introduction of forward guidance will reinforce the Bank's efforts to secure a sustainable recovery in the UK and return inflation to the target. Much is at stake. A recovery in productivity driven by an increase in demand will boost real incomes. A fall in unemployment from its current level of 7.8% to 7% would mean more than a quarter of a million additional jobs, even if the labour force did not grow.Allowing for expected labour force growth over the next three years, that figure would become well over three-quarters of a million. In the face of considerable headwinds created by the global financial crisis, UK monetary policy is currently providing an extraordinary degree of support to the British economy. The decision to adopt forward guidance will further enhance the effectiveness of monetary policy so that it fully plays its part in securing a sustainable recovery over the medium term.
The debate over the timing of the taper may have just come to an end. Since May, economists have been struggling to figure out when the Federal Reserve would begin to taper, or gradually reduce, its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. Various Fed members including Chairman Ben Bernanke have all emphasized the need to see improving economic data before the Fed would think about tapering. Economists have generally speculated that the Fed's words and the economic data have pointed to a September taper. However, Chicago Fed President Charles Evans, arguably the most dovish member of the Fed, may have given the word that acted effectively as the green light for a September taper. From Societe Generale's Alvin Tan: Looks like the September tapering start is a done deal. Even President Evans of the Chicago Fed, a noted dove, acknowledged "good improvement" in the labour market yesterday, and said that he "would clearly not rule" out a September tapering start. Evans however would like to see inflation near 2% before hiking rates, even if the unemployment rate fell below 6%. All three Fed speakers (Evans, Fisher &amp; Lockhart) we have had since the FOMC last week have signalled the possibility of a September reduction on bond purchases. Evans was the brains behind the Fed's implementation of inflation and unemployment rate thresholds used to guide monetary policy. While Evans wasn't explicitly endorsing a Fed taper, given his historically dovish stance, his carefully chosen words yesterday have been interpreted broadly as hawkish.
REUTERS / Lee Jae WonBank of Japan governor Haruhiko KurodaMarkets are selling off around the world. Japan got hit the worst, with the Nikkei closing down 4%. Today, the Bank of Japan began its two-day monetary policy meeting. Analysts expect the meeting to conclude with the announcement of more easing. However, Bloomberg reports that there is some speculation in the markets that the BoJ might refrain from adding any new stimulus. "Short- term trading volatility in Japan has unfortunately diverted investors‚Äô attention awayfrom the fact that economic and profit fundamentals seem to be improving," said Wall Street veteran Richard Bernstein. "We have invested in Japan because of this secular backdrop, and expect the country‚Äôs secular fundamentals to improve." Here's a look at the Nikkei via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Frenkieb / FlickrStock markets around the world are in the red as the world's central banks meet. The UK's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.3%. Germany's DAX is down 0.5%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.2%. Later this morning, the Bank of England and its governor Mark Carney will release its quarterly inflation report. Economists expect the event to include the information as to how the BoE plans to include forward guidance with its monetary policy announcements. The sell-off in Europe follows a sharp sell-off in Asia. Japan's Nikkei fell 4.0%. Korea's Kospi fell 1.4%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX fell 1.8%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 1.5% China's Shanghai Composite fell 0.6%. The Bank of Japan begins its two-day monetary policy meeting today. According to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the BoJ will expand its easy policy.
REUTERS/Mark Blinch The Bank of England will publish its inflation report at 5:30 a.m. ET. But all eyes will be on any comments Mark Carney may make regarding introducing forward guidance. to its monetary policy announcements. The idea is that knowing where the central bank stands on monetary policy and where it will be in the future will give businesses an incentive to borrow and help boost the economy. Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard writes that there are a few things to consider in terms of forward guidance. Time-contingent or state-contingent? Hilliard has previously pointed out that when an announcement on forward guidance does come, it is likely to be "state-contingent" ‚Äî or dependent on economic data ‚Äî even though he doesn't think this is the best framework for the UK. "The fact that the Chancellor‚Äôs request was framed in terms of assessing the merits of using intermediate thresholds being reached for some particular economic indicator points to the ‚Äústate-contingent‚Äù approach being favored by the MPC." The unemployment rate or nominal GDP growth are considered the top contenders for the choice of the threshold. Hilliard doesn't think the unemployment rate is viable for the UK because the participation rate has risen in the UK (compared to the U.S. where the participation rate has fallen driving down unemployment rates). Moreover there was a significant decline in productivity during the recession. "If that cannot be explained one should be cautious in using this variable as the yardstick to use for forward guidance," writes Hilliard. "Our fear is that with domestic inflation pressures so insensitive to downward pressure from the large output gap, aiming for a much lower unemployment rate would risk increasing those pressures." Nominal GDP however "figured strongly in the recent debate about the choice of target variable for the Bank of England remit. Moreover, the MPC, and in particular the Governor, cited the weakness of nominal GDP as a prime reason for embarking on QE." But Hilliard does think the state contingent forward guidance is more likely to use unemployment rate as the threshold variable. The other question is will the guidance apply on the way up and down? The Fed has tied its forward guidance to developments in the unemployment rate and tied changes to this on the way up and down. The Fed would look at a few other labor market indicators too when adjusting policy tightening. In the UK however, Hilliard writes that the focus is just on when it would reverse easy monetary policy.  "But it is easily possible that Carney will wish to keep the door open for more easing in the form of rate cuts or more QE, in which case the MPC could frame the guidance in a way that specifies a threshold for that as well, just as the Fed has." "...Whatever variable is chosen as the threshold variable, there will always be a background constraint that inflation must remain well-behaved." And what should we expect from the inflation report itself? UK consumer price inflation is currently at 2.9%, while the target is 2%. The Bank of England's remit was amended to allow for "flexible inflation targeting," earlier this year and pushing inflation back down to that 2% target isn't as important anymore. Hilliard writes that whether it comes tomorrow, or in November's report, we should expect some bigger, permanent changes. In the second half of the year Hilliard says we should expect 1. Alternative scenarios 2. More detail on the consensus forecast 3. Include discussion on how "outturns have differed from expectations." 4. Increasing communication on outlook for policy. In the light of better economic data, many wonder if forward guidance is even necessary anymore. Hilliard argues it is. "The MPC does not publish an estimate of the output gap, nor do we expect it to start doing so but recent Inflation Reports make it abundantly clear that a large gap exists. In addition, since the publication of the last Report in May, the benchmark revisions to the national accounts have revised up the size of the hit to GDP from the recession. So there is more ground to make up, even after upward revisions to last year‚Äôs GDP data. Furthermore, the current recovery still stands out as being extremely anemic. The current recovery is the only one, after over five years from the peak of output, in which the economy is far from regaining that peak." We will have the coverage live on Wednesday ¬ª
