Economist Mark Perry has been tweeting some great stuff this evening about how hot the housing market is around the country. Check out these numbers! Metro Milwaukee home sales rose 18.7% YoY in July, Median Sales Price by 7.3% http://t.co/Bq8I2TrQQ7 Baltimore-area home sales rose 29.5% in July, with strong demand driving prices to highest level since summer 2008 http://t.co/pcjYNGORdY Albuquerque Home Sales Increased 30.6% in July YoY to Highest Level in Almost Six Years http://t.co/1I30x1SNGt Des Moines Area Home Sales Spiked 31 percent in July Compared to a Year Earlier http://t.co/jGtc4Xdo4U HOT: July Minneapolis-St. Paul Home Sales Were Up 19% YoY to Highest Level since June 2006, Median Price up 17% http://t.co/FUwJbwcW7t HOT: Metro Detroit median home sales price rose nearly 50 percent in July http://t.co/ZjFnwMrLxa Homes sales in Salt Lake were up by 17% YoY in July http://t.co/1D2TC7h6CH July home sales up 24% in Northern Virginia, Average Price by 8% http://t.co/IPYjBZ5O3X Wilmington Area home sales soar 38 percent in July http://t.co/xE6AUU15Mk Metro Denver mansion sales (million-dollar homes) almost doubled in July from 2012 http://t.co/Mk4Onki8Py
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidHedge fund manager Bill Ackman, the founder of $12 billion†Pershing Square Capital Management founder, can't stay out of the spotlight. Ackman's two huge, public bets on JCPenney and Herbalife have gone disastrously wrong this year, and, to many, Ackman's behavior seems increasingly desperate and unhinged. Ackman has been betting on a turnaround at the struggling retailer since 2010 and he's been betting that nutritional product seller Herbalife will fail. So far, he has lost hundreds of millions of dollars on each of these investments ó an estimated $600 million on his JCPenney investment and at least $300 million on his Herbalife short. To some, his latest behavior--trying to replace the new CEO of JC Penney only four months after Ackman brought him in to repair the damage inflicted by Ackman's last CEO--to accusing a fellow hedge-funder George Soros of criminally ganging up with other investors to attack his Herbalife short--reek of desperation, or worse. We checked in with a source close to Ackman to get a reaction to this. Our source familiar with Ackman assured us that Ackman is not having some sort of meltdown. † In fact, our source says, Ackman is "very calm" and was swimming laps on Friday afternoon. What's more, Ackman considers this sort of investing "fun," the source explained. What is apparently fun for Ackman, however, is rubbing others the wrong way. Starbucks CEO Howard Shultz, for example, described what Ackman has done to JC Penney as "despicable." And the JC Penney drama is a long way from being done. Ackman, who is JCPenney's top investor, fired off two public letters to JCPenney's board last week. His first letter on Thursday demanded that they replace JC Penney's interim CEO Mike Ullman in the next 30 to 45 days.† Ackman's second letter, on Friday, said that he has lost confidence in†the board's chairman Tom†Engibous†and called for his replacement with retail legend Allen †Questrom. JCPenney†responded to Ackman by saying his†"latest actions are disruptive and counterproductive." There have also been reports that Ackman, the largest shareholder in JCPenney and member of the board, threatened to sell his shares if the board didn't find a new CEO. Of course, that would be at a big loss for his fund.†Since September 28, 2010, the date of his initial†13D regulatory filing†on†JCPenney,†shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%. According to some retail analysts, the timing of Ackman's letters is incredibly poor, especially since retailers are gearing up for the back-to-school season.† "He's a media disaster. That's what he is. If there are things going on with the company, the last thing you want to do is air your dirty laundry in public. And when you are trying to attract someone to take over the company, what do you think the board is doing at a crucial time like back to school? Denying these claims," an analyst who wished to remain anonymous, commented.† The back-to-school work for JCPenney, such as picking out inventory and merchandise, has already happened, though. † According to Brian Sozzi, Belus Capital's CEO and chief equities strategist,†the concern surrounding Ackman's actions would be on the potential impact on the holiday season and the first quarter of next year.† "What the letter has done, if the news flow from prior weeks didn't already, is knock the first domino over in a chain of events that could impact holidays and the first quarter of 2014.† JC Penney owns all its back to school items, correct.† But, what it doesn't own is the market price it will get for those goods.† If vendors are telling them it will cost more to get them the merchandise it requires to compete during the holidays, JCPenney may look to become especially promotional for back to school.† Inventory†is a retailer's lifeline to cash daily," Sozzi told us. † "So while they are out discounting more for back to school, and getting higher invoices for their vendors for future purchases, the stock market will grow concerned regarding the company's liquidity levels and access to additional liquidity.† As the stock goes down, vendors get even more nervous, charge higher prices, JC Penney becomes more aggressive with its inventory to raise cash," he added.† Another analyst felt like Ackman isn't taking responsibility for JCPenney's situation because he was the one who picked the former disastrous CEO Ron Johnson as CEO.†Ullman was asked to return to rescue the company after Johnson†got ousted back in April.†† †"Bottom lineóAckman got his company into this situation by hiring Ron Johnson and he was happy to turn on him. Now he's throwing a tantrum because he wants Ullman out because things are not happening quick enough. The guy has been around for four months. They should be thanking Ullman for stepping in. †All these public tantrums, any CEO, good luck getting him in there," an analyst, who wished to remain anonymous, explained.† Still, Ackman isn't the only large investor who wants to see change in JCPenney's management.†Hedge fund manager Richard Perry's firm, which owns a 7.3% stake in JCPenney, also sent a letter on Friday asking the retailer to replace Ullman,†CNBC's David Faber reported.† And then there's Herbalife. At the beginning of last week, there were shocking†reports†that Ackman had filed a complaint with the SEC accusing George Soros's Soros Fund Management accusing them of violating securities laws by illegally colluding with other investors and ganging up on him. Before that news broke,†CNBC's Scott Wapner reported†that Soros had†amassed a large long position in Herbalife.† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products, is the stock Ackman is famously short. †He's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife because he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme."† "Well this seems to be like a desperation move and the kettle calling the pot black. When Mr. Ackman went short he had a huge public announcement and urged people that the stock was way overvalued. Now there are people buying the stock and it's cutting into his profits, so he's trying to retaliate," former SEC chairman Harvey Pitt said in an interview with CNBC this week.
After falling to a one and a half month low in Monday trading, Japan is bouncing back. The Nikkei is currently up about 1.5%. Nikkei.com The gains follow somewhat better than expected numbers for machine tools. Yesterday, Japan missed substantially on GDP, suggesting an uneven recovery.
How do all the companies on the Internet fit together? Where is the center? What is on the outside and moving in? Menlo Park, Ca. startup EverString has put the whole thing on a map, using artificial intelligence technology to perform¬†semantic analysis on 900 million news sentences and counting. The company was started last September by former investment banker Vincent Yang, who are both students at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Their team includes a neural network brain scientist, NASA scientists, mathematicians, growth equity investors, event trading experts, and a professional gambler, many of them also MBA students at Stanford. Other than its technology galaxy product, EverString also has a¬†smart news reader product.¬†If you're interested in enterprise companies and big data, you can search through news articles that mention big data events and conferences, or you could search only for the companies that had recent product launches or just raised funding. EverString's services are marketed to venture capitalists, financial traders, and other business professionals. The firm is already providing custom solutions for a handful of customers, though it's not disclosing how much it charges. EverString is currently part of¬†Microsoft Ventures Accelerator program in Beijing. Part of the team is in China and others are in Mountain View, Calif.¬†It has received an undisclosed amount of funding from Sequoia Capital, and IDG Ventures. Martinchek showed us some of the maps. Here's the Technology Galaxy: EverString Each dot represents a company, with larger dots representing more influential companies. Each color represents a different industry, with different shades showing variation in that industry.¬†Martinchek confirmed that pink represents cloud-based companies; orange is search-related; magenta shows enterprise; green relates to social networking. The companies near the edge of the galaxy are typically newer. The larger, more established industries cluster toward the center of the galaxy.¬†The lines show connections between companies and industries. We'd show the maps in more detail if we could, but that's proprietary information for EverString. Below is the same map more clearly grouped by industry. Google is the largest not, indicating its dominant influence. EverString customers, however, are more interested in the smaller circles and clusters on the edge, showing companies and industries that are just emerging. ¬†The online education industry, for instance, is growing in influence, with hot companies like Coursera, Udemy, and Udacity. Everstring  Let's zoom in on the "Social network" category.¬†Unsurprisingly,¬†Facebook and Twitter reign supreme here. Even though MySpace's heyday is long gone, it's actually still relevant and influential in the industry.¬† EverString  The travel and rental industry appears toward the edge of the galaxy, meaning that it's not nearly as influential as something like social networking. Still, we see some familiar companies like HomeAway and Airbnb with a significant influence in the growing industry.¬† EverString ¬† So now that you've seen what the Internet galaxy looks like now, here's a view of what the Internet looked like back in 1984. Not much going on then. Everstring  In 1998 &amp; 1999, Google was founded and a few more tech companies entered the mix. Everstring As new industries and companies emerge, the technology galaxy will continue to grow and reveal new, untapped markets.¬† In the near future, EverString will allow its customers to overlay the galaxy with real-time information from Twitter. That real-time Twitter functionality will allow customers to understand which companies are generating conversation at any given moment.¬†
REUTERS/ Toby MelvilleIf it's summer, it's gin and tonic time. So last month's International Wine and Spirit Competition did us all a favor by ranking out the best bottles of liquid juniper in the world. Two bottles achieved a "Gold Outstanding" ranking, setting the industry standard for excellence. Three other distilleries¬†took home a "Gold." While prices may vary depending on location, these gins ‚Äî ranging from $12 to $70 ‚Äî¬†won't hurt your checkbook. Here are the winners (and the judges' colorful descriptions): Gold Outstanding: Adnams Copper House Distilled Gin "A creamy, sweetly-spiced satisfying gin that is inviting and engaging. It‚Äôs ample, bold and complex with well-balanced notes of cardamom, nutmeg and bark. A beautifully crafted example." Price: $40 No. 3 London Dry Gin "Ripe and youthful, this is a juicy expression of juniper with florality. The gin develops beautifully from the nose as it transitions to a complex palate and a long finish." Price: $45 Gold: Beefeater Burrough‚Äôs Reserve "An aromatic, balanced and complex gin is complemented by¬†judicious notes of oak, bringing sweet vanilla overtones. Extremely¬†well-integrated with lovely attractive aromatics parading on the¬†finish." Price: $70 (according to Beefeater) Gibson‚Äôs London Dry Gin "Extremely well-balanced, complex and impressively full at this strength. Juicy citrus, luscious texture and a ripe style combine in a gin that punches above its weight." Price: $12 Professor Cornelius Ampleforth¬†Bathtub Gin "Delicate aromas of juniper and spice, with a touch of glycerine sweetness, lead the way to a classy palate, with an impressively gentle delivery for its strength, and a lingering finish that only emphasis the underlying quality of the base spirit." Price: $51
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. It's Becoming Harder To Justify Higher Stock Prices (BMO Capital Markets)  Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets thinks it's getting harder to justify higher stock prices. This is because it is hard for companies to boost profit margins over a long period of time and at some point we need organic¬† economic growth.¬† "From our perspective, we think that all of the good news is more than fully reflected in current stocks prices. Frankly, most investors want to validate higher prices tomorrow because they were higher today. When it comes to fundamentals, further multiple expansion and margin improvement are well saturated views. What we believe is missing is analysis and perspective. As we have stated frequently, we have been early adopters of the secular bull market for US stocks for the past four years.¬† "Yes, bull markets tend to have a life of their own. However, the secular bull is going to have a hard time achieving the five-mile marker at its current 40-yard sprint pace. Fundamentals dictate a water break, and the market needs to take a sip." In the long run however, Belski continues to be bullish on U.S. stocks because he expects a "sharp rebound in capital expenditures." The Lines On The Fiduciary Standard Is Blurred (The Wall Street Journal) Most investors don't understand the difference between the fiduciary standard and the suitability standard, writes Samuel R. Scott of Kansas-based Sunrise Advisors in a new Wall Street Journal column. Fee-based registered investment advisors (RIAs) are legally required to act in their client's best interest, while advisors under the suitability standard are required to offer investments that "suitable" for clients.¬† "What really concerns me is the proliferation of "fee-based" advisers, who are dually-registered as both a fiduciary (regulated by the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission) and non-fiduciary (overseen by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority). Fee-based advisers can be compensated by fees, like a fee-only Registered Investment Adviser, but they can also get commissions. "‚Ä¶As a proponent of fiduciary duty, I believe the suitability standard is a failed doctrine. We have a long way to go in restoring confidence in the client-adviser relationship. A good first step is to promote transparency, clarity, and to protect independent and objective advice by adopting a fiduciary standard for all financial professionals who serve the investing public." More Students Need To Take The CFP Exam (Investment News) 351 of 506 students with a bachelor's and master's degree in financial planning had not taken the CFP exam, according to the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. 6,000 people take the CFP exam every year with a 55% pass rate, according to Investment News. This comes even as the industry is trying hard to draw in new, young talent. "We need your help in bringing your students through [to CFP certification]," said Charles Chaffin CFP Board director at a CFP Board education conference cited by Investment News. "My challenge to all of you is to increase the induction of your students." The 2 Factors Driving Stock Prices Since 1992 (Guggenheim Partners) "The P/E multiple, defined as the ratio of price to trailing 12-month earnings, has been the main driver of the rally in U.S. equities over the past two years," writes Scott Minerd at Guggenheim Partners. "The S&amp;P 500 index has increased by over 34 percent since the beginning of 2011, of which 28 percent has come from multiple expansion."¬† "During the same period, growth in corporate earnings has slowed. The trailing 12-month earnings for S&amp;P 500 companies rose 2.4 percent in 2012 and another 2.5 percent for the first seven months of this year, registering the slowest earnings growth in non-recession years since 1998. Without renewed earnings growth, a continued rally in stocks driven by multiple expansion may be not sustainable." Guggenheim Partners The 20-Year Performance Of Hedge Funds And The S&amp;P 500 Are Almost Identical (Sober Look)  Over the past 20 years however (since the beginning of 1994), hedge funds (at least as determined by the CS HF Index) and the S&amp;P500 performance is nearly identical through Q2 of this year. Both indices are showing about 8.6% in annual returns," writes Walter Kurtz in a new post.¬† "Of course if one stuck it out for 20 years in these investments (reinvesting dividends and distributions), the path of achieving the 8.6% return would have been dramatically different between these two. The monthly return volatility for the S&amp;P500 is nearly double that of the hedge fund index."
Kevin Smith/Business Insider I've been wearing Saint Laurent's 2013 classic leather lace-up boat shoe every day for the past 14 days. The shoe†retails for $545†and is available in one material: black leather.†From the price alone, it should be clear that this shoe isn't for the average Joe. It's for the gentleman with an expendable income, who cares about the way he presents himself. If you fit that bill, read on. I first learned of Saint Laurent's classic boat shoe from GQ: Say YES to Saint Laurent black boat shoes, and wear them with EVERYTHING! JM http://t.co/y2AlyVPxf8 To the naked eye, it doesn't look much different from a Sperry or Sebago, but all that changes once you slip the shoe on. Saint Laurent (formerly Yves Saint Laurent) chose 100% calf-skin leather to craft the outside and inside of the shoe. This high-quality leather is then refined and tanned in France and Italy. It's also what separates the shoe from the rest of the pack, and allows them to mold seamlessly to the wearer's foot. After my second day of wear, I felt the innersole begin to slide and move around. Alarmed, I thought that the sole was detaching from inside of the shoe, but I quickly realized that the leather inside was actually malleable. It was beginning the process of forming to my foot. My Sebagos never loved me back by shaping to the way I walked or stood. Not only were the shoes supremely comfortable for short periods, but I didn't even notice them on my feet during periods of extended wear.† Like all boat shoes, Saint Laurent's shoes are intended to be worn without socks. I assumed this meant I would have to voraciously powder the inside to prevent the stickiness that normally comes with a sans-socks experience, but with the Saint Laurent shoe, I did not. Kevin Smith/Business Insider During the two weeks I've worn the shoes, many people have remarked that it doesn't look that different from a regular boat shoe, and they've wondered whether they are really worth the high price tag. As far as the look, they have a point: I expected this criticism because honestly, there's not much the designer could have done to innovate on the boat shoe design without making it into something else entirely. It's a "classic," after all. But there's something about the quality of the product that makes them feel noticeably different ó†they felt expensive. Knowing that these shoes will probably outlive the average boat shoe thanks to their expert craftsmanship, I do believe they are worth the investment. As GQ points out, the Saint Laurent boat shoe can be worn for any occasion. It's easily dressed up or down. The shoe pairs well with a suit, but is also appropriate for a casual Friday, helping making it simple to transition from day to night. Wearing this shoe with jeans isn't a problem, either.† The designer's take on a classic staple also reflects the brand and where company sees men's style heading. These days, men care about how they look and what they wear, and pay close attention to detail. High-end brands like Saint Laurent are responding by making pieces like these shoes, which have more of a general appeal, instead of just high-fashion items. Overall, I highly recommend Saint Laurent's boat shoe. If $545 is within your shoe budget, I believe they are worth the investment because of the quality and comfort that don't come with your average boat shoe. Yes they are expensive, but Saint Laurent knows it audience and is well aware of how deep their pocketbooks are. The shoe is available at Saint Laurent Stores (212-431-3240) and at ysl.com. Saint Laurent loaned us the shoes for two weeks in order to review them.Kevin Smith/Business InsiderAnother view of Saint Laurent's 2013 Boat Shoe
Are demographics the silent GDP killer? This weekend, Cumberland Advisors' David Kotok pointed us to a recent note from Rob Arnott and Denis Chaves of Research Affiliates that seems to indicate that it's so. First, they explained a model they developed, which shows that the contribution of real GDP growth per capita increases as ages increase into the mid-30s before turning down. "The average contribution to GDP growth becomes negative between 55 and 60," they explain. "This does not mean that people begin to consume more GDP than they produce after age 55, only that‚Äîon average‚Äîworkers above age 55 have passed their peak in productivity. Intuitively, the average 60-year-old is more productive than the average 40-year-old, but not so relative to the average 55-year-old. At ages 60 and above, the coefficients decline much more sharply: the mature worker exhibits falling productivity, and in retiring, a worker‚Äôs productivity simply falls off a cliff." Arnott and Chaves then put together estimates of how much of a headwind (and looked back to how much of a tailwind) demographics are giving major economies, based on projected aging trends. Research Affiliates, Business Insider As one might expect, Japan sees the most debilitating impact from aging demographics, with a drag of more than 2% on GDP. "A transition from a 3% tailwind to a 2% headwind is shocking: it suggests a 5 percentage point drop in normal real per capita GDP growth rates from the heady growth of the 1960s to the 1980s," said Chaves about Japan. "Even if changes in policies and entitlements can halve these figures, it‚Äôs a formidable headwind." The rest of the world will see a more gradual but still substantial impact. Brazil, China, Italy and Germany will each get down near the -2% level. Arnott and Chives' conclusion is that demographics actually gave major economies a huge lift in the previous 50 years, but that this ended up creating unreasonable expectations about what kind of growth is possible. They argued that the coming headwinds merely represent a regression to the mean ‚Äî and policies will have to adapt accordingly. "The danger is not in the slower growth," they wrote. "Slow growth is not a bad thing. It‚Äôs still growth. The danger is in an expectations gap, in which we consider slower growth unacceptable. If we expect our policy elite to deliver implausible growth, in an environment in which a demographic tailwind has become a demographic headwind, they will deliver temporary outsized ‚Äúgrowth‚Äù with debt-financed consumption (deficit spending). "If we resist the necessary policy changes that can moderate these headwinds, we risk magnifying their impact."
It appears that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman might surrender in his fight against JCPenney's board. This just in from New York Post reporter James Covert...¬† NY POST EXCLUSIVE: Bill #Ackman set to abandon push to quickly replace $JCP CEO Mike Ullman - Source #nyp EXCLUSIVE: "Resolution" to $JCP board battle with #Ackman expected as soon as tomorrow - Source #nyp His first letter on Thursday demanded that they replace JC Penney's interim CEO Mike Ullman in the next 30 to 45 days.¬†Ackman's second letter said that he has lost confidence in¬†the board's chairman Tom¬†Engibous¬†and called for his replacement with Allen ¬†Questrom. JCPenney¬†called Ackman's actions¬†"latest actions are disruptive and counterproductive." Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital owns nearly an 18% stake in JCPenney. He has taken a bath on the stock so far. Since September 28, 2010, the day when Ackman filed his first regulatory filing on JCPenney, shares of the retailer's stock have tumbled more than 50%.
Tesla Elon Musk has finally revealed his plans for the Hyperloop.¬† The Hyperloop is Musk's plan for a new transportation system that's faster and cheaper than a high-speed train. He released a 57-page PDF that outlines his plan for the Hyperloop. That PDF is embedded below.¬† Here are the highlights of his plan for the Hyperloop: And in conclusion... Musk says there is work to be done. Specifically, these four areas need some kinks ironed out: Here's a diagram of how it would work: Elon Musk Here's the diagram of how fast the Hyperloop would travel. It would top out at 760 miles per hour. Elon Musk Here's the in-depth explanation of how it would work: "Whenever you have a capsule or pod (I am using the words interchangeably) moving at high speed through a tube containing air, there is a minimum tube to pod area ratio below which you will choke the flow. What this means is that if the walls of the tube and the capsule are too close together, the capsule will behave like a syringe and eventually be forced to push the entire column of air in the system. Not good. Nature‚Äôs top speed law for a given tube to pod area ratio is known as the Kantrowitz limit. This is highly problematic, as it forces you to either go slowly or have a super huge diameter tube. Interestingly, there are usually two solutions to the Kantrowitz limit ‚Äì one where you go slowly and one where you go really, really fast. The latter solution sounds mighty appealing at first, until you realize that going several thousand miles per hour means that you can‚Äôt tolerate even wide turns without painful g loads. For a journey from San Francisco to LA, you will also experience a rather intense speed up and slow down. And, when you get right down to it, going through transonic buffet in a tube is just fundamentally a dodgy prospect. Both for trip comfort and safety, it would be best to travel at high subsonic speeds for a 350 mile journey. For much longer journeys, such as LA to NY, it would be worth exploring super high speeds and this is probably technically feasible, but, as mentioned above, I believe the economics would probably favor a supersonic plane. The approach that I believe would overcome the Kantrowitz limit is to mount an electric compressor fan on the nose of the pod that actively transfers high pressure air from the front to the rear of the vessel. This is like having a pump in the head of the syringe actively relieving pressure. It would also simultaneously solve another problem, which is how to create a low friction suspension system when traveling at over 700 mph. Wheels don‚Äôt work very well at that sort of speed, but a cushion of air does. Air bearings, which use the same basic principle as an air hockey table, have been demonstrated to work at speeds of Mach 1.1 with very low friction. In this case, however, it is the pod that is producing the air cushion, rather than the tube, as it is important to make the tube as low cost and simple as possible. That then begs the next question of whether a battery can store enough energy to power a fan for the length of the journey with room to spare. Based on our calculations, this is no problem, so long as the energy used to accelerate the pod is not drawn from the battery pack. This is where the external linear electric motor comes in, which is simply a round induction motor (like the one in the Tesla Model S) rolled flat. This would accelerate the pod to high subsonic velocity and provide a periodic reboost roughly every 70 miles. The linear electric motor is needed for as little as ~1% of the tube length, so is not particularly costly." Here's a chart from Musk on how much cheaper it is per person to travel via Hyperloop: TeslaMotors.com Here's where the Hyperloop will go: Elon Musk Here's how it will handle earthquakes. Here's what happens when it crashes. Here's the full PDF of the announcement: Hyperloop 
Pedro Ribeiro Simıes via flickrStocks barely budged to kick off the trading week. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe dollar-yen exchange rate and the Nikkei 225 stock index have stumbled since making new "Abenomics" highs in May.Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has a problem on his hands: investors appear to be losing faith in his economic plan. Abe was voted into office in December after the late addition to his campaign platform of an experimental economic stimulus program known as "Abenomics" ñ a three-pronged approach to countering a decade of deflation in Japan involving no-holds-barred fiscal and monetary stimuli along with structural reforms that include various types of deregulation. Since Abe came into power in December, all of the government's financial maneuvering in the fiscal and monetary arenas has been expansionary, fueling a rise in the Japanese stock market and bringing the yen back down from extreme levels exacerbated by the onset of the global financial crisis of 2008. The 3% consumption tax hike scheduled in eight months, on the other hand, will have a decidedly contractionary effect on the economy, and the public debate surrounding the policy is heating up just as financial markets are beginning to question the continued potential of "Abenomics." Depreciation of the Japanese yen is a key component of the Japanese government's plan to revive the economy by making Japanese exporters more competitive on price with their global counterparts. Thus, the dollar-yen exchange rate has become a key barometer of how successful "Abenomics" is perceived to be. According to BofA Merrill Lynch's monthly survey of investor sentiment among its own clients, which polls†77 global fixed income fund managers from the United Kingdom, Europe, Japan, and the United States, investors aren't really betting against the yen like they were earlier this year, when the buzz around "Abenomics" was growing. "The underweight [Japanese yen] position has been reduced further, and positioning is now almost back to levels seen before the launch of Abenomics," say BAML strategists†Ralf Preusser and Naeem Wahid. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Of course, this is somewhat at odds with data from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission's weekly "Commitments of Traders" report, which shows that net positions ñ the amount of futures contracts outstanding betting on a rise in the yen less the number of contracts betting against the yen ñ haven't recovered to pre-"Abenomics" levels. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
George Soros, who owns a sizeable stake in JCPenney, has taken sides with the retailer in its feud with hedge fund manager Bill Ackman,†Bloomberg News reports.† According to Bloomberg, which cites unnamed sources familiar, Soros told JCPenney that he supports current CEO Mike Ullman and his team of executives.† The stock was last trading up about 3%. Soros Fund Management†reported a†7.91% passive stake in JCPenney†back in April.† Last week, Ackman, who is JCPenney's top shareholder, fired off letters†to the board demanding that they find a new CEO to replace interim CEO Mike Ullman.†He also reportedly threatened to sell his stake if the retailer didn't find a new CEO.† This isn't the first time Soros has taken the opposing side of Ackman. † It was recently reported that Soros had snapped up a large long position in Herbalife, the stock that Ackman is famously and very publicly shorting.† Ackman then filed a complaint with the SEC accusing Soros Fund Management of violating securities laws by illegally colluding with other investors. Shortly after that,†Soros asked to redeem all of his money (less than $250 million)†from Ackman's Pershing Square. Also, they both work in the same building at 888 Seventh Avenue.†
A record number of Americans are giving up their U.S. citizenship. The Wall Street Journal reports that 1,130 Americans renounced their citizenship in the second quarter of 2013, more than did so in all of 2012. To my surprise, the list of new ex-Americans is publicly available; I didn't recognize any of the names on a quick scan. According to the Journal, the surge in expatriations seems to be driven by the upcoming implementation of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), a 2010 law that forces foreign financial institutions to disclose more information to the IRS about Americans' accounts and investments. Starting in 2014, foreign financial institutions will have to tell the IRS about income accruing to American clients (or businesses owned by Americans), and they'll have to withhold American income tax as appropriate. In other words, it's going to become a lot harder to hide your income with a Swiss bank account. The IRS can't directly tell foreign banks what data to turn over. But it has a pretty big stick ó it can impose a 30% withholding tax on payments from the U.S. to foreign financial institutions unless they cooperate. As a result, many foreign banks and foreign countries have been entering into agreements with the IRS to comply with FATCA. If you're an American living in the U.S. and your strategy for hiding income abroad isn't working anymore, you may have few options but to pay up. But if you live abroad, you have another choice available: Renounce your U.S. citizenship so you're not liable for American income tax. That's one driver of the surge in renunciations. Another likely factor is the increase in capital gains and income tax rates in 2013, meaning that wealthy American expatriates can get a bigger tax saving by renouncing citizenship than they used to. But a third factor is that FATCA creates compliance headaches apart from the actual tax bills it leads to. As the WSJ describes: Some U.S. citizens say they are exasperated by a growing raft of paperwork that forces U.S. citizens living abroad to declare the minutiae of their financial holdings and other assets. That has increased the attraction of becoming a citizen in places such as Hong Kong, where the individual tax rate is capped at 15%. "My decision was less about the actual amount of taxes I had to pay, and more about the system," said one investment banker, who renounced his U.S. citizenship and is now a Hong Kong citizen. "I'm not an ultrawealthy dude. It was the hassle with all the paperwork." A few months ago, I attended a dinner where I sat between two Americans living abroad who complained that FATCA has made foreign banks less willing to provide American expatriates with checking accounts, credit cards and mortgages. This has been a major point of complaint for organizations representing American expatriates. FATCA also complicates matters for foreign businesses with American investors (and for Americans who want to invest in foreign businesses) since American ownership makes a business subject to FATCA reporting. If you intend to move back to the U.S., you're probably not going to renounce your citizenship because it was hard to get a checking account, or even because you had to forego an investment opportunity. But if you're a dual citizen with weak ties to the U.S. and the law is materially interfering with your financial dealings, it might be a reason to go ahead and quit being an American. Marie Sapirie, the legal editor at Tax Notes, even says the IRS proposed renouncing citizenship as an option for an American with a complicated tax situation who had long resided abroad. Last fall, I attended an American Swiss Foundation trip to Switzerland and FATCA was the number one hobby horse for the Swiss participants. The difficulty in evaluating the Swiss complaints is that the Swiss have a combination of good and bad reasons for hating FATCA. The law creates compliance burdens for Americans living in Switzerland and Swiss who do legitimate business with Americans. But it also undermines tax evasion strategies that are the key reason that some Americans were interested in banking in Switzerland in the first place. Of course, every law has compliance costs, and it's not even clear that it's such a big problem if more Americans, presumably dual citizens living abroad with relatively weak ties to the U.S., are renouncing citizenship. But the benefits of FATCA may also be relatively modest: It's expected to raise $7.6 billion in added taxes over 10 years. In 1999, the State Department estimated that there are between three and six million Americans living abroad; if those numbers are similar today, that means FATCA will generate about $170 in extra annual taxes per expatriate. The revenue estimate for FATCA may prove incorrect in either direction; it's based on a guess about how much unreported foreign income will be discovered when the new reporting and withholding requirements come into effect. As the law is implemented next year, we'll start to see how much revenue actually rolls in ó and whether the law is worth the compliance costs and expatriations that it causes.
REUTERS/Enrique Castro-MendivilWhen the Federal Reserve first signaled in May that it could soon begin to slow down quantitative easing (QE) ó the program whereby the Fed purchases bonds in order to loosen monetary policy ó U.S. stock markets freaked out. They have since recovered. In fact, they are red hot. The S&amp;P 500 reached a record high 1700, and more top strategists have joined the cadre of market-watchers with a 1700-plus year-end target. Undoubtedly, the Fed's "forward guidance" ñ†signaling the central bank's disinterest in increasing interest rates any time soon ñ†helped allay the investor fears originally stoked by the supposed "beginning of the end" of easy money. So if QE is out†and forward guidance is in, how will the Fed calm markets if it wants zero interest rates until 2016 even if other metrics, like the employment rate, near "normal" targets? JP MorganIn a new note to clients, JP Morgan economist Bruce Kasman predicts the Fed's communication hurdle here: In general, forward guidance has focused on the conditions for the first rate hike but the profile of policy normalization will become increasingly important. Central banks will likely find markets sympathetic to a slow movement toward the exit. But it may be more difficult to justify following a path in which policy rates remain well below pre-crisis reaction functions indefinitely. Herein lies the dynamic inconsistency of policy setting at the zero bound. The Fed will begin to face this challenge as it extends the FOMC forecasts through the end of 2016 at its next meeting. It will need to explain why†policy rates are projected to remain well below its 4% estimate of normal even as the labor market approaches the central bankís own estimate of full employment. Kasman titles his comment "Beyond the valley of the thresholds," an ominous nickname for what will happen if and when labor conditions meet Fed criteria before the central bank wants to ditch its dovishness.†
An eccentric Beijing resident has built a huge house among what looks like a pile of rocks dotted with trees on top of a 26-storey apartment block in the capital, reports said Monday. Neighbours have complained about China's latest architectural oddity, which covers more than 1,000 square meters (10,000 square feet), saying they fear it could cause the structure to collapse on top of them, the Beijing Morning Post reported. The rocks, said to be imitation shells rather than solid stone, have trees and bushes growing among them, as in classical Chinese landscape painting. Poking out from between them, sections of the house underneath can be seen -- a blue-framed window here, a balcony under a curved roof there. At least two neighbours have moved out because of the construction work, which has been going on for years, the paper said. Others complained about damage to pipes and walls in their units, it said. "We feel this is extremely unsafe. What if the top collapses in rain and wind storms? What if our ceiling collapses?" the paper cited an unnamed 26th floor resident as saying. Authorities have posted notices that the villa in the Haidian area in the west of the city is illegal, it added. Houses standing on top of multi-storey buildings are not unknown in China, where a rising property market is making land more and more expensive. A developer in central China built 25 luxury villas on top of a shopping mall, which became migrant workers' residences after authorities declared them illegal, Chinese media reported earlier this month. The fate of the rockery building remains unclear, and law enforcement is often applied selectively in China. Land disputes have become more frequent as officials and developers seek to cash in on the property boom, so that the government has reportedly forbidden housing demolitions without the owners' consent. Mark Ralston/AFP  Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Part of erstwhile Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista's many problems is that he's not only hemorrhaging money from his crumbling commodities and logistics empire, but that he also owes some serious people some serious money as everything is falling apart. Batista once said he would be the richest man in the world, and indeed at this time last year he was at least in the top twenty. He has six companies under the umbrella of his holding company, EBX ‚Äî they are OGX (oil), MPX (energy), LLX (logistics), MMX (mining), OSX (offshore industry), and CCX (coal mining). Now, however, since his empire started crumbling, Bloomberg estimates that he's only worth around $200 million.¬† To give you an idea of how hard that means he's getting hit, the stock price of Batista's once-proud oil and gas company, OGX, is down over 90% this year. So it may well be that right now Batista regrets the $2 billion March 2012 loan he took from Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, the Mubadala Development Corporation. At the time, Batista's EBX empire of six companies was valued at $35.5 billion, and he gave Mubadala a¬†5.63 percent preferred equity interest. The details of his deal with the fund aren't public, but what we do know is that Batista still owes Mubadala $1.5 billion after converting the fund's share of EBX into debt. According to Bloomberg, that $1.5 billion is secured by Batista's assets ‚Äî some of which his investors are suing to ensure he does not sell.¬† EBX also agreed to ‚Äúredeem‚Äù a portion of Mubadala‚Äôs original investment last month and still expects Batista to "fulfill his obligations," says a spokesperson. Either way, it looks like Mubadala is stuck with a major stake in Brazil, whether EBX lives or dies. Batista also owes billionaire Brazilian banker Andres Esteves a pretty penny. Esteves canceled a billion-dollar line of credit that his bank, BTG, extended to Batista's companies back in march. Now BTG is owed about $282 million, according to Bloomberg, though Esteves said on a recent conference call that an impending EBX collapse shouldn't hurt his bank. Brazilian bank Itau's CEO, Roberto Setubal, said the same thing in an interview with LatinFinance, though he conceded that Batista's failures were bad for Brazil, and its image as a high-growth country at large. What an EBX explosion could hurt ‚Äî and what EBX's malaise has already begun to cripple ‚Äî is BM&amp;FBovespa, the operator of Brazil's stock exchange, Sao Paolo's Ibovespa. Trading volumes are down 13% from this time last year and NYSE Euronext has filed paperwork to start its own exchange in the country. That means new competition. In the meantime, Ibovespa is considering changing the weighting of Batista's stocks on the index. OGX alone is supposed to more than double its weight on the index next month, so the exchange wants to amend its rules as¬† the selloff of all Batista's companies is "wreaking havoc" and causing major volatility in the market. Sounds stressful for all parties involved, especially Eike.
REUTERS/Eric ThayerPeople arrive at the National Mall for the inauguration of U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington January 21, 2013. The Treasury Department has just published its monthly budget statement for July. The U.S. posted a deficit of $97.6 billion. Spending of $297. billion more than offset receipts of $200.0 billion. Wall Street economists were expecting a deficit of $96 billion, which was the amount also forecasted by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). This is up from $79.6 billion in July 2012. However, adjusting for a calendar issue, the deficit was actually smaller on a year-over-year basis. "Some payments that would normally have been made in July 2012 were instead shifted into June 2012 for calendar reasons, lowering the July 2012 deficit by $36B," said UBS's Maury Harris. Adjusted, the July deficit was narrower than last July's deficit by around $9 billion. "Fiscal policy restraint is reflected in a much narrower budget shortfall this year than last." "On an underlying basis, spending remained well contained, with defense likely to be down significantly as sequester cuts continued," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman in a note to clients on Friday. "On the revenue side, withheld income and payroll taxes gained an estimated 15%, boosted substantially by higher payroll and income tax rates this year but also showing underlying improvement." "For all of fiscal year 2013 ending in September, we see the deficit on pace to narrow to $680 billion from $1.1 trillion in fiscal 2012, falling as a share of GDP to 4.1% from 6.8%," added Wieseman. In June, the U.S. reported a massive $116.5 billion surplus, the biggest surplus since April 2008. ¬† US Treasury
Ashton Kutcher owns one of the more than 13,000 Tesla Model S electric sedans on the road in North America, and he's quite pleased about it. After ditching his Lexus hybrid, Kutcher liked his new ride so much that he bought stock in Tesla. In an interview with ClimateWire, Julia Pyper reports that the actor said he test drove a friend's Model S, and ordered one the next day. He cited concern over climate change as one reason for the luxury purchase. He added that, thanks to wireless software updates, "I feel like this is one of the first cars that has the capacity to become more valuable over time." Kutcher has gotten into investing of late, putting about $100 million into companies including Airbnb, Spotify and Foursquare. He is not among those who still aren't optimistic about Tesla's future, despite a surprising Q2 profit report. "EVs get held to a higher standard," he told ClimateWire. "They just do. And they're going to," said Kutcher. "I'm just a super fan."
Live5NewsFederal agents say Nancy Latham's estranged husband tried to hatch a murder-for-hire plot.Former Bank of America executive Christopher Latham has¬†pleaded not guilty to charges that he hatched a murder-for-hire plot on his wife of 24 years during a messy divorce, local station WCSC reports, (h/t Daily Mail). Prosecutors argue that the former Charleston, South Carolina banker¬†gave four would-be assassins (one of whom was his mistress) a $5,000 downpayment¬†and a folder on his wife with photos, her daily schedule, and divorce hearing documents.  The alleged plot came tumbling down when one of the four,¬†Russell Wilkinson, got pulled over in a traffic stop with a gun in the car¬†‚Äî and dished about the plan to murder Latham's wife, Nancy. According to Nancy, Latham devised the plot in order to hide his relationship with his former Secretary and girlfriend, Wendy Moore. Another alleged accomplice hanged himself in his jail cell in June. The other three have pleaded not guilty. From the Mail Online: 'He had an affair with his secretary and got caught, and she hired people to kill me to keep me from testifying about it,' Mrs. Latham said in a July 12 affidavit. The Daily Mail reports that Latham, who earned $683,000 a year at Bank of America,¬†chose to retire from the firm in May after being connected to the plot. Read the full report at WCSC or watch the video below:
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe Treasury market has cooled off substantially since the epic sell-off and attendant rise in yields that sent volatility soaring to multi-year highs in May and June as traders have left Wall Street for summer vacation and trading volume has fallen to its lowest levels since Christmas break. The chart at right shows the yield on the 10-year Treasury note in blue and volatility in the Treasury market ‚Äì proxied by the Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate ("MOVE") Index ‚Äì in red. Since the last big move upward on July 5, 10-year Treasury yields have traded in a range between roughly 2.5% and 2.7%, while volatility in the market has fallen 36%. Meanwhile, trading volume has cratered, as the chart below illustrates. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg However, volatility in the Treasury market is set to rise again in the coming weeks, according to strategists at BofA Merrill Lynch, who warn clients in a note over the weekend: "Don't get lulled by the summer doldrums." "As investors escape to more relaxed environs, it is easy to think that the next several weeks will be relatively quiet ones for financial markets; we urge caution," says BAML technical strategist MacNeil Curry. "A seasonal analysis of our MOVE Index (aka the Merrill Option Volatility Estimate) says that fixed income implied volatility tends to jump sharply during August. With the recent range in U.S. Treasury yields growing mature and poised to complete (we continue to target 2.85%/2.95% in US10s), the potential for fixed income implied volatility to hold to its seasonal norms is too high to be ignored." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, CQG In a separate note to clients over the weekend, BAML credit strategist Hans Mikkelsen issues a similar warning: While straight line increases in interest rates make sense as forecasts, it goes without saying that in reality interest rates will at times overshoot and undershoot these forecasts. As credit strategists we are especially concerned about the overshoot scenario in the short term - in particular between now and the September 19th conclusion of the next FOMC meeting for three reasons. First, we are currently experiencing upside surprises to economic data as highlighted by the spike in Citi's economic surprise index. Second there is significant communication and implementation risk associated with the coming QE tapering. Third, as our interest rate strategists have pointed out repeatedly ...¬†unlike over the past several years, it is not clear who is going to step in and support Treasuries this time, should they sell off further. Mikkelsen elaborates on that last point, questioning who could step in to support the market in the event of another sell-off: Since the financial crisis, Treasuries have been supported by numerous types of investors, including mutual funds/ETFs, banks, [emerging market] central banks and the foreign official sector (in addition to the Fed of course). However, these four sources of Treasury demand are unlikely to support the market in the short term going forward. First, with continued outflows from non-short term high grade bond funds, money managers are unlikely to provide support for Treasuries any time soon. Second, with increasing loan demand reducing the need for banks to support profitability by buying Treasuries, as well as significant mark-to-market losses in [available-for-sale] portfolios that in the future will count against capital, banks are unlikely to add long-duration assets in a rising interest rate environment. Third, in light of continued depreciation of [emerging market] currencies, it appears unlikely that [emerging market] countries are experiencing inflows that need to be reinvested in Treasuries. Finally, custody holdings of Treasuries continue to decline, suggesting foreign official sales of Treasuries. Put everything together, and the stage may be set for another spike in volatility between now and September 19.

Corn prices¬†were the worst-performing commodity of the year until just now. The USDA's WASDE report revised ending 2013/2014 corn stocks down 10 million bushels to 1.959 billion bushels, and lowered¬†2013/14 production estimates by 187 million bushels to 13.8 billion. Analysts' stocks estimate was for 2.21 billion. The estimate for production was for ¬†14.1 billion. So here's the chart. Prices instantly spiked about 4.3% from $4.58 to $4.78, though have since come down a bit and now stand at $4.70: Investing.com Yield is now forecast at 154.4 bushels per acre, is down 2.1 bushels from last month‚Äôs projection. Bloomberg (via ValueWalk) had said short interest in corn had climbed by 100,000 contracts over the past two weeks. So this may be a bit of a bloodbath for the corn bears.
1. Based on the BBW interview and his NRO piece, Paul doesnít seem to know or understand much about Milton Friedmanís views on the Fed or monetary policy. The NRO piece is particularly egregious since Paul and his staff had time to research the issue and†still†failed to mention that Friedman had addressed specifically what a central bank should do when faced with a stagnant economy and very low interest rates. Here is what Friedman†said back in 2000 during a Q&amp;A with economist David Laidler: David Laidler: Many commentators are claiming that, in Japan, with short interest rates essentially at zero, monetary policy is as expansionary as it can get, but has had no stimulative effect on the economy. Do you have a view on this issue? Milton Friedman: Yes, indeed. As far as Japan is concerned, the situation is very clear. And itís a good example. Iím glad you brought it up, because it shows how unreliable interest rates can be as an indicator of appropriate monetary policy. Ö In 1989, the Bank of Japan stepped on the brakes very hard and brought money supply down to negative rates for a while. The stock market broke. The economy went into a recession, and itís been in a state of quasi recession ever since. Monetary growth has been too low. Now, the Bank of Japanís argument is, ìOh well, weíve got the interest rate down to zero; what more can we do?î†Itís very simple. They can buy long-term government securities, and they can keep buying them and providing high-powered money until the high powered money starts getting the economy in an expansion. What Japan needs is a more expansive domestic monetary policy. 2.†And this quote from Friedman†also doesnít make it sound like he was someone who would have preferred tighter money right about now: Defenders of the Bank of Japan will say, ìHow? The bank has already cut its discount rate to 0.5 percent. What more can it do to increase the quantity of money?î The answer is straightforward:†The Bank of Japan can buy government bonds on the open market, paying for them with either currency or deposits at the Bank of Japan, what economists call high-powered money. Most of the proceeds will end up in commercial banks, adding to their reserves and enabling them to expand their liabilities by loans and open market purchases. But whether they do so or not, the money supply will increase. There is no limit to the extent to which the Bank of Japan can increase the money supply if it wishes to do so. Higher monetary growth will have the same effect as always. After a year or so, the economy will expand more rapidly; output will grow, and after another delay, inflation will increase moderately. 3. Friedman was a fierce promoter of economic freedom who challenged the postwar consensus that markets are inherently unstable and need control and regulation by government.†The Concise Encyclopedia of Economics†calls him ìthe twentieth centuryís most prominent advocate of free markets.î His books†Capitalism and Freedom†and†Free to Choose†are must-reads for any conservative and libertarian. But many on the right have forgotten his scholarly work on monetary policy.†The Nobel Prize committee†called his analysis of the Great Depression in the†Monetary History of the United States, 1867 ñ 1960, ìone of Friedmanís most profound and also most distinguished achievements. Most outstanding is, perhaps, his original and energetically pursued study of the strategic role played by the policy of the Federal Reserve System in sparking off the 1929 crisis, and in deepening and prolonging the depression that followed.î Friedman understood the power of monetary policy, for both good and ill. He would almost certainly have been aghast that†the Fed blew it again in 2008†by its tight money policies that possibly turned a modest downturn into the Great Recession. And he almost certainly would have been appalled at Republicans pushing for tight money ó or, heaven help us, a return to the gold standard ó with the economy barely growing and inflation low. It is certainly inconvenient for Paul that Friedman ó a libertarian, Nobel-laureate economist ó would have little use for the senatorís supposedly Hayekian take on the Fed or monetary policy. Although the Bernanke Fed has imperfectly executed its QE programs,†they are a big reason†why the US is growing and adding jobs ó despite Presidentís Obamaís regulatory onslaught and tax hikes ó and the EU (and the inflation hawk ECB) is back in recession. Paul is wrong on Friedman and wrong on the Fed. Itís not even close.
AP Photo/Greg MyersonNORTH BRANFORD, Conn. (AP) ‚Äî When Greg Myerson heads out in his boat, some fishermen will follow him. The famous want to fish with him. He's the Warren Buffett of the fishing world, giving seminars in which he'll tell some but not all his secrets. The Connecticut man has achieved a rare feat: He consistently catches striped bass 50 pounds and much larger. Myerson set the world record two years ago by catching a striped bass that weighed 81.8 pounds off the Connecticut coast. Last year he set the striped bass length record of about 44 inches. Just last month he caught a 73-pound bass. "I'm just going to go ahead and say it: Greg Myerson is the greatest living striper fisherman," declared Rick Bach in an account last month in The Fish Report. Chris Megan, owner of On the Water magazine, said he doesn't know anyone who's caught so many large striped bass. Myerson reached the pinnacle by methodically studying his prey and developing devices to lure the fish to him and, perhaps, change how people fish. "I've gotten it down to a science," Myerson said. "That's what all these great catches are attributed to, knowledge of the fish. You gotta think like them." The 45-year-old electrician from North Branford began fishing at age 2. At 8, he used the feathers from his grandmother's dead parrot to make his first fly, catching a rare rainbow trout and realizing the thrill of catching a fish with something he made. He studied fish, learning that striped bass feed on lobster and are drawn to them by the sound they make along the ocean floor. Myerson began trying to replicate that sound with a rattle he put in sinkers, at one point using discarded crack cocaine vials he cleaned up at work and filled with bearings and BBs. His methods grew more sophisticated as he listened to crayfish in his 200-gallon aquarium with a stethoscope. He also used a sound meter to determine the decibel and frequency and then tweaked the sound of the rattle to mimic it as much as possible. "It's the reason why I caught more big striped bass than anyone in the world," Myerson said. "It was my secret weapon for years." Myerson said he's received patents for his rattling sinkers designed to lure the striped bass to fishermen and formed a company called Fish Call to sell the products. "We're changing the whole fishing industry. We already have," Myerson said. Myerson stocked a stream on his property with trout and noticed how the biggest ones take the best spot. He figures striped bass do the same, such as by staying near a boulder that breaks the current so they can conserve energy as they wait for lobster to come out when tides are slow. He likes to head out in the evening and will fish through the night at times. He insists on quiet, often barefoot on the boat to prevent noise and alert to the slightest disturbance to his line. Myerson really began to attract attention when he caught three bass in 2010 that weighed more than 60 pounds and won angler of the year. In 2011, Myerson headed out in calm waters off the Connecticut coast when he snagged a powerful fish that began to pull his boat. "It was an incredible fight," Myerson said. The 81.8-pound catch, certified by the International Game Fish Association, broke a 29-year-old record of more than 78 pounds. Myerson said he's caught more than 25 striped bass that weighed at least 50 pounds, eight or nine over 60 pounds and three more than 70 pounds. Myerson has become so famous in the fishing world that others will follow him. Myerson said he didn't catch all the big fish in the same spot. "No one knows where those spots are," he said. "I'll never tell anyone where those spots are." Myerson said he has fished with actor Edward Burns, retired ballplayer Wade Boggs, top chef Tom Collichio, Miami Dolphins football player Jim Jensen and even an astronaut. Myerson is proud of his records but doesn't dwell on them. "I kind of almost crave that bite that I know is coming," Myerson said. "I don't care about any of the fish I've already caught. The best fish is the next fish for me." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Omar Rawlings (cc) via FlickrNew York City's new "citi bike" bike-sharing program.In America, home ownership is losing ground to the rental cohort, and new internet-based services like Airbnb, Rent the Runway, Zipcar, and TaskRabbit ‚Äì just to name a few ‚Äì have enabled the rise of the "renting and sharing economy." Now, "rent" is becoming the new "own," according to market strategists at ConvergEx Group,¬†who warn that the ripple effects of such a trend could be "catastrophic." "Americans of every demographic are flocking to services like Airbnb, Taskrabbit, and Bag Borrow or Steal for one overwhelming reason: Renting and sharing allow us to live the life we want without spending beyond our means," the strategists write in a note to clients. "Not all of it is intentional, mind you: Low cash flow (or none at all) is most certainly driving many customers to rent rather than buy. But it‚Äôs also becoming quite trendy; consumers are either unwilling or unable to afford big-ticket purchases ‚Äì whether it be a house for $500,000 or a new dress for $500." The strategists point to projections that suggest the "sharing" and "rental" economies will generate $3.5 billion in revenue in 2013, and grow to as big as $110 billion over the next few years. What's to blame? A few main effects are at play here, according to the ConvergEx team: (1) the bursting of the housing bubble and the attendant rise in personal bankruptcies; (2) lower disposable incomes as wage growth in America remains elusive; and (3) the introduction of new apps and websites in the past few years that enable more renting and sharing opportunities. "The potential impacts of renting/leasing as a long-term trend, though, are worrisome: Renting and sharing could lead to lower home sales (and, subsequently lower home values and net worths), as well as lower auto and retail sales," write the strategists. "The ripple effects could also be catastrophic: Adjusting to a consumer who does not necessarily buy, but rather rents, would necessitate a shift in production, sales, and even employment structures. Everything interesting in economics happens at the margin, so if the nth consumer chooses to rent an apartment instead of buying a house or making do with a car-share program instead of purchasing a new vehicle, then demand for new houses and cars drops." For the ConvergEx team, even more worrying than the rise of renting and sharing at the expense of ownership are the underlying reasons driving consumers to rent and share more. "The crisis-sparked renting and sharing economy could have an effect similar to that of the Depression, in which the consumer psyche is morphed to constantly imagine a worst-case-scenario," they write. "The recent recession, arguably, could be fostering a generation of 'renters' and 'sharers' (as opposed to 'savers') who are wary of potentially risky investment vehicles or financial instruments. Recent urbanization trends in the U.S. population could be the first signal of this: Cities are the hubs of the renting and sharing economy, after all." That's why the behavior of the Millennials ‚Äî the generation often parametrized as having been born between the early 1980s and the early 2000s, will be key to watch. "As it stands, the rental economy will probably prosper for a bit longer as this cohort pays back student loans and finds higher-paying jobs," say the ConvergEx strategists. "But as they approach their 30s and beyond, it‚Äôs not overly optimistic to expect them to make the big-ticket purchases they couldn‚Äôt before. Some will be renters for life, of course, but many will come to appreciate the value of owning: Taking out a mortgage for a home typically results in lower monthly payments than rent, for example."
Remember when corn prices hit all-time highs last summer as droughts plagued America's farms? That's now a distant memory thanks to a return to normal temperatures and with it an expected record harvest. "The corn crop is projected at 13.95 billion bushels, down from slightly above 14 billion bushels in last monthís report. Despite a decreased estimate, corn production is still on target for a record-setting year, if realized,î Agri-View's Jane Fyksen reported ag economist Todd Davis as saying As a result, no commodity has performed worse this year ó not even gold. Here's the chart from Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus of YTD performance: corn is down -33%. Reuters/Jefferies/Bloomberg/Oppenheimer Corn prices are now at three-year lows, trading around $4.63/bu. This time last year, they were around $8 per bushel. Here's the chart: Investing.com The USDA will release its world agricultural supply and demand (WASDE) estimate at noon, and it's expected to add to bearish sentiment. Morgan Stanley's Bennett Maier says he projects a stocks print of 1.9 billion bushels, compared with 704 million during the same time last year.
REUTERSCinda Asset Management, one of China's state-owned asset management companies (AMC) created to buy up non-performing loans, is expected to apply to go public in Hong Kong next month.† The IPO is expected to raise $2.5 - $3 billion. The South China Morning Post reports that bankers handling the transaction say the listing has already "already attracted strategic investors due to its businessís 'counter-cyclical' nature at a time when growth in the worldís second-biggest economy is slowing." Over the years, Cinda has acquired licenses to operate other businesses like fund management and insurance, but it largely remains a bad bank with a significant part of its operations revolve around nonperforming loans So, why are investors flocking to buy a bad bank? "On the face of it, to say Cinda is listing, is like saying the Resolution Trust Corporation is listing," Patrick Chovanec,†chief strategist at Silvercrest Asset Management, told Business Insider. "You're supposed to be the junk pile. You're the entity that is, at least the understanding is, you're the junk pile and you're basically insolvent, and the only reason you're not insolvent is the government implicitly stands behind you." Chovanec believes that one option Cinda may consider is to spin-off the other healthier businesses and list them. But this would be quite different from saying Cinda, as an entity, is listing. Of course to know more about that we'd have to wait for the prospectus and see how they value their assets. So, we move on to the question of why is this attractive to investors? The financial sector is "very lucrative" at the moment says Chovanec. While international investors may have pulled, out domestic investors have not. "To the extent that any bank in China has a lucrative business I would question whether that really reflects the true risk of the business, the potential losses. On the face of it, Chinese banks are outrageously profitable and so maybe if that's what they're listing, that might well be attractive. That's what makes me believe this has got to be a carve out of the lucrative operations from the licenses that they own. That's the only thing I can figure. Cause everybody wants a piece of the financial industry in China, domestically." There has been chatter about Cinda listing for some time now, so can we realistically expect it to apply to list next month? Chovanec says that will likely be contingent on how the "economy and the financial stability in China play out over the next several months." After the cash crunch in June, policymakers will be watching for liquidity issues since they have always been concerned about IPOs diluting liquidity in the market. Cinda has reportedly received attractive investments from pre-IPO buyers, according to the SMCP, which includes the likes of UBS, Standard Chartered, Carlyle Group, and Boyu Capital.
†Investment banking is one of the most competitive fields a fresh college grad can try to get into. Applying for a job at Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan means going up against hundreds of Ivy League-educated peers who all have an eye on the six-figure salary prize. Of course, most of the people applying have no idea what the job will actually be like once they get there. According to former investment banker Hayden Williams' post on PandoDaily, the reality is kind of like being "the most overpaid assembly line worker in the world." It shouldn't be news to many that bankers work an insane number of hours each week. But if your only impression of Wall Street comes from glamorized Hollywood movies and salary statistics, you might not realize just how boring the job really is. Here's Hayden's description of what his job really consisted of: In reality, my time was spent building financial merger models, with inputs like ìcost savingsî (fancy word for firing people) then producing a text bullet-riddled 80 page PowerPoint presentation to present our findings to the client. Wash, rinse, repeat for each client meeting. So what kept him around? The money, of course: When I got a signing bonus, a used BMW suddenly seemed an appropriate purchase. Similarly, while I was perfectly happy living in decrepit houses with my buddies in school, my new income surfaced a need for amenities like skylights and marble counters. Afraid that he was going to be trapped forever by the appeal of his cushy income and an increasingly specific skill set, he decided to get out. Unfortunately, neither he nor his partner knew how to make the move from the world of banking to the world of tech startups. Their difficulty in finding someone to talk to actually led to the idea behind their startup: Treatings, a "community of professionals†open to talking about their work over coffee."† Rather than working on endless client presentations, Hayden now spends his time "learning Twitter,"†and†learning to code so that he can help his technology-savvy co-founder, blogging about the issues he's facing as a beginner in the startup world, and occasionally celebrating the little victories, like improving his sleeping situation by moving from mattresses on the floor to bunk beds. While he realizes that the future is uncertain, Hayden says he "wouldn't trade the experience for anything": Iíve developed a resiliency that makes it easier to get up and dust myself off every time I fail ñ and that happens a lot. Am I glad I quit my job to build Treatings? Yes. Was it a good decision? To be determined. The things Iím surrounded by every day ñ the bunk bed, the library, the dwindling savings account ñ are a constant reminder of how transient my lifestyle is.
CybrbeastThe New York Department Of Financial Services just posted its full release on the report that it sent subpoenas to Bitcoin merchants. Here's the full text: New York has a long history of promoting technological innovation ‚Äì both within the financial sector and across our economy. As innovative products emerge, it is critical to take steps that allow new technologies and industries to flourish, while also working to ensure that consumers and our national security remain protected. The emergence of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies has presented a number of unique opportunities and challenges. Building innovative platforms for conducting commerce can help improve the depth and breadth of our nation‚Äôs financial system. However, we have also seen instances where the cloak of anonymity provided by virtual currencies has helped support dangerous criminal activity, such as drug smuggling, money laundering, gun running, and child pornography. If virtual currencies remain a virtual Wild West for narcotraffickers and other criminals, that would not only threaten our country‚Äôs national security, but also the very existence of the virtual currency industry as a legitimate business enterprise. Indeed, it is in the common interest of both the public and the virtual currency industry to bring virtual currencies out of the darkness and into the light of day through enhanced transparency. It is vital to put in place appropriate safeguards for consumers and law-abiding citizens. As such, the Department of Financial Services (DFS) has launched an inquiry into the appropriate regulatory guidelines that it should put in place for virtual currencies. DFS has already conducted significant preliminary work regarding this inquiry, including making requests for information from virtual currency firms. Based on that initial work, we are concerned that ‚Äì at a minimum ‚Äì virtual currency exchangers may be engaging in money transmission as defined in New York law, which is an activity that is licensed and regulated by DFS. Under current DFS regulations, firms engaging in money transmission are required to post collateral in order to better safeguard customer account funds. Additionally, they are required to undergo periodic safety and soundness examinations, as well as comply with applicable anti-money laundering laws. These guidelines for money transmitters help protect consumers and root out illegal activity. However, DFS is also considering whether it should issue new regulatory guidelines specific to virtual currencies ‚Äì rather than simply apply existing money transmission regulations. As such, we could also move forward with new guidelines that are tailored to the unique characteristics of virtual currencies. We believe that ‚Äì for a number of reasons ‚Äì putting in place appropriate regulatory safeguards for virtual currencies will be beneficial to the long-term strength of the virtual currency industry. First, safety and soundness requirements help build greater confidence among customers that the funds that they entrust to virtual currency companies will not get stuck in a digital black hole. Indeed, some consumers have expressed concerns about how quickly their virtual currency transactions are processed. Taking steps to ensure that these transactions ‚Äì particularly redemptions ‚Äì are processed promptly is vital to earning the faith and confidence of customers. Second, serving as a money changer of choice for terrorists, drug smugglers, illegal weapons dealers, money launderers, and human traffickers could expose the virtual currency industry to extraordinarily serious of criminal penalties. Taking steps to root out illegal activity is both a legal and business imperative for virtual currency firms. Finally, both virtual currency companies ‚Äì and the currencies themselves ‚Äì have received significant interest from investors and venture capital firms. Similar to any other industry, greater transparency and accountability is critical to promoting sustained, long-term investment. We look forward to working with the virtual currency industry and other stakeholders as our inquiry proceeds, and we move to put in place appropriate regulatory guardrails to protect consumers and our national security.
Herbalife has been in the news a lot lately because its stock is in the the middle of a heated hedge fund battle between Bill Ackman and Carl Icahn. Late last year, Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, publicly declared that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock. Ackman believes that the company is a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals. ¬†As a result, he thinks regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be persuaded to investigate it and shut it down.¬† His rival, Carl Icahn, purchased a massive stake in the company and said that he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the¬†"mother of all short squeezes." Herbalife is a multi-level marketing firm that sells nutritional products such as weight loss shakes and vitamins. ¬†We decided to try Herbalife's Formula 1 shake, the company's best selling product. ¬† Watch the video below: Produced by William Wei
It's fun to get excited about innovation and technology, and it's definitely fun to get excited about speed, but when it comes to Elon Musk's "Hyperloop" it's also important to remember that these things take time, money, and lots of hard work ó none of which he's really putting into the project. "Hyperloop" is Musk's vision for a high speed transit system that would take commuters from San Francisco to Los Angeles in half an hour. It sounds like driver's Shangri-La ó a road where cars never crash and weather has no impact. Today, he's supposed to unveil "detailed" design plans for the project but don't expect them to be anywhere near actionable. On the Tesla earnings conference call last week, Musk admitted that he didn't have time for "Hyperloop". In fact, he said he regretted even mentioning the idea. ...I kind of shot myself by ever mentioning the Hyperloop because I'm too strong I mean obviously have to focus on core business and SpaceX business and that's more than enough. But I did commit to publishing a design and provide quite a detailed design I think on Monday and then invite critical feedback and see if the people can find ways to improve it and then you can just be out there it's kind of like a open source design that maybe you can keep improving. So, actually, the Musk maniacs and Tesla faithful that are pressing him to release a design are the ones that may end up improving it. But they're not Elon Musk. They didn't sell their first computer game at age 12. They are not the ones with the cult following and resources to make something happen. Speaking of those resources, right now, Musk admits that they're are stretched too thin for him to make this dream a reality. ...I don't have any plans to execute, because I must remain focused on SpaceX and Tesla. If nothing happens for a few years, with that I mean maybe it could make sense to make the halfway path with Tesla involvement... Before Musk brings the "Hyperloop" onto Tesla he has a few promises to keep that relate specifically to the car company. First, Musk needs to work on finishing the development of the Model X, which he has said that he's "allocating an increasing portion of... time to.. every week." Even that, though, he said was a qualitative statement. And lets not forget that "Tesla involvement" could mean Tesla cash ó cash which the company's CFO said would be spent on R&amp;D more in the future than we've seen in the last couple of quarters. The company will be ramping up capital expenditures as well. That means less money for side projects, obviously. But hey, if Elon wants to pull a rabbit out of a hat for us today, he can go for it.
Steven Perlberg/Business InsiderLast month, the world's distilleries did battle at the International Wine and Spirit Competition. The event, now in its 44th year, aims to "promote the quality and excellence of the world‚Äôs best wines, spirits and liqueurs," according to its website. The judging process at the competition is rigorous. Wines and liquors are subject to both professional blind tasting and chemical and microbiological analysis. The best bottles score between 90-100 on the judges' scale, but a few receive special recognition: Gold Outstanding. And as a result, they received elegantly-written endorsements such as: "A treasure chest of liquid gold!" From blends to single malts to single barrels, 18 Scotches took home a Gold Outstanding award at last month's competition.
REUTERS / Lee Jae WonHaruhiko KurodaEarlier today, we learned that Japan's GDP growth rate was just 2.6% in Q2, which was much weaker than the 3.6% expected by economists. This disappointing news comes despite Japan's extraordinary efforts to fight deflation with extraordinarily easy monetary policy. This also comes amid talks of raising the sales tax. ‚ÄúEnding deflation and raising the sales tax are achievable at the same time,‚Äù¬† said Bank of Japan governor Haruhiko Kuroda last week. ‚ÄúRestoring fiscal health is absolutely necessary and important by itself, but once fiscal discipline is loosened, it‚Äôs true that that will indirectly make a negative impact on monetary measures.‚Äù Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker warns that raising a tax just as the economy begins to find its legs could be a repeat of a mistake Japan made in recent history. Weak Japan. Japan‚Äôs 3Q GDP printed at 0.6%, disappointing expectations. Soft capital expenditure data indicate that the economy has not yet developed multiplying effects to make the rebound self-sustainable. No wonder the sales tax debate has intensified this morning with opponents of the tax increase suggesting Japan is making the same mistake it made in 1997 when the introduction of a 5% sales tax drove the economy back into deflation. Markets will remain cautious on the issue. Adjusting current tax plans of a two-step tax increase (from 5% to 8% and from 8% to 10%) towards a more gradual 1% p.a. increase makes sense from a macro point of view, but the current debate raises concerns about the political will to make structural reforms. This 1997 mistake is seen clearly in this chart from Nomura's Richard Koo who shows that fiscal tightening actually results in higher deficits. Richard Koo, Nomura
The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 1,709 two Fridays ago, but has since struggled to break through 1,700 again. The chopping trading activity has repeatedly generated a pattern that stock market chartists call the Hindenburg Omen. And as you can tell, it's an ominous omen that portends market crashes. Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services' director of floor operations, writes about the recent omens in his note this morning (emphasis added): Can an Omen Turn Ominous?† Look!† Up In The Sky ñ Is It A Bird; A Plane ñ No It's That Guy Hindenburg Again ñ There have been multiple occurrences of the Hindenburg Omen in the last several weeks.† To assess lets turn to a dispassionate respected veteran ñ Jason Goepfert of SentimenTrader: Sometimes a topic in the market takes hold and it's hard to shake it off.† One of those is the technical "market crash" signal called the Hindenburg Omen. It has its boosters and its detractors, and we're not going to get caught up in debating its merits.† We've discussed it for 12 years, always with the same arguments. On June 10th, we outlined the market's historical performance after suffering at least 5 signals from the Hindenburg Omen within a two-week period.† Stocks were consistently weak afterward, and proved to be so again, at least for a while. With the latest market rally, the Omens are flaring up again.† There have been 5 Omens triggered out of the past 8 trading sessions (your data may vary - we're using the same sources we've always used for historical data).† That's actually the closest-grouped cluster since early November 2007. It's extremely rare to see as many Omens occurring together as we've seen over the past 50 days.† The last time was prior to the bear market in 2007.† The time before that was prior to the bear market in 2000. Two precedents don'ts make a pattern, but that sure makes that "check engine" light glow much, much brighter. U.S. markets open in a few minutes. Dow and S&amp;P futures are in the red.
REUTERS/Phil McCartenOutspoken hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, has left another taunting message on his Bloomberg terminal¬†MSG9 ("message 9") line. [via ZeroHedge] From Loeb: ¬† "Never interfere with an enemy when he is in the process of destroying himself."¬† Hmm...Wonder who that's directed toward?¬† A couple of weeks ago, Loeb left a message targeted at ex-friend Bill Ackman.¬† "New HLF product: The Herbalife Enema, administered by Uncle Carl." Ackman has continued to make headlines for his two huge disastrous bets on JCPenney and Herbalife. So far, he has lost hundreds of millions of dollars ‚Äî¬†an estimated $600 million¬†on his JCPenney investment and¬†at least $300 million¬†on his Herbalife short. Weeks after Ackman publicly announced he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife,¬†Loeb snapped up¬†a sizeable long position. He exited that stake for a profit.¬† Loeb also reportedly shorted JCPenney. Ackman, who if JCPenney's top shareholder, has been a big cheerleader for the struggling retailer. ¬†Since September 28, 2010, the date of his initial¬†13D regulatory filing¬†on¬†JCPenney,¬†shares of the retailer have tumbled more than 47%.¬†¬† Last week, he was firing off long letters to the board demanding that they find a new CEO to replace interim CEO Mike Ullman.¬† He also reportedly threatened to sell his stake in JCPenney if the board doesn't find a new chief executive.¬†
APBoth New York voters at-large and Democrats have unfavorable views of controversial mayoral and comptroller candidates Anthony Weiner and Eliot Spitzer, according to a new Siena College poll. Overall, the poll found that 59% of voters statewide have an unfavorable view of Spitzer, who is running for the New York City comptroller position in the Democratic primary against former Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer. That includes 51% of New York Democrats. 52% of New York City voters surveyed in the statewide poll have an unfavorable opinion of Spitzer. That's a very limited sample, however, as the poll of 814 registered New York State voters only featured 39% of voters from the city.† Spitzer fared much better in last week's Siena poll that included a head-to-head matchup with Stringer. He led Stringer by 9 points in last week's poll, and has also held leads in recent Quinnipiac and Marist College polls. For Weiner, meanwhile, the numbers are much worse. Only 11% of voters have a favorable view of Weiner, including just 15% of Democrats. Three-quarters of New York City voters view him unfavorably. Nearly two-thirds of New York City voters think the light shone on the city by Weiner and Spitzer ó both attempting comebacks from scandal-plagued resignations ó is "embarrassing." "Weiner has set a new all-time Siena College Poll record, with 80% of voters viewing him unfavorably ó including three-quarters of Democrats and New York City voters ó compared to only 11% who have a favorable view of Americaís most infamous tweeter,"†Siena College pollster Steven Greenberg said in a statement. The poll didn't pit the two candidates in head-to-head matchups. But in a New York Times/Siena College poll†released last week, Weiner dropped to his worst mark yet in the mayoral race. He grabbed just 10% of the Democratic primary vote, and he trailed City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, former Comptroller Bill Thompson, and Public Advocate Bill de Blasio. Weiner admitted last month to online sexual relationships with at least three women after resigning from Congress in 2011. In total, he estimated that he had online relationships with between six and 10 women both during his time in Congress and otherwise. This post has been updated.
Sober LookHedge funds continued to underperform the overall US equity market this year. In the first six months of 2013, the S&amp;P500 index is ahead of the CS Hedge Fund Index by over 10%. That is not entirely unexpected during a bull market however - as was the case in the 90s. Just holding short positions - whether in long-short strategies or as risk-reducing positions - should result in underperformance. The fact that the hedge fund universe includes credit, fixed income, and other non-equity strategies makes it difficult for a broad group of hedge funds to outperform in a bull market. Here is what the CS Hedge Fund Index breakdown by "sector" looked like over time. Over the past 20 years however (since the beginning of 1994), hedge funds (at least as determined by the CS HF Index) and the S&amp;P500 performance is nearly identical through Q2 of this year. Both indices are showing about 8.6% in annual returns.  Of course if one stuck it out for 20 years in these investments (reinvesting dividends and distributions), the path of achieving the 8.6% return would have been dramatically different between these two. The monthly return volatility for the S&amp;P500 is nearly double that of the hedge fund index. And while the correlation between the two¬†indices is almost 0.6, the beta of the hedge fund index has consistently been low - about 0.33 over the 20 year period. In fact some portfolio managers view their hedge fund exposure as a low-beta stock (over a long period).  An even more important consideration for risk-adjusted performance is the maximum drawdown - the largest¬†peak-to-trough decline. Drowdowns have been considerably worse for various equity indices relative to hedge funds. For example the Dow Jones World Index (global equities) still has not fully recovered its 2008 losses. ¬†All the media noise and the scandals aside (and in spite of the high fees), the diversified hedge fund index still shows better risk adjusted performance over the long term. The 8.6 % annual performance by itself doesn't tell one how scary the ride has been in the past couple of decades. ¬†
REUTERS/Andrew WinningBritish Prime Minister David Cameron is doubling down on hydraulically fracturing England's shale oil and gas reserves. In an op-ed in The Daily Telegraph, Cameron makes the case that fracking, which in the U.S. has caused natural gas prices to plummet but has come with questions about its environmental impact, will lead to cheaper energy and benefit local communities. We reported this week how the British remain deeply ambivalent about the practice. In a recent poll,¬†41% of respondents favored it versus 33% against, with 68% saying fracking would be good for the economy. But 47% also said fracking would damage the environment, and 43% said they do not want it done in their town.¬† Here's Cameron: ...fracking has real potential to drive energy bills down. Labour‚Äôs mismanagement of the economy means that many people are struggling with the cost of living today. ... We‚Äôre not turning our back on low carbon energy, but these sources aren‚Äôt enough. ...fracking will create jobs in Britain. In fact, one recent study predicted that 74,000 posts could be supported by a thriving shale-gas industry in this country. It‚Äôs not just those involved in the drilling. Just as with North Sea oil and gas, there would be a whole supply chain of new businesses, more investment and fresh expertise. ...It has been suggested in recent weeks that we want fracking to be confined to certain parts of Britain. This is wrong. I want all parts of our nation to share in the benefits: north or south, Conservative or Labour. We are all in this together. ...We must make the case that fracking is safe. International evidence shows there is no evidence why fracking should cause contamination of water supplies or other environmental damage, if properly regulated. Recent estimates put northern England's shale gas reserves at 1,300 tcf. There's also said to be hundreds of millions of shale oil about an hour south of London, but recent attempts to drill there were met with protests.
Wikimedia Commons"Sviati Hory" (Holy Mountains), Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine.The stock market ended last week slightly off of its all-time high. This week comes with a broad array of economic data that'll give us a better sense of where the U.S. and world economies stand today. From Brown Brothers' Marc Chandler: "We continue to identify four main macro issues shaping the investment climate: The tapering anticipation in the US; the stabilization of the Chinese economy; a cyclical recovery in Europe; and the long awaited Japanese purchases of foreign bonds" Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary The S&amp;P 500 is struggling to pass 1,700 and stay above it. "I think the market is sort of digesting," said Laszlo Birinyi, who has a 1,740 year-end target on the S&amp;P 500. "It's had a big move, and so it's digesting it. " For now, most of Wall Street seems pretty convinced the S&amp;P will go above and beyond. JP Morgan's Tom Lee, who sees the S&amp;P 500 heading to 1,775, shared an interesting anecdote in a note to clients on Friday."[A]t a large group lunch earlier this week with 80 or so wealth advisors, we heard how most individual investors are spectators in the equity markets, having a greater share of their assets in bonds, particularly munis ‚Äì apparently, stocks are for ‚Äúother people‚Äù (who want to take the risk)," he said.  "In our view, sentiment tends to have contrarian implications ‚Äì that is, if investors are generally (anecdotally) cautious, this suggests that a lot of the negatives are already reflected in current prices. Consequently, as much as investors are concerned about a potential pullback (which we acknowledge is possible), the current caution suggests better implied risk/reward." Seaport Securities' Jason Weisberg gave us a brief rundown of what to watch for. Watch here:
flickr/Adam CroweThe Wall Street Journal's Robin Sidel says New York Department of Financial Services has subpoenaed about two dozen Bitcoin merchants as part of an inquiry into their compliance with the state's finance statutes. Sidel says firms run by Marc Andreessen and the Winklevoss Twins received the notices. Agency chief Benjamin Lawsky says he's considering setting new guidelines for money transmission laws specifically aimed at Bitcoin commerce. We recently discussed the effect increased scrutiny from regulators could have on Bitcoin, and why it could end up becoming a victim of its own legitimacy. So this seems likely to compound the issue. Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com ¬ª
Trading has resumed in BlackBerry after being halted for a few minutes. The board of directors has just announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives for the company. "These alternatives could include, among others, possible joint ventures, strategic partnerships or alliances, a sale of the Company or other possible transactions," said the board in a statement. Just last week, Reuters reported that BlackBerry management was looking into taking the company private. Chief Executive Thorsten Heins and the company's board is increasingly coming around to the idea that taking BlackBerry private would give them breathing room to fix its problems out of the public eye, the sources said. "There is a change of tone on the board," one of the sources said on Thursday. Despite offering new products, BlackBerry has struggled to compete with other players in the smartphone market including Apple and Samsung. Shares of BBRY are down 17% since the beginning of the year. Here's the full press release via Yahoo Finance/Marketwired: WATERLOO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) -  BlackBerry Limited, a world leader in the mobile communications market, today announced that the Company's Board of Directors has formed a Special Committee to explore strategic alternatives to enhance value and increase scale in order to accelerate BlackBerry 10 deployment. These alternatives could include, among others, possible joint ventures, strategic partnerships or alliances, a sale of the Company or other possible transactions. The Special Committee of the Board is comprised of Barbara Stymiest, Thorsten Heins, Richard Lynch and Bert Nordberg, and will be chaired by Timothy Dattels. With the announcement of the Special Committee, Prem Watsa, Chairman and CEO of Fairfax Financial informed the Company that he felt it was appropriate to resign due to potential conflicts that may arise during the process. Fairfax Financial is the largest BlackBerry shareholder. Mr. Watsa said, "I continue to be a strong supporter of the Company, the Board and Management as they move forward during this process, and Fairfax Financial has no current intention of selling its shares." "During the past year, management and the Board have been focused on launching the BlackBerry 10 platform and BES 10, establishing a strong financial position, and evaluating the best approach to delivering long-term value for customers and shareholders," said Timothy Dattels, Chairman of BlackBerry's Special Committee of the Board. "Given the importance and strength of our technology, and the evolving industry and competitive landscape, we believe that now is the right time to explore strategic alternatives." Thorsten Heins, President and Chief Executive Officer of BlackBerry, added, "We continue to see compelling long-term opportunities for BlackBerry 10, we have exceptional technology that customers are embracing, we have a strong balance sheet and we are pleased with the progress that has been made in our transition. As the Special Committee focuses on exploring alternatives, we will be continuing with our strategy of reducing cost, driving efficiency and accelerating the deployment of BES 10, as well as driving adoption of BlackBerry 10 smartphones, launching the multi-platform BBM social messaging service, and pursuing mobile computing opportunities by leveraging the secure and reliable BlackBerry Global Data Network." JP Morgan Securities LLC is serving as financial advisor to BlackBerry and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP and Torys LLP are serving as legal advisors. There can be no assurance that this exploration process will result in any transaction. The Company does not currently intend to disclose further developments with respect to this process, unless and until its Board of Directors approves a specific transaction or otherwise concludes the review of strategic alternatives.
REUTERS/Nigel RoddisEngland's Ian Bell avoids a delivery from Australia's Ryan Harris during their fourth Ashes test cricket match at the Riverside cricket ground, Chester-Le-Street, northern England, August 11, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
President Obama misses a putt yesterday on the first green at the Farm Neck Golf Club on Martha's Vineyard. Reuters / Larry Downing
ReutersTAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwanese contract manufacturer Pegatron Corp sees revenue in its communications and consumer electronics segments growing 40-50 percent in the third quarter compared to the last as it ramps up shipments for major clients like Apple Inc and Sony Corp. The company is grabbing more orders from Apple while the California-based tech giant diversifies its suppliers and is the sole assembler for cheaper iPhone models to be released next month, according to sources. "It does look like Pegatron will do better in H2 because of its non-PC segment. It will mostly come from Apple's cheaper iPhone and Sony's PlayStation 4," said Daiwa Securities analyst Steven Tseng. Pegatron said it also expects its operating profit margin to improve this quarter, after slipping 0.9 percentage points to 1.3 percent in the previous quarter due to an increase in setup expenses for new products. "We expect revenue in the non-computing segment to grow by 40 to 50 percent in Q3 due to new consumer products. Q4 will also be higher," said company CEO and President Jason Cheng in an investor conference. Notebook shipments will decline by 5 to 10 percent, however, while motherboard and desktop computer shipments will decline by 10 to 15 percent. Technology blog AllThingsD reported on Sunday that Apple is expected to present its redesigned iPhone on September 10. Pegatron currently makes older smartphone models for Apple, including the iPhone 4S and iPhone 4, as well as the iPad Mini and is set to help supply the upcoming cheaper iPhone model that will come with five to six colored plastic casings, sources said. Pegatron reported on Monday a net profit of T$1.4 billion ($46.79 million) in the April to June quarter, below a median forecast of T$1.8 billion by 15 analysts, polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The figure compares to a net profit of T$2.3 billion in the first quarter and T$1.9 billion in the second quarter a year earlier. Shares of Pegatron closed down 0.77 percent ahead of earnings announcement, versus a 0.6 percent rise in the broader market. (Reporting by Clare Jim; Editing by Matt Driskill) SEE ALSO: Pictures Of Apple's iPhone 5C
A couple weeks ago we wrote about the fact that the US is coming up to an unusual of significant econo-political events unlike anything we can recall. Starting sometime in September, we can expect to see the following: Each one of these could be economically significant to varying degrees. Together they're likely to be very exciting. Over at POLITICO, Ben White and MJ Lee have a big story up about why this time, Wall Street should be afraid of the fiscal fight. Of course the street expects that everything will get resolved at the last second (like it always does) but White and Lee argue that this time could be different. The reasons why: The GOP is even more fractured than it has been in recent fights, and this time the Democrats may go to the mat as well, as they refuse to give an inch. That the Democrats may not be willing to bargain at all over the debt ceiling seems like the big dynamic that makes this time different than those other times. And even if the two parties find a path past Oct. 1 and avoid a government shutdown, raising the debt ceiling will be no easy task. Republicans have not backed off their mantra of a dollar in spending cuts for every dollar of debt-ceiling increase. But if they pass such a bill out of the House, it is going nowhere in the Senate. Democrats have no appetite for more cuts, given that annual deficits have been sliced in half and the sequester spending cuts are already taking a bite out of economic growth with no compromise on the horizon. ìItís not negotiable. It should be done,î said Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) about raising the debt ceiling. ìBusiness everywhere believes that this is a bad thing for the country. The Republicans, they call themselves the pro-business party. They should act that way.î The White House is also likely to stick hard to its vow not to negotiate over the debt ceiling. This is a point that Eurasia Group analyst Sean West made back in mid-July: Democrats are increasingly convinced that this is the moment to "break the fever" of sequestration and debt ceiling pay-offs. They will attempt to break up the upcoming deadlines by cutting a short-term deal on the 30 Septembercontinuing resolution-insisting on a clean debt ceiling increase with no pay-off for Republicans-and then gearing up for battle later in the fall when the short-term CR expires if necessary to get a sequester deal before January. In reality, Democrats would prefer to trade mandatory cuts and other piecemeal fiscal reforms for a sequester offset that can be implemented around the same time as the debt ceiling, without a direct negotiation on the latter issue. But Democrats have less appetite to agree to large-scale reforms amid a declining deficit: If Republicans demand too high a price for the Democrats' key goal of offsetting the sequester, Democrats, are willing to threaten shutdown even though they don't actually want it. Anyway, lots coming up. Enjoy the rest of your summer.
For your morning enjoyment, here's a delightful way to view the change, over time, of the US population, in terms of the relative size of various age groups. It goes all the way from 1900 to 2060, and you can nicely observe phenomenons like the baby bust, the baby boom, the current retirement boom, and the future periods when the boomers will die off. It was put together by the brilliant Calculated Risk.   (Via Stephen Kinsella)
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) ó Twice as fast as an airplane, cheaper than a bullet train and completely self-powered: that's the mysterious transportation system that inventor and entrepreneur Elon Musk is promising to reveal design plans for Monday. Musk has been dropping hints about his "Hyperloop" system for more than a year during public events, mentioning that it could never crash, would be immune to weather and would move people from Los Angeles to San Francisco in half an hour. Coming from almost anyone else, the hyperbole would be hard to take seriously. But billionaire Musk ó who sold his first computer program, a $500 space game called Blastar, at age 12 ó has earned his reputation as an inventor and entrepreneur, co-founding online payment firm PayPal, electric luxury carmaker Tesla Motors Inc. and rocket-building company SpaceX. During a Tesla earnings call Thursday, Musk said he would reveal plans for the Hyperloop on Monday. But he said he is too focused on other projects to consider actually building it. "I think I kind of shot myself by ever mentioning the Hyperloop," he said. "I don't have any plans to execute, because I must remain focused on SpaceX and Tesla." He said he would fulfill his commitment to publishing a design, and he said he invites critical feedback after its release Monday to "see if the people can find ways to improve it." It will be an open-source design, meaning anyone can use it and modify it. Also Thursday, Musk said during a Google Hangout with Sir Richard Branson about entrepreneurship, "It does involve a tube, but not a vacuum tube." His hints and promises have prompted a flurry of online speculation. Canadian John Gardi, a self-described "tinkerer," posted online and tweeted his conjecture a few weeks ago to Musk. "I believe that Hyperloop is merely a modern day version of the pneumatic tubes used in banks, stores, and industry to move money and small items over long distances or to other floors of a building," he said. Musk responded, "Your guess is the closest I've seen anyone guess so far." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Jordan ShapiroBack in late July we declared that the European recession was coming to an end. It was clear from manufacturing data, as well as bank lending data that the corner had turned or would soon turn, and that although things would remain a holy mess, things would no longer get worse economically and that there would be a modicum of growth. Since then, this view has grown in popularity. In a note out last night, SocGen economic Brian Hilliard says this is the week we find that out for sure. IS THE EURO AREA FINALLY EMERGING FROM RECESSION? In recent weeks, a number of better than expected economic data have lifted the mood for the euro area growth outlook. This week we expect preliminary Q2 GDP data for France, Germany and the euro area to indeed point to a small improvement in growth, the first in nearly two years and better than we expected in our latest Global Economic Outlook in June. While this may provide some welcome relief, we think it is too early to call an end to the euro area debt crisis. Firstly, looking more closely at the driving factors in Q2, we expect temporary factors to have been at play in both Germany and France. In Germany, the rebound from poor weather conditions in Q1 exaggerates the likely strength of growth in Q2 (we predict 0.7% qoq ‚Äì euro area economist, Anatoli Annenkov, analyses this in A roaring rebound in German Q2 GDP expected) while for France, even with the help of strong energy consumption (unlikely to help in Q3) and net trade growth, only 0.2% qoq is likely. Bear in mind, though, that this will signal the exit from recession. Diverging trends are still apparent, with strong German data contrasting with still lack-lustre data elsewhere. Secondly, we expect headwinds from financial fragmentation and additional fiscal austerity to weigh on growth in H2, with risks stemming from policy uncertainty remaining high. Progress with the Banking Union and the financial sector regulatory framework will in this regard be crucial. Anytime anyone makes this call, people feel the need (understandably) to point out all of the looming pitfals for the Euro, including the ongoing austerity, the political uncertainty, and as SocGen does, the issues with the banking union. People point this out in part because it's true, but also because they don't want to seem glib about how bad things are in the real world there. That being said, turns start somewhere, and if you wait until things are good until you start talking about them, then you miss the boat.
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are slightly lower to start the week. It's nothing but dramatic, but US futures are pointing to a red open. European stocks are slightly in the red. And Japan fell to a 1.5-month low following a pretty sizable GDP whiff last night. Meanwhile, gold is having a very strong start to the week, having spiked upon the opening of trading in Asia. It's now at $1330/oz. With the S&amp;P at 1691, the big question will be about whether the index can regain the 1700 level.
