China Photos/Getty ImagesChina services PMI is out, and it's mediocre. From Markit: HSBC China Composite PMIô data (which covers both manufacturing and services) signalled an expansion of output for the eighth consecutive month in April. However, the HSBC China Composite Output Index signalled only a marginal rate of growth, posting at 51.1. This was down from 53.5 in March, suggesting that the rate of expansion was the weakest since last October. Output rose simultaneously across both the manufacturing and service sectors for the sixth successive month in April. That said, the rates of expansion were only marginal in both cases. The latter was indicated by the HSBC China Services Business Activity Index recording 51.1 in April. Down from 54.3 in March, the services survey headline index signalled the weakest expansion of service sector activity since August 2011. Full report here &gt;
Flickr/antonychammondAccording to Friday's jobs report, the economy added 165,000 new nonfarm payrolls in April, which was much more than what economists had expected. Furthermore, the numbers for February and March were revised up significantly. And it was just a few days ago everyone was worried that the economy was heading for a spring slowdown. This will be a relatively quiet week for economic data. This should give economists some time to think more about the mixed signals being sent by the economy. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update There's an old adage on Wall Street: "Sell in May and go away."† Indeed, since 1950 this rule has had unbelievable and almost unexplainable success. "The other half of the proverb is ëBuy Back on Saint Crispinís Day,í" said United-ICAP's Walter Zimmerman.† "That would be 25th October." JP Morgan's Tom Lee sees the warning signs for another sell-off this year.† But he thinks selling this year would be a mistake. "We want to take the other side of this trade for multiple reasons," wrote Lee in a note to clients.† Among other things, he points to falling gas prices, falling initial jobless claims, strength in the junk bond market, and the contrarian signal being sent by the bearish hedge fund industry.
After Friday's big, jobs-report induced rally in the U.S., Asian markets are jumping. Australia is up 1.3%. SMH.com.au And via Dee Wang Morris, some nice gains in Hong Kong. @deeCNBC
Oil had been getting slack recently, but it's spiking again (possibly due to rising tension in the Mideast?). From just over $90 to nearly $97 in a matter of days. FinViz
Michala Marcusen, economist at SocGen, passes along the number one thing that clients are worried about right now. IS THE U.S. SOFT PATCH SOMETHING MORE SINISTER? Marcusen answers: Fears that recent weakness in the US data is signaling something more sinister than a soft patch linked to fiscal tightening were eased by Fridayís encouraging employment report; not only did April see a gain of 165K, but its came with net revision worth +114K over the previous two month. Steeper-than-expected cuts in defence spending also suggest that the sequester may be more front-loaded than we had initially discounted. A further positive looking ahead is the recent drop in gasoline prices, which may help offset some of the headwinds from fiscal restraint. The last point about the drop in gasoline prices is a story that's not gotten enough attention. The year-over-year drop in gas prices is one of the most severe since the crisis. FRED There's a lot of talk about the Fed off-setting the fiscal drag. But falling gas prices (along with rising wages) is also a big story.
If you look at the Census Bureau's breakdown of average wealth by age group, the most prosperous are those on the verge of retirement. They've had 30 or 40 years to gradually build up savings. For example, a couple who each have $50,000 jobs (in today's dollars) and live frugally by spending half of their net earnings and saving the other half (roughly giving them $30,000 savings per year) will become millionaires in about 25 years (thanks to compounding and return on investments). Obviously this isn't the majority - the median wealth of people in the 55 - 64 cohort is something like $200,000 - but a non-trivial percentage of middle class workers ultimately reach this milestone.  And you know what they would like to do more than anythings else? Retire! I know this not only from personal conversations with my fellow fossils, but also through a discussion with an accountant recently in which he told me that the number one reason most of his older clients haven't retired yet is because they are afraid to before they are eligible for Medicare. Or they have to continue to work after age 65 themselves because they need their health insurance to cover their spouse until their spouse reaches age 65.  Meanwhile, people like David Leonhardt in the New York Times are writing about Today's Idled Youth," describing how the ongoing Hard Times have hit the young perhaps harder than any other group. They bought into the American Dream of studying for a degree, becoming a professional of some sort, and hoping for a decent middle class existence. Instead, they are taking clerical or entry level service jobs, or even worse, unable to find a job.  You can see where I'm going with this now, right? Here we have the older workers, hobbling to the finish line, but unable to end the race. And here we have young workers, itching to get started, and they can't because there are no jobs, or no middle class jobs, for them.  And the one thing that would cause the many older workers who have saved for retirement to be able to leave the workforce, and clear the way for those frustrated younger workers, is guaranteed medical care.  Fortunately, we have a program that provides exactly that: it's called Medicare, and according to those already on it, it works really really well. And it works at much lower administrative costs than for-profit private coverage (If I recall correctly, Medicare's administrative costs are something like 3%, vs. 15% for for-profit plans)(UPDATE: According to the CBO, Medicare's administrative costs are 2%, vs. 17% for for-profit plans. And Medicare premiums have consistently risen less than private health insurer premiums) . And also unlike for-profit plans, in Medicare there's no incentive to deny coverage. As in, yes you can buy into a private plan at age 60 for example, but it will be very expensive and you'd better pray they don't come up with an exclusion if a disease of age catches up with you. Atrios has written a number of times about increasing Social Security payments. Balderdash, say I. If you really and truly want to make a dent in the persistent employment problem facing younger workers, allow anyone age 55 or above to buy into Medicare. Charge them annual premiums equal to what they would have to pay into Medicare at their same wage or salary until age 65 if they continued to work. You would be amazed to see how quickly Boomers can still move, cleaning out their offices and cubicles, when properly motivated. And then younger workers could move right in.  It'll never happen, of course, because it smacks of the New Deal, not the "21st Century" privatized solutions Barack Obama has touted since 2009. And of course the GOP will never allow it, not just because it smacks of the New Deal, but because if Obama came out in favor of it, they would oppose it for the simple reason of opposing everything Obama wants.  But that doesn't mean we shouldn't acknowledge that it is a real solution to a real problem, and collectively rub Washington's Very Serious People's noses in it.
Dado Ruvic/Reuters(Reuters) - Shares of Facebook, which were given a boost last week when the social networking company reported first quarter results that largely met analysts' expectations, may be over valued, financial newspaper Barron's said on Sunday. Facebook closed at $28.31 on Friday, 60 percent higher than last summer's low-point, but well below its initial public offering price of $38 last May. However, the company is probably worth no more than $25 a share, Barron's said, reiterating a stance it took in February. Facebook trades for 75 times its 2013 earnings estimate using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), while Googletrades for less than 20 times its 2013 earnings, the article said. While a sharp rise in mobile ad revenue helped Facebook increase its overall revenues by 38 percent in the quarter versus a year earlier, that mobile ad revenue came at the expense of desktop ad revenue, which was flat, Barron's said. The paper warned that desktop ad revenue may start to drop, meaning investors are assigning a "hefty" market value to Facebook of $71 billion, based largely on just $1.5 billion in mobile ad revenues. Expenses were up 60 percent in the quarter, it added. Google has been investing in a range of products, from YouTube, self-driving cars, interactive eye wear, maps and Android software. "Facebook seems more focused on barraging subscribers with ads to meet Street profit expectations," Barron's said. (Reporting by John McCrank in New York; Editing by Marguerita Choy) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Either governments are not serious about climate change or fossil-fuel firms are overvalued. MARKETS can misprice risk, as investors in subprime mortgages discovered in 2008. Several recent reports suggest that markets are now overlooking the risk of "unburnable carbon". The share prices of oil, gas and coal companies depend in part on their reserves. The more fossil fuels a firm has underground, the more valuable its shares. But what if some of those reserves can never be dug up and burned? If governments were determined to implement their climate policies, a lot of that carbon would have to be left in the ground, says Carbon Tracker, a non-profit organisation, and the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change, part of the London School of Economics. Their analysis starts by estimating the amount of carbon dioxide that could be put into the atmosphere if global temperatures are not to rise by more than 2∞C, the most that climate scientists deem prudent. The maximum, says the report, is about 1,000 gigatons (GTCO2) between now and 2050. The report calls this the worldís "carbon budget". Existing fossil-fuel reserves already contain far more carbon than that. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), in its "World Energy Outlook", total proven international reserves contain 2,860GTCO2--almost three times the carbon budget. The report refers to the excess as "unburnable carbon". The EconomistMost of the reserves are owned by governments or state energy firms; they could be left in the ground by public-policy choice (ie, if governments took the 2∞C target seriously). But the reserves of listed oil companies are different. These are assets developed using money raised from investors who expect a return. Proven reserves of listed firms contain 762GTCO2--most of what can prudently be burned before 2050. Listed potential reserves have 1,541GTCO2 embedded in them. So companies and governments already have far more oil, gas and coal than they need (again, assuming temperatures are not to rise by more than 2∞C). Logically, the response to this would be for governments to leave their reserves untouched and for companies to run theirs slowly down, returning more of what they earn to shareholders. Neither of these things is happening. State-owned companies are taking an increasing share of total energy output. And in 2012, says Carbon Tracker, the 200 largest listed oil, gas and coal companies spent five times as much--$674 billion--on developing new reserves as they did returning money to shareholders ($126 billion). ExxonMobil alone plans to spend $37 billion a year on exploration in each of the next three years. Such behaviour, on the face of it, makes no sense. One possible explanation is that companies are betting that government climate policies will fail; they will be able to burn all their reserves, including new ones, after all. This implies that global temperatures would either soar past the 2∞C mark, or be restrained by a technological fix, such as carbon capture and storage, or geo-engineering. Recent events make such a bet seem rational. On April 16th the European Parliament voted against attempts to shore up Europeís emissions trading system against collapse. The system is the EUís flagship environmental policy and the worldís largest carbon market. Putting it at risk suggests that Europeans have lost their will to endure short-term pain for long-term environmental gain. Nor is this the only such sign. Several cash-strapped EU countries are cutting subsidies for renewable energy. And governments around the world have failed to make progress towards a new global climate-change treaty. Betting against tough climate policies seems almost prudent. But that is not what companies say they are doing. All the big energy firms claim to be green. They say they use high implicit carbon prices to guide investment decisions. Nearly all claim to support climate policies. None predicts their failure. Of course this could just be corporate hypocrisy. But might something else be going on? The answer, argues the report, is that markets are mispricing risk by valuing companies as if all their reserves will be burned. Investors treat reserves as an indicator of future revenues. They therefore require companies to replace reserves depleted by production, even though this runs foul of emission-reduction policies. Fossil-fuel firms live and die by a measure called the reserve replacement ratio, which must remain above 100%. Companies see their shares marked down if the ratio falls, even when they pull the plug on dodgy, expensive projects. This happened to Shell, for example, when it suspended drilling in the Arctic in February. Worries about mispricing are cropping up in the markets themselves. In April Citi Research looked at Australian mining companies and concluded that "investors who strongly believe in 'unburnable carboní would find it more productive to actively tilt their portfolios" (ie, sell fossil-fuel firms). In January, HSBC Global Research argued that "if lower demand led to lower oil and gas pricesÖthe potential value at risk could rise to 40-60% of market cap." The 200 largest listed companies had a market capitalisation of $4 trillion at the end of 2012, so this is a huge amount. HSBC added: "We doubt the market is pricing in the risk of a loss of value from this issue." Carbon Tracker says regulators should require firms to disclose the amount of carbon in their fuel reserves. Credit-rating agencies should address climate change as part of their efforts to tackle systemic risk. And firms ought to explain how their activities are compatible with government emissions targets. But so long as governments are ambivalent about those targets, it seems fruitless to demand more of companies and markets. At the moment neither public policies nor markets reflect the risks of a warmer world. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Expansion of health insurance to everyone has been a primary liberal goal for decades. And with Obamacare on the verge of implementation (things really got going last year) that outcome is closer than ever. So in that context here are two interesting tweets from liberal NYT columnist Nick Kristoff: I hate to admit it, but @douthatnyt may be right that we liberals oversold benefits of health insurance nyti.ms/16FDzF3 There clearly are benefits, e.g. on bankruptcy &amp; mental health, but Oregon data doesn't show health improvements we anticipated This isn't a big surprise to people who have followed the debate closely for a long time. As Ross Douthat points out in the NYT, there have been studies showing this exact phenomenon before: IN one of the most famous studies of health insurance, conducted across the 1970s, thousands of participants were divided into five groups, with each receiving a different amount of insurance coverage. The study, run by the RAND Corporation, tracked the medical care each group sought out, and not surprisingly found that people with more comprehensive coverage tended to make use of it, visiting the doctor and checking into the hospital more often than people with less generous insurance. But the study also tracked the health outcomes of each group, and there the results were more surprising: With a few modest exceptions, the level of insurance had no significant effect on the participants‚Äô actual wellness. That health care coverage does not necessarily equate to better health does not undermine the importance of health care. Paul Krugman snarked this week that fire insurance must be worthless, since it doesn't prevent fires. Still, the latest study has revived the notion that perhaps health care should be more focused around preventing catastrophic financial outcomes, rather than providing a means for people to see the doctor more on someone else's tab. Alas, with Obamacare about to be implemented, that debate might be irrelevant.
fdecomite at www.flickr.comAnd there it is folks. The age of austerity is over. In an interview on Sunday, French Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said: "Austerity is over, but we remain serious," according to Reuters. The "we remain serious" part seems to refer to the country's dedication to hit deficit targets. But those targets have been loosened; Moscovici obviously believes that Europe has reached an end of budget cutting for the sake of budget cutting. There's been an incredible collapse in the last month of the pro-austerity movement. The U.K. has been rebuked by IMF officials. Reinhart and Rogoff have imploded publicly. Niall Ferguson stuck his foot in his mouth equating Keynes' economic philosophy with his sexual orientation. Bill Gross has blasted the U.K. The new Italian Prime Minister has said austerity is over. The whole facade of trying to stimulate the economy (or even reduce debts) by cutting spending is collapsing.
In the grand scheme of personal finances, your take home pay is like an apple pie. Your bills are the hungry flock of kids banging their fists on the table to get their share. For renters in America, housing is usually the hungriest of the bunch. Ideally, it would gobble up one-third of the pie ‚Äì‚Äì anymore than that, and you likely wouldn't have enough to feed the rest. Unfortunately, one in four working renters watched housing devour more than half of their paycheck pie in 2011, according to the latest¬†Housing Landscape Report¬†from the¬†Center for Housing Policy. The report analyzed the period between 2008 and 2011, when the rate of renters putting more than half their income toward housing jumped nearly 4%.¬† ‚ÄúThe growing rate of severe housing cost burdens among renters is not a new trend, but it is clearly an unsustainable one,‚Äù said lead report author Janet Viveiros. ‚ÄúWhile rental costs have steadily risen over the last few years, wages for these working families have not fully recovered from the hit they took between 2008 and 2009. Spending most of your paycheck on rent means cutting back on other necessities, including health care and even food.‚Äù nhc.orgAmong working households¬†earning less than 30 percent of their area's median income (AMI), a whopping 80% spent more than half their pay on housing alone. Among the toughest states for renters are usual suspects like New York, California, Florida, Nevada, and Arizona (see map above). nhc.orgMuch of the strain on renters has to do with fallout from the housing crisis of 2009. Homeowners fled their underwater homes and flooded rental markets to downsize, driving up demand on a stagnant supply of properties and sending rental prices skyrocketing. At the same time, the job market floundered and people's take home pays dwindled ‚Äì‚Äì basically a perfect storm in personal finance hell. Homeowners who stuck out the crisis haven't fared much better, but their cost burden remained relatively stable throughout the economic recovery, according to CHP. One in five working homeowners experienced severe housing affordability challenges, versus one in four working renters. However, their income dropped 4% between 2008 and 2011.¬†
REUTERS/Rick WilkingFollowing his Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting yesterday, Warren Buffett was on "This Week" on ABC getting interviewed by Rebecca Jarvis. A lot of his commentary about the economy was standard stuff: Policymakers have done the right about amount of stimulus, the economy is good not great, and immigration needs to be reformed. Of interest is his commentary about women, an issue he's been talking about more and more. Below is a partial transcript of the interview (provided to us by ABC) where he talks about how we've made a terrible mistake in underutilizing the talents of women in America: JARVIS:† You have taken up the chance to become a member of the Twittersphere.†††† BUFFETT:† Here we go.†††† JARVIS:† Tweet away.†††† BUFFETT:† OK.† "Warren is in the house."†††† JARVIS:† Which is a surprise to a lot of people, because you held out for so long.†††† BUFFETT:† You're still looking at a technophobe who is kind of pathetic in that -- in all things news, but I felt it was giving additional distribution, particularly to an article.† I wanted that wide distribution about women.† So I joined Twitter.† And it seems to be working.†††† JARVIS (voice-over):† In the article in Fortune magazine, Buffett called women the key to† America's prosperity writing "we've seen what we can be accomplished when we use 50 percent† of our human capacity.† If you visualize what 100 percent can do, you'll join me as an unbridled optimist about America's future."†††† (on camera):† You're bullish on women.†††† BUFFETT:† I think that -- I think we've made a terrible mistake in this country and a lot of other† countries, too, but in not using all of our talent.† I mean, if we said we were only going to let people, men 5'10", or below engage, in three or four occupations, it would be regarded as totally nutty.† And for decades, centuries, we relegated women to just a few occupations.† And we did not fully use the talent that's available.† And we're making progress, but we have got a ways to go.††††  JARVIS:† Beyond rhetoric, what can be done to change that?†††† BUFFETT:† I think there should be more pushing forward, in terms of both the outer structure, but then I was also encouraging women not to hold themselves back.
Harvard professor Niall Ferguson kicked off a storm yesterday, after it was reported that he had linked John Maynard Keynes' economic philosophy to a lack of concern for future generations. This was a result, Ferguson reportedly told an investment conference, of Keynes' own lack of children and homosexuality. Ferguson issued a swift ó and seemingly sincere ó apology, but it may already be too late. Critics of the noted historian are now going over his history to find more evidence that he truly believes in what he has now admitted to be "stupid and tactless" comments. Earlier Cambridge Professor and economist Michael Kitson tweeted out that he had heard Ferguson make the comments in the past: Niall Fergusonís empty apology niallferguson.com/blog/an-unqualÖ These were not ëoff the cuffí remarks. I heard him make the same over 20 years ago. I was at history seminar given by Niall Ferguson over 20 years ago. I am not good at dates but I think it was around 1990/91. I am better at locations - it was held in the Rushmore Room at St Catharine's College, Cambridge. Ferguson gave a paper, my recollection is that it was on German hyperinflation in the 1920s. But I remember distinctly his response to a question about Keynes: he stated that Keynes and his economics was completely short-termist and that he (Keynes) did not care about the long term or future generations because he was homosexual and did not have children. He elaborated at length on this point - it did not seem as off the cuff remark but a deeply held conviction. I remember being stunned at the time: because of the bigotry and because it showed a complete lack of understanding of Keynes's work. So, it was with a sense of dÈj‡ vu that I read the comments that Ferguson has made recently about Keynes. (Business Insider has asked Ferguson for comment on Kitson's allegation. At the time of writing he has not responded.) Other critics of Ferguson have been combing through his written work. Justin Wolfers of the University of Michigan tweeted a link to one of Ferguson's books ó "The Pity of War", published in 2000 ó that seems to link Keynes' sexuality with his economic thought (emphasis ours): Though his work at the Treasury gratified his self-importance, the war itself made Keynes deeply unhappy. Even his sex life went into a decline, perhaps because the boys he liked to pick up in London all joined up. In September 1915, just eight months after predicitng that German finance was 'crumbling', Keynes was warning that unless peace was achieved by the following April, there would be a catastrophe, as 'the expenditure of the succeeding would rapidly render our difficulties insupportable'. Another reference to Keynes' sexuality in "The Pity of War" caught the eye of the Economistadentata blog (emphasis ours): There is, however, no question that a series of meetings with one of the German representatives at Versailles added an emotional dimension to Keynesí position. Carl Melchior was Max Warburgís right-hand man (ÖÖ..) It may be that Keynesí subsequent declaration that he ëgot to loveí Melchior during the armistice negotiations at Trier and Spa obliquely alluded to a sexual attraction. As we have seen, Keynes was an active homosexual at this time. However, it seems more likely that Keynes was simply captivated by the sound of his own pessimismÖ.. Is this a big deal? As Jonah Goldberg points out over at the National Review, not that long ago linking Keynes' sexuality to his policies was apparently acceptable. However, in 2013, a lot of people are understandably outraged at the idea that Keynes' economic theories can be dismissed as a byproduct of his sexuality.
How do you value a stock? Well, there are many ways.¬† And every method and model has its strengths and weaknesses. One of the very first models that any entry-level analyst will learn is the dividend discount model (DDM).¬† And for anyone taking the grueling Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exams on June 1, the DDM is one of the most basic valuation models to master. The concept is straightforward: the value of a stock is equal to the present value of all of the future dividends it pays. The DDM has limitations (which we'll address later).¬† But it is theoretically sound, and people like it because it's relatively simple and clear. The basic DDM model has four variables: the price of the stock (P), the dividend (D), a growth rate (g), and a discount rate (k).¬† One form of the DDM will look something like this: Goldman Sachs The primary aim of asset valuation is arguably to find the value of that stock.¬† But if you have the market price of the stock, you can use the DDM to find the implied values of those other three variables. That's what Goldman Sachs did recently in their new US Monthly Chartbook.¬† They used the market price of a stock, its dividend, and a discount rate (as measured by its cost of equity) to derive the implied value of the last variable: the growth rate. (Goldman had a reason for deriving implied growth, but it's not important for our purposes). Here's Goldman's explanatory slide, which it included in its Chartbook for clients.¬† For most, this is intimidating.¬† But any analyst who passed the first two levels of the CFA exam should have no trouble navigating through it. Goldman Sachs LimitationsLike we said earlier, the DDM has limitations.¬† The most obvious limitation: it doesn't work for companies that don't pay dividends. Assuming the company pays a dividend, you have to know what the dividends will be in the future.¬† And anyone who was holding a dividend-paying bank stock during the financial crisis knows that a steady quarterly cash dividend will quickly get slashed when profits collapse. Furthermore, the DDM is very sensitive to the growth rate (g) and the discount rate (k) assumptions. So, while the model is sound, it's garbage in, garbage out.
AP ImagesOMAHA, Neb. (AP) ‚Äî Warren Buffett has pledged to eventually give away all of the Berkshire Hathaway stock that made him one of the world's richest men, but he doesn't want to spoil his children. At Saturday's Berkshire shareholder meeting, an estate planning lawyer asked Buffett for advice on how his clients should determine how much is too much to leave their children. Buffett says parents' behavior is probably more important than the size of any inheritance because parents are the primary teacher for their children. But the 82-year-old Buffett says he has been getting more generous as he ages, so every time he revises his will these days he tends to leave more to his children. And Buffett says he lets his kids read his will each time it's changed. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
In Part IV of the series of reports from the 10th annual Strategic Investment Conference, presented by Altegis Investments and John Mauldin, Mohamed El-Erian ties together the views of the previous presenters. You can read the previous presentations by clicking the links below. Part I: Niall Ferguson ‚Äì The Great Degeneration Part II: Jeff Gundlach ‚Äì Why Own Bonds At All Part III: A. Gary Shilling ‚Äì Six Realities In An Age Of Deleveraging Mohamed El-Erian, Ph.D. is the CEO and Co-CIO for Pimco, the global investment company with over $2 Trillion in assets under management. Here are his views: I want to try and build on what you have heard so far.¬†¬† I want to focus, in particular, on two statements that have been made so far at this conference. So, how do we put the pieces together to give us the best chance to win? I will try and give you an answer. If you knew nothing of the markets, and just showed up at this conference, you would be very confused. The world is awash in contradiction with stocks rising to new highs as interest rates reflect a slowing economy. It is an upside down world. Individuals are both excited and anxious. They are excited by the rally in the markets as they see their portfolios increase in values but at the same timed overwhelmingly concerned about the economic future. It is a world with an enormous contrast between the markets and the real economy. That is the world we are navigating and it is incredibly unusual. This is why it is an unloved rally. Therefore, I want to provide a simple framework to reconcile these issues. The long term view matters greatly - but the short term matters also. First, acknowledge that we are here, in terms of current policy, for a good reason. Most countries are shifting from a growth model based on leverage and credit creation to trying to find a new growth model based on new realities. Emerging markets are shifting from exports to internal growth. Developed economies are shifting to a lower growth economic cycle due to ongoing deleveraging. These shifts require assistance from the Central Banks. However, this assistance leads to disconnects. "The question, however, is what the ‚Äúhand off‚Äù from assisted support to organic growth will look like and when will it come?" "The hand off is the 'destination.' The 'journey' is getting there. Investors must invest for both the journey AND the destination. Investing for only one part will lead to unhappiness during the journey or pain at the destination." At Pimco this reality is what we call the ‚Äústable disequilibrium.‚Äù ¬†The world will not reset in cyclical manner and a ‚Äúnew normal‚Äù has arrived. The look of the ‚Äúnew normal‚Äù is that the West will be stuck in a low growth and high unemployment cycle for quite some time to come. Conversely, the emerging world will continue to bounce back and begin to close the gap between wealth and incomes. There are three speeds to the ‚Äúnew normal.‚Äù This is the reality of the world that we live in today.¬†¬† If this three speed theory is correct then there are three questions that must be answered: Yes, it can persist but not forever. The timing, which is tricky, differs on where you look. For example, in Europe, Cyprus tells you much about the entire European structure. The Troika is no longer operating in an efficient manner. The creditors are also tired of supporting the Eurozone as they see no end to the checks they are writing.¬†¬† Likewise, the debtors are tired from adjustment fatigue. The problem is that the majority of Eurozone countries not only lack growth but, much more importantly, they lack a growth model. The financial markets don‚Äôt care because there is the ECB.¬†¬† Whatever happens - the ECB, as Mario Draghi promised last June, is willing and able to support them. However, the ECB only supports the journey ‚Äì not the destination. The Eurozone is nearing the end of its journey and they will soon be forced to make tough choices.¬†¬† They will be forced to either opt for a stronger, and smaller, Eurozone which will begin to grow again, or, fragmentation which will end miserably. In the U.S. - the Fed is fully engaged in artificial support to give the system time to heal. There is no question that the economy is healing. Corporations, banks, and housing are all healing. If this continues it will allow for a handoff from supported growth to real growth.¬†¬† If the structural problems don‚Äôt improve then we will slip back into a slow growth economy. Emerging markets will either continue surge or slip back to moderate growth. So, the reality is that when you live in an interdependent world your competitors are your friends. In an independent world your competitors can bring you down. The world, today, is unlike what we have ever seen before. Unfortunately, global policy coordination is really non-existent. Historically, when the core has been weak there has been someone to step in to support it. After WWII the U.S. stepped in to support Europe. Today, with the entire world weak ‚Äì there is no one large enough to support the core. When it comes to investing the majority of recommendations to investors is not based on fundamentals but rather stocks are cheaper than something else. This is potentially very dangerous. What Should Investors Be Doing Ride the central bank wave. The more intervention done by one Central Bank forces other countries to do more. The Fed forced Japan into its policy shift. Japan has now forced the ECB to move further. The Central Banks have little choice other than to continue on their current trajectory. They cannot get to their objective unless they make you feel better by boosting confidence. However, it is also important to understand that all waves eventually break.¬†¬† The question is whether you crash or ‚Äúwalk off‚Äù the surf board. This wave will crash. When it does it will depend on how you are positioned that will determine whether you suffer or not. Secondly, there are other waves out there.¬†¬† There are too few people looking for other waves where central banks cannot reach. In these areas there is genuine growth potential. These include selected currencies, bonds and other types of assets. Third, understand that past models are broken. The world today is far different that it has been historically and therefore new models must be built. Fourth, you cannot disconnect the markets from the fundamentals forever.¬†¬† There is a limit and when the reversion of markets to the fundamentals occur the devastation to capital will likely be severe. Fifth, do not give up liquidity cheaply. In the world today it is very binary.¬†¬† It will either end well, or very badly, with no middle ground. Optionality and liquidity is the key to surviving and profiting from a binary world. Finally, realize that risk mitigation is going to have to evolve.¬†¬† Cost effective tail hedging is going to be critically important. This is a choice that all investors must make: Do you leave some capital on the table as markets rise or suffer large capital losses later. The choice is critical. Conclusion Why is it that the Pimco‚Äôs of this world are not disciplining a system that is becoming more and more artificial? Why do we allow the manipulation? In a classroom you can discipline a single a person. However, if the whole class misbehaves it is an entirely different issue.¬†¬† Currently the whole class is misbehaving and that is a very different paradigm than what we have seen in the past which has led to unprecedented, unproven and untried interventions that are likely to have far reaching outcomes. Investors that are overly invested in stocks will eventually pay a very high price for taking on excessive risk. We are approaching the end of the journey for this experiment and it will either result in a return to organic growth or economic disaster. The problem is that we really don't know which it will be. What we do know is that eventually, regardless of the outcome of these monetary experiments, the disconnect between the fundamentals and the markets will revert which will prove painful for unhedged investors.
Adam Diaz is young, handsome and, these days, frankly, rich. The 35-year-old Susquehanna County, Penn. native was scraping by supplying construction contractors with cut bluestone when the gas industry arrived to his sleepy corner of Pennsylvania in 2009. "[Houston-based] Cabot [Oil &amp; Gas Co.] approached me, they came to me and said, 'You guys have a great work ethic, and we want to use local people' " to supply equipment and manpower. Cabot took Diaz's outfit under its wing, training them in the rhythms of gas drilling: what pads need at given times, how to handle the trade's complex tools. Four years later, Diaz now owns seven different companies, including a home furnishings manufacturer and a timber harvester ‚Äî that bring in $50 million a year and employs 250 people.¬† "If I didn't have money to buy the other companies [their employees] would be out of work, no question," he told us by phone recently. "It wasn't terrible before the gas industry, but wasn't anywhere as good as it is today." CabotAdam DiazThere is probably no other northeast Pennsylvania native who's capitalized as thoroughly on the area's gas rush as Diaz. (Indeed, he was also the lede in the New York Times' coverage of the area's gas drilling boom,¬†and he's been¬†trotted out elsewhere by the industry as an example of how has boosted local commerce. Cabot recommended we speak to him). But he is not alone in having seen his fortunes changed in just a few years. While the country was heading over a recessionary cliff in late 2008, northeast Pennsylvania began to see the trickle of what would become millions of dollars pouring in from drillers looking for gas. We recently traveled to Susquehanna County and its seat, the town of Montrose, to see how life had changed since the dawn of the gas boom. What we found were lots of people grateful for the infusion of commerce injected into a local economy that had stagnated. Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderThe Grimsley residence has a broken down barn in front and a producing gas well in the back. (They also have a normal house, pictured below). At the same time,the boom has altered the lifestyle of a population used to a quiet, rural existence. Heavy trucks now rumble over the area's rolling hills, and some residents have seen their water impaired by the controversial drilling practice known as fracking (the gas industry denies they're at fault). The rush was ignited five years ago by Terry Engelder, a University of Pennsylvania geologist who estimated that the Marcellus Shale, a rock formation spanning seven different states, contained enormous volumes of natural gas. Naturally, the gas industry took notice, drilled some test wells, and proved him right. Cabot bet big on Susquehanna County, which sits on top of one of the richer parts of the play. It's paid off. Since 2009, the company's share price has increased 320%. The company now boasts 15 of the top 20 wells in the county and owns more than 200,000 acres there. The word "Marcellus" appears 43 times in the company's 30-page annual report. Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderA home on Route 29 in Susquehanna County. The county has seen a similar surge in wealth.¬†By one count, county residents have taken in a total of $300 million in gas royalties. "There are new facades on buildings, new streets being poured, a lot of people working," Diaz says. "People are upgrading their homes, there's all kinds of stuff going on." Bill Kelley, owns a equipment-rental business in Montrose. Cabot also recommended him as an area businessman whose sales have boomed in the past few years. He revenues have been going up by 40% each year. "And that's just our little business here," he told us. "If you look at other businesses around the area, they‚Äôve also grown with this ‚Äî if you look at the grocery stores, the restaurants, the Inn at Montrose, overall I think it's had a very positive influence on this little community of ours." Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderDowntown Montrose. Indeed, nearly every local we spoke with who works in the service industry told us receipts had ramped up. Jay Agkinson, a lifelong county resident who runs Montrose's Shell station, said morning fill-ups can sometimes resemble truck meets. "A lot of people who never had money have money now," he said. Just up the road from Cabot's regional headquarters on Route 29 are retirees Jim and Annie Grimsley. They say they've been able to furnish their kitchen with royalties drawn from the gas well sitting in their backyard. But the Grimsleys are representative of others in the area who say the industry's presence has yielded a mixture of good and bad. "Annie used to stand in the middle of 29 to take pictures," Jim said. "She won't cross the road to get the mail anymore ‚Äî the mailbox is on the other side of the road. The traffic has really increased." Even Diaz admits the truck traffic is bad, though he believes it was actually much worse at the outset of the boom. According to the New York Times,¬†Cabot has spent $12 million last year on road repairs here.¬† Due south of Montrose on Route 29 is the town of Dimock. It's become a focal point for the fracking debate after more than 30 families sued Cabot in 2009, accusing the company of contaminating their water. Most have since settled. Kathy Prusack, who also lives in Dimock and has a well on her property, said her family's water is fine. She gets enough royalties to pay for gas money, and she says her son drives trucks for a Cabot contractor.¬† Robert Libetti/Business InsiderBut Prusack says she is¬†ambivalent about both. She put her first royalty checks to the side because she didn't believe she'd done anything to earn them. "What you‚Äôll mostly hear about is how wonderful the gas company has been to this area. But [the families who sued Cabot] have had real problems with their water." It's possible both are true.  Cabot has aggressively courted favor with the area. Its signature investment was helping complete a brand new hospital for the area's Endless Mountain Health care System. They donated $2.2 million directly and convinced the rest of the community to throw in an additional $2.2 million. They've also pledged $25,000 each of the last three years ‚Äî and will do so again this year ‚Äî to create scholarships at the Susquehanna County Career and Technology Center.¬†According to the New York Times, they've also donated¬†$50,000 to the local Red Cross. Cabot execs now serve on the boards of local organizations, and the company sponsors area events like the Fourth of July fireworks and a book mobile. CabotArtist's rendering of the local hospital Cabot is helping to build. Peter Quigg, president of Endless Mountain's Community Foundation, says he's grateful for Cabot's presence. "Cabot has not had to do any of the things that they've been involved with. They could have been here and just gone about their business, helped their stockholders, and that would be that. In my opinion they've gone above and beyond ¬†iin their corporate citizenship." When we talk about how the gas industry has impacted the local community, we're not talking about a whole lot of people.¬†There are about 1,600 residents in Montrose proper, and just 42,696 in the whole county, which covers more than 830 square miles and putting it among the top-10 least-dense counties in the state. Right now, New York is debating whether to ends its fracking moratorium.The demographics of southern New York are pretty similar to Susquehanna County (Montrose is about a 20-minute drive from the New York border). So if Albany wants to look into what to expect in a possible gas rush future, the story of Susquehanna County seems like a good place to start.
Gluskin SheffDavid Rosenberg, the veteran Wall Street economist and bearish strategist at Gluskin Sheff, gave an intense presentation on Friday at John Mauldin's Strategic Investment Conference. Titled "Bernanke: The Wizard Of Potemkin," this presentation offers a sobering look at the anemic U.S. economy, the labor market mess, and the Federal Reserve's controversial efforts to get everything back on track. Before you can even think about getting bullish, you must consider the eye-opening charts from Rosenberg's presentation. Thanks to Gluskin Sheff for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Linette Lopez, Business InsiderLast month, Pernod Ricard flew Business Insider out to England to check out their two gin brands, Plymouth and Beefeater. It's a journalist trip/teach-in they do to educate writers about their liquor and cocktail culture in general. To see where Plymouth Gin comes from, we took the train out to Devon County in southern England.¬†It's a sleepy stretch of country and seaside that isn't on the typical tourist agenda. After a tour of Plymouth's small distillery, Master Distiller Sean Harrison lead us to what he considers the secret ingredient in his gin, the county water source, called¬†the Burrator Reservoir. Built in 1898, it's now a part of¬†Dartmoor National Park and the water is kept absolutely, strictly pristine, as are the surroundings.
What does your workspace look like? How does it affect your ability to think straight? Is it a cage for you to inhabit or a canvas for you to paint your future on? There is a different ideal for everyone. Two extreme examples: First, let's think about the walking ball of stress who chains himself to¬†this¬†desk each day in a Sisyphean attempt to conquer an unconquerable complex adaptive system on a consistent basis ... www.thereformedbroker.com I hope he's killing it and can make enough money to enjoy his free time, I hope he has learned to manage the stress. I know I couldn't. If that is your idea of making it, I can respect that but not relate to it. For comparison, this is Warren Buffett's desk, from which the 82 year old runs a $250 billion investing and corporate empire that spans the globe and every conceivable line of business imaginable. You will see no computer, just a phone and some printed documents and books: www.cbsnews.com Buffett's minimalism is made possible by the resources and people around him who can be paid to monitor the outside world and report up to him (via fax or by whichever mechanism he chooses). It is not my ideal but it's much closer to it than the glorified pinball machine seen above. Somewhere in between these extremes you will find the workspace you are looking for. This will be decided by the balance between what you want to accomplish in the markets and in how you want to live your life. Your mind is not the only decision-maker here, your soul will surely be involved as well.
Readers of our work will recognize that the issues raised in the program are near and dear to our hearts. ¬†We‚Äôve previously described these very issues raised in the program as the greatest consumer scam of our time, a scam that is so enormous and wide reaching that is almost difficult to fathom. We were thoroughly entertained when correspondent Martin Smith, armed with data from the investment legend Jack Bogle, confronted Michael Falcon, the head of retirement for J.P. Morgan Asset Management, about the eye-opening negative impact J.P. Morgan mutual fund fees have on investors‚Äô returns.¬† Mr. Falcon appears totally baffled by Mr. Smith‚Äôs question‚Äîhe literally fumbles around, struggling to articulate a single word. Having worked for a major Wall Street firm for many years, I can tell you that the folks like Mr. Falcon, who run big divisions of these large institutions, are very savvy and highly trained with respect to making media appearances.¬† They‚Äôre the best of the best, and they never fumble. His awkward response to the question underscores the fact that this industry has run virtually unquestioned. We don‚Äôt mean to pick on Mr. Falcon, the fact is that there is no intelligent way for anyone in his shoes to defend the punitive nature of investment-related fees and expenses.¬† The mainstream media, or more specify the financial media, wouldn‚Äôt dream of asking a high profile industry executive these kinds of ‚Äúgotcha‚Äù questions.¬† If they embarrass their industry guest they will be boycotted, and no major financial firm will allow their firms to be exposed like this. These media outlets also risk losing large advertising clients if they alienate the industry. The program puts a large focus on the demise of traditional pensions plans and the rise of contribution plans, e.g., IRA and 401k accounts, but misses an important point about this transition.¬† Individual investors today are investing for capital appreciation; they want their nest egg to grow so they can harvest capital gains to fund their retirement.¬† On the other hand, the investment objective of a pension plan is to generate a stream of future income and these goals can be achieved by investing directly in income-generating assets, like office buildings, shopping centers and bonds. The individual is handicapped straight out of the gate as they‚Äôre forced to take far more risk to achieve their goals compared to the pension plan.¬† Add to this the current Federal Reserve ultra low interest rate policies and most of these investors are seeking these investment returns in higher risk assets, generally equities.¬† Not surprisingly, these higher risk assets generate higher profit margins for the financial services firms. The only real disappointment in the program came when the topic of fiduciary duty was addressed.¬† The producers, who overall did an admirable job of analyzing the costs and benefits of various financial products and services, really dropped the ball here. While it‚Äôs true that, in the purest sense, a fiduciary has to put the clients‚Äô interests first, in the real world of financial services you don‚Äôt get a pure fiduciary, in fact it‚Äôs far from it.¬† Fiduciary duty has become just another financial industry marketing gimmick.¬† Make no mistake, all the conflicts of interest are alive and well in the land of fiduciary advisers. ¬†Once the fiduciary discloses the conflicts in the fine print, the conflicts are fair game.¬† On top of this, fiduciary advisers tend to be higher cost, which further erodes investor value. The Retirement Gamble is a must-watch for individual investors.¬† The producers have done a great job making these complex issues easy to understand.¬† But there is much more ground to cover on this important topic and we hope to see a sequel.
It results in some curious outcomes. For example, since holding cash typically drags down return expectations, if a pension fund simply gave away its cash (or burned it as The Economist posits) by raising its expected return on assets (no longer burdened by the cash drag) they would reduce the value of their liabilities. Their funded status might appear better even with fewer assets. This perverse accounting treatment got me thinking about why pension funds continue to invest in hedge funds seeking 8% returns, even though it‚Äôs been many years since hedge funds made 8% and it‚Äôs not likely they will in the near future either. Certainly not with over $2 trillion competing for opportunities. Based on the accounting, including an asset with an 8% return target helps reduce the value of their liabilities even if the 8% return expectation is an unreasonable expectation. So the motivation for a pension fund trustee could be to include hedge funds because of their helpful impact on the discount rate on their liabilities even while their continued failure to achieve that target doesn‚Äôt cause huge immediate problems. Far better than lowering the discount rate to a more appropriate level and revealing the true shortfall with all its political consequences. This is how the $3 trillion underfunded position is growing. Sometimes accountants can cause a lot of damage.  Read more posts on In Pursuit of Value ¬ª
OSHA and its state partners have a total of 2,200 inspectors charged with ensuring the safety of over more than 8 million workplaces employing 130 million workers. That comes to about one inspector for every 59,000 American workers. There‚Äôs no way it can do its job with so few resources, but OSHA has been systematically hollowed out for years under Republican administrations and congresses that have despised the agency since its inception. In effect, much of our nation‚Äôs worker safety laws and rules have been quietly repealed because there aren‚Äôt enough inspectors to enforce them. That‚Äôs been the Republican strategy in general: When they can‚Äôt directly repeal laws they don‚Äôt like, they repeal them indirectly by hollowing them out ‚Äî denying funds to fully implement them, and reducing funds to enforce them. Consider taxes. Republicans have been unable to round up enough votes to cut taxes on big corporations and the wealthy as much as they‚Äôd like, so what do they do? They‚Äôre hollowing out the IRS. As they cut its enforcement budget ‚Äî presto! ‚Äî tax collections decline. Despite an increasing number of billionaires and multi-millionaires using every tax dodge imaginable ‚Äî laundering their money through phantom corporations and tax havens (Remember Mitt‚Äôs tax returns?) ‚Äî the IRS‚Äôs budget has been cut by 17 percent since 2002, adjusted for inflation. To manage the $594.5 million in additional cuts required by the sequester, the agency has announced it will furlough each of its more than 89,000 employees for at least five days this year. This budget stinginess doesn‚Äôt save the government money. Quite the opposite. Less IRS enforcement means less revenue. It‚Äôs been estimated that every dollar invested in the IRS‚Äôs enforcement, modernization and management system reduces the federal budget deficit by $200, and that furloughing 1,800 IRS ‚Äúpolicemen‚Äù will cost the Treasury $4.5 billion in lost revenue. But congressional Republicans aren‚Äôt interested in more revenue. Their goal is to cut taxes on big corporations and the wealthy. Representative Charles Boustany, the Louisiana Republican who heads the House subcommittee overseeing the IRS, says the IRS sequester cuts should stay in force. He calls for an overhaul of the tax code instead. In a similar manner, congressional Republicans and their patrons on Wall Street who opposed the Dodd-Frank financial reform law have been hollowing out the law by making sure agencies charged with implementing it don‚Äôt have the funds they need to do the job. As a result, much of Dodd-Frank ‚Äî including the so-called ‚ÄúVolcker Rule‚Äù restrictions on the kind of derivatives trading that got¬†the Street into trouble in the first place ‚Äî is still on the drawing boards. Perhaps more than any other law, Republicans hate the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). Yet despite holding more than 33 votes to repeal it, they still haven‚Äôt succeeded. So what do they do? Try to hollow it out. Congressional Republicans have repeatedly denied funding requests to implement Obamacare, leaving Health and Human Services (the agency charged with designing the rules under the Act and enforcing them) so shorthanded it has to delay much of it. Even before the sequester, the agency was running on the same budget it had before Obamacare was enacted. Now it‚Äôs lost billions more. A new insurance marketplace specifically for small business, for example, was supposed to be up and running in January. But officials now say it won‚Äôt be available until 2015 in the 33 states where the federal government will be running insurance markets known as exchanges. This is a potentially large blow to Obamacare‚Äôs political support. A major selling point for the legislation had been providing affordable health insurance to small businesses and their employees. Yes, and eroding political support is exactly what congressional Republicans want. They fear that Obamacare, once fully implemented, will be too popular to dismantle. So they‚Äôre out to delay it as long as possible while keeping up a drumbeat about its flaws.¬† Repealing laws by hollowing them out ‚Äî failing to fund their enforcement or implementation ‚Äî works because the public doesn‚Äôt know it‚Äôs happening. Enactment of a law attracts attention; de-funding it doesn‚Äôt. The strategy also seems to bolster the Republican view that government is incompetent. If government can‚Äôt do what it‚Äôs supposed to do ‚Äî keep workplaces safe, ensure that the rich pay taxes they owe, protect small investors, implement Obamacare ‚Äî why give it any additional responsibility? The public doesn‚Äôt know the real reason why the government isn‚Äôt doing its job is that it‚Äôs being hollowed out. Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
