CNBCPatrick Hop admits that everyone told him he shouldn't do it.¬† A year later, he's glad he ignored their warnings. The 22-year-old student at the University of California, Berkeley invested $30,000 into¬†Tesla¬†stock a year ago and has parlayed it into an investment worth approximately $250,000 today. "I was always preaching to my friends, 'Tesla's gonna be huge' and my friends thought I was crazy," said Hop. "Now my friends are surprised this has actually worked." Officially, Hop's gains are all on paper. But that paper keeps going up in value. On Friday, Tesla shares climbed above $160 for the first time ever‚Äîmeaning the stock is up more than 400 percent in the past year. What's Tesla stock doing now?¬†(Click here to get the latest quote.) (Read more:¬†Three things that could slow down Tesla) Letting it ride on TSLA Hop made his initial investment in Tesla a year ago when the stock was trading at $32. When Tesla stock took off, Hop went along for the ride. When it soared to $115, he dumped the stock. But instead of pocketing a huge profit, he reinvested the money into Tesla call options that expire in January 2015 with a¬†strike price¬†of $130. "I figure it wasn't that risky going into those options," said Hop. "And I'll probably dump those options in the next month or two." When it's all said and done, it remains to be seen exactly how much of a profit Hop will make off his initial investment. Still, the college student who hopes to someday start up his own company thinks his strategy of investing heavily in one company was the right thing to do. After all, Hop considers himself a Tesla expert since he spends extensive time researching and tracking Tesla. "I'm a big believer in their battery technology." (Read more:¬†Elon Musk: Tired but optimistic about Tesla's future) Overvalued at $160? As Tesla shares climb to a new high, it's renewed the debate about whether or not shares of Tesla are overvalued? Or should analysts look at Tesla with the valuation of an auto company or a tech company? "We're an automotive tech company," Tesla CEO Elon Musk told CNBC Thursday on the automakers plant floor in Fremont, Calif. "I'm not a fan of trying to pump the stock or trying to convince people the stock should be higher, or even convince people the stock should be where it is now. I actually think the value of Tesla right now, the market is being very generous and it's obviously giving us a lot of credit for future execution." Investors are betting that Tesla can expand sales from a projected 21,000 this year to well over 100,000 in three to four years when the company rolls out a lower-priced third-generation car. So there's a lot of execution risk built into the bullish sentiment surrounding Tesla right now. Nobody is more aware of that risk than Musk. (Read more:¬†Investors plug back in after Tesla earnings surprise) "I really think the valuation we've gotten is more than we have any right to deserve honestly," said Musk. "We need to make sure we knock the ball out of the park in the coming years." Betting on Tesla, banking on Musk When Hop thinks about the risks that could bring Tesla shares, and his sizable investment, crashing down, he worries about earthquakes and Musk stepping down as CEO. "There's definitely some outlying risks with Tesla and Elon leaving is one of them," he said. Fortunately for Hop, Musk isn't leaving Tesla anytime soon. He's committed to running the company at least through the projected ramp up in production of a third-generation car, which is at least three to four years away. "I think I get far too much credit for the success of Tesla," said Musk. "The reason we've been successful is because we have a team of people who work super hard. I'm the one who talks about the results but it's not me who did it really, it's the team here who did it." "Teslanaires" hope Musk and his team continue doing what they're doing. As for Hop, he's yet to buy a Model S. If and when he cashes in his Tesla investment, paying for a $70,000 Model S shouldn't be a problem. "I'll probably buy one at some point," said Hop.‚ÄîBy CNBC's¬†Phil LeBeau. Follow him on Twitter¬† Questions? Comments?¬†BehindTheWheel@cnbc.com.
Wikimedia CommonsHurd Hatfield as Dorian Gray in the 1945 movie The Picture Of Dorian GrayFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Americans Can Better Prepare For Retirement (Vanguard)  Olivia Mitchell at Vanguard says there are two camps when it comes to the question of how well prepared Americans are for retirement. One camp thinks† 15-20% will be "unable to maintain an adequate living standard in retirement," while others think the number is actually closer to 50%. So how can Americans better prepare for retirement? "Clearly one part is that we must save more. Another part is that we must think a lot more about insurance," said Olivia Mitchell. "My research focuses on annuities, especially payout annuities, and other vehicles to help people protect their savings against their living too long, or longevity risk." "The notion is that even if you do accumulate a nice nest egg, since you never know exactly when you're going to die, there's some role in the household portfolio for insurance against outliving your assets. This would not apply to those with very low incomes, but certainly it does for the larger middle class: there's real potential and need to think about longevity protection in the form of insurance."  A Long View On Stocks (Pragmatic Capitalism)†  Humans can't live for 189 years, but if they did and they had invested in stocks, they would be very rich today points out Cullen Roche at Pragmatic Capitalism.† He points out a few key data points from a Merrill Lynch report. 1. "In the long-run stock prices rise." 2. "$1 invested in US large company stocks in 1824 would be worth roughly $427 today in nominal terms." 3. "An even better stat for the bulls: $1 invested in US large company stocks in 1824 would be worth close to $4,225,000 with dividends reinvested, illustrating the power of compounding." 4. "The great equity bull markets - 1860-1872 = 332% total return; 1920-1928 = 423% total return; and (the greatest of them all) 1982-1999 = 1654% total return." 5. "From the March 2009 lows to their all-time high on August 2nd 2013, US large cap stocks have returned 177%." Advisors Need To Pay Attention To The Personal Aspect Of Personal Finance (The Wall Street Journal)  Financial advisors need to get to know their clients better, writes Tim Maurer of Maryland-based Financial Consulate in a new WSJ column. Maurer believes the first conversation with a client is very revealing and will give advisors clues about what they want from the process.† "Asking open-ended questions about their needs and expectations helps me get into a more personal conversation with clients. Instead of starting to immediately review bank and brokerage statements and put together a balance sheet, I'm beginning by getting an understanding of what it is they want to gain from this process." BlackRock: 3 Reasons Investors Should Consider European Stocks (Advisor Perspectives) For the first time in a three years investors haven't had to deal with a recession and crisis in Europe writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. So, it's probably a good time for investors to increase their exposure to European stocks. This is for three key reasons: 1. "Europe's economy is stabilizing." 2. " Eurozone equities are cheap relative to U.S. stocks." 3. "There's less risk that the euro will be dissolved." Koesterich does not however think that investors that are already overweight the region add to their position. PIMCO: The Bond Sell-Off Is Overdone (FA Mag) The bond sell off has been overdone because markets have misread the Fed taper, according to Scott Mather of PIMCO. "Markets have misinterpreted and overshot," Mather told FA Mag. "Itís most likely that the Fed is at zero for another couple of years and the markets are, in our view, overshooting in bringing forward rate hikes at a time when both inflation and growth are well below the Fedís targets."
Flickr/IdhrenIt's been three weeks since the S&amp;P 500 closed at its all-time high of 1,709. Some think this is just a mild pullback in an ongoing bull market. Others think this is the beginning of a big sell-off. In Goldman Sachs' new "Hedge Fund Trend Monitor" report,¬†Amanda Schneider lists out the 50 favorite short positions of the 708 hedged funds that the firm follows. "The [Very Important Short Position] returned 17% YTD in 2013, providing a better return than shorting S&amp;P 500 (19.5%)," said Schneider. We ranked the top 24 stocks on the list based on the dollar value of short interest.
UBS's Chart of the day offers some optimism as we head into the weekend. Here's UBS's Andrew Cates: Yesterday‚Äôs flash PMI surveys from the US, Eurozone and China offered some good news about the outlook for the world economy. The headlines from all three surveys strengthened in August and to levels that surpassed consensus forecasts. Forward looking elements concerning manufacturing new orders were particularly upbeat (see chart below) The re-stocking of raw materials and the destocking of finished goods which was evident in the details of all of these surveys also bodes very well for the global growth outlook in the period ahead. As we have stressed before, a synchronized pick up in global growth has been a rare phenomenon in recent years. That this is seemingly occurring according to these important leading indicators in the US, Europe and China suggests - to this economist - that there are upside risks to the global growth outlook in the period ahead. Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal floated this idea last weekend. This is exciting stuff. UBS
REUTERS/Matt Mills McKnight Stocks rallied on the back of a 7% surge in Microsoft. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
FlickrIn light of the recent death of an investment banking intern in London (who was apparently epileptic) and with all the misinformation and romanticized banking¬†horror stories¬†being peppered all over the place, I thought I'd (try to) settle this for once and for all and clear up all the bull----. With respect to the people saying that it's "NEVER" expected to work 3 back to back all nighters, or that¬†interns¬†aren't expected to work all nighters--you guys might be too senior to notice it happening. There is a team that sits near me at my shop that regularly has to pull back to back all nighters, because they have a terrible staffer and awful seniors to work for. They don't even go home for the shower anymore; they have a few sets of fresh clothes under the desk. Unsurprisingly, the majority quit post-bonus. HR is puzzled, but people are too afraid to tell the truth about how badly the workload for that team is managed. This is just patently false. Its not at all like this in the industry. This sounds more like one of the college kids that so frequently troll WSO and are for whatever reason turned on by the idea of working ridiculous (beyond the pale of reality) hours in banking. The amount of misinformation about the banking lifestyle on WSO in fairly absurd. And it stems largely from these nerdy kids who think its a badge of honor to somehow work ridiculous hours. Its the same kids who when they first start working will stay in the office for absolutely no reason. Its the same kids who try to impress people by bragging about their ridiculous work schedules. Its the same kids that build a 16 tab model with 11 different scenarios and 8 sensitivity tables to run statistics on how many hours per week they are working. You see this through levels in banking, these are the VPs that are in the office until midnight-1AM consistently. Its the directors and MDs in the office until 10 or 11. They are legitimately sad people, you feel sorry for them. To some degree banking is constantly forcing people to demonstrate their worth, and some people think that their worth is quantified by how many hours they spend in the office. What you start to see is that the 'face time' people initially starting putting in to demonstrate their worth to other people, starts becoming their own sense of self worth. Yeah, that's some deep Dr Phil s---. Pulling 100 hour weeks is fairly intense. But even still its working from 9AM to 1AM during the week. And working from 10AM to 8PM on Saturday and Sunday. Its not really that bad. Its just horrific in comparison to working a normal job and going to happy hour after work, and brunch and college football on Saturdays and chilling at home all day on Sundays. Click here to continue reading at Wall Street Oasis&gt;
This week the market has seen two massive trading screw-ups ó †there was Goldman's errant trades on Tuesday, and yesterday the NASDAQ completely shut down in the middle of the day due to a technical glitch. So what was the glitch? A "connectivity issue" with NYSE's relatively new Arca system, says the NASDAQ. Arca, you should know, is simply a NYSE system that allows traders to trade stocks on other exchanges. So to explain this problem as a "connectivity issue" is, to put it mildly, very vague. Of course there was something wrong with Arca's connection to NASDAQ, that's all the program is really supposed to do ó the real question is what was wrong with that communication? Fixing these problems is a job for Wall Street's software geniuses ó the guys that build the systems upon systems that communicate around the country (and the world), constantly updating themselves and handling massive amounts of data. That's why Business Insider reached out to one such software savant ó Lev Lesokhin at CAST. His firm specializes in analyzing risk for banks and other companies that have to deal with all this data on a constant basis. When the SEC asked for comment about these matters last fall, Lesokhin and CAST (along with NYSE, BATS... though not NASDAQ) †were happy to comment (you can read CAST's comments here). And this is what you as an observer need to know:†Financial firms and exchanges need to not only write a system to perform a certain task ó they need to write it so that it knows NOT to perform other tasks. In that sense, Lesokhin said, Knight Capital's trading glitch last year, Goldman's trading loss this week, NASDAQ's halt yesterday all have something in common ó these complex systems did something no one predicted they would do, and they were not "robust" structurally enough to handle the surprise scenario.† The programs were not written to know what not to do. NASDAQ CEO†Robert Greifeld†admitted as much when he told Bloomberg that he and his company had to focus on "defensive driving." This is what he was talking about. And there's almost an infinite number of things that could go wrong. "These are all highly data intensive systems," said Lesokhin. They pass information, monitor it... if you have a complex system that manages master data, you also have multiple components that can act on that data ó change it remove it, or add it. If you're not managing the way that's handled, like you have 2 different components that manage the data, you can run into corruption issues." Say component A tries to update a ticker, and component B is supposed to act on it afterward. Well, imagine component A is slow, and component B gets there first... or imagine component B just never shows up. Imagine those components are all coming from different places. You can see the chaos here. For NASDAQ's part, it's known for having been at the forefront of automating its systems, but that in and of itself can be a problem. It means its systems are old, and have been updated many times. There's a lot of code under that hood, and as new systems like Arca are forced to communicate with it, there can be unforeseen consequences. Remember that Knight Capital's trading loss was caused by an unforeseen communication between new live code and old dead code within their systems. So the question is, how often do exchanges and banks update their systems? When has a system been updated so many times that it's become too complex and needs to be scrapped? Why throw out a system that's old if it still works just to accommodate potential problems? These are all questions the SEC was asking last fall and that it's becoming increasingly clear need to be addressed as soon as possible. Got all that? Now go worry about it.

YahooRemember the Facebook IPO last spring? Remember how the Facebook IPO was perceived as such a sure thing that salivating investors were elbowing each other out of the way? Remember how Facebook IPO buyers were so giddy, and so sure that they had found a ticket to instant riches, that they paid too much for the stock--causing it to crash immediately after the IPO? Remember how practically every pundit on earth described this as a catastrophe, as a complete and utter disaster for Facebook, whose brand would now be permanently ruined and whose stock price would be forever punished by Wall Street investors who would never forget how badly they had been burned? So do we. And, yet, only a year later, no one cares. Facebook has just done exactly what it said it would do: Focus on growing the business, invest for the long-term, and ignore whiny short-term Wall Street traders. And now Facebook's stock has blasted above the IPO price and even above $40, to within a hair's breath of an all-time high. And Facebook investors, as opposed to the whiny Facebook stock-flippers, have done fine, especially if they took the opportunity to double-down on their investment at a much lower price. So next time someone howls that allowing investors to lose money on your IPO is a catastrophic mistake that no competent company would ever make because it would destroy the company's credibility with Wall Street forever, see this for what it is:¬† Whining. The whining of short-term speculators who are happy to take credit for every stock they buy that goes up, but need to blame any and all losses on someone else. These folks can yell more loudly and more persuasively than anyone.¬† But when they voluntarily pay $38 a share for your stock only to find out that everyone else was not, in fact, stupid enough to pay even more, well then, that's their problem. If that happens to you, just do what Facebook did:¬†Ignore their screams and threats and focus on your customers and business. And be confident that, if you attend to the needs of the latter, the stock price will take care of itself. (This isn't to say that Facebook's stock is a smart buy here. I personally think it's expensive. I think the mobile revenue surge that triggered the recent moonshot will decelerate as the the product matures and the stock multiple will likely then compress again. This is merely to say that the wailing and moaning and vitriol that following the "disastrous" IPO were much ado about nothing.) SEE ALSO: Facebook's Doing Exactly The Right Thing: Ignoring Wall Street ¬†
YahooRemember the Facebook IPO last spring? Remember how the Facebook IPO was perceived as such a sure thing that salivating investors were elbowing each other out of the way? Remember how Facebook IPO buyers were so giddy, and so sure that they had found a ticket to instant riches, that they paid too much for the stock--causing it to crash immediately after the IPO? Remember how practically every pundit on earth described this as a catastrophe, as a complete and utter disaster for Facebook, whose brand would now be permanently ruined and whose stock price would be forever punished by Wall Street investors who would never forget how badly they had been burned? So do we. And, yet, only a year later, no one cares. Facebook has just done exactly what it said it would do: Focus on growing the business, invest for the long-term, and ignore whiny short-term Wall Street traders. And now Facebook's stock has blasted above the IPO price and even above $40, to within a hair's breath of an all-time high. And Facebook investors, as opposed to the whiny Facebook stock-flippers, have done fine, especially if they took the opportunity to double-down on their investment at a much lower price. So next time someone howls that allowing investors to lose money on your IPO is a catastrophic mistake that no competent company would ever make because it would destroy the company's credibility with Wall Street forever, see this for what it is:¬† Whining. The whining of short-term speculators who are happy to take credit for every stock they buy that goes up, but need to blame any and all losses on someone else. These folks can yell more loudly and more persuasively than anyone.¬† But when they voluntarily pay $38 a share for your stock only to find out that everyone else was not, in fact, stupid enough to pay even more, well then, that's their problem. If that happens to you, just do what Facebook did:¬†Ignore their screams and threats and focus on your customers and business. And be confident that, if you attend to the needs of the latter, the stock price will take care of itself. (This isn't to say that Facebook's stock is a smart buy here. I personally think it's expensive. I think the mobile revenue surge that triggered the recent moonshot will decelerate as the the product matures and the stock multiple will likely then compress again. This is merely to say that the wailing and moaning and vitriol that following the "disastrous" IPO were much ado about nothing.) SEE ALSO: Facebook's Doing Exactly The Right Thing: Ignoring Wall Street ¬†
REUTERS IN MAY Americaís Federal Reserve hinted that it would soon start to reduce its vast purchases of Treasury bonds. As global investors adjusted to a world without ultra-cheap money, there has been a great sucking of funds from emerging markets. Currencies and shares have tumbled, from Brazil to Indonesia, but one country has been particularly badly hit. Not so long ago India was celebrated as an economic miracle. In 2008 Manmohan Singh, the prime minister, said growth of 8-9% was Indiaís new cruising speed. He even predicted the end of the "chronic poverty, ignorance and disease, which has been the fate of millions of our countrymen for centuries". Today he admits the outlook is difficult. The rupee has tumbled by 13% in three months. The stockmarket is down by a quarter in dollar terms. Borrowing rates are at levels last seen after Lehman Brothersí demise. Bank shares have sunk. On August 14th jumpy officials tightened capital controls in an attempt to stop locals taking money out of the country (see "India in trouble: The reckoning"). That scared foreign investors, who worry that India may freeze their funds too. The risk now is of a credit crunch and a self-fulfilling panic that pushes the rupee down much further, fuelling inflation. Policymakers recognise that the country is in its tightest spot since the balance-of-payments crisis of 1991. Indiaís troubles are caused partly by global forces beyond its control. But they are also the consequence of a deadly complacency that has led the country to miss a great opportunity. During the 2003-08 boom, when reforms would have been relatively easy to introduce, the government failed to liberalise markets for labour, energy and land. Infrastructure was not improved enough. Graft and red tape got worse. Private companies have slashed investment. Growth has slowed to 4-5%, half the rate during the boom. Inflation, at 10%, is worse than in any other big economy. Tycoons who used to cheer Indiaís rise as a superpower now warn of civil unrest. As well as undermining 1.2 billion peopleís hopes of prosperity, failure to reform dragged down the rupee. Restrictive labour laws and weak infrastructure make it hard for Indian firms to export. Inflation has led people to import gold to protect their savings. Both factors have swollen the current-account deficit, which must be financed by foreign capital. Add in the foreign debt that must be rolled over, and India needs to attract $250 billion in the next year, more than any other vulnerable emerging economy. A year ago the new finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, tried to kick-start the economy. He has attempted to push key reforms, clear bottlenecks and help foreign investors. But he has lukewarm support within his own party and faces obstructionist opposition. Obstacles to growth, such as fuel shortages for power plants, remain. Foreign firms find nothing has changed. Meanwhile, bad debts have risen at state-run banks: 10-12% of their loans are dud. With an election due by May 2014, some fear that the Congress-led government will now take a more populist tack. A costly plan to subsidise food hints at this. To prevent a slide into crisis, the government needs first to stop making things worse. Those capital controls backfired, yet the urge to tinker runs deep: on August 19th officials slapped duties on televisions lugged in through airports. The authorities must accept that 2013 is not 1991. Then the state nearly bankrupted itself trying to defend a pegged exchange rate. Now the rupee floats, and the state has no foreign debt to speak of. A weaker currency will break some firms with foreign loans, but poses no direct threat to the governmentís solvency. And so the Reserve Bank of India must let the rupee find its own level. The currency has not yet wildly overshot estimates of fundamental value. Raghuram Rajan, the central bankís incoming head, should aim to control inflation, not micromanage one of the worldís most traded currencies. Second, the government must get its finances in order. The budget deficit has been as high as 10% of GDP in recent years. This year the government must hold down its deficit (including those of individual states) to 7% of GDP. It is already cutting fuel subsidies, and--notwithstanding the pressures in the run-up to an election--should do so faster. This is not enough to fix the governmentís finances, though. Only 3% of Indians pay income tax, so the governmentís tax take is puny. A proposed tax on goods and services, known as GST, would drag more of the economy into the net. It is stuck in endless cross-party talks. If the government can rally itself before the election to push for one long-term reform, this is the one it should go for. Last, the government, with the central bank, should force the zombie public-sector banks to recapitalise. In 2009 America did "stress tests" to repair its banks. India should follow. Injecting funds into banks would widen the deficit, but the surge in confidence would be worth it. There are glimmers of hope: exports picked up in July, narrowing the trade gap. But India faces a difficult year, with jittery global markets and an election to boot. Even if it scrapes past the election without a full-blown financial crisis, the next government must do much, much more to change India. Over the coming decade tens of millions of young people will have to find jobs where none currently exists. Generating the growth to create them will mean radical deregulation of protected sectors (of which retail is only the most obvious); breaking up state monopolies, from coal to railways; reforming restrictive labour laws; and overhauling Indiaís infrastructure of roads, ports and power. The calamity of 1991 led to liberalising reforms that ended decades of stagnation and allowed a spurt of fast growth. This latest brush with disaster could produce a positive legacy, too, but only if it persuades voters and the next government of the importance of a new round of reforms that deal with the economyís flaws and unleash its mighty potential. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Argentina just lost its appeal to continue refusing to pay a group of hedge fund managers, led by Paul Singer, $1.6 billion worth of sovereign debt dating back to its $95 billion default in 2001. You can read the full decision here (via Credit Slips). For years the country has been trying to avoid paying a bunch of "vulture" hedge fund managers ¬†that refused to take a 70% haircut on Argentine bonds like every other investor. This has resulted in some wacky news items ‚Äî Paul Singer getting the government of Ghana to impound an Argentine naval ship last October, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner flying commercial to see the Pope so her jet isn't taken ‚Äî you get the idea. Now it's (almost) come to a head. A New York Judge fully rejected Argentina's appeal of a decision made last year ‚Äî a decision that would've had it pay Singer and company in full. Argentina wanted to be able to pay hedge funds that restructured debt without making a payment to Singer (the "vulture"), and yet again that idea has been given a massive thumbs down. The decision comes from¬†U.S. Circuit Judge Barrington Parker and frankly, it seems like he zero patience for Argentina. He doesn't buy the argument that paying Singer causes injury to third parties, basically implies the country hasn't been arguing in good faith, and binds Bank of New York Mellon, Argentina's custodial bank, to comply with it. From the decision:¬† "...the proposal submitted by Argentina ignored the outstanding bonds and¬†proposed an entirely new set of substitute bonds.¬†In sum, no productive proposals have been¬†forthcoming. To the contrary, notwithstanding its commitment to resolving disputes involving¬†the FAA in New York courts under New York law, at the February 27, 2013 oral argument,¬†counsel for Argentina told the panel that it ‚Äúwould not voluntarily obey‚Äù the district court‚Äôs¬†injunctions, even if those injunctions were upheld by this Court. Moreover, Argentina‚Äôs officials¬†¬†have publicly and repeatedly announced their intention to defy any rulings of this Court and the¬†district court with which they disagree... What the consequences predicted by Argentina have in common is that they are speculative, hyperbolic and almost entirely of the Republic‚Äôs own making... The most important argument that the Judge rejected was Argentina's assertion that this would impact future sovereign debt restructurings (Think: Greece restructuring over and over again). He essentially says we'll deal with those as they come. For now, Argentina has one more recourse ‚Äî The Supreme Court ‚Äî and it's not looking good.
The EconomistTEN years ago sportswear-makers were cramming ever more features and futuristic designs into their products. They were convinced that the consumer bought, say, training shoes based on their technical specifications. But in 2004 James Carnes, today adidasís creative director for sportswear, and a Danish consultant named Mikkel Rasmussen met at a conference in Oslo at which Mr Rasmussen challenged this notion. A mobile phone, he said, may have 72 functions, but that is 50 more than most people wanted, or used. Mr Carnes was intrigued, and so began an almost decade-long engagement for ReD, the small consultancy Mr Rasmussen co-founded in Copenhagen. In that decade adidasís sales and share price have grown steadily, alongside those of Nike, an American firm that is the global leader in sportswear (see chart). It remains far ahead of Puma, its crosstown rival. The two German firms, based in Herzogenaurach in Bavaria, were founded by brothers, Adi Dassler (hence adidasís name) and the older Rudolf (Puma), who fell out. Nikeís brash marketing is based on offering big cheques to star athletes to endorse its products. Puma spends an even greater share of its revenues on marketing, and has pushed into non-sporting casual clothes. Its sales have grown, but they remain far behind its main rivalsí. Adidas takes a quieter approach, spending less of its revenues on marketing than the other two. Although about a third of adidasís sales are also "lifestyle" goods, sportswear remains at the firmís core. To succeed in a business with tight margins, adidas has had to get the nuts and bolts right. Like its rivals it has outsourced production to cut costs, for example. But with ReDís help it has also made handsome stuff that American rappers mention in their lyrics, and it now has prominent designers offering to co-operate on projects. Mr Carnes gives generous credit to the geeks at ReD, saying that they have had "a general effect on everything". ReD has some curious methods. It hires ex-academics, largely anthropologists and ethnologists, to study customersí motivations intimately. ReD trained a group of adidas design staff in basic techniques, and sent each of them to spend 24 hours with a customer: to have breakfast, run and do yoga with them, and find out what made them exercise. In a related project, an anthropology doctoral student working for ReD mailed dozens of customers a disposable camera, asking them to photograph something that made them work out. Of 30 women who responded, 25 sent a picture of a little black dress, says Mr Carnes. The company had assumed that most customers were training to be good at specific sports; in fact for many, fitness itself was their "sport". Spending weeks with both the professional and amateur divisions of Bayern Munich football club, ReDís researchers asked not how long the studs on their boots should be, but what would determine the success of a footballer in ten yearsí time. They learned that top European clubs had all become proficient at teaching the necessary skills. The thing that could not be taught, and could only to a small extent be trained, was speed. So adidas adapted one of its track shoes into an exceptionally light football boot. When released in 2010 it became an instant hit--and it scored far and away the most goals in that yearís World Cup. Intimate study of customers has influenced aesthetic design too. Adidas got the job of creating the host countryís uniforms for last yearís London Olympics. ReD found that for all their patriotism, Brits did not get terribly moved by traditional images like the monarchy and double-decker buses. So adidas and ReD told Stella McCartney, their chosen designer (pictured, centre), to think "untraditionally British". She made a splash by putting the Union Jackís red only on shoes, socks and trim, while making elements of the flag so big that on some shirts they were unrecognisable. Despite some initial criticism it was a commercial hit. Similar research into national identity is going into next yearís football World Cup uniforms. When Russians were interviewed about what made them proud, "nothing past 1970 ever came up," says Mr Carnes. Instead they mentioned Dostoevsky, the second world war and winning the race into space. So Russiaís uniforms will feature a curve representing Yuri Gagarinís view from orbit. Adidas has set an ambitious Ä2 billion ($2.7 billion) sales target for its football division alone in 2014, up from Ä1.5 billion in 2010, the last World Cup year. Overall, the company wants Ä17 billion in sales by 2015, at the same time increasing operating-profit margins to 11% (from 8% now). Zany as some of its methods sound, equity analysts seem convinced that they will continue to pay off. In a recent poll of 34 analysts by Reuters news agency, none recommended selling the shares, and 25 labelled them as "buy" or "outperform". Adidasís 2006 takeover of Reebok, another sportswear firm, was a rare misstep. It has taken far longer than expected to turn around. The main risk adidas faces, says Erwan Rambourg, an analyst at HSBC, is that its heavy spending to gain market share in America and China does not pay off. A strengthening euro is another. But adidasís many admirers believe that the companyís disciplined habits, and its novel approach to product research, should help it leap over any such hurdles. Click here to subscribe to The Economist adidas 
The EconomistTEN years ago sportswear-makers were cramming ever more features and futuristic designs into their products. They were convinced that the consumer bought, say, training shoes based on their technical specifications. But in 2004 James Carnes, today adidasís creative director for sportswear, and a Danish consultant named Mikkel Rasmussen met at a conference in Oslo at which Mr Rasmussen challenged this notion. A mobile phone, he said, may have 72 functions, but that is 50 more than most people wanted, or used. Mr Carnes was intrigued, and so began an almost decade-long engagement for ReD, the small consultancy Mr Rasmussen co-founded in Copenhagen. In that decade adidasís sales and share price have grown steadily, alongside those of Nike, an American firm that is the global leader in sportswear (see chart). It remains far ahead of Puma, its crosstown rival. The two German firms, based in Herzogenaurach in Bavaria, were founded by brothers, Adi Dassler (hence adidasís name) and the older Rudolf (Puma), who fell out. Nikeís brash marketing is based on offering big cheques to star athletes to endorse its products. Puma spends an even greater share of its revenues on marketing, and has pushed into non-sporting casual clothes. Its sales have grown, but they remain far behind its main rivalsí. Adidas takes a quieter approach, spending less of its revenues on marketing than the other two. Although about a third of adidasís sales are also "lifestyle" goods, sportswear remains at the firmís core. To succeed in a business with tight margins, adidas has had to get the nuts and bolts right. Like its rivals it has outsourced production to cut costs, for example. But with ReDís help it has also made handsome stuff that American rappers mention in their lyrics, and it now has prominent designers offering to co-operate on projects. Mr Carnes gives generous credit to the geeks at ReD, saying that they have had "a general effect on everything". ReD has some curious methods. It hires ex-academics, largely anthropologists and ethnologists, to study customersí motivations intimately. ReD trained a group of adidas design staff in basic techniques, and sent each of them to spend 24 hours with a customer: to have breakfast, run and do yoga with them, and find out what made them exercise. In a related project, an anthropology doctoral student working for ReD mailed dozens of customers a disposable camera, asking them to photograph something that made them work out. Of 30 women who responded, 25 sent a picture of a little black dress, says Mr Carnes. The company had assumed that most customers were training to be good at specific sports; in fact for many, fitness itself was their "sport". Spending weeks with both the professional and amateur divisions of Bayern Munich football club, ReDís researchers asked not how long the studs on their boots should be, but what would determine the success of a footballer in ten yearsí time. They learned that top European clubs had all become proficient at teaching the necessary skills. The thing that could not be taught, and could only to a small extent be trained, was speed. So adidas adapted one of its track shoes into an exceptionally light football boot. When released in 2010 it became an instant hit--and it scored far and away the most goals in that yearís World Cup. Intimate study of customers has influenced aesthetic design too. Adidas got the job of creating the host countryís uniforms for last yearís London Olympics. ReD found that for all their patriotism, Brits did not get terribly moved by traditional images like the monarchy and double-decker buses. So adidas and ReD told Stella McCartney, their chosen designer (pictured, centre), to think "untraditionally British". She made a splash by putting the Union Jackís red only on shoes, socks and trim, while making elements of the flag so big that on some shirts they were unrecognisable. Despite some initial criticism it was a commercial hit. Similar research into national identity is going into next yearís football World Cup uniforms. When Russians were interviewed about what made them proud, "nothing past 1970 ever came up," says Mr Carnes. Instead they mentioned Dostoevsky, the second world war and winning the race into space. So Russiaís uniforms will feature a curve representing Yuri Gagarinís view from orbit. Adidas has set an ambitious Ä2 billion ($2.7 billion) sales target for its football division alone in 2014, up from Ä1.5 billion in 2010, the last World Cup year. Overall, the company wants Ä17 billion in sales by 2015, at the same time increasing operating-profit margins to 11% (from 8% now). Zany as some of its methods sound, equity analysts seem convinced that they will continue to pay off. In a recent poll of 34 analysts by Reuters news agency, none recommended selling the shares, and 25 labelled them as "buy" or "outperform". Adidasís 2006 takeover of Reebok, another sportswear firm, was a rare misstep. It has taken far longer than expected to turn around. The main risk adidas faces, says Erwan Rambourg, an analyst at HSBC, is that its heavy spending to gain market share in America and China does not pay off. A strengthening euro is another. But adidasís many admirers believe that the companyís disciplined habits, and its novel approach to product research, should help it leap over any such hurdles. Click here to subscribe to The Economist adidas 
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergThe U.S. dollar-Brazilian real exchange rate falls sharply on Friday following the announcement of a new FX intervention program by the Central Bank of Brazil.The Brazilian real has been one of the hardest-hit currencies in the sell-off that has gripped emerging markets this summer in response to rising Treasury yields in the United States. Since May 2, the day before the big sell-off in the Treasury market started and sent yields soaring, the real is down 15% against the dollar. Thursday, the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) launched a program of intervention into foreign exchange markets to stem the depreciation of the Brazilian real, and so far, it appears to be having its exact intended effect on the currency. The real is surging today, up around 2.6% against the dollar. The new BCB intervention program "should eliminate some of the uncertainty, and help the [real] trade closer to its peers," says¬†Barclays co-head of Latin America economics and strategy Marcelo Salmon. "But we don‚Äôt believe it changes the weakening trend of currency." Strategists generally agree that the key driver of real depreciation recently has been rising Treasury yields due to the changing outlook for U.S. monetary policy, and most across the Street expect that to continue, so naturally, the real is expected to weaken further against the dollar. However, there is another key driver of real depreciation that explains why Brazil's currency has fallen so much faster than those in other emerging markets that also find themselves at the behest of the Federal Reserve. The relatively large stock of investment by foreign companies in Brazil's economy ‚Äì at $785 billion ‚Äì means there are a lot of businesses trying to hedge currency risk by selling reals and buying dollars. "Current [Brazilian real] pressure is mainly due to corporate hedging and speculative flows in the derivatives market," BofA Merrill Lynch strategists David Beker and Claudio Irigoyen told clients in a note earlier this month. That's why the new intervention program announced by the BCB Thursday sees the central bank offering $500 million of dollar swaps in the currency derivatives market on a daily basis (Monday through Thursday) for the rest of 2013, and $1 billion of FX spot lines on Fridays. Essentially, the BCB is taking a big short position in the U.S. dollar. "With 18 weeks left this year, the BCB will auction at least another US$36bn in swaps (current outstanding is US$41bn) and US$18bn in FX lines," says Beker in a new note today analyzing the intervention plan. The BCB is conducting the majority of the real-bolstering intervention in the derivatives market as opposed to the spot market because under the latter scenario, the central bank has to burn through the U.S. dollar component of its foreign reserves in order to prop up the currency, whereas with swaps, foreign reserves don't come into play. Beker points out that relative to Brazil's stock of foreign direct investment, the country's foreign currency reserves are small, which is why it has to be careful with spot intervention. "At US$374bn currently, Brazilian international reserves are an important cushion, but in a stress scenario of outflows/hedging they will not be able to avoid [Brazilian real] depreciation pressures," says Beker. "This is why the BCB needs to use international reserves with parsimony." While the BCB intervention program is specific to the plight of the Brazilian real, Barclays strategist Sebasti√°n Brown argues it could signal the beginning of a broader policy shift across emerging markets. "Beyond the immediate effects on Brazil, we believe that the BCB‚Äôs actions could have broader implications on the price-action of high-carry EM currencies, such as the [Turkish lira, South African rand, Indonesian rupiah, Indian rupee], and particularly the [Mexican peso]," says Brown. "The BCB‚Äôs decision to intervene could be interpreted as a signal that the tolerance for weaker exchange rates across EMs is close to running out, given some evidence of increasing inflationary pressures."
AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite For the 10th year in a row, careers website Vault has named New York City law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz as the most prestigious law firm in America. Wachtell is known for taking on risky, ìmessyî work, according to Vault. The firm specializes in very complicated deal-making ó including Bank of Americaís purchase of Merrill Lynch for $50 billion. The firm also has a lower associate-to-partner ratio than most other firms, meaning new lawyers get to take on important work right away. They also donít get to sleep a lot. Vault gave Business Insider access to its ìGoldî membership so we could see Wachtell associatesí reviews of what itís really like to work there. Hereís a window into Americaís most competitive, intense, and grueling law firms. The Hours "We're always expected to be working, which is never great, but it's just a totally different mindset that people buy into. At some level, I sense that everyone wants to be here and enjoys the work they're doing, even if there's an overwhelming amount of it." "It is not the number of hours worked that is difficult; it is the expectation of availability at all hours." The PayWachtell starts associates at $165,000, which is just about $5,000 more than the going rate in New York. But its bonuses are huge. Before the recession, the firm was known for giving associates bonuses that were 100% of their base salary. Bonuses reportedly fell to 50% after the recession, but that still meant that first-years were getting nearly $250,000. In any event, lawyers there seem quite happy with the pay: "Our compensation is legendary, and it lives up to the expectations." "It just can't be beat. The partners' willingness to show their appreciation for associates through the compensation structure is a real plus. It makes associates feel great about the hard work they do." The Work "I spend the vast majority of my time drafting briefs, memos in preparation for briefs, and participating in pretty high-level strategy decisions. I do doc review, but not a lot and almost always in situations in which the documents are definitely highly relevant and the review requires strategic calls relating to privilege or is done for the purpose of preparing for depositions or briefing." "Everyone has to do some level of diligence as a junior associate, but by rule the firm only really takes on interesting matters and complicated work. I love what I do here." On-the-job Training "It's a sink or swim mentality for the most part. The partners give you work and expect you to figure it out. It's the best way to learn, if a bit overwhelming." Career Prospects "Partnership is realistic if you survive that long. If I leave, I know I'm leaving from the top. But working anywhere else would be a let-down at this point." Know somebody who worked at Wachtell? Let us know about their experience in the comments.
Last week, billionaire investor Carl Icahn Tweeted that he had a large stake in Apple and had talked to Tim Cook.¬†During the final hours of the trading session, Icahn's Tweets had¬†added more than $17 billion to Apple's market cap.¬† Ancoa, a surveillance platform for financial markets, recently took a look at how the stock reacted to the Tweets. Just three¬†seconds after the first Tweet, the stock started to rip. ¬†This is visualized in the charts below. The two blue dots represent Icahn's Tweets and the green dots represent trades. ¬†¬† Check out their charts below: ¬†(Read Ancoa's full blog post here) via Ancoa Software
ScreenshotAs everyone outside of Microsoft tries to figure out what just happened at the top of the company, Microsoft insiders are having the same conversation. One former senior executive who has been in touch with other senior executives at the company this morning had this to say: It's a total shocker. To me and to friends inside the company. The reorg lined everything up behind Steve and people felt he would stay on to see it through.Something big must have changed, obviously. † I asked what the change might be. The former exec didn't know, but he speculated: I really don't know. It's a huge surprise. †The people I've spoken to don't know what caused the bit to flip either. There is a massive technology shift happening, the world of cloud and devices, and whoever leads the company next needs to paint an inspiring vision of the future for Microsoft. †There are amazingly talented people at the company, who will respond to great leadership.Perhaps Bill [Gates] and the board have come to believe the company should be split into two, consumer and enterprise? I'm not sure anyone could do a better job than Steve under current circumstances. The problem is beyond hard, it may be intractable. Not sure how anyone can manage both an enterprise business and a consumer business when both are changing so fast. The last sentiment--that the problem is "beyond hard" and "may be intractable"--is one that other long-time Microsoft observers share. The technology wave that Microsoft surfed almost perfectly for three decades has run its course, and it has been replaced by new waves that Microsoft no longer dominates. The transformation that Steve Ballmer was trying to oversee, of a packaged software company to a "devices and services company" is as radical as any corporate transformation ever attempted. The former executive added that he considers Steve Ballmer an "amazing man" and that Microsoft's next CEO will not likely be hired with the aim of doing what Ballmer is doing but better. Rather, the former exec says, there will likely be "big, big changes ahead."
Getty Images / Mike StobeNYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the billionaire founder of media giant Bloomberg LP, said on his radio show that people who want to be successful shouldn't go the bathroom a lot.¬† From Politicker:¬†[via Daily Intelligencer] ‚ÄúEverybody‚Äôs got different opportunities in front of ‚Äòem, different skill sets they bring and luck plays a part of it. But my experience is that you make your own luck. The harder you work, the luckier you get.‚Äù ‚ÄúI always tried to be the first one in in the morning and the last one to leave at night, take the fewest vacations and the least time away from the desk to go to the bathroom or have lunch. You gotta be there. I mean, everybody says, ‚ÄòOh, that‚Äôs crazy!‚Äô But if you want to succeed, ‚Ä¶ you can‚Äôt control how lucky you are, you can‚Äôt control how smart you are, but you can control how hard you work, so that‚Äôs the first thing.‚Äù Cross your legs, folks.¬†
Bank of America Merrill LynchHereís an interesting chart and some stats from Merrill Lynch on long run stock market performance. †Now, if we could only solve that whole, not being alive for 189 years, problemÖ
moriza via www.flickr.comPeople aren't as rational as we would like to think. From attentional bias ‚Äî where someone focuses on only one or two of several possible outcomes ‚Äî to zero-risk bias ‚Äî where we place too much value on reducing a small risk to zero ‚Äî the sheer number of cognitive biases that affect us every day is staggering. Understanding these biases is key to suppressing them ‚Äî and needless to say, it is good to try to be rational in most cases. How else can you have any sort of control over investments, purchases, and all other decisions that you make in your life? To convey the breadth of cognitive biases, we've picked out 57 of the most notable ones from a much longer list on Wikipedia.¬†[Aimee Groth contributed to an earlier version of this article.]
moriza via www.flickr.comPeople aren't as rational as we would like to think. From attentional bias ‚Äî where someone focuses on only one or two of several possible outcomes ‚Äî to zero-risk bias ‚Äî where we place too much value on reducing a small risk to zero ‚Äî the sheer number of cognitive biases that affect us every day is staggering. Understanding these biases is key to suppressing them ‚Äî and needless to say, it is good to try to be rational in most cases. How else can you have any sort of control over investments, purchases, and all other decisions that you make in your life? To convey the breadth of cognitive biases, we've picked out 57 of the most notable ones from a much longer list on Wikipedia.¬†[Aimee Groth contributed to an earlier version of this article.]
The latest new home sales data release out at 10 AM came in well below expectations. New home sales fell 13.4% in July (economists predicted a 2.0% drop), and June's 8.3% growth figure was revised down to 3.6%. Stocks initially fell in the wake of the release but are starting to bounce back, while bonds and gold are surging. The dollar is dropping fast against the euro and the yen. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is up 0.1%, trading at 1658. Meanwhile, gold is up 1.5%, trading at $1391 an ounce, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is at 2.83%, down 5 basis points from yesterday's close. Investors may be worried that the Federal Reserve is marginally less likely to announce a reduction in the pace of monthly bond purchases it makes under its quantitative easing (QE) program at its September 18-19 FOMC meeting. The release of the minutes from the July FOMC meeting¬†Wednesday¬†indicated that the Fed is watching the housing data closely, especially given the recent rise in mortgage rates sparked by the prospect of tapering back QE. "While recent mortgage rate increases might serve to restrain housing activity, several participants expressed confidence that the housing recovery would be resilient in the face of the higher rates, variously citing pent-up housing demand, banks' increasing willingness to make mortgage loans, strong consumer confidence, still-low real interest rates, and expectations of continuing rises in house prices," said the minutes. "Nonetheless, refinancing activity was down sharply, and the incoming data would need to be watched carefully for signs of a greater-than-anticipated effect of higher mortgage rates on housing activity more broadly." The chart below shows the surge in gold following the new home sales release. Thinkorswim
Steve Ballmer's announcement that he will retire as CEO of Microsoft is truly shocking.¬† He's a Microsoft-lifer who knows the business cold. He's shown no signs of being burnt out, or sick of the job. One source familiar with Microsoft's thinking on the announcement tells us Ballmer recently decided that it made sense to leave now.¬†Our source says Ballmer "wasn't forced out."¬†He made a "personal decision" to step down.¬† In the press release, Ballmer said, "There is never a perfect time for this type of transition, but now is the right time ... We have embarked on a new strategy with a new organization and we have an amazing Senior Leadership Team. My original thoughts on timing would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our company‚Äôs transformation to a devices and services company. We need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction." We expect to hear more about his departure, but this really sounds like the most logical reason for him to leave now--that the transition will take much longer than he was planning to stay around. The last year has been very busy for Ballmer. He's been starting to try to¬†transform Microsoft from a software company to a "devices and services" business. This means services like Office, Cloud, Windows, supporting devices like the Surface tablet, and PCs from partners like HP, Acer, and Dell.¬† In addition, he reorganized the company to fit that vision. He restructured the company to be more collaborative. He has an operating systems group, an applications group, a cloud and enterprise group, a devices group, a marketing group, and so on. Those groups are all supposed to work together to create "One Microsoft" as Ballmer put it.¬† At the same time, Microsoft released Windows 8, and the Surface tablet.¬† With all that work done, a natural transition point emerged for Ballmer. He had enough runway to spend the next twelve months working with the board to find a replacement.
Former Microsoft CEO Bill Gates handed the reigns to Steve Ballmer in January 2000. Today, the company announced Ballmer will retire within 12 months, and Microsoft stock has surged on the news. That can't feel good if you're Ballmer. Under his 13-year leadership, Microsoft stock has fallen over 40%. Though, Ballmer came in at the peak of the market bubble. He really had nowhere to go but down (the NASDAQ composite is down around 10% over the same time period). And in the last 10 years, the company has also returned billions of dollars to shareholders in buybacks and dividends. Here's the chart of Microsoft stock during the Ballmer era. Steven Perlberg / Business Insider (data via Bloomberg)
REUTERS/Adrees LatifBurned houses are seen next to those which survived in Breezy Point, a neighborhood located in the New York City borough of Queens, after they were devastated by Hurricane Sandy October 31, 2012.New home sales plunged 13.4% month-over-month in July to an annualized pace of 394,000 units in July. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for new home sales to fall 2% to an annualized pace of 487,000 units. There was also a huge downward revision to June's number. New home sales climbed a more modest 3.6% to 455,000 units, down from the initial reading of an 8.3% rise to 497,000 units. The median sales price of new homes sole in July was $257,200, while the average sales price was $322,700.¬† There was a huge jump in housing inventory. There were a seasonally adjusted 171,000 new homes for sale at the end of July, which represents 5.2 months supply at the current sales pace. This compares with 4.3 months supply in June. We saw a surge in homebuilder confidence in August, and existing home sales crushed expectations. But some economists expect the pace of home prices to cool off as bargains become harder to find, inventory bottoms, and as mortgage rates rise.
Microsoft shares are surging on the news that CEO Steve Ballmer is out of the company.† Before investors get†too†excited however, they should realize that Microsoft's board isn't changing. And Microsoft's board, along with Ballmer, is going to help pick Ballmer's replacement.† Microsoft's board isn't upset with Ballmer. It isn't forcing him out. We're told the board is in "lockstep" with Ballmer and his vision for Microsoft as a devices and services company.† The way we're interpreting all of that is whoever takes over isn't going to lead some radical remake of the company.† You could argue Microsoft is due for a radical remake. The Xbox business could probably be spun out. Its Servers and Tool business could probably be spun out too. It could amp up its buyback, it could kill the Surface tablet line. It could do a lot of things to shake up its operations.† But, we have little faith that a new CEO will be allowed to do any of that. The new CEO is being picked by Ballmer, Bill Gates, and the board. You think he's going to hire a guy who wants to throw out everything Ballmer's done that Gates and the board signed off on? No chance. Your best hope is that the new CEO has a slightly better vision for technology and is able to gradually implement it. †
GettyIn June, George Lucas married Mellody Hobson, a Starbucks board member.‚ÄúStar Wars‚Äù creator George Lucas has bought $10 million in Starbucks stock, a sign of confidence in the company where his wife Mellody Hobson is a member of the board, according to an SEC filing. A new filing by Hobson, Lucas‚Äôs wife and a Starbucks board member, revealed that Lucas's GWL Living trust bought 141,573 shares on August 19 for an average price of $70.60. Lucas is the sole trustee and beneficiary of the trust. Hobson, who heads the billion-dollar Ariel Investments Inc, is required to file a Form 4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission over Starbucks transactions for herself or family members because she is a director there. Her husband Lucas the director has plenty of money to invest, having sold his company LucasFilm, the fount of the blockbuster ‚ÄúStar Wars‚Äù and ‚ÄúIndiana Jones‚Äù canon, to the Walt Disney Co. last December for $4 billion. Disney has rebooted the franchise, with J.J. Abrams set to direct. Hobson is a hugely successful executive in her own right and married Lucas in June. In addition to her investment work and Starbucks, she is the chairman of Dreamworks Animation and a director at Estee Lauder and Groupon. Starbucks (SBUX) shares rose 1.7 percent today to close at $71.90 in New York. The stock has climbed 34 percent this year.
Flickr/steviep187Moments ago, we learned that Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer was retiring. This comes just a month after Microsoft reported horrific fiscal Q4 financial results, which caused the stock to tank. Earnings came in at $0.59, missing expectations for $0.75. Management blamed the crumbling market for personal computers. "The consumer PC market remains challenged and declined again this quarter," said management. The big loser: Windows. Microsoft's Windows Division revenue ó excluding nonrecurring deferred revenue ó fell by 6% during the quarter. Earlier this week, Nomura analyst Rick Sherlund speculated that an activist investor could potentially come in and shake up the executive suite. "Fundamentals are still on a slippery slope as tablets erode PCís, but stable enterprise business and strong cash flows could support a potential activist agenda for large share repurchase, substantially greater dividend and management succession plan," wrote Sherlund in his note yesterday. "We do not think fundamentals matter so much over the next 6 months," he said. "Rather, we see potential catalyst events that can potentially alter corporate governance at the company and benefit shareholders." As of yesterday morning, Sherlund had a Buy-rating on the stock with a $38 price target.
Mario Tama/GettyYes, the headline news at Microsoft is that CEO Steve Ballmer is out. But a line lower down in the press release is also startling: ‚ÄúThe board is committed to the effective transformation of Microsoft to a successful devices and services company,‚Äù one of the company's board members said. The effective transformation of Microsoft to a devices and services company. In other words, Microsoft is fully acknowledging that the model that powered the company for more than 3 decades and made it one of the most powerful and richest companies in the world--sales of software--is effectively dead.¬† That's big news. Microsoft has used the "devices and services" language before--Steve Ballmer wrote about it in this year's shareholder letter--but the challenge and magnitude of this transformation is much more profound than most people appreciate.¬†And the idea of Microsoft as a "devices and services company," especially one led by "devices," would have been unthinkable only a few years ago. The traditional software model is, in fact, dead--or at least dying--but it's only recently that Microsoft has acknowledged this so forthrightly. For more than a decade, Microsoft has been transitioning away from one-time sales of packaged software (Windows disks, for example) to multi-year services contracts. This has reduced the company's dependence on one-time unit sales of personal computers and software licenses and allowed it to build a business in which more of its revenue is recurring. But the transformation of the tech industry from packaged software to services is now moving far beyond mere payment models. Cloud-based services are now supplanting local software installations and licenses across the industry, not just for consumers who use services like Google and Facebook but for massive corporations. And this is forcing Microsoft and other major IT vendors to retool their product architectures, as well as the way they plan, develop, and roll out new product features. Meanwhile, the trend recently re-established by Apple of selling integrated hardware and software devices has forced Microsoft to start building and selling its own integrated gadgets. This is a major transition, too. Continuing to "transform" Microsoft from being a company driven by massive releases of packaged software every few years to a "devices and services" company will not be easy. The company's struggles in recent years will likely continue for many more years, regardless of who is CEO.  But it's encouraging to see that Microsoft now fully recognizes the challenge it faces. And it's probably wise for the company to address this challenge with a change right at the top. SEE ALSO: Ballmer Out At Microsoft!
Microsoft just announced CEO Steve Ballmer will retire. And the stock is surging, up over 8% pre-market. Ballmer, who has been CEO since 2000, will retire within the next 12 months, according to Microsoft. The board has begun the process of looking for a new CEO. Last month, the company announced a major reorganization. Yahoo Finance
REUTERS/Kyodo An aerial view shows workers wearing protective suits and masks work at a construction site (C) of the shore barrier to stop radioactive water from leaking into the sea, at the tsunami-crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Fukushima, in this photo taken by Kyodo August 9, 2013. Highly radioactive water from Japan's crippled Fukushima nuclear plant is pouring out at a rate of 300 tons a day.TOKYO (Reuters) - In the weeks after the Fukushima nuclear plant was destroyed by a triple meltdown in March 2011, the plant's owner turned to three of Japan's largest construction companies for a quick fix to store radiated water that was pooling in the disaster zone. The result was a rush order for steel tanks supplied by Taisei Corp, Shimizu Corp and Hazama Ando that were relatively cheap and could be put together quickly, according to the utility and three people involved in the project. The tanks, which stand as tall as a three-storey building, were shipped in pieces and bolted together as makeshift repository for the cascade of water being pumped through the reactors of Fukushima every day to keep fuel in the melted cores from overheating. The bolted tanks were sealed with resin and designed to last until about 2016 - long enough to buy time for Tokyo Electric Power, or Tepco, to work out a more permanent solution. But at least one of the tanks has already failed, leaking 300 tons of highly radioactive water that may have seeped into a drainage ditch and into the Pacific Ocean. The discovery of the leak - which Tepco said on Friday was the fifth from the same type of tank - prompted Japan's first declaration of a nuclear incident since a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and tsunami triggered reactor meltdowns and hydrogen explosions that spewed radiation around Fukushima in 2011. It has also focused attention on the uncomfortable end-game for the radiated water collecting at Fukushima. Some 330,000 tons of contaminated water - enough to fill more than 130 Olympic swimming pools - has been pumped into storage pits and above-ground tanks at the crippled facility. The sheer scale of the build-up has prompted some experts and officials to warn that in order to focus on containing the most toxic waste, less contaminated water will have to be dumped into the sea. "Think about it in simple terms. If you don't release the water, there's nowhere to store it. So we also think it may have to be released," said Shinichi Nakayama, deputy director of the Nuclear Safety Research Center at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency and a member of a regulatory panel on Fukushima's problems. Before the latest leak, Toshimitsu Motegi, Japan's minister of trade and industry, and Shunichi Tanaka, the top nuclear regulator, both indicated support for releasing water with low levels of radiation from Fukushima. No one has given any timeframe for such a move. NOT BUILT TO LAST Officials say the immediate priority is to figure out why the bolted storage tank failed less than two years since it was installed. They are also looking at adjusting plans for the more than 400,000 tons of additional water storage Tepco plans to build by 2016. When Tepco commissioned the first bolted tanks the advantage was the relative speed with which contractors could finish the job just a few hundred meters from the wrecked reactor building. "These could be quickly built," said Masayuki Ono, a manager at Topco's nuclear division. Tepco spokeswoman Mayumi Yoshida said a joint venture of Taisei, Shimzu and Hazama Ando won the first contract to build storage tanks at Fukushima in April 2011. She declined to say whether the contractors built the tank that began to leak. Tepco has not identified the cause of the leak, and has consistently declined to give details on the value of contracts it has awarded or winning bidders, citing a need to protect "corporate secrets". The Fukushima decommissioning is projected to cost at least $11 billion and take at least 30 years to complete. Taisei, which built the structure around Japan's newest reactor at Tomari in Hokkaido in 2009, was heavily involved in the construction of the Fukushima tanks, according to three people involved, who asked not to be named. Workers and engineers at Fukushima have been put on an "emergency" footing to work on the storage tanks this week, they said. Shimizu, which also has experience in building nuclear plants in Japan, had technology needed to build the bolted tanks and brought in experts, one of the sources said. Taisei said it could not comment on individual client projects. Shimizu and Hazama Ando declined to comment. There are 350 of the bolted-style tanks in place at Fukushima, and another 710 welded tanks, a more expensive design that takes longer to assemble. Nuclear Regulation Authority Commissioner Toyoshi Fuketa said on Friday that regulators also needed to examine the environmental risks posed by any failures of those tanks, especially in cases where they have been lined up directly on the ground rather than a concrete foundation. Tepco plans to more than double the current storage capacity by 2016, but doesn't have a plan beyond that point. The math is daunting. The utility has to find space for an additional 400 tons of radioactive water each day because of the need to keep the reactors cool for the next seven years. CONTROVERSIAL A radiation filtering machine known as ALPS was supplied by Toshiba Corp to scrub the water clean of most radioactive elements, including cesium and strontium. The system, which remains in testing and under review by nuclear regulators, would leave treated water with tritium, a radioactive element typically discharged in the coolant water of reactors and considered one of the least dangerous radioactive elements. Japanese officials have indicated support for releasing water containing tritium into the sea to make room to store more dangerous radioactive materials. But that seems certain to be controversial at a time when Japanese utilities are applying to restart nuclear stations that have been idled and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is on a drive to sell nuclear technology to countries like India and Vietnam. The World Nuclear Association, an international organization that promotes nuclear power, endorses a limited discharge at Fukushima. "Tepco has been prevented from discharging any treated water due to political opposition," the organization said in response to questions from Reuters. "Permitting sea release of treated water would alleviate the much larger problem of a demand for massive volumes of water storage." Tepco's already shaky credibility with regulators and the Japanese public has been further damaged by recent events. After months of denials, Tepco admitted in July that radioactive groundwater is reaching the sea. The government estimates 300 tons of radiated water are leaking every day. Kajima Corp, a construction and civil engineering company, has proposed freezing the ground around the Fukushima reactor to create a 1.4-kilometer ring of frozen earth intended to stop groundwater from seeping into the wrecked reactor buildings. Contractors will prepare a report assessing the feasibility of that project by December. Yuzo Onishi, a Kansai University professor who heads the government panel that endorsed the strategy in May, said it was the only option to block water in a tight space without cutting through tangled piping underneath the plant buildings. "The opinion among the groundwater specialists is that Tepco has no idea what it's doing," he said. "We have asked them to bring in specialists on the ground." Seawater sampling beyond the port surrounding the plant has not yet shown a rise in cesium or strontium levels, suggesting the contamination remains contained. But that has not relieved pressure on the local fishing industry, which has had to scrap plans to resume test fishing next month because of the recent leaks at the plant. After months of discussion, a union representing Fukushima fishermen has moved closer to endorsing a Tepco plan to divert water away from the reactor complex and pump it directly into the sea. But the industry remains staunchly against any attempt by the utility to dump radiated water into the Pacific. "We have to go back to the drawing board to figure out what to do next. Right now we can't see the future. There is so much uncertainty," said Takayuki Yanai, a trustee of a local fishing union. (Additional reporting by Kiyoshi Takenaka and Aaron Sheldrick; Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Ian Geoghegan)
Green Car ReportsNot for sale in the PRC.BEIJING/SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Popular electric carmaker Tesla Motors Inc's plans to enter the world's biggest auto market have stalled after a businessman in China claimed trademark rights to the name, people close to the California-based company have told Reuters. The maker of the best-selling U.S. electric car, the premium Model S sedan with a price tag of $70,000, had originally hoped to launch a flagship showroom in Beijing at the start of the year, according to three sources, but has had to put that idea on hold due in part to the trademark issue. As a result, the 10-year-old company's first shop-front in China, at the Parkview Green Fangcaodi mall in the capital, sits boarded up. While there is no Tesla sign, the shop is adorned with billboards of the Model S, which was launched in the United States last year. In addition to the trademark issue, Tesla has yet to complete product registration with Chinese authorities enabling the sale of the Model S, although one of the sources said Tesla was almost through with the process. Kingston Chang, general manager of Tesla China, did not respond to requests for comment. Atsuko Doi, a Tokyo-based Tesla spokeswoman, said the company had this week begun taking "reservations" for the battery-powered Model S in China. The company opened its first Asian showroom in Tokyo in 2010. "We are planning to open a Beijing store this year," Doi said in an email this week, without providing further details. Zhan Baosheng, the businessman in the southern China province of Guangdong, owns the "Tesla" trademark in China, according to his agent who processed the papers to register the name with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. An official with Jinda Trademark, the Guangzhou-based agency Zhan used to make a registration for the Tesla name, said Zhan registered the name in 2006. She declined to give any details about Zhan. According to Jinda Trademark, Zhan registered trademarks to the Tesla name in both English and Chinese. Zhan runs a website using the Tesla China domain (www.teslamotors.com.cn), and operates a Tesla-branded account on popular Chinese microblog site Sina Weibo, collecting information from consumers interested in placing orders for or getting more information about his "Tesla" cars. Zhan's Tesla website carries a brand logo almost identical to American Tesla logo, and showcases one product, though the car looks nothing like the Tesla Model S. The website says the company's "dream is to build China's best electric car." Legal experts familiar with trademark disputes in China said it might be difficult for Tesla to resolve the trademark issue unless it buys Zhan out. China has rules that protect globally renowned brands, but that might not apply in the case of relatively new companies such as Tesla. "In the e-vehicle market, everyone knows Tesla. But the burden is on Tesla to prove that its trademark is recognised by car customers (in general), and that it has used and promoted the trademark for sufficient time period in China in order to be eligible for well-known trademark determination," said Vincent Wang, Shanghai-based partner at law firm Davis Wright Tremaine LLP. Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; was embroiled in a similar case for years, before reaching $60 million deal last year for the rights to use the iPad trademark in China. ALL ROADS LEAD TO CHINA Tesla's founder billionaire Elon Musk has expressed excitement at entering the Chinese market, pointing to the high demand for luxury cars due to the country's expanding wealthy class. "It's the world's biggest market for premium sedans. If you take something like, say the Mercedes S-class, they sell approximately half of all their worldwide production in China," Musk said during an earnings conference call earlier this month. Musk said the company was developing a special Chinese version of the Model S with a more comfortable rear seat. Many owners of prestige vehicles in China employ drivers. Passenger car sales totalled 15 million in China last year, although electric and hybrid car sales only numbered a little under 24,000. General Motors Co. has been selling the hybrid Chevrolet Volt in China since early 2012. Daimler AG , in a joint venture with BYD Co. †has also launched an electric car brand called the Denza. Even as global auto makers plan to launch electric cars in China, they have a challenging future, said Yale Zhang, head of Shanghai-based consulting company Automotive Foresight. High price tags and the lack of charging infrastructure could pose a problem. Positioning green cars as "toys for the rich are a good proposition, but even then Tesla would be lucky to sell a few hundred" Model S sedans a year, Zhang said. (Editing by Jeremy Laurence)
Getty Images/Justin SullivanCoffee has become recognized as a human necessity. It is no longer a luxury or an indulgence; it is a corollary of human energy and human efficiency. - William H. Ukers, All About Coffee (1922) It was November 23, 2010. We were in Surf City, North Carolina, getting ready to fortify ourselves before another grueling day. As the thin, black liquid oozed into the stained carafe, we stood bleary-eyed. We were roommates, Marine infantry officers, perpetually sleep-deprived from the training, the planning, the preparations for war. Back then coffee was little more than a bitter, caffeine-delivery system. It was just what we needed to stay awake. We were missing so much. Fast-forward a few years. We've hung up our uniforms, we're in the kitchen, and we're making coffee. Great coffee. The kind that reminds you first thing in the morning of everything else you appreciate in life. It's about the art, the ritual, and the moments shared across a table. And yet, if you're like us, no one ever taught you how to make coffee properly. Or how to appreciate it. When you stop in at your local coffee shop, everything is hidden away behind the counter, too far removed for you to understand. That was us not too long ago. But through trial and error‚Äîand an absurd amount of mistakes‚Äîwe've managed to learn. It's a shame to waste these moments on bad coffee, and if you're going to drink it every day, or if you're going to serve it to other people, it may as well be good, right? Actually, it should be better than good. It should be perfect. What is Good Coffee? To understand good coffee, we have to start with how the coffee world measures its brews. After all, if you're trying categorize your coffee, it helps if you have a benchmark. Measuring the quality of coffee goes back to the 1950s, when MIT chemistry professor E. E. Lockhart conducted a series of surveys to determine American preferences. Basically, he surveyed a lot of coffee drinkers and asked them what they liked. Lockhart published his findings in the form of the Coffee Brewing Control Chart, a graphical representation of what Americans at the time considered to be the best coffee. In the years since, the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) has confirmed that American tastes haven't changed all that much. Perfection, at least to Americans, is a coffee that falls in the range of 18 to 22 percent Extraction with a brew strength between 1.15 and 1.35 percent Total Dissolved Solids. Perfect Coffee At Home Confused by the jargon? Don't be. The Percentage Extraction is the amount of coffee particles extracted from the original dry grounds. The Percentage of Total Dissolved Solids is the percentage of coffee solids actually in your cup of coffee (commonly known as "brew strength"). When you correlate these, the result is a Coffee Brewing Control Chart, with a target area in the center that highlights the optimal brew strength and extraction percentage. When you're brewing coffee, the goal is to get into that center square of perfection. Everyone seems to advocate their own sort of mystical process for achieving the right extraction, but we're here to tell you it's not that crazy. Perfect Coffee At Home Instead, the key is to start with the Golden Ratio of 17.42 units of water to 1 unit of coffee. The ratio will get you into that optimal zone, plus it is unit-less, which means you can use grams, ounces, pounds, stones, even tons if that's your thing. So if you're hoping for a 20 percent extraction against 1.28 percent Total Dissolved Solids, you can start with 30 grams of dry coffee grounds, 523 grams of water, and then adjust from there. Meanwhile, a common mistake is to mix up Percentage Extraction with Total Dissolved Solids. It's important to understand the difference. Strength refers to the solids that have dissolved in your coffee. Percentage Extraction refers to the amount that you removed from the dry grounds. The point is that strong coffee has almost nothing to do with bitterness, caffeine content, or the roast profile, and everything to do with the ratio of coffee to water in your cup. The great innovation in measuring all this stuff came about in 2008, when a company called Voice Systems Technology decided to use a refractometer‚Äîa device that bounces light waves off of particles‚Äîin conjunction with a program they developed called ExtractMojo. The device allows you to get an accurate reading on Total Dissolved Solids and then compare your brews to the Coffee Brewing Control Chart. In this way, you can refine your results based on science as well as taste. Some purists chafe against the idea of introducing a device like this to measure the quality of a cup of coffee. As former Marines, it reminds us of a similar debate on the topic of gun control. Are guns the problem, or is it how people use them? Are refractometers the problem, or is it how people use them? These are hotly debated issues and for good reason. But both are tools, and just like any other, they can be misused. We prefer to think of it like castle doctrine; use your refractometer in the privacy of your own home. Once you understand what good coffee actually is, and once you understand how people measure it, it's much easier to learn how to make coffee. The six fundamental principles are: 1. Buy good coffee beans: They should be whole beans, sustainably farmed, and roasted within the past few weeks. Plus, if you want to take part in the "third wave" coffee renaissance currently sweeping America, they should be a lighter roast so you can actually taste the flavors‚Äîthe terroir‚Äîof the coffee. With darker roasts, you're missing out. We know it's a weird analogy, but a dark roast is just like taking a nice steak and charring it beyond recognition. 2. Grind your coffee just before brewing: Roasted coffee is very delicate and perishable. Coffee has many more flavor compounds than wine, but those compounds deteriorate quickly when exposed to oxygen. Grinding your coffee just before you brew it keeps those compounds intact, and it's the number one thing you can do to improve your coffee at home. 3. Store your coffee properly: Beans which you aren't using immediately should be kept in an airtight container and away from sunlight. A major point of debate in the coffee world is whether to freeze or not freeze your coffee. We fall somewhere in between. If it's going to be more than two weeks before brewing, we freeze our coffee. Otherwise, we avoid it. 4. Use the right proportion of coffee to water: A major error people make is not using enough coffee. We empathize‚Äîit almost seems wasteful to add that extra scoop. But the Golden Ratio we mentioned earlier really is a great starting point and the simplest way to get into that perfect zone. 5. Focus on technique: It's beyond the scope of this guide to go through step-by-step instructions for every method, but underlying all of them is the fact that brewing great coffee is about precision and consistency. Each brewing method has its own particular techniques, but by doing the same thing over and over you fix your mistakes and improve incrementally. 6. Use quality tools: You're going to get better results from high quality tools than you will with junk from the bargain bin. Yes, it's more of an upfront investment, but in the long run it's worth it. Good tools last longer and make the entire brewing process much easier. Perfect Coffee At Home With these principles in mind, pick a preparation method. These lie along a spectrum: Body on one end, flavor clarity on the other, with variations in between. The balance between body and flavor clarity is determined by the parts of the coffee bean that make it into your cup. Unfortunately, way back at the beginning of our journey when this was all foreign to us, no one ever explained why a French press had so much body or why a pour over had such articulate flavors. It was all shrouded in secrecy. So we took these mysteries at face value and filed our questions away. Eventually, we discovered that the answer lay in chemistry, which divides the world into soluble and insoluble compounds. Soluble particles are extracted from the coffee grounds and contribute to flavor and aroma, while insoluble particles primarily contribute to the body of coffee. Since a roasted coffee bean is made up of both types of particles, the way you balance those during the extraction process determines the resulting character of your cup. Do you prefer a richer, grittier cup of coffee? Try a French press. Looking for a cleaner cup that can highlight citrus notes from South America or berry flavors from Africa? Check out the pour over. Everyone's preferences vary, but once you select a method, you can further fine tune your coffee by adjusting these variables: 1. The grind size of your coffee beans: Grind size affects the extraction rate because it affects surface area. Beans that are coarsely ground have less surface area than the same amount of finely ground beans, making it more difficult for the water to penetrate and extract the coffee solids. A uniform grind size means that the extraction rate of the oils and acids in the coffee will be consistent. You won't have large pieces that under-extract and small pieces that over-extract. It's for this reason that you'll often hear coffee experts exhorting people to invest in a good burr grinder. And guess what? They're right. 2. The temperature of your water: Temperature affects extraction rate because solids dissolve more quickly at higher temperatures. Temperature also affects flavor because it determines which solids get dissolved. Using water that's too hot will lead to sour coffee since it releases unpleasant acids from the coffee beans. For this reason, we recommend brewing with water between 195 and 202 degrees. And remember, measure the water actually in the coffee and not just what you're pouring. There's often a difference. 3. The amount you agitate your coffee grounds during brewing: You can further manipulate the brewing process by agitating the coffee grounds as the water passes through them. Agitation works because it accelerates the spread of dissolved coffee solids throughout the water, exposing the coffee grounds to fresher water more quickly. But agitation also has the effect of cooling the water, which we know can affect the process. In the end, it's just one of those things that you learn through trial and error. 4. The ratio of water to coffee: Strange how it keeps coming back to this, right? The key difference here is that when you're fine tuning, you aren't sticking strictly to the Golden Ratio. Instead, you're adjusting to taste. To make adjustments more easily, invest in a scale. You can be more precise by using weight‚Äîinstead of volume‚Äîto measure your coffee and water. One final point. As any good barista will tell you, make sure to adjust only one variable at a time so you can accurately track results. Changing two variables at a time confounds the outcome, and you won't know whether it was because you changed variable X or variable Y. For all our talk of chemistry, particles, molecules, and extraction percentages, brewing great coffee is much less about science and much more about art. Once you learn the principles that underlie the brewing process, you can develop a routine which suits you perfectly. Perfect Coffee At Home And that's the beauty of coffee. When we first started our journey, we were embarrassingly ignorant about the most basic aspects. The choices, the culture, the equipment‚Äîit was all so overwhelming that we had no clue where to begin. But pretty quickly we found ourselves climbing the coffee learning curve. Learning to brew great coffee didn't have to take forever. It was a hobby that you could pick up on a Saturday morning and feel good about. As we explored, there were good moments and bad ones, and stretches where it felt as if we couldn't do anything right. We wasted a ton of time. We destroyed a lot of coffee. And although we read as much as we could, there were occasions when we were as stubborn as we were ignorant, days when we had to learn from our own mistakes because we didn't understand or didn't listen to what we had been taught. But each mistake also meant progress. We had discovered one more thing which didn't work. There was always something new to try, and in this haphazard fashion, we grew. For us, this was the enduring lesson, that learning is continuous, that there is always room to improve, to explore, and to innovate. And while much of the knowledge already existed, and although the modern exploration of coffee has been going on for at least a hundred years, through this journey, it was our turn to participate. And now it's yours. This post is adapted from Michael Haft and Harrison Suarez's Perfect Coffee at Home.
NASDAQ CEO Bob Greifeld is finally speaking out about yesterday's unprecedented 3-hour trading shutdown. He appeared on CNBC's Squawk Box this morning. Among other things, he addressed questions about the NASDAQ's opaque communications. "I disagree that we didn't communicate properly," said Greifeld. He added that he and his management team were in constant communication with industry players. But this did no good for the average retail investor who was waiting for some updates on what was going wrong. And Jim Cramer wasn't having it. During the CNBC appearance, Cramer tweeted: "How can Greifeld say they halted things to help the retail investor but then didn't communicate to the press. WRONG WRONG WRONG!" "I am so darned steamed about this," continued Cramer. "I don't like to be rolled. I have been in this biz much longer than [NASDAQ's] Greifeld. Just furious" "You people who follow me; you are right to be outraged," he added. "It is common sense to be upset by this. You deserve better..." How can Greifeld say they halted things to help the retail investor but then didn't communicate to the press. WRONG WRONG WRONG!
CNBCNASDAQ's Bob GreifeldOn Thursday, the NASDAQ-listed stocks stopped trading for over three hours after it saw problems with its quote-dissemination systems. This led to a great deal of confusion. And many criticized the NASDAQ for their lack of communication. Late in the day, they released a statement that was incredibly vague. Finally, CEO Bob Greifeld has begun to make the media rounds. On CNBC this morning, reporter Andrew Ross Sorkin asked Greifeld about the lack of communications. "I disagree that we didn't communicate properly," said Greifeld. He added that he and his management team was in constant communication with industry players. Greifeld said he was "deeply disappointed" about what happened. But he explained that that "No one was advantaged or disadvantaged" during the disruption. "We did handle the process in the proper way," he said.
Reuters/David GrayWith a slowing Chinese economy, many argue that Australia's mining boom, which helped it avoid a recession for 21 years, has come to an end.† But Australia's largely untapped Northern Territory is rich in resources like uranium, zinc, lead, bauxite, gold, phosphate and manganese.† Prime ministerial hopeful, Tony Abbott wants to develop the Northern Territory and bring a new wave of mining investment to the country, according to Reuters. But environmentalists and aboriginal groups are working together to discourage mining. We drew on the work of Reuters photographer David Gray that show the vast, untouched Northern Territory.
REUTERS/China Daily Paramilitary policemen help fishermen move an overturned boat after Typhoon Trami landed in Ningde, Fujian province, August 22, 2013. Trami, the 12th typhoon to hit China this year, struck east China's Fujian province on Thursday, local meteorological authorities said.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
As we pointed out first, the Nasdaq outage can be directly and indirectly traced to action in Apple stock from mere minutes (when it suddenly dropped to under $500) to just over an hour before the Tape C halt was announced. And while the plunge below $500 may have been the proximal cause for the lock up that crippled the Nasdaq in a historic three hour episode of unprecedented humiliation, Nanex, which also uncovered the real quote-stuffing reason behine the May 2010 flash crash (and which the SEC tried to pin squarely on Waddell and Reed) has just disclosed that Nasdaq was already demonstrating explicit "glitches" in the trading of Apple well ahead of the 12:21 pm trading halt. Whereas we previously showed three charts demonstrating the chaos that broke out in AAPL moments before the NASDAQ officially halted Tape C trading, the chart below courtesy of Nanex shows two periods of distinct Nasdaq silence between 11:01 am and 11:04 am and a second block a few seconds later, in which there a combined three minute outage for the NASDAQ in AAPL trades, and when the Best Bid had locked up (as would happen again after 3 pm only this time with the Best Ask), letting the Best Ask run loose and once again make a mockery of the NBBO. Curiously while the Best Bid only was locked during the first "radio silent" period, both the Best Bid and Best Ask were locked in the seconds just following 11:04 am when NASDAQ was once again "offline" in AAPL trading. Nanex Incidentally, all of the above took place during the first market break today when as we also reported, BATS declared self help against NYSE Arca, for the second time in one hour, starting at 10:49 am and revoking self-help at 11:13 am. During this interval Nasdaq has a 3 minute radio silence in AAPL trades. Summarizing: So, for the third time today we ask: what was it about Apple's locked Bid and/or Ask that caused the NASDAQ freak out, and was all the Tape C trouble at the NASDAQ purely a function of a locked order originating at NYSE Arca? We doubt, however, that NASDAQ will answer. Doing so just might expose someone who would have otherwise lost millions due to the exchange glitches, either at Nasdaq or NYSE Arca, had trades not been unwound and had the exchange not gone offline. Instead the NASDAQ will choose to cop out, and blame everything on a glitch, as it just did moments ago. Still, as much as we would like to believe that today's epic market failure was merely a "glitch" the sequence of events above shows that at the very least the initial problem originated not at the NASDAQ but at Arca, and that AAPL had a very instrumental role to play in the cascade of events that resulted in the NASDAQ's historic 3+ hour halt. And, one wonders, just what was the role of Carl Icahn's tweet in all of this...
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniFederal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen.The Kansas City Fed's annual Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium has been closely watched in recent years as central banks dominated the global market landscape and investors listened to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke ‚Äì the keynote speaker ‚Äì for signals of upcoming policy changes. Key central bankers came from around the globe to convene for three days and discuss monetary policy. This year, Bernanke is skipping the conference, and so is European Central Bank President Mario Draghi and Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, as well as a few others who would normally attend. As such, market participants don't really have as much of a reason to pay attention to the conference this weekend, because there probably won't be any market-moving headlines. The good news is that for those interested in monetary policy, there's still a lot to look forward to. BofA Merrill Lynch economists Ethan Harris and Michael Hanson highlight what to look out for in a note to clients: The chairman‚Äôs opening remarks almost always have been the top news out of the conference. Some of the papers can get some headlines, but it is hard to connect the dots from an academic paper to the near-term policy outlook. Nonetheless, this conference is loaded with topical papers that could gather some attention. Based on the titles of the sessions, we would suggest looking out for the following:   ¬†‚ÄúThe Transmission of Unconventional Monetary Policy‚Äù by Arvind Krishnamurthy at Northwestern is scheduled for Friday morning. The effectiveness of QE versus forward-guidance is a hot topic of debate on the FOMC, especially as most Fed officials now appear to favor the latter over the former. An argument for a limited impact of QE would likely be interpreted by the markets as suggesting the Fed should (and will) taper quickly and end QE3 sooner rather than later. Any discussion of the relative merits of MBS versus Treasury purchases would also garner attention.   ¬†A panel discussion on ‚ÄúMonetary Policy Tools and Options‚Äù will be held Friday morning, but the applicability to the Fed may not be clear, as there are two EM participants (the Governor of the Bank of Mexico and an academic from China) and the research director from the ECB. We would expect this discussion to be anti-QE and pro-forward guidance, on balance, given the participants.   ¬†The global dimension of QE policy will likely be addressed by two papers on Saturday: ‚ÄúGlobal Liquidity‚Äù by Jean-Pierre Landau of Princeton and ‚ÄúCross- Border Capital Flows‚Äù by HeÃÅleÃÄne Rey of London Business School. As the Fed does not wish to be the central bank of the world, international spillovers are unlikely to move the debate on the FOMC, but commentary on either of these papers may get some notice, particularly in the FX market.   ¬†The panel discussion on Saturday features the Governors of the central banks of Japan and Brazil and the deputy governor of the Bank of England. No topic has been given, suggesting the potential for a wide-ranging discussion that is likely to generate at least a few headlines. "Despite an interesting docket of speakers and presenters from a central banking perspective, with no major Fed officials scheduled to speak, the markets are likely to pay a lot less attention to Jackson Hole than in the past," say Harris and Hanson. "The biggest effect may be on vacation rentals that third week of August." Click here for the full Jackson Hole schedule ¬ª
Bloomberg, Morgan Stanley ResearchMorgan Stanley analysts Peter Richardson and Joel Crane are out with a post-FOMC minutes update on what's going on in the gold market. Richardson and Crane say gold has already priced in an announcement by the Federal Reserve at its September 18-19 FOMC meeting that the central bank will reduce the size of its monthly bond purchase program, as the release of the July meeting minutes on Wednesday suggested. "Had the FOMC minutes suggested a longer-dated timing, we think the gold price would have seen a more aggressive advance," they write in a note to clients. Gold has rallied 16.5% from a low of $1179.40 an ounce on June 28 to today's prices around $1374. The Morgan Stanley analysts cite an "improvement in the physical fundamentals" of the shiny yellow metal as the main driver of the rally. "Namely, the seemingly inexhaustible sell-off in the ETFs appears to have subsided," say Richardson and Crane. "Furthermore, a recent report from the World Gold Council showed that Indian and Chinese physical demand was exceptionally strong in 2Q. Despite the Indian governmentís efforts to limit gold imports, hopes have risen that Indian demand will remain strong ahead of the impending wedding season." Unfortunately, the metal still remains technically challenged. "In our view, the recent gold price rally will likely fade towards year-end as the headwinds that have pressured gold throughout the year reemerge," say the analysts. "These headwinds are a strengthening US currency, rising nominal and real bond yields and a continuing erosion in investor faith."
Technically, the sharp move down was a classic definition of a¬†breakaway gap, typified by a daily high that was lower than the prior day‚Äôs low in a direction opposite to the previous market trend. In addition, the August 2nd peak in the S&amp;P 500 was not accompanied by a new high in breadth while the 10-day average of new daily NYSE highs was only 400, compared to 800 during the period of the May highs in the market.¬† It is also significant that the decline occurred from the top of an aging bull market that had gained 156% in four years and five months. Fundamentally, as well, the market appears to be reacting to some important changes in comparison to the last few years.¬† The Fed, in posing the strong probability of a finite limit on quantitative easing (QE), has changed the nature of the game.¬† The market climbed strongly during QE1 and QE2, only to correct when they ended.¬† To avoid that pitfall, the Fed made QE3 and QE4 open-ended, and the market accordingly responded with a strong bullish move.¬† Now that period is over, and whether tapering occurs in September or December or early next year doesn‚Äôt matter as much as the fact that the market focus has been changed toward anticipating a finite ending as illustrated by the sharp rise in the 10-year yield. This is happening at the same time that corporate earnings growth is slowing down after rising rapidly since the end of the recession.¬† It was this factor combined with the QE programs that kept the market going higher despite an extremely sluggish economic recovery.¬† From 2008 through 2011 S&amp;P 500 earnings increased 95%, but only 2% annualized since then.¬† In addition forward-looking estimates are being revised down, and still appear to be too high.¬† This is confirmed by recent disappointments at key companies such as Wal-Mart, Macy‚Äôs, Cisco, IBM, Amazon and Google. ¬† The market is continuing to receive minimal support from the economy, which has been slogging along at about a 2% growth rate for the last three years.¬† Real disposable income has risen by an average of only 0.5% year-to-year over the first six months of 2013, and retail sales have been accordingly tepid with little room left to reduce an already low consumer savings rate. Job growth remains inadequate with an unusual proportion of employment gains coming in low-paying industries and part-time jobs.¬† Now, the sharp increase in mortgage rates threatens the growth of the housing industry as well, with monthly payments on a $300,000 mortgage rising by 14% or close to $200.¬† Add to that mix an escalating crisis in the Mid-East, the likelihood of a 3rd Greek bailout and the coming conflict in Washington over the budget and debt limit.  In sum, it appears to us that the character of the market has taken a significant turn for the worse, and that the period ahead will far more difficult than the years since 2009.¬† Now selling at 19.5 times trailing reported (Gaap) earnings on the S&amp;P 500, the market is highly overvalued compared to the long-term norm of 15 times and its bear market lows under 10.¬† In our view the potential downside for the market is unusually high.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalLast week, U.S. equity funds reported their first outflows in seven weeks. This week, the trend of outflows from U.S. equity funds not only continued, but accelerated to the fastest pace of withdrawals in five years, as the chart at right from BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett illustrates. On a global scale, equity funds saw $12.3 billion in redemptions this week ‚Äì their first outflows in eight weeks. $10 billion of that alone was accounted for by the popular¬†SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF (ticker symbol "SPY"). Bond funds didn't benefit from equity fund outflows ‚Äì they got hit with redemptions this week, too. Where did all the money go? BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Cash. Hartnett describes it as a "flight to cash as retail investors dump risk assets ($20bn out of equities and bonds this week)." Meanwhile, funds invested in floating-rate debt, European assets, and frontier markets continued to post strong inflows. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's flows, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows Equities: $12.3bn outflows (first outflows in 8 weeks) (all via fast money ETF's - SPY alone accounts for $10bn outflows) Bonds: $7.4bn outflows (largest in 8 weeks) Money market funds: $22bn inflows (3 straight weeks) Commodities: first inflows in 28 weeks (albeit small $53mn) Equity Flows Largest weekly outflows from US equity funds since Jun'08 ($14.3bn) (almost all ETF's) Relatively modest outflows from EM ($1.8bn) and Japan ($0.3bn) Europe bucks trend with $1.6bn inflows (8 straight weeks) By sector, Consumer ($1.0bn) and Financials ($0.7bn) are the big losers this week Fixed Income Flows Largest outflows from HY bonds in 8 weeks ($2.7bn) (Table 3) Largest outflows from IG bonds in 5 weeks ($1.4bn) 19 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS ($0.4bn) 13 straight weeks of outflows from EM debt ($1.3bn) (largest in 5 weeks) 13 straight weeks of outflows from Munis ($2.0bn) (largest in 8 weeks) 61 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt ($2.0bn)
Wikimedia CommonsIt's been a crazy week in global markets as the sell-off in U.S. Treasuries resumed, sending bond yields to fresh new multi-year highs and tanking emerging market (EM) stock, bond, and currency markets. Today, things are finally quieting down. In Europe, the London FTSE is up 0.2%, the German DAX and Spanish IBEX 35 are up 0.1%, the Italian FTSE MIB is down 0.2%, and the French CAC 40 is down 0.4%. In the United States, S&amp;P 500 futures are flat, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note ñ at 2.90% ñ is hovering one basis point over Thursday's close. 10-year Treasury futures are flat. As SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale global strategist Kit Juckes puts it in an email this morning, "Market shouts TGIF, loudly" (thank goodness it's Friday). "There's a bit of TGIF feel to all this," says Juckes. "The overnight session is quieter, with equity markets and EM currencies bouncing, nominally on the back of yesterdayís crop of stronger economic data." The Japanese Nikkei 225 rose 2.2% overnight, while the Hong Kong Hang Seng fell 0.2% and the Shanghai Composite retreated 0.4%. Meanwhile, India's SENSEX is up 0.8% in late Friday trading, and Indonesia's Jakarta Stock Exchange Composite Index is flat. India and Indonesia have been the Asian focal point of the sell-off in EM this week, and their equity markets are finally getting a rest.
