Middlebury Career ServicesChinese securities firms saw their assets under management (AUM) balloon to 1.2 trillion yuan at the end of 2012, up from 280 billion yuan at the start of 2012, according to the latest data from Securities Association of China. And 80 - 90 percent of that is coming banks, according to Caixin Online, which has some China watchers worried. As Chinese regulators forced trust companies to scale back their cooperation with banks, securities firms have benefited. Banks have been increasingly invest their money and their clients' money in a wider range of financial products like the controversial Chinese wealth management products (WMPs). And banks have taken advantage of the fact that loans made through the securities firms don't impact their loan quota. Caixin Online explains how this works: "In a typical bank-to-securities company asset management agreement, the bank entrusts the securities firm with funds raised from wealth management products, and the securities firm uses the money to buy the bank's notes or invest in other types of financial instruments. The arrangement allows the bank to shift assets off its balance sheet and circumvent lending restrictions. The securities firm, in return, charges the bank a fee for using its service." A quick reminder: The Chinese trust industry more than doubled in the past two years to about six trillion yuan by the end of September 2012 and got on the radar of regulators. GMO's Edward Chancellor and Mike Monnelly have previously pointed out that "given their generally low credit quality and widespread exposure to real estate, trust products can be seen as China‚Äôs equivalent to subprime mortgage-backed securities." But these trust companies were highly leveraged and considered risky, and in an effort to curb shadow banking, Chinese regulators ordered them to cap the value of trusts tied to bank loans at 30 percent of their total outstanding products and required banks to include loans made through trust companies on their balance sheets. The way securities firms are working with banks, however, is reminiscent of the cooperation between banks and trust firms. This practice of moving money off banks' balance sheets is adding to concerns about China's shadow banking system and its impact on China's economic recovery. Experts point out that regulators could change their stance on security firms and crack down on them as well.
Most of what we call money is actually short-term debt created by banks when they make loans. This means that banks are the stewards of our savings and manage the payments system. As a result, they have a privileged place in our society: governments never deliberately choose to liquidate the banking system. It always appears preferable, in the short term at least, to preserve the incumbent institutions and personnel through bail-outs. (Lending to ìsolvent but illiquidî firms at below-market rates is another kind of bail-out, even if it is not always called one by the authorities.) Bankers thus have every incentive to become as ìsystemicî as possible and to take as much as risk as possibleóthey know that they can almost always get these bail-outs when they need them. Moreover, the liability of the big risk-takers (i.e., the mid-level traders rather than the executives) is often quite limited.* They keep all of the upside when times are good and leave the rest of society with the tab when their bets go south. The Bank of Englandís Andrew Haldane has argued that, if you properly count the cost of crises and hidden subsidies, banking as currently practised may not actually add any value. Policymakers have been trying wrestle with these problems for more than a century, most recently with the Basel accords and Americaís Dodd-Frank law. But, according to The Bankersí New Clothes, a powerful new book by Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig, these reform efforts failed to address the basic problem of the crisis: banks are too fragile. The authors persuasively argue that the solution is higher levels of equity capital throughout the banking industry as a way offset the impact of the implied government protections against failure. Banks, just like other firms, can fund their investments by borrowing, by issuing shares, or by retaining earnings. Unlike other firms, however, banks appear to love borrowing and are allergic to equity, often funding more than 97% of their asset portfolio with debt. This makes it extremely challenging for banks to absorb even moderate losses. Short-term lenders to banks, particularly those not protected by deposit insurance, have every reason to be skittish when they know that there is so little loss-absorbing capital available to shield them. In other words, thinly-capitalised banks are very vulnerable to runs, which are behind every single bank failure. If a bank incurs losses but does not fail, it is often because it got a bail-out from the rest of us through some combination fiscal transfers, regulatory forebearance, and accomodative monetary policy. More equity would neatly solve these problems, which is why Ms Admati and Mr Hellwig recommend a minimum ratio of tangible common equity to total assets of about 25%. Bankers, however, are steadfastly opposed. When confronted, they deliberately obfuscate the issue with meaningless phrases like ìhold equityî and ìset aside equityî, to imply that equity is an inert asset that could have been a productive investment in the economy. Bankers also like to say that there is trade-off between safety and growth, arguing that higher capital requirements make it more costly for banks to create credit. The theory is that equity is more expensive than debt. Regrettably, non-specialists in politics, the media, and the general public often fall for these tricks. However, Ms Admati and Mr Hellwig, along with many other finance scholars ranging from Eugene Fama to Simon Johnson, argue that the bankersí narratives are based on bad economics. To understand why bankers love the status quo you have to understand how they pay themselves. Unlike most enterprises, labour actually has more power than capital at the big banks because debt plays such a huge role on bank balance sheets. To make shareholders feel better about this quasi-Marxist relationship, bankers use ìreturn on equityî as a way to justify their compensation. The easiest way to maximise ROE is to minimise the stock of equity outstanding and borrow as much as possible. Conveniently for the bankers, this also ensures that shareholders remain relatively powerless. (For more on the special incentives driving bank behaviour, see this earlier post.) It all helps explain why banks never seem to alter the absolute value of their outstanding equity: † † After all, if banks were really concerned with minimising their funding costs, they would issue and retire shares opportunistically. Instead, all of the shrinkage and growth of bank balance sheets comes from changes in debt. Clearly, there are reasons for this behaviour besides the cost of capital. It is worth reiterating that the cost of bank debt is suppressed by government subsidies, unlike bank equity. Thanks to deposit insurance, lenders-of-last resort, and the implicit guarantee that creditors will not face losses during any bail-out of a ìsystemicî institution, banks can borrow at much lower rates than other businesses, much less businesses with capital structures that are even remotely as fragile as banks. The implication is that the existing arrangement constitutes a subsidy for bankers to enrich themselves while putting the rest of society at risk. Ms Admati and Mr Hellwig compare them to chemical companies that earn fat export profits because they are not penalised for dumping toxic waste in the rivers of their home countries. The real question for policymakers is whether higher equity capital requirements would raise the cost of bank funding above what it would be right now in a world without these gifts from the rest of society. Empirical studies of America and Britain in the 19th century, before the establishment of the safety net, suggest that the answer is ìnoî. The cost and supply of credit was not meaningfully different despite the fact that equity capital ratios were far higher. (My colleague nicely summarised that research here.) To be clear, higher equity capital requirements do have one cost: they would be very bad for people who work at banks. The benefits, however, would more than redound to the rest of society by making the financial system safer. Well-capitalised banks maintain their lending during downturns. Those on the verge of insolvency do not. We also see that among the big banks, those with lower leverage are perceived by the equity markets to more valuable, as a percentage of their book value, than those with higher leverage. In other words, higher equity/asset ratios may actually lower funding costs. Existing shareholders, however, are not interested in getting diluted, although new investors would be interested in buying attractively priced shares. Bankers would not be interested in dilution because it would lower ROE and their own pay. The most straightforward way to maintain ROE while issuing more shares is to cut costs, the biggest of which is labour compensation. The better deal for shareholders is to cut pay (and/or fire workers) and use the savings to buy back bank debt, which would reduce leverage without dilution. Unsurprisingly, both options are undesirable to the bankers, hence the lobbying effort and dissimulation. They are obviously entitled to express their opinions in a free society, but that does not mean we should be taken in by their self-serving arguments. There is another interesting, but not insurmountable, objection to higher equity capital requirements. I will discuss that in a subsequent post. *At some firms, the structure of bonuses is beginning to change. But compensation schemes still fail to adjust for risk. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Chris Sloan/Airchive DALLAS (AP) ó American Airlines and US Airways will merge and create the world's biggest airline. The boards of both companies approved the deal late Wednesday, according to four people close to the situation. The carrier will keep the American Airlines name but will be run by US Airways CEO Doug Parker. American's CEO, Tom Horton, will serve as chairman of the new company until mid-2014, these people said. They requested anonymity because the merger negotiations were private. The merger caps a turbulent period of bankruptcies and consolidation that will leave the U.S. airline industry dominated by four big carriers ó American, United, Delta and Southwest. Together they would control almost three-quarters of U.S. airline traffic. The deal has been in the works since August, when creditors forced American to consider a merger rather than remain independent. American has been restructuring under bankruptcy protection since late 2011. AMR creditors and possibly its shareholders will own 72 percent of the stock, and US Airways Group Inc. shareholders will get the rest, three of the people said. A formal announcement is expected Thursday morning. If the deal is approved by American's bankruptcy judge and antitrust regulators, the new American will have more than 900 planes, 3,200 daily flights and about 95,000 employees, not counting regional affiliates. It will be slightly bigger than United Airlines by passenger traffic. Travelers on American and US Airways won't notice immediate changes. It likely will be months before the frequent-flier programs are merged, and possibly years before the two airlines are fully combined. When that happens, American's presence will grow in key East Coast markets including New York's LaGuardia Airport and Washington's Reagan National Airport. The merger will add US Airways hubs in Charlotte, Philadelphia and Phoenix to American's in Dallas-Fort Worth, Chicago, Miami, New York and Los Angeles. US Airways would boost American's service to Europe and the Latin America-Caribbean market but wouldn't fix American's weakness on routes to Asia. Just five years ago, American was the world's biggest airline. It boasted a history reaching back 80 years to the beginning of air travel. It had popularized the frequent-flier program and developed the modern system of pricing airline tickets to match demand. But years of heavy losses drove American and parent AMR Corp. into bankruptcy protection in late 2011. The company blamed bloated labor costs; its unions accused executives of mismanagement. The merger is a stunning achievement for Parker and his management team at US Airways, based in Tempe, Ariz. Just a few years ago, they were running a mid-sized carrier called America West Airlines when they bought the old US Airways out of bankruptcy. Parker's airline is only half the size of American and is less familiar around the world, but he prevailed by driving a wedge between American's management and its union workers and by convincing American's creditors that a merger made business sense. Despite its smaller size, US Airways has prospered in the last several years, earning a record profit of $637 million last year. "They've done an absolutely terrific job with what they have," said Bill Swelbar, an airline-industry researcher at MIT and board member of Hawaiian Airlines' parent company. Parker began pursuing a merger almost as soon as AMR filed its Chapter 11 petition. He found willing partners in American's three labor unions, who have long fought with management at their own company over pay, work rules and executive bonuses. American suffered strikes by pilots and flight attendants in the 1990s. Bad feelings hardened in the early 2000s, when union workers took pay cuts to keep the company out of bankruptcy while AMR gave bonuses to management employees when the stock price rose. AMR's Horton professed no interest in thinking about a merger until his company was out of bankruptcy court, but his creditors pressured him to reconsider. AMR lost more than $12 billion between 2001 and 2010. It has lost another $2.8 billion since it filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2011 ó a period in which US Airways earned about $650 million. Some analysts and creditors called for new management at AMR. Bob Herbst, a financial analyst who studies airlines, said AMR has failed to adapt to changes in the industry since consolidation began in the middle of the last decade. He said AMR was fixated on gaining market share rather than on profitability. American ranked 14th out of 15 airlines in government rankings for on-time performance in 2012 (US Airways was fifth). Only United had a higher rate of complaints (but US Airways was barely better than American). "They are continually at the bottom in on-time and customer service, and they're losing more money than anyone else," Herbst said. "American's management is leaving because that's what needs to happen." AMR, however, has made measurable progress under Horton, who became CEO the day before the company filed for bankruptcy protection. The company earned operating profits in the second and third quarters of 2012, and its revenue for every seat flown one mile ó an arcane-sounding statistic but one that is closely watched in the airline business ó rose faster than at its rivals for much of the year. With leverage from bankruptcy laws, AMR won new union contracts with lower costs. "I'm a big fan of Tom's; he's done a great job," said Mike Derchin, an analyst with CRT Capital Group. "He restructured the balance sheet, made the company more efficient and got a pilots' contract. He positioned the company for the future." That performance may also have gotten a better deal for Horton's creditors. US Airways' initial proposal called for AMR creditors to get only 49 percent of the stock in the combined company, according to people familiar with the talks. Instead, they'll get 72 percent, although they might have to share some of that with shareholders, said the people familiar with the deal. In recent weeks, AMR won bankruptcy court approval to buy hundreds of new planes from Boeing and Airbus, an important step to reduce fuel costs and offer a more comfortable experience for passengers. American even unveiled a new logo and paint job for its planes, although the reviews were mixed. ___ Follow David Koenig at http://www.twitter.com/airlinewriter Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
As President Obama begins his second term, this is the right moment for the United States and the European Union to work together even more closely on a number of issues relevant to both their domestic and foreign policy agendas. The most immediate way to boost our transatlantic relationship is to follow through on an EU-US free trade agreement. We came an important step closer with President Obama announcing in his State of the Union address last night the launch of direct talks between us to reach that goal. It was followed up by European Commission President†JosÈ Manuel†Barroso today giving a strong endorsement to these talks, saying "a future deal between the world's two most important economic powers will be a game-changer, giving a strong boost to our economies on both sides of the Atlantic." THE MONITOR'S VIEW: Why a US-EU trade pact would be historic Bringing down stubborn tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade and investment and aligning our regulatory frameworks while respecting our differences could do a great deal to promote growth and jobs on both sides of the Atlantic. The transatlantic economic relationship is still by far the most important relationship in the world, accounting for about half of the worldís GDP and almost a third of global trade flows. The US and Europe remain each otherís most important markets.† By some estimates, an agreement eliminating tariffs and other barriers between us could increase annual economic growth by up to 1 percent on both sides of the Atlantic. That means jobs, and as Mr. Obama pointed out in his speech last night, "trade that is free and fair across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs." We badly need a free trade pact as both the EU and US continue to fight our way back from the financial crisis and face increased competition from a host of emerging economies. Now is the right time to look across the Atlantic and see how we can help each other. This would undoubtedly be a recovery booster. Working toward a trade pact also recognizes that a more intense EU-US partnership can enhance the capacity of Europe and the US to deal more effectively with other regions of the world. Reaching an ambitious economic agreement between us would send a powerful message to the rest of the world about our leadership in shaping global economic governance in line with our values. The battle to promote free and open democratic principles and practices, as Europe and the US interpret them, is far from over and the attraction of undemocratic formulas of governance is a reality in many parts of the world. A free trade agreement not only serves European and US interests, it serves the interests of the world ñ and promotes democratic values. OPINION: Two ways US and Europe can boost their economies Negotiating an agreement will not be easy. But this is a significant opportunity, and both the European Union and the United States should now make every effort to seize it. Jo„o Vale de Almeida is the European Union ambassador to the United States.
Wikimedia CommonsFamously, Q4 GDP came in at -0.1%, marking the first quarterly contraction since the financial crisis. The culprit was a sharp slowdown in government spending, predominantly military. Anyway, we pointed out at the time that the report wasn't that bad, since private sector activity was strong. And since then, some shops have cranked up their estimates of what Q4 will be revised to. In the end, it will probably be revised to solidly positive. The really good news is that the private sector looks stronger and stronger. In a note today, Deutsche Bank explains that thanks to today's retail sales numbers (which had nice revisions to earlier months) the end demand part of the Q4 GDP picture is looking nice. With a more complete picture of Q4 GDP following recent reports on retail sales, construction spending, international trade and inventories, the overall growth figure for last quarter remains unchanged at -0.1%. However, the underlying growth profile is somewhat improved, given that demand appears stronger than initially reported. Indeed, final sales (GDP less inventories) now look to be significantly stronger (1.9%) relative to what was initially reported (1.1%). Previously we highlighted that the acceleration in the underlying growth trend was more meaningful than the contraction in overall GDP, and this notion is even more compelling in light of revisions. The resilience of the economy is evident in two key series: retail sales and jobless claims. Of course, the jury remains "out" on whether the expiration of the payroll tax holiday and higher gas prices will sap the consumer. For now, things look good.
If you look up "hawk" in the dictionary, you might find a picture of this guy, Paul Volcker.  Paul Volcker took over the Federal Reserve in 1979. The CPI in 1979 was growing at over 12%. Inflation was HOT. FRED Volcker wanted to get that rate down. To combat the high inflation, Volcker raised interest rates dramatically. FRED This ultra aggressive tightening caused the economy to go into recession, and the unemployment rate went wild, hitting 11%. FRED But Volcker didn't care. His job was to whip inflation. And it worked. Inflation fell significantly from its peak. FRED And the unemployment spike was a temporary issue. It rapidly came down throughout the 80s. FRED So that's a hawk. Someone who tightens rates to beat inflation and doesn't care about unemployment. Now today we call Bernanke a dove because he's an innovator in terms of loose monetary policy. AP And we call SF Fed vice-chair Janet Yellen a dove, because she's so obsessed with unemployment, and making it clear that she's not eager to tighten rates anytime soon.  But are they really doves, just because they're doing everything they can to fight unemployment, rather than inflation? No! Economist Andy Harless explained in a post today that essentially what it means to be hawkish is to signal that you're a "tough macho badass" who just doesn't care. ...if you‚Äôre a tough, macho badass, people will always expect you to do the tough, macho badass thing.¬† You‚Äôll always be able to make credible threats, because carrying out threats is always the tough, macho badass thing to do.¬† And since the threats are credible, you mostly won‚Äôt have occasion to carry them out. This principle has a traditional application to monetary policy.¬† If your central banker is a perfectly rational nerd, he‚Äôs going to let the inflation rate get too high, because he won‚Äôt be able to make a credible threat to cause a recession.¬† People won‚Äôt expect him to carry out the threat, because in most cases it won‚Äôt be rational to carry out the threat.¬† After all, how often is it really rational to cause a recession? On the other hand, if your central banker is a tough, macho badass, he‚Äôs not going to let the inflation rate get too high, because he will be able to make a credible threat to cause a recession.¬† People will expect him to carry out the threat, because causing a recession is the tough, macho badass thing to do (for a central banker).¬† And since the threat is credible, people will keep their prices down, and he won‚Äôt have to carry it out.¬† (OK, the economics is a little more complicated, but that‚Äôs the general idea.) The upshot is that Paul Volcker was a hawk (a tough, macho badass) because he only cared about inflation, and didn't let anything bother him back then. Today we have a new kind of hawk. They've signaled aggressively that they're not going to freak out about inflation, because their goal is to fight unemployment. Rather than referring to Janet Yellen and Ben Bernanke as doves, we need to call them Unemployment Hawks.
Japanese Q4 GDP came in at a miss. Analysts expected a rise of 0.1%. Instead it was a fall of 0.1%. More shocking was the 0.4% fall in nominal GDP. That's worse than the expectation of 0.0% nominal GDP. This is the dormant growth facing the new Japanese Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe. The country is trying all kinds of monetary and fiscal fuel, hoping to get things going. UPDATE: The market has opened in Japan, and the Nikkei is up a hair.
">Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderTomorrow is a big day for economic indicators. The gross domestic product numbers (GDP) for several different countries are due for release before the market opens tomorrow, as are U.S. initial jobless claims. Several top companies are also posting earnings before market close tomorrow, including Pepsi Co and Apache. Here's what you need to know (All times are ET): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
How do you top buying 97 percent of a Hawaiian island? Buy a Hawaiian airline to help people get there. Oracle CEO Larry Ellison is rumored to be buying Island Air, reports¬†Dave Segal at the Honolulu Star-Advertiser, citing two unnamed sources said to be familiar with Ellison's plans. Island Air is a small airline that specializes in interisland flights, including daily flights to Ellison's island, Lanai. The airline has confirmed a sale is in process but hasn't announced the buyer. A PR person for the airline told the Pacific Business News that the buyer was an investment firm and hinted that Ellison was not involved. On the other hand, the airline's former CEO, who left the job on December 31, now works for Ellison's Hawaiian company, Lanai Resorts, Segal reports. So there are definitely ties between Ellison and the airline. Owning an airline would be in character. Ellison is himself a pilot who collects planes and his son is a stunt pilot, too. The population and tourist trade on Lanai is booming since Ellison purchased the island. The five daily ferry boats between Lanai and its closest neighbor, Maui,¬†are packed. As the island prospers, transportation to it will become an ever bigger issue. Oracle had no comment on Ellison's potential purchase of Island Air.
Another SAC Capital alum is talking to the feds. According to the WSJ, former SAC Capital analyst Jon Horvath says he was pressured by his superiors at the firm to get inside information on technology stocks. Obviously, this isn't going to help SAC Capital's billionaire founder Steve Cohen. At the end of last year he was mentioned as 'Portfolio Manager A' in the insider trading complaint against former SAC Capital portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. In short, that means Cohen's not being accused of anything, but the Feds believe he is close to the matter. Horvath's testimony will be used against Cohen and former SAC portfolio manager Michael Steinberg, says the WSJ. They've been trying to connect Cohen to six other insider trading convictions of former or current SAC traders since 2009. Neither Cohen nor Steinberg have been accused of wrongdoing. From the WSJ: "Michael Steinberg did absolutely nothing wrong," said his lawyer, Barry H. Berke. "His trading decisions were based on detailed analysis" and information "he understood had been properly obtained through the types of channels that institutional investors rely upon on a daily basis." SAC put Mr. Steinberg, 40 years old, on paid leave last fall, declining to specify the reasons for the move. Neither he nor Mr. Cohen has been accused of any wrongdoing. An SAC spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Steinberg. The spokesman has said Mr. Cohen and the hedge-fund firm acted appropriately and will cooperate with the investigation. Meanwhile, money is pouring out of the $14 billion fund. February 15th is the deadline for clients to turn in first quarter redemptions and some big names already have.
Getty Images/Spencer PlattLayoffs are about to hit Thomson-Reuters hard. The Financial Times reports that the company will cut 4% of its headcount ‚Äî 2,500 people ‚Äî this year. The problem is in the data department (from FT): Jim Smith, chief executive, said the group was "in year two of a two-year turnround" in its largest division, financial and risk, and was entering 2013 in a more confident mood.Staffing in financial institutions was "hardly robust", he said, "but it does seem more stable than it seemed at this time last year." After a disappointing 2010 launch of the Eikon financial data product with which it hoped to replace old Thomson Financial and Reuters terminals, recent upgrades had led toimproving retention rates and sales trends, Mr Smith said. "When we started last year we were [adding] 200 [Eikon] customers a week. In December it was 2,000 a week.," he said, adding that Eikon desktops had risen by 33 per cent to 33,900 over the fourth quarter and were now over 40,000. That success means that "legacy" porducts have to be retired. Meanwhile, over at Bloomberg, things are looking bright. the company plans to hire 500 more after posting a revenue $7.9 billion, a 4.5% increase.
Tory Burch is having an incredible year.¬† The designer was officially declared a billionaire, settled an acrimonious dispute with her ex, and saw her company valued at $3.5 billion.¬† Now, Burch might have a very powerful ally:¬†LVMH Mo√´t Hennessy Louis Vuitton. Peter-Yves Roussel, CEO of LVMH, was spotted in the front row of Burch's fashion show yesterday, reports Women's Wear Daily.¬† The publication speculated that Roussel could be eyeing Burch's line as a potential investment. LVMH is the top luxury conglomerate in the world.¬† But Roussel was coy with WWD.¬† "I‚Äôve got nothing special to say,‚Äù he told the publication. ‚ÄúI like what she does. That‚Äôs the only reason.‚Äù Burch's company is rumored to be the fashion industry's next big initial public offering.¬† If that's the case, LVMH is smart to get involved now.¬†
For the first time since the recovery began, Warren Buffettís favorite valuation metric has breached the 100% level.† That, of course, is the Wilshire 5,000 total market cap index relative to GNP.† See the chart below for historical reference. I only point this out because itís a rather unusual occurrence and the recent move has been fairly sizable.† It happened during the stock market bubble of the late 90's, but then occurred again just briefly during the 2006-2007 period when the valuation broke the 100% range in Q3 2006 and stayed above that range for about a year.† We all know what followed the 2007 peak in stock prices. Here we are in this wonderful new world where everyone values nominal stock prices more than they value the actual output that underlies it.† If this indicator isnít a sign that we are still residing in this Fed driven asset targeting mania then I donít know what is. To me, the whole thinking is backwards and more disruptive than anything else, but the party must go on.† Lord knows the Fed isnít taking the punch bowl away any time soon.† So drink up.† Maybe youíll get so drunk youíll sleep through the inevitable bad parts when they arrive.Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Pragmatic Capitalism
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffHedge fund titan Bill Ackman, who has been in the spotlight for his Herbalife short, is answering investor questions live at the Harbor Investment Conference at JPMorgan Chase right now.† Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife. †Ackman believes the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products is a "pyramid scheme" and has a price target of $0. We're on site and live blogging Pershing Square Capital Management's responses. †Refresh this page for updates. Before the Q&amp;A, Ackman auctioned off lunches with himself and the others who presented today. †Blue Mountain's Andrew Feldstein lunch brought in $30,000. Now we're gettng to the Q&amp;A, but first Ackman is going to talk about his Herbalife short. "We short very few stocks at Pershing Square," he said saying that shorting has certain inherent risks.† The biggest risk is no company likes for you to have a view that the stock is going to go down, the activist investor said.† "After 18 months of work and assistance of some of the top law firms in the country we've included that it's a pyramid scheme." He says Herbalife has hidden behind a product and that it's a company that hurts poor people. † The biggest risk Pershing Square took is whether or not they could get enough of a spotlight the FTC, the SEC or the Attorneys Generals around the country? "I was quite confident we attracted the world's attention." "Carl Icahn thank you very much and Dan Loeb thank you as well."† He said this made it an interesting question... "Am I right?"† The catalyst was publicity, he said. He says he has his "friends in the business" to thank for that.† Ackman put 284 questions out to Herbalife last week.† "Every question we asked a company that's not a pyramid scheme could answer in 20 minutes."† Now it's time for questions. He says he's willing to answer anything even Herbalife questions. "I'm obsessed with Herbalife," he said.† The Harbor Investment Conference is an annual event that brings together some of the industry's top investors to share trade ideas and raise money for the Boys &amp; Girls' Harbor. †Ackman and†Mark†Axelowitz,†managing director from UBS Private Wealth Management, co-host the conference. † Produced by Daniel Goodman†
electronic and youOn Teaching Compound Interest and Discounted Cash Flows ‚ÄúThe most powerful force in the universe is compound interest‚Äù ‚Äì Albert Einstein[1] ‚ÄúTomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time‚Äù This Spring I began teaching Personal Finance to a group of bright college students, and we recently wrapped up a section on compound interest and discounted cash flows. What I‚Äôm trying to get across to these undergraduates is that all of the key financial choices they will make in their lives ‚Äì all of their future decisions about consumer debt, retirement, insurance, purchasing a home, tax preparation, and investing ‚Äì will be much, much better decisions if they deeply understand compound interest and discounted cash flows. What are these concepts for? The compound interest formula tells these students, and any of us who use it, exactly how quickly, and to what ultimate size, money grows in the future.[2] Discounted cash flows reverses the process, and tells us what the present value would be of any given cash flow or series of cash flows that occurs in the future.[3] I‚Äôve realized over the course of the last few weeks, however, that I‚Äôm trying to convince these students of the absolute centrality of an idea that 95 percent of them have never heard of before walking into my class. Not only this, but also 95 percent of the people my students will meet in their life never have heard of compound interest and discounted cash flows, and therefore will not have the slightest idea how profoundly it affects their lives and their personal financial choices. Picture me in front of the class jumping up and down and waving my arms wildly (metaphorically of course), trying to get them to believe me. And yet, why should they believe me when I appear to be the first (and possibly insane) person to ever argue this case? I‚Äôm afraid that after they leave my class, the Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex will never again reveal the importance of compound interest and discounted cash flows to personal finance decision-making. Why isn‚Äôt this taught as a requirement of Junior High School Math? I was a strong math student in junior high and high school.[4]¬† I received a solid foundation in algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and calculus.¬† Of these, algebra has frequently proved useful, but none of the others apply to my life or career. Compound interest and discounted cash flows, however, dominated my professional life as a bond salesman and hedge fund investor, and I make use of insights from them in my personal financial life all the time. And yet, nobody taught me compound interest or discounted cash flows in school.¬† I‚Äôd be willing to bet that almost all of you reading this didn‚Äôt get taught these concepts in school.¬† That knowledge had to wait until I started as a bond guy at Goldman.¬† This, despite the fact that you only need junior high school level math ‚Äì basically algebra and the concept of ‚ÄòX raised to the power of Y‚Äô ‚Äì to understand and use compound interest and discounted cash flows. The fact that school taught, and I spent years learning, complex but ultimately very niche mathematical skills, combined with the fact that nobody taught the essential mathematical skills of personal finance (and Wall Street finance for that matter) really gets up my nose when I think about it. More than gets up my nose, it puts me in a suspicious frame of mind. Why would these essential skills not be taught to every junior high school student, and then re-taught to every high school student, and then elaborated on for every college student?¬† Because that‚Äôs how important this stuff is.¬† And how relatively unimportant trigonometry, geometry and calculus skills are for most citizens. I‚Äôve only come up with a couple of possible explanations, as I explain below, but please chime in with your own theories. 1. Math teachers, as a group, do not understand the role of compound interest and discounted cash flows in personal finance. I fear this is true.¬† I‚Äôve become friends with a few of my high school math teachers as an adult and with one I‚Äôve discussed the power of compound interest as a math concept and as a personal finance concept.¬† Later in his career, long after I took his class, he taught compound interest as part of his lessons on mathematics skills known as ‚Äòsequences and series.‚Äô In these later days he emphasized to his students that if he had really understood compound interest ‚Äì as a young man ‚Äì as well as he does now, his working and his retirement years would look totally different.¬† Could somebody please tell the Professional Math Teachers Association (or whoever is responsible for this stuff) that this is really the key concept, and I mean, for everything? 2. The Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex wants to keep us down.¬† I‚Äôm afraid I‚Äôm coming around more and more to this explanation.¬† Nothing else makes sense. I mean, seriously folks, calculus: Not relevant (for most people.)¬† Compound interest: relevant (for everyone.) ¬† Coming up next: Part II ‚Äì Compound interest and Wealth Part II ‚Äì Compound interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted Cash Flows Formula Part V ‚Äì Discounted Cash Flows ‚Äì another example Part VI ‚Äì Conclusion, and why we need this math as a society ¬† [1] Albert Einstein frequently gets credited with this wise statement.¬† A quick interwebs search suggests Einstein didn‚Äôt necessarily say this, as the first mention in print is found circa 1983.¬† But Einstein could have, and should have, because it‚Äôs true. [2] To get started on your own learning journey on compound interest, I recommend beginning by watching a video here, with my favorite, Salman Khan.¬† If you enjoy that, continue the process with videos on present value #1, present value #2, and present value #3 [3] A nice place to start on discounted cash flows is Salman Khan‚Äôs video on present value #4 (and discounted cash flow).¬† Khan doesn‚Äôt go far enough on discounted cash flows, or as far as I‚Äôm going to go in this series of blog posts to follow, but he at least gets us started, which is more than I can say for almost anyone else available for free out there. [4] I didn‚Äôt pursue math in college, beyond one statistics class required for my concentration, which was Social Studies.¬† Shout out to the 0.0005% of readers (I chose an arbitrary but statistically insignificant number) who will recognize my major and salute me for it, rather than assume I spent my college years doing what the rest of you did in Social Studies in middle school ‚Äì memorizing state mascots. Post read (61) times.
GettyOil prices increased by around 300 percent over the past decade.† During that time, OPEC countries went gangbusters. But the days of soaring oil wealth are numbered, says Citi. While Brent crude oil prices have recently gone up to around $118 per barrel, Citi commodities analyst Ed Morse and his team believe prices could fall to $90 as a result of global supply increases.† Oil prices look likely to fluctuate in a range significantly below the $90-120 per barrel†range in which Brent has traded since 2011 toward $70-90 by the end of this†decade. Because of changing dynamics in the geographic spread of production of†unconventional, as well as conventional supplies (notably from Iraq), and because†of growing inroads that natural gas should have in displacing oil products in the†transportation sector, OPEC should find it challenging to survive another 60 years,†let alone another decade. In particular, the following countries should get crushed by revenue declines if the price of Brent does indeed decline: Citi Starting this year, they write, will begin to have "tangible impacts" on prices and eventually will "turn the global geopolitics of energy on its head." Meanwhile, North America could truly become oil independent.† The probability of North American energy independence is extremely high, and even the prospects of energy independence for the US alone are real. This does not mean that the US automatically becomes isolationist or that defense expenditures necessarily become more questionable. But it does provide unexpected opportunities for the countryís foreign and trade policy. Will the US continue to provide security guarantees for its longstanding allies and sources of supply? Will China step in to buy supplies where the US no longer needs them, strengthening relations with new partners in the process? These changes will evolve over a period of years, not months, but the shifts are likely to be significant, with profound longterm implications.
Business school isn't just about getting an MBA. It's about meeting people who can propel your career forward. After all, who you know is often just as important as what you know. GraduatePrograms.com, a non-profit that surveys graduate students and provides scholarships to a random selection of students who participate, recently put together a ranking of the MBA programs that have the best social life. They defined social life as "accessibility to the social scene (meeting and making friends and/or dating)."¬†¬† The rankings are entirely based on 4,500 surveys of current and recently graduated students conducted from¬†September 1, 2012 to January 7, 2013. They were asked to rank their schools on a ten star system (one being the lowest score, and ten the highest) for a variety of different categories.¬† Here are the top ten schools for social life:¬†
The company was talked about at the Harbor Investment Conference at JPMorgan Chase in Midtown Manhattan. The HIC is an annual event that raises funds for the Boys &amp; Girls Harbor in New York City that's co-chaired by Bill Ackman and Mark Axelowitz. All trade ideas that were being discussed were embargoed until after the closing bell. Ackman, who has a big stake in Howard Hughes and is the chairman of its board, called the company that develops planned communities and mixed-use properties one of the "best kept secrets on Wall Street" during his introduction of the CEO.† Howard Hughes CEO David Weinreb gave a big slide presentation on the company at the charity conference that showed tons of pictures of their plans. Moments after the presentation, the stock hit a 52-week high. † † And for any New Yorkers who might be interested, Weinreb showed some pretty cool plans for the South Street Seaport to be used as a venue for fashion shows and rooftop concerts, etc. You can see the presentation here in the company's 8-K filing with the SEC. The stock closed up $5.52, or 7.59%, to end at $78.23 a share. Check out the chart for today:† Yahoo! Finance
Boeing Despite some serious issues with the 787 Dreamliner, Boeing is still beating earning estimates and selling more planes than its archrival Airbus for the first time in nearly a decade. To meet the uptick in orders, Boeing is working to build its planes faster, incorporating new technologies and adding new facilities and employees. The Washington aviation company now builds eight brand new 777s every month (up from seven) and 38 737s each month (up from 31). It expects to increase the production rate of the 737 to 42 per month in 2014, according to NYC Aviation. As the company builds more planes, it has also been building its staff. The company hired about 15,000 employees last year ó and it treats its employees well. Boeing took the number 16 spot on our list of the 50 Best Employers In America, based on exclusive data from PayScale, with 76 percent of employees reporting a high job satisfaction rating. The combination of new technology and quality employees working together allows Boeing to make planes so quickly. "The amount of breakthrough and innovation that the team brings ó our mechanics, our support team, our engineers ó† is what enables this," Jason Clark, the director of 777 manufacturing, said. Boeing produced a short video to show off how it manufactures airplanes at such an astounding rate. Watch the full video, or click through to see.
Whole Foods earnings are out, and the stock is tumbling. Click here for LIVE updates &gt; The company posted earnings of $0.78 per share, a penny above consensus expectations. Revenues came in at $3.86 billion, right in line with estimates. However, same-store sales growth in Q4 came in at 7.2 percent, below consensus estimates of 7.7 percent gains. The company narrowed its guidance for 2013 same-store sales growth to a range of 6.6-8 percent from 6.5-8.5 percent previously. The company also slightly lowered revenue guidance, saying it now expects 10-11 percent revenue growth in 2013 after previously guiding for 10-12 percent growth. The stock is down almost 8 percent in after-hours trading. Below are details on the company's 2013 outlook from its press release: The following table provides information on the Company's updated outlook for fiscal year 2013, a 52-week year, as compared to fiscal year 2012, a 53-week year. Based on its year-to-date results, the Company is narrowing its comparable and identical store sales growth ranges for the fiscal year, keeping the midpoints approximately in line with its prior outlook, while maintaining EPS of $2.83 to $2.87. On a 52-week to 52-week basis, the Company continues to expect sales growth of 12% to 14% and diluted earnings per share growth of 14% to 16%. As reflected in its outlook, the Company does not expect to produce the same level of EPS growth over the remainder of the year as it produced in the first quarter due primarily to tougher gross margin comparisons, particularly in the second and third quarters of last year, along with its ongoing strategy to expand value offerings across the store to improve its competitive price positioning. As such, the Company does not expect an improvement in gross margin this year, and given first quarter results, this implies lower year-over-year gross margin for the remainder of the year. In addition, the Company expects a significant year-over-over increase in pre-opening and relocation expense in the fourth quarter based on the opening of 10 to 12 new stores along with a high number of openings in the first quarter of 2014. Click here for the full release &gt;
CNBC screenshotAndrew Feldstein, the CEO/CIO of $12.5 billion BlueMountain Capital (the hedge fund on the other side of the "London Whale" trade), spoke at the Harbor Investment Conference this afternoon at JPMorgan Chase. "The unifying theme across everything that we do across all of our vehicles is that we're looking for attractively priced optionality. We're looking for asymmetric return profiles," Feldstein said. His focus today at the HIC was on the steel industry, which he thinks is a "fragile situation." Many of these companies are priced for stability and that means you can find cheap convexity and cheap optionality," he explained. Feldstein, who flew through his slide deck, gave these three trade ideas:† The Harbor Investment Conference is an annual event that brings together some of the industry's top investors to share trade ideas and raise money for the Boys &amp; Girls' Harbor. †Ackman and†Mark†Axelowitz,†managing director from UBS Private Wealth Management, co-host the conference.†
Joseph A. Carr, Wikimedia CommonsStocks barely budged.† But they're still just a handful of points from their all-time highs. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,982, -35.7, -0.2 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,520, +0.9, +0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,196, +10.3, +0.3 percent And now the top stories:
In anticipation of worsening profit reports, the London stock market has sliced the share prices of the only two listed pork producers in the top-5, RusAgro and Cherkizovo, by 56% and 46% respectively, trimming their market capitalization to the $800 million level. A hearing on February 6 at the State Duma‚Äôs Agriculture Committee heard testimony that the pork sector was hit with the biggest concessions of any of the farm and foodstuff markets when Russian trade negotiators finalized the accession agreement with the World Trade Organization (WTO) last year. According to the WTO announcement of the import duty schedule for primary products (their incoming volumes are also subject to quotas), the duty for imported pork in quota is now zero. By comparison, in-quota beef is still subject to a 15% duty and poultry to 25%. The duty on imported meat at volumes above the quota are 55% for beef, 65% for pork, and 80% for poultry. The purpose of the quotas to enable domestic pork production to replace imports was explicitly set out in July of 2011, one year before WTO accession, by then Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. ‚ÄúIn 2011,‚Äù he said, ‚ÄúRussia will consume some three million tonnes of pork, and we produce some 2,400,000 tonnes. So this year we will import some 600,000-650,000 tonnes. And next year‚Ä¶we will see a considerable increase in pork production, because we have been launching new livestock production facilities, pig farms. According to a preliminary estimate, we shall produce an additional 300,000 tonnes of pork. That is to say, next year we will import 350,000 tonnes of pork.‚Äù The WTO rules came into effect in August 2012. They also limit the financial support the state budget can provide farmers, such as subsidized interest on bank loans, value-added tax concessions for new equipment, or price-controlled state-stocked fodder. ‚ÄúThe total trade distorting agricultural support,‚Äù says the WTO, ‚Äúwould not exceed USD 9 billion in 2012 and would be gradually reduced to USD 4.4 billion by 2018. To avoid excessive concentration of support on individual products, from the date of accession to 31 December 2017, the annual agricultural support going to specific products would not exceed 30% of the agriculture support that is not for specific products.‚Äù Energy subsidies to farmers, in the form of gas, fuel or electricity prices, have also been banned. Finally, the new WTO rules disallow the application of veterinary or phytosantitary measures if they are intended as ‚Äútechnical barriers to trade‚Äù. According to the WTO, ‚Äúexcept in case of serious risks of animal or human health, Rosselkhoznadzor [RSN], the Federal Service for Veterinary and Phytosanitary Surveillance, would not suspend imports from establishments based on the results of on-site inspection before it had given the exporting country the opportunity to propose corrective measures. Rosselkhoznadzor would send a preliminary report to the competent authority of the exporting country for comments.‚Äù Last month‚Äôs RSN ban on imports of frozen and chilled pork and pork offal from the US, allegedly for the use by American farmers of the growth stimulant ractopamine, are being contested by the US Department of Agriculture and by the US pork exporters as a violation of the accession agreement. For a review of this and earlier technical controversies over RSN bans, read this archive. Under these cross pressures, the Russian pork industry is already slaughtering pigs whom it is loss-making to feed with high-priced domestic fodder. At the same time, the industry is appealing for an immediate budget bailout to reduce the grain price. The Duma Agriculture Committee agreed last week to request an outlay from budget funds of up to Rb10 billion ($323 million) for fodder purchase. The Finance Ministry has responded with an offer of Rb6 billion ($194 million). On February 7, Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov told Medvedev there should be an emergency increase in this year‚Äôs budget for the farm sector by Rb42 billion ($1.4 billion), including Rb15 billion ($500 million) in feed subsidies to meat, milk, and egg producers. Yury Kovalev, head of the National Union of Pork Producers, said in an interview in a Moscow newspaper last week that the WTO measures have severely damaged the state plan to reduce Russian dependence on meat imports. ‚ÄúWe consume 3.2 million tonnes of pork, of which 2.4 million tonnes we produce, and import 800,000 tonnes. Thanks to this protected market the profit margin in pig business is 20% to 25%. It is this rate of return which is the only way producer and farm companies can repay the banks. The plan was to reduce the share of imports to at least 15%.‚Äù Kovalev said that because of last season‚Äôs poor harvest, the price of feed grain has doubled. At the same time the price of live pigs has been cut by 30% because of the import surge. ‚ÄúAs a result, the industry is unprofitable ‚Äì by minus 15% to 20%. Pork is in a double vise. Therefore, we put the issue to the government that the pig needs help.‚Äù Alexander Kostikov, head of communications and investor relations for Cherkizovo, explains why the price squeeze is hitting so hard on the pork producers‚Äô bottom-line: ‚Äúwe must understand that in Russia pig production is still very young. Most modern pig farms were built in the last five years and they have been built with the assistance of loans. That is, for each kilogramme of pork, in the [retail] sale price at least ten rubles comprises the cost of [repayment of] credit. So it is clear that for the majority now, production has become unprofitable. The Cherkizovo company, for example, is very big on the one hand; but on the other hand we are also a diversified company ‚Äì we have also in addition to pork, poultry and meat processing. When there is such [a pork price squeeze] in the market, other segments in general stabilize our business. But the situation with pig production in Russia is very complicated, very difficult. And now pig producers are counting on support from the state very strongly. Various ways are discussed in which the state can stabilize the market. And we hope the situation will return to normal.‚Äù A recent calculation by UralSib Bank analyst Marat Ibragimov indicates how much cash would be added to Cherkizovo‚Äôs bottom line if the Kremlin agrees to an emergency outlay for feed. ‚ÄúRussia was forced to reduce import duties on live pigs from 40% to 5%, which led to a massive increase in live pig imports ‚Äì by 34% YoY last year, according to the National Pork Producers‚Äô Union. This squeezed domestic production by reducing prices, while fodder costs rose, driven by a bad grain harvest‚Ä¶ Cherkizovo is Russia‚Äôs 3rd largest pork producer with a 5.4% market share in 2011. As such, we estimate that it may receive up to $10.8 million of state money, equivalent to 3.5% of Cherkizovo‚Äôs 2013E[estimated] consensus net profit.‚Äù Just how abnormal the current situation is proving to be financially for Miratorg, the largest pork producer in the country, isn‚Äôt discussed by Miratorg‚Äôs spokesman, Dmitry Lgovskiy. He says this must wait until the annual report for 2012 is released in several weeks. Meantime, according to Miratorg‚Äôs financial report for 2011, its earnings (Ebitda) came in at Rb6.6 billion ($220 million), a 65% gain over 2010. The earnings margin also hit a record high of 55.9%; in 2010 the margin on earnings of Rb4 billion ($133 million) was 47.1%. Based in the Belgorod and Kursk regions of western Russia, Miratorg is owned by the brothers, Alexander and Victor Linnik. They are commercial allies of Ziyavudin Magomedov, backing his takeover of the 50% state shareholding in United Grain Company (UGC, OZK) last May. In return, they received one of the seats on the new UGC board of directors, suggesting they may have contributed some of the Rb5.95 billion ($198 million) Magomedov offered for the winning bid. Miratorg reports that in 2011 it held a Russian market share of 8.1% and ‚Äúcontinues to strengthen its position‚Äù. The pork producers union tabulation for the top producers in the same year indicate a slightly lower market share for Miratorg. The new tabulation for 2012 will be released at the end of this month, and significant changes are expected in the wake of the import crisis and margin squeeze. nssrf.ru Nikolai Birulin is the senior expert for market analysis and forecasting at the National Union. He says that by accepting the WTO conditions, the Russian government allowed the mature pork industries of Europe and North America to lock in their capital and cost of production advantages against the revival of the much younger, developing pork industry of Russia. ‚ÄúEven if we take the playing field, even if we consider that the investment phase is over in Europe and they do not pay off [the Russian level of debt], they can operate at a 2% to 3% profit margin. Even if we set aside the credit position, which today‚Äôs [Russian] enterprises need to pay and just focus on comparable operating conditions, we will see that our companies will be less competitive, despite a similar production and performance indicators, in terms of feed conversion, in terms of genetics . Because we have, as it turns out,[bank interest] rates higher than in European countries. Higher costs for the maintenance of pigs, for example, compared with Brazil, because with Brazil‚Äôs warm climate, they do not need to spend money on heating, no need to spend money on capital piggeries. Accordingly, their costs are lower. Therefore, if you open the border as emphatically as we are doing it now, we are not competitive in comparison.‚Äù ‚ÄúTaking into account the investment component, the repayment of loans, the [Russian] situation is even worse. Consider the fact that Europe passed the same way after the Second World War and it has also closed its market to raise the price a little. Consider that it too created terms for investment attractiveness, so that investment would go into the industry. Once there was enough for domestic consumption, the surpluses are bought and sold abroad. So from self-sufficiency they moved into export. After that, as prices equalled the world market level, investments in the sector have stopped, and subsidies were paid to the farm enterprises to maintain the profitability necessary for the branch to exist and to reproduce. This is how the whole programme is designed. In North America and in other countries where [state] support of agriculture is big enough, it is very difficult to distinguish which degree of support is precisely available for pork. It is hidden. Lawyers there work very well there, and everything is built in such a way as not to violate the rules of the WTO.‚Äù ‚ÄúUnfortunately, we have been caught in the middle period of the investment phase. If we can pay off the debt we have, then those modern enterprises which now exist will be competitive, taking into account cost of delivery of meat and everything else, albeit on the margin‚Ä¶ We have developed a number of proposals, and they are being considered in the government to normalize the situation. If we will be heard, than we hope that the industry will be able to exist in the future. If not, we will see a very significant change in the market.‚Äù In this market squeeze, it‚Äôs obvious that everyone loses; but adversity isn‚Äôt distributed proportionately. So who within the Russian industry is gaining, and who will benefit most from a Kremlin bailout? Before WTO accession, when he was still president, Medvedev claimed to be boosting competition when in the agro-industrial sector he was doing the opposite. Concentration in oligarch hands, not competitive diversification, was Medvedev‚Äôs real purpose. According to Philip Owen, principal consultant at Volga Trader in Saratov: ‚ÄúThe large farms have huge stores at their feed mills to take advantage of harvest prices. It‚Äôs the farms without their own feed mills, comprising still as much as 60% of local production, which have suffered most. Backyard farmers get paid in grain by the former collective farm, so [for them] money doesn‚Äôt count. Middle- sized producers are the most damaged. The spike in prices is reducing the diversity of competition.‚Äù Russian experts are reluctant to say as much. The current squeeze, responds Birulin of the National Union, ‚Äúis, first of all, beneficial for importers, because they have the decline of the foreign trade price above and inside the quotas. So, accordingly, they may either put this 15% it into their pockets, or for a 15% discount sell their products while preserving their profitability‚Ä¶We are already seeing a twofold increase in above-quota import volumes in the results of August-December 2012, compared with August-December of 2011.‚Äù Then there is the special advantage Brazil enjoys. ‚ÄúBrazil uses preferential treatment as a developing country. Their coefficient is 0.75 [of the import pricing level for developed countries]; they have even smaller trading fees than the rest of the countries. So [Brazilian meat imports] are the cheapest‚Ä¶They lead in over-quota import volumes; almost 50% of the over-quota imports of pork to Russia are from Brazil.‚Äù Assessing the impact of pork-barrel financing for Russian pork producers, Maria Bovykina, analyst for Alfa Bank, has reported to clients: ‚ÄúWe think the news is NEUTRAL for Cherkizovo and Rusagro at this stage, as the proposal has yet to be approved and it is not clear how much each company might receive. However, the proposal to compensate for higher animal feed costs is potentially positive and would support gross margins.‚Äù A European meat trader says: ‚ÄúPutin is keen on pig farmers so this [crisis] is not to be laid at his door.‚Äù So why has the president apparently abandoned the industry to the commercial raid of the importers? No one from farm, trade, or investment analysis is willing to answer, though the record of Kremlin-funded bailouts since 2008 clearly shows that state funded benefits favour, not only the process of consolidation of assets, but also those individual proprietors who have run up the largest debts. Compared to the Russian livestock slaughter of the early 1990s, which then president Boris Yeltsin conceded for the advantage of North American and European Union meat exporters, this means a favour for the dwindling number of Russians who have got their hands on the pig, and aim to keep them there. Read more posts on Dances With Bears ¬ª
John Boehner, Flickr It was a fairly standard State Of The Union night in America last night. President Obama outlined an aggressive progressive vision for America that is almost certainly DOA. The Republicans offered up a rising star, Marco Rubio, to deliver a rebuttal that was written even before the President's speech had been released. It was mostly a speech composed of generalities. And although there was a brief awkward moment with a water bottle, Rubio looked pretty good. But there was one statement from Rubio that really stands out: The President loves to blame the debt on President Bush. But President Obama created more debt in four years than his predecessor did in eight.† The real cause of our debt is that our government has been spending 1 trillion dollars more than it takes in every year. Thatís why we need a balanced budget amendment.† The weird thing about this line is that it's a call to enact an amendment which would destroy the economy. What's even weirder is that hardly anyone cared that a politician would call for it on live TV! Sure, some people (mostly on Twitter) pointed out that a balanced budget amendment is not wise, but most people commenting didn't really care one way†or another about it. First let's establish that it's a horrendous idea. A balanced budget amendment would require austerity on a historic level. In recent years, we've had deficits ranging between seven and 10 percent of GDP. FRED Just the upcoming "sequester" (which doesn't come anywhere close to "balancing the budget") is expected to cost 750,000 jobs this year. Beyond that, if we actually tried getting the deficit to zero, which is what a balanced budget amendment would require, we'd never get there, because the ensuing GDP contraction, would devastate the economy and cause tax revenues to shrivel. The futility of austerity as a means of deficit reduction has recently been shown in Europe, where a continent obsesses with austerity continues to miss deficit targets. And in Japan, history shows that periods of austerity are associated with larger deficits. See the parts of this chart from Richard Koo that refer to the Hashimoto and Koizumi periods of fiscal reform. Deficits rose and tax revenue shriveled.  It's also important to understand the relationship between government savings and private sector savings. As the chief economist of Goldman Sachs explained to us in an interview, a core chart to understanding the economy is the one below, which shows that government deficits are the mirror image of private sector savings. When the government "saves" more, the private sector saves less. When the government saves less, the private sector can save more. It's precisely the leveraging of the government sector in recent years that has enabled households to pay down debt. Note how the black line and the light grey line are almost perfect mirrors of each other. Goldman Sachs A world where the government is unable to go into deficits is a world where the private sector is unable to save ó a situation that would result in economic catastrophe. Note that none of the above arguments even rest on the easy/standard Keynesian argument that a Balanced Budget Amendment would prevent the government from dealing with a recession using counter-cyclical fiscal policy. That is of course true, but it dramatically understates the arguments against such an amendment. It's hard to imagine what an equivalently bad idea would be in another realm. Certainly if a politician called for disbanding the military, most people (even neutral journalists) would feel comfortable pointing out that the politician was advocating something massively irresponsible. So why the meh reaction to Rubio? Basically because on deficit and spending issues, almost everyone who covers Washington has swallowed one view of the debate hook, line and sinker. That's why a mainstream guy like Joe Scarborough can say that nobody agrees with Paul Krugman on the deficit ó a statement that is provably false. It's also why George Will, when advocating a Balanced Budget Amendment, can state that the only good counterarguments are that it won't work very well, or that it might result in tax increases. As if those were the only good counter-arguments! Anyway, the GOP is making a new push on the Balanced Budget Amendment, a drive that's almost certainly going to end in failure. It will not pass. But beyond that, it will likely be covered as though it's just a debate about two different sets of values (big vs. small government, or whatever) rather than a debate about whether or not we want to hit the Constitutional Self Destruct Button.
'Rags to riches' tales are a dime a dozen in America, but we were genuinely surprised when Jim Cramer opened up about his brush with homelessness Tuesday.¬† The former hedge fund manager and controversial CNBC host had just graduated from out of Harvard Law when he hit rock bottom, CNBC's Lee Brodie reports:¬† "After a thief broke into his modest California apartment and stole absolutely everything, Cramer had nothing left and nowhere to go.¬†Cramer was living out of his car. 'I was living hand to mouth, and people would take me in now and then so I could get a shower, change, get a good night's sleep,' he explained." It took six months to get back on his feet before he made his way to Goldman Sachs and later founded his own hedge fund, along with MainStreet.com. As a host for CNBC's 'Mad Money,' Cramer's net worth has reached somewhere between $50 million to $100 million. It's not the first time he's opened up about his past. We found a fascinating 2005 interview from The Harvard Crimson¬†where Cramer spoke about struggling as a journalist in his early days and lamented America's growing intolerance for poverty.¬† "I‚Äôm just ashamed,‚Äù he said at the time. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want to say I feel guilty about the wealth I have. But I‚Äôm ashamed that we‚Äôve gotten to the point in this country where we believe that being poor is just your own damn fault.‚Äù¬†
US Air Force"Optimism that political hurdles will be cleared within six months may be overcoming uncertainty related to the sequester and potential government shutdown," writes Dane Vrabac, a U.S. economist for Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley's proprietary Business Conditions Index* surged 13 points to 55% in February.¬† Sub-indices for expectations, capital expenditure plans, and credit conditions all improved. Vrabac noted that improving attitudes toward fiscal policy uncertainty played a big role. "This month, 40% (versus 57% in January and 65% in December) of respondents reported companies have downgraded business conditions because of fiscal policy uncertainty," wrote Vrabac.¬† "This is a low since June 2012, but a full 30% do not know if the March 1 sequester and March 27 expiration of the continuing resolution funding the government will have an impact." "The gain in expectations was consistent with our forecast that private sector activity will support a pickup in economic growth later this year and into 2014 once politicians get out of the way, but we see significant near-term fiscal policy risks remaining," he wrote. Hiring plans were among the few subindices that deteriorated. Here's a breakdown of the index: Morgan Stanley From Morgan Stanley: What is the MSBCI?The Morgan Stanley Business Conditions Index (MSBCI) is an economic barometer that is based on an internal monthly canvass of our industry analysts in North America Equity Research. Though brief, this survey covers a wide range of topics pertaining to the companies under our analysts‚Äô coverage. Specifically, the MSBCI is comprised of a ‚Äúheadline‚Äù index that measures general analyst sentiment as well as component indicators that gauge financing, advance bookings, pricing, hiring, capital spending, and expectations. Since its inception in June 2002, the MSBCI has served as a valuable and effective instrument for anticipating directional moves in the U.S. economy (see ‚ÄúIntroducing the Morgan Stanley U.S. Business Conditions Index,‚Äù July 11, 2003).
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Dividend Theme Is Far From Over (Gluskin Sheff)  Though dividend-paying stocks are trading at 15x trailing multiples compared with 14x P/E for the rest of the market, David Rosenberg says the divided theme is far from over because baby boomers are still looking for a "retirement map". "Dividend-paying stocks generated a total return of 42% in the past five years, handily beating the 26% return triggered by the rest of the universe. So where we go from here is quite clear. It's not just about 'yield' any more but about the company's ability to grow the dividend over time and do so without resorting to debt markets or sacrificing reinvested growth in the company. It is a fine line but dividend growth is now vital and there are now industrials and consumer products companies (not just utilities and telcos) who fit that bill. "..What so many pundits are missing ‚Äìand this is so evident in the bond market as well ‚Äì is how the secular demographic shifts are causing a semi-permanent reassessment of how much 'income' in general ‚Äì whether in income equity, long-short strategies or in fixed income ‚Äì and this theme has many¬† more legs to go, in my opinion." A Massachusetts Regulator Wants The SEC To Ban A Mandatory Arbitration Clause (The Wall Street Journal) A Massachusetts regulator is asking the SEC to ban an arbitration clause found in contracts between advisors and their clients. The clause prevents clients from taking their claims on losses or other damages to court.¬† Nearly half of investment advisors surveyed in Massachusetts had the clause in their contracts and Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin wrote to the SEC saying this clause was "troubling and a cause for regulatory concern". ETFs Are One Of The Key Reasons That It's Such A Great Time To Be An Advisor (Advisor One) Vanguard Group's Chairman Emeritus Jack Brennan said this is "the best time ever" to be a financial advisor and this is in large part because of products like ETFs. ETFs he said give advisors time to build their business since they offer diversity and are transparent and tax-efficient. "For 19 basis points, you get the Harvard endowment." Brennan did warn against too much innovation among ETFs for instance actively managed ETFs since that would introduce manager risk. How The Stock Market Has Reacted To Every State Of The Union Since 1934 (LPL Financial) President Obama delivered his State of the Union (SOTU) speech last night in which he called for $9 minimum wage.¬† Most SOTU speeches cause a less than 1 percent move in stock markets. Here is a look at the post-SOTU stock market moves since 1934. LPL Financial  Why The Great Rotation Won't Be As Good For Stocks As You Think (Marc To Market) Those talking about the Great Rotation have argued that money is moving out of bonds into stocks and that there is more money in equity funds now that there was in all of 2012. But Marc Chandler at Brown Brothers Harriman disagrees.¬† "There is a third asset class that needs to be integrated into the analysis:¬† cash.¬† After surveying the data and various reports, it looks to us that the flows into equities is not coming out of fixed income but rather money market funds and deposits "Through last week, equity funds (counting ETFs) saw an inflow of around $70 bln (compared with $23 bln in all of 2012).¬† The $30 bln inflows being reported by bond funds is a major argument against the "Great Rotation", though this is a bit off the pace seen last year ($40 bln inflows during the same period)."
Japan is one of the hottest trades in the world right now. We hear it over and over from Wall Street strategists: Investors are betting that the yen, which has dropped 17.5 percent against the U.S. dollar just since September ñ still has plenty of room to run. Bloomberg, Business Insider The consensus view among economists and analysts is that a weaker yen, driven by recently-elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's stimulative fiscal and monetary policies, will be great for the Japanese economy. They represent a fighting chance to overcome deflation for the first time in a long time. Ryutaro Kono, the top Japan economist at BNP Paribas, takes a decidedly different view on "Abenomics," as these new policies have been dubbed. Kono writes in a note to clients, "Fiscal expansion only boosts growth while it is happening. When its effects fade, what remains is likely to be a sluggish economy with high inflation, coupled with public debt so swollen that the probability of a fiscal crisis soars." Here is the roadmap to how "Abenomics" in 2013 translates to fiscal crisis in 2015, according to Kono (emphasis added): Democratic societies tend to want quick results, but there is no formula for and instant boost to trend growth. Lacking the patience for structural reform, economies can become dependent on near-sighted policies. Because of this political-economic reality, we think monetisation will be the choice of the Japanese government and are making it our base-case scenario.  We have, therefore, adjusted our forecasts. In addition to the large fiscal stimulus package just announced (2% of GDP), we expect the government to implement stimulus measures of a similar magnitude in Q1 2014 and again in Q2 2015. Based on this assumption, we have revised our growth forecasts to 0.8% in 2013 (0.2% previously), 1.0% in 2014 (0.0%) and 1.1% in 2015, meaning that the economy will continue to outperform its trend growth rate (roughly 0.25%). While the nominal growth rate will also rise, the BoJís easing should ensure that the long-term interest rate only sees mild increases in 2013 and 2014. Because of this, risk-asset prices will likely continue to rally. The economy, in other words, will take on bubble-like aspects.  With the frictional unemployment rate at around 3.5% and the current unemployment rate at 4.2%, there is actually not much slack left in the economy. Based on our new growth forecast, the year-end jobless rate is set to hit 3.7% in 2013, 3.6% in 2014 and 3.4% in 2015. Because of entrenched deflationary expectations, there will probably be only limited rise in inflation initially, despite a narrowing output gap. But we expect inflation to start to pick up once the economy reaches full employment in H2 2015. Consequently, our year-end inflation forecasts (excluding impact of consumption-tax hikes) are 0.4% in 2013, 0.8% in 2014 and 1.6% in 2015.  Upward pressure on long-term rates should also intensify alongside accelerating inflation. However, at this juncture, the BoJ would probably not be able to tighten policy, because it would be concerned about the possibility of causing a bond-market crash that could lead to financial instability (given the huge volume of JGBs held by domestic financial institutions). When the central bank becomes deeply incorporated into the governmentís debt management, price stability is sacrificed for the sake of financial-system stability. But the BoJ wonít be able to neutralise this upward pressure for long, and the long-term interest rate should also start to climb in the latter part of 2015, increasing the risk of a fiscal crisis. Our year-end forecasts for the 10-year bond yield are 1.20% in 2013, 1.60% in 2014 and 2.90% in 2015. In other words, Kono is now forecasting that Japanese government bond yields will soar in 2015. Given their steady march lower in recent years, that would certainly be a twist.
Activist investor Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square Capital, has been in the spotlight for his Herbalife short, and he's been gotten in a public fight with investor Carl Icahn. Check out below how Herbalife became the apple of discord for these two Wall Street behemoths: Produced by Daniel Goodman¬†
YouTubeToby KeithYou have to hand it to Bart Chilton, the head of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, for trying to make commodities markets as colorful as possible. He titled a recent speech that he gave at the Arkansas State University Agribusiness Conference "Red," and it's full of great charming quotes ("Can I get an Amen?")and pop culture references, like the Oscar's and most importantly, the Toby Keith song, "Red Solo Cup." The speech was about the history of the futures market in the U.S., which was developed to help farmers through winter months. That part is fun, but Chilton really gets into the groove when he's talking about how the futures market is changing and what caused the 2008 financial crisis. From the CFTC: So hereís the question, and Iíve heard it from many producers and commercial ag interests: Are markets continuing to fulfill those important fundamental purposes of the markets from way back in the 1850s? Are the markets still providing a place for producers and agri-businesses to appropriately hedge their risks and for fair price discovery for consumers? Well, thatís a worthy question, Grasshopper. Can I get an ìamen?î Hereís what we do know: markets have been, and are today, right this very moment, morphing. It is happening now. Look around, can yaí smell it? They are changing and mutating. Thatís not always a good thing. That mutating stuff is a little scary, right? Right! If youíve ever seen a poisonous Giant Redheaded Centipede (Scolpendra Heros for you entomologists), and they have ëem here in the Natural State, yaí know what I mean. For the record, I oppose Giant Redheaded Centipede futures markets. In fact, Iím not afraid to say it, I oppose Giant Redheaded Centipedes. Iím not frightened to take a position on themótheyíre nasty. At this point you may be wondering when Chilton is going to make his point. Don't worry, it's coming (along with the word "buckaroos"): The potion in my notion, and in point of fact I actually have one, is this: markets are mutating, morphing, transforming, changing . . . whatever, what have you. But, you donít have to take it from meóthe longhaired Giant Redheaded Centipede opposing dude. In order to fully appreciate what has been going on, we need to only look to the report of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, or FCIC. They sound official, right? Well, they sound like that for good reason. The Commission was comprised in the wake of the 2008 red lava economic meltdown after taxpayers had collectively gone into the red by bailing out Wall Street to the hot and tasty tune ofówait for itómore than $400 billion buckaroos. The Commission was comprised of folks who Congress asked to explain wha wha what exactly happened. How did things go so horribly wrong? This is where Chilton takes a high road and blames himself for the financial crisis: Iíll tell yaí what, in essence, FCIC said. There were two culprits to the calamity: Lax laws, rules, regulations and regulatorsóthatís guys like meówho werenít paying attention; and The Captains of Wall Street who took advantage of the lax laws, rules and regs and the ìasleep at the switchî regulators. And here's where he uses plasticware and country music to explain the greatest calamity our economy has seen since the 1930s. You all know that great Toby Keith song, Red Solo Cup? ìRed solo cup, I fill you up. Letís have a party, letís have a party.î Well, for about eight years, leading up to 2008, there was a big party on Wall Street. They proceeded to party. The high-flyers were taking speculative risks beyond anything weíd ever witnessed. Many times these were wild, casino-like financial instrumentsóderivatives, on say, bundles of mortgagesóthat wrecked our economy when they crashed. Nine million people lost their jobsómillions more their homes. Oil prices soared to near $150 a barrel and gasoline prices reached an all-time and still undefeated ìchampeen,î high of $4.10 per gallon in June of 2008. People had to choose between food and fuel. And as all this was going on, technology intervened in the markets like never before. That's one way to describe it. And in case you've never heard the song, here's the video:  † Read the full speech at the CFTC website&gt;
Within the last 24 hours, G-7 officials issued a currency statement, "clarified" it and then criticized the clarification! Here, in summary terms, are three possible reasons for this muddle, as well as what it may mean for investors. Let us start with the context. Yesterday's statement was a response to increasing global concerns about "currency wars." It stressed that members' policy approach "remains oriented towards meeting ‚Ä¶ domestic objectives using domestic instruments." And to make things totally explicit, officials added that exchange rates are not being "targeted." So why have reactions been so confused? First, the statement's impact was immediately blunted by officials' attempt at a forced analytical distinction between direct and indirect influences on exchange rates. Simply put, the G-7's stab at economic diplomacy collided with economic reality. Yes officials may not be directly manipulating their currencies; and yes, they do not have specific targets in mind (unlike the traditional FX intervention triggered by the trade tensions of old). But undoubtedly they are indirectly influencing their exchange rates, and in a meaningful manner. They are doing so through the aggressive choice of monetary policy and the manner it is being pursued ‚Äì particularly the ever-deepening experimental combination of floored policy interest rates, bold forward policy guidance and, of course, unprecedented use of their balance sheets. Second, the G-7 itself is far from united on the issue. Some countries, like the U.S., are advocating a broader adoption of "reflationary national policies" around the world. Essentially, they believe that the income effects will dominate the prices effects. Others, such as Germany, worry about the inflationary implications and related financial fragilities of such policies. Third, domestic and regional political realities translate into overly constrained macro policy approaches, placing an excessive burden on monetary policy, and thereby increasing the likelihood of collateral damage and unintended consequences (or what Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke calls "costs and risks). Given all this, it is not surprising that the G-7 statement did very little to dampen currency movements. I also doubt that the other likely short-term objective ‚Äì that of pre-empting currency disagreements at Friday's G-20 meeting ‚Äì will be fully successful. For these reasons, investors should: Then there is the really complex, longer-term question ‚Äì and one that I tried to address on Monday in a Financial Times column: The longer this regime of unusual central bank activism continues, the greater the bar bell in macro expected outcomes. The Fed-led global shift to expansionary monetary policy could help transition major economies from "supported growth" to "genuine growth." But it could also stress the global system to such an extent that it could cause significant fragmentation and breakage. Neither historical experience nor analytical studies points convincingly to how the systemic effects will ultimately tip. In the meantime, look for more official statements that ‚Äì almost inevitably ‚Äì will likely fall somewhere between confused and incoherent.
But he wasn‚Äôt worried about run-of-the-mill fraud that might fleece some old lady of her life savings. He was worried about people not paying their taxes. He is desperate. In its just released annual report, France‚Äôs state auditor, the Cour des Comptes, told the government that it was dreaming. Its forecast of 0.8% growth for 2013 was way high. Try 0.3%. And forget about the budget deficit target of 3% of GDP, which had been based on that illusory 0.8% growth. And even if growth came in at 0.8%, the deficit would still be above that all-important 3%. To get to the deficit target, the government had raised a slew of taxes to extract another ‚Ç¨32 billion this year from households and businesses that are already gasping for air. Now ‚Äúabsolute priority‚Äù must be on bringing down spending, admonished Didier Migaud, First President of the Cour des Comptes, when he presented the report. But spending cuts‚Äîwhether corporate welfare projects or social programs‚Äîwould be highly unpopular. Hence, the government‚Äôs emphasis on fighting tax fraud. Some estimates put tax fraud in the range of ‚Ç¨60 to ‚Ç¨80 billion per year, others at half that. Either way, a free gift. If the government could just get its hands on that money. So Ayrault trotted out his national plan, a 20-page document that outlined his all-out effort to go after any kind of behavior that could possibly deprive the government of those sorely needed euros. A seamless fit for France‚Äôs principle: squeeze hapless ‚Äúfiscal residents‚Äù like lemons to get their last drop of juice‚Äîfiscal residents, because citizens or foreigners who live in France only part of the year and pay taxes in some other country escape income taxes in France. Stuffed into that 20-page national plan is a draconian tool: prohibiting cash payments of over ‚Ç¨1,000 per purchase. The current threshold is ‚Ç¨3,000. It‚Äôs urgent. He wants to get the process started soon so that ‚Äúa decree and legislative measures‚Äù can be finished by the end of 2013. Two crisp 500-euro bills and a single coin: voil√†, an illegal transaction. OK, most cash transactions fall below that limit. But used cars, for example, might not. Between individuals, a cash transaction protects the seller. Otherwise, a trustworthy girl buys your car, signs the documents, hands you a check or initiates an electronic payment, and drives off. By the time you realize that the check bounced or that the electronic transfer didn‚Äôt go through, the car is on its way to Russia. But the limit would only apply to fiscal residents. In a nod toward those that the government has driven into fiscal exile, Ayrault included an exception: people, citizens or not, who are fiscal residents of a country other than France would be able to pay ‚Ç¨10,000 in cash per purchase, down from the current ‚Ç¨15,000 limit. It will doubtlessly be called the ‚ÄúDepardieu exception.‚Äù Iconic actor G√©rard Depardieu sought to establish a residence across the border in Belgium to escape the oppressive taxes at home [‚ÄúTrench Warfare‚Äù Or ‚ÄúCivil War‚Äù Over Confiscatory Taxes In¬†France]. Then suddenly, he obtained a Russian passport, a ‚Äúdefection‚Äù that caused a whirlwind of anger, derision, support, and laughs. But Russia does have a flat 13% income tax. People like him, when they‚Äôre in France, will still be able to pay for high-end girls in cash. The rest must use another payment method, anything from smartphones to checks. But they leave indelible electronic skid marks. Companies that process the payments retain personal and transaction details that form a seamless record over time. And copies of these details are handed to the government, either upon request or automatically. With this law, the French government will be able to tighten the vise on its people one more turn, restricting their freedom of choice (how to pay), wiping out any privacy in those transactions, and imposing another layer of government control. Once people have gotten used to the ‚Ç¨1,000 limit‚Äîbased on the great principle of incrementalism with which restrictions of freedom come to pass in democracies‚Äîthe vise will be tightened further, until the government can document every purchase made by ‚Äúfiscal residents.‚Äù The preannouncement came Thursday evening: PSA Peugeot Citro√´n, France‚Äôs largest automaker, would have a write-down of ‚Ç¨4.7 billion. On top of a hefty operating loss. It would be a colossal an all-time record. Rumors spread immediately that PSA would need a bailout. The second in four months. Read.... French Socialist Nightmare: ‚ÄòThe State Cannot Do¬†Everything‚Äô
YouTube screengrabBillionaire hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman, who runs Omega Advisors, just filed his 13F for the fourth-quarter ended 12/31/2012.¬† Cooperman disclosed a new stake in Facebook. ¬†The hedge fund manager bought 3,161,300 shares in the fourth quarter, the filing shows.¬† The filing also shows that Cooperman sold his Apple stake. ¬†He previously had 266,404 shares of the tech giant's stock at the end of the third quarter, according to a filing.¬† As a reminder, hedge funds only have to disclose their long holdings in 13Fs.
Kim Bhasin / Business InsiderEarlier we noted that McDonald's was down a fair amount today, and that one possibility is that it has to do with Obamas call for a $9 minimum wage. Other fast food companies are down as well. Analysts have actually a range of ideas for what's causing the sector to lag. JPM has put out a note going over some possibilities. We summarize their points in bullets. Anyway, so it's not one thing, but a range of issues popping up.
There‚Äôs no chance of passage so why are Republicans pushing it now? ‚ÄúJust because something may not pass doesn‚Äôt mean that the American people don‚Äôt expect us to stand up and be counted for the things that we believe in,‚Äù says McConnnell. The more honest explanation is that a fight over a balanced-budget amendment could get the GOP back on the same page ‚Äî reuniting Republican government-haters with the Party‚Äôs fiscal conservatives. And it could change the subject away from social issues ‚Äî women‚Äôs reproductive rights, immigration, gay marriage ‚Äî that have split the Party and cost it many votes. It also gives the Party something to be for, in contrast to the upcoming fights in which its members will be voting against compromises to avoid the next fiscal cliff, continue funding the government, and raising the debt ceiling. Perhaps most importantly, it advances the Republican‚Äôs biggest economic lie ‚Äî that the budget deficit is ‚Äúthe transcendent issue of our time,‚Äù in McConnell‚Äôs words, and that balancing the budget will solve America‚Äôs economic problems. Big lies can do great damage in a democracy. This one could help Republicans in their coming showdowns. But it could keep the economy in first gear for years, right up through the 2014 midterm elections, maybe all the way to the next presidential election. Perhaps this has occurred to McConnell and other Republicans. Here‚Äôs the truth: After the housing bubble burst, American consumers had to pull in their belts so tightly that consumption plummeted ‚Äî which in turn fueled unemployment. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity in the U.S. No business can keep people employed without enough customers, and none will hire people back until consumers return. That meant government had to step in as consumer of last resort ‚Äî which it did, but not enough to make up for the gaping shortfall in consumer demand. The result has been one of the most anemic recoveries on record. In the three years after the Great Recession ended, economic growth averaged only 2.2 percent per year. In the last quarter of 2012 the economy contracted. Almost no one believes it will grow much more than 2 percent this year. In the wake of the previous ten recessions the U.S. economy grew twice as fast on average ‚Äî 4.6 percent per year. It used to be that the deeper the recession, the faster the bounce back. The Great Depression bottomed out in 1933. In 1934, the economy grew more than 8 percent; in 1935, 8.2 percent; in 1936, almost 14 percent. Not this time. Unemployment is still sky high. The current official rate of 7.9 percent doesn‚Äôt include 8 million people (5.6 percent of the workforce) working part-time who‚Äôd rather be working full time. Nor those too discouraged even to look for work. The ratio of workers to non-workers in the adult population is lower than any time in the last thirty years ‚Äî and that‚Äôs hardly explained by boomer retirements. Wages continue to drop because the only way many Americans can find (or keep) jobs is by settling for lower pay. Most new jobs created since the depth of the Great Recession pay less than the jobs that were lost. That‚Äôs why the real median wage is now 8 percent below what it was in 2000. Republicans who say the budget deficit is responsible for this are living on another planet. Consumers still don‚Äôt have the jobs and wages, nor ability to borrow, they had before the recession. So their belts are still tight. To make matters worse, the temporary cut in Social Security taxes ended January 1, subtracting an additional $1,000 from the typical American paycheck. Sales taxes are increasing in many states. Under these circumstances, government deficits are not a problem. To the contrary, they‚Äôre now essential. (Yes, we have to bring down the long-term deficit, but that‚Äôs mostly a matter of reining in rising healthcare costs ‚Äî which, incidentally, are beginning to slow.) If Republicans paid attention they‚Äôd see how fast the deficit is already shrinking. It was 8.7 percent of the Gross Domestic Product in 2011. The Congressional Budget Office forecasts it will shrivel to 5.3 percent by the end of 2013 if we go over the fiscal cliff on March 1 ‚Äî and some $85 billion is cut from this year‚Äôs federal budget. Even if March‚Äôs fiscal cliff is avoided, the CBO expects the deficit to shrink to 5.5 percent of the GDP, in light of deficit reduction already scheduled to occur. This is not something to celebrate. It translates into a significant drop in demand, with nothing to pick up the slack. Look what happened in the fourth quarter of 2012. The economy contracted, largely because of a precipitous drop in defense spending. That may have been an anomaly; no one expects the economy to contract in the first quarter of 2013. But you‚Äôd be foolish to rule out a recession later this year. The budget deficit and cumulative debt are not the ‚Äútranscendent issue of our time.‚Äù The transcendent issue is jobs and wages. Cutting the budget deficit now will only result in higher unemployment, lower wages, and more suffering. Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
Despite the severe drought still gripping the U.S., farmland values continued to rise across most crop-growing regions in the third quarter.¬† This is according to bankers surveyed in the latest report from the Kansas City Fed. Farm income and land values were boosted by high crop prices and high crop insurance payments. In North and South Dakota, land lease revenue increased thanks to the region's energy deposits. Bankers in the Corn Belt and Central Plains reported strong annual increases.¬† Meanwhile in Texas, where growing conditions were poor, farmland values increased a modest 2.6 percent year-over-year. For 2013, they continue to expect farmland values to stay elevated. Here's a look at how non-irrigated farmland values increased in the third quarter: Kansas City Fed
APPresident Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner are already setting up a battle over over the President's†call to increase the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour, perhaps the most controversial new proposal of his State of the Union address. In a speech today in Asheville, N.C., Obama promoted the plan, which would hike the minimum wage by $1.75 an hour. "If you work full time, you shouldn't be in poverty," Obama said. But early Republican reaction indicates that Obama could be in for a long and possibly futile fight. In television interviews this morning, Sen. Marco Rubio rejected Obama's call. And in a press conference of GOP House leaders, Boehner flatly dismissed the notion that a minimum-wage increase would do anything to spur growth. "When you raise the price of employment, guess what happens? You get less of it," Boehner said, telling reporters that he's been in the middle of minimum-wage fights for parts of the past 28 years. "What happens when you take away the first couple of rungs on the economic ladder ó you make it harder for people to get on the ladder. Our goal is to get people on the ladder and help them climb that ladder so they can live the American dream." There hasn't been much recent polling on the topic, but past surveys have shown that the idea of raising the minimum wage is popular. A 2010 Public Research Religion Institute survey found that two-thirds of Americans supported a hike. There was a significant partisan gap in support, especially among those who view raising the minimum wage as a priority. According to a 2007 Pew Research poll, only 28 percent of Republicans saw it as a "top priority," compared with 71 percent of Democrats.
Barclays is getting pounded. It's one of the banks at the center of the Libor manipulation scandal, it's answering for a strange investment from Abu Dhabi during the financial crisis, and it's about to layoff 1800 employees. Naturally, in all this, compensation has not been left untouched. From Bloomberg: Barclays Plc, under pressure to trim its securities unit, paid its investment bankers an average bonus of about 54,100 pounds ($84,439), more than double the annual pay of British employees. Bonuses fell 17 percent in 2012 from 65,085 pounds for each employee a year earlier, the London-based company said in its full-year earnings statement today. Average pay for U.K. full- time employees is 26,500 pounds, according to the Office for National Statistics. The bank's total bonus pool dropped 15% to just over $2 billion. Woof.
The London Stock Exchange is launching a new niche technology market to encourage the next Twitter, Facebook or Google to float in the UK. The new so-called High Growth Segment will allow entrepreneurs to raise cash while keeping up to 90% of their firm's shares. The LSE's normally requires companies to make at least 25% of the shares available as a free float on the main market. The government has been worried that British technology companies may opt to go to Silicon Valley if the UK does not make itself more attractive. Companies can choose to list just 10% of their shares on the Nasdaq in the US. No European hi-tech firms have floated on the LSE's main market since 2010. Greg Clark, the financial secretary to the Treasury, said the government was committed to making the UK "the best place in the world to start a business". "High-growth companies are a key driver of job creation, and these companies will be vital to delivering the recovery," he said. "The UK has a world-leading crop of high-growth businesses, and the announcement of the High Growth Segment today by London Stock Exchange is an important step in creating the right environment for them to IPO [initial public offering] in London." Alexander Justham, chief executive of the LSE, said the new market would give companies "additional attractive choice" and a "launch pad for further success". The High Growth Segment is intended to be a stepping stone for medium-sized companies, worth between £300m-£600m, between floating on Aim and listing on the main market. John Hammond, equity capital markets partner at Deloitte, said: "Aim has been doing its job as an incubator for UK companies. What is exciting about the launch of the High Growth Segment is that larger UK technology and other high-growth companies now have a real alternative to a premium listing or joining Aim and that can only be a good thing for London." He added: "Debt markets have been constrained and are expensive to tap, particularly in Europe following the banking crisis. Many companies have been forced to look to their own balance sheets for expansion capital. Other UK tech business owners have turned to private equity investors for finance, though of course, they have had to cede some control of their business in doing so. "The High Growth Segment should create a more level playing field and make the UK tech sector more competitive globally," he said. In order to join the High Growth Segment, companies must prove they have been growing at a rate of at least 20% for the past three years, and "clearly set out their intention" to join the main market eventually. The new market is expected to be launched next month. Michael Acton Smith, chief executive of Moshi Monsters' creator Mind Candy, said: "We are proud to be a British company and love being based in London. We welcome these new initiatives to make the London financial markets more attractive to the many fast-growth tech companies that are based here."  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Just because the price of a home goes up, doesn't mean it was a good investment. Typically, homes undergo costly renovations to keep them up-to-par with newer homes, which employ the latest technologies to make them, among other things, more energy efficient. "Housing traditionally is not viewed as a great investment," said economist Robert Shiller in an interview with Bloomberg Television last week.¬† "It takes maintenance, it depreciates, it goes out of style. All of those are problems. And there's technical progress in housing. So, new ones are better." New data from the Energy Information Association confirms that newer homes are indeed way more energy efficient than older homes. "Analysis from EIA's most recent Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) shows that U.S. homes built in 2000 and later consume only 2% more energy on average than homes built prior to 2000, despite being on average 30% larger," wrote the agency today. "Homes built in the 2000s accounted for about 14% of all occupied housing units in 2009. These new homes consumed 21% less energy for space heating on average than older homes (see graph), which is mainly because of increased efficiency in the form of heating equipment and better building shells built to more demanding energy codes." Sure, a homeowner could easily do the renovations to make their homes more efficient.¬† But that's not free. Here's the energy consumption chart from the EIA: EIA
Last night, Obama called for Congress to enact a $9 minimum wage. It's a controversial call (some people argue that a minimum wage destroys low-end jobs), and it's unlikely to come to pass in this Congress. But in 2014, it's conceivable. Anyway, the fast food companies (Burger King, Wendy's, McDonald's) are all down today. And it seems possible there's a connection, though it's impossible to know. McDonald's is getting hit the most. Yahoo Finance
And my friends said, ‚ÄúAre you being willfully na√Øve? Doping isn‚Äôt optional, it is required! they informed me. Riders were kicked off teams for NOT doping.¬†And it‚Äôs not just biking‚Ä¶‚Äù and a lecture on professional sports, and how they work, ensued. You can do a blood transfusion, and train while on drugs, then do another transfusion before the testing to clean up your blood. There are new, undetectable drugs. Next they told me you could take Adderall and improve not only your basic school performance, but also your S.A.T. scores. Kids were opting out of studying, and the months-long, grueling Kaplan SAT prep courses and popping pills instead. One girl, now at an Ivy League college said: ‚ÄúDo I want only four hours of sleep and be a mess, and then underperform on the test and then in field hockey? Or make the teachers happy and the coach happy and get good grades, get into a good college and make my parents happy?‚Äù Madeleine estimated that one-third of her classmates at her small school, most of whom she knew well, used stimulants without a prescription to boost their scholastic performance. Many students across the United States made similar estimates for their schools, all of them emphasizing that the drugs were used not to get high, but mostly by conscientious students to work harder and meet ever-rising academic expectations.‚Äù ‚ÄúSteroids are now in the middle schools,‚Äù one of my interloctors said grimly. And even before middle school, parents are ‚Äúredshirting‚Äù ‚Äî putting 6-year-old kids in kindergarten to give them an advantage ‚Äî they‚Äôll be bigger, stronger, and more advanced than their peers, an advantage that appears to follow them throughout their lives, especially in sports. If there is a national, secular religion in the United States it is the belief that America is the Land of Opportunity, that we are a Meritocracy, that any kid, no matter who they are, or where they come from, can work hard and move up in the world. That their effort matters. ‚ÄúYou too can be the President,‚Äù every American kid is told. But one unintended consequence of this belief, it is that, as a result of our being a meritocracy, if you have not succeeded, you are of lesser merit. It is shameful to be a failure in this country. Everything from doping to boob jobs speaks to the struggle to gain an advantage in a competitive world. But this is a rational response to a society where the winner takes all. So how do we keep the dream alive? How do we make it a dream worth striving for? I am reminded of one of my most retweeted tweets: ‚ÄúAvoid a life of chasing prizes not worth winning.‚Äù You‚Äôve been such amazing commenters, I‚Äôd love to hear your ideas.  Read more posts on caterina.net ¬ª
Fortune's Leah McGrath Goldman reports exclusively that Jeremy Grantham, the 74-year-old legendary investment strategist known for calling multiple bubbles, will picket the Keystone XL Pipeline with the Sierra Club. "Grantham says he opposed the pipeline for both economic and environmental reasons, calling it 'poisonous' and 'disastrous for the environment," Goldman writes. The Club says Wednesday's protest in Washington would likely "result in arrests." Grantham is a Sierra Club sponsor. According to Fortune, the protest began at 11:00 AM ET near the White House. Read the full story on Fortune &gt;
If you're following the deal to take Dell private closely, you know that that the companies two biggest shareholders (outside of founder Michael Dell) have voiced their opposition to the $24.4 billion sale. Both Southeastern Asset Management and T. Rowe Price say that the price tag ìdoes not reflect the value ofî the company, so they'll vote against Michael Dell and private equity firm Silver Lake. The thing is, as Fortune's Dan Primack pointed out in his daily newsletter this morning, that might not matter. Check out the math: So letís put this in context: What Silver Lake needs is for a majority of Dell shareholders not named Michael Dell to approve the deal. Not a supermajority, but just 51% -- or around &gt;43% of outstanding shares, once Michael Dellís stake is excluded. SAM and T. Rowe only hold around 13% combined, while the 10 largest outside holders (including SAM and T. Rowe) hold less than 29%. In other words, the big institutions alone donít have the mathematical power to stop this. Instead, they are banking on their reputational powers of persuasion (i.e., if the large lead, the small will follow). So if the big shareholders do manage to sway the smaller shareholders, that might mean a price hike. If that happens, as Primack goes on to point out, Silver Lake may not be able to take that on, but Michael Dell might. Point is, this deal is still very much in play.
Toys 'R' Us CEO Gerald Storch is stepping down from his post, the company announced. He will remain chairman and the company will be starting its search for a new chief. Storch is staying at the helm temporarily as the company looks for a successor. Here's the press release from Toys 'R' Us: WAYNE, NJ†(February 13, 2013) ñ ToysìRîUs, Inc. today announced that Gerald L. Storch will transition from his role as Chief Executive Officer of the company, while remaining in his capacity as Chairman of the Board. The company will begin a search for a successor Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Storch will continue in his position as CEO during the transition period. Mr. Storch, 56, joined the company in February 2006 following its acquisition by an investment group consisting of affiliates of Bain Capital Partners LLC, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. (NYSE: KKR), and Vornado Realty Trust (NYSE: VNO). As Chairman of the Board, Mr. Storch will continue to provide strategic guidance and play a key role in its growth initiatives.† The ToysìRîUs, Inc. Board of Directors said, ìJerry has done an exceptional job in rebuilding the company, while successfully leading it through an extremely difficult global economic environment. We are grateful for his leadership over the past seven years and for the strong foundation he has built for the future. Jerry has delivered some of the best financial results in the more than 60-year history of the company, including multiple years of achieving $1 billion or more in adjusted EBITDA. He has been tireless in his efforts to develop best-in-class e-commerce and omnichannel capabilities and in significantly expanding the development of proprietary and differentiated products. Under Jerryís leadership, we rolled out the integrated store strategy around the world and made a number of strategic acquisitions. Most recently, in acquiring the majority stake in the companyís business in Southeast Asia and Greater China, he has provided the company with a long runway for growth abroad. We thank Jerry for his strategic repositioning of the business.î ìI am incredibly proud of what we have accomplished together over the past seven years,î said Mr. Storch. ìThe ToysìRîUs brand is stronger than ever due to the hard work and dedication of our talented team around the world. Looking to the future, we will always ëPlay to Winí.íí
The rebound in auto sales has been one of the most robust factors in the U.S. economic recovery. Sales in the U.S. jumped 13.4 percent in 2012, and auto stocks zoomed higher in the second half of the year. BofA Merrill Lynch analysts John Murphy and Elizabeth Lane put out a really bullish report on the future trajectory of U.S. auto sales this morning. Despite the rapid growth in sales recorded last year, the BAML analysts say the U.S. auto sales recovery is only "in the early innings," and they predict the industry's run will continue all the way until 2018: Ward's, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research estimates Murphy and Lane write that the main driver of their bullish forecast is the need for vehicle replacement: We believe that we are still in the relatively early innings of a cyclical recovery in the US, and we estimate that the next peak in light vehicle sales will likely be in 2018, within the range of 17-18mm. We believe that the ultimate underlying driver of vehicle replacement is miles driven, which is what we use to measure fundamental demand for travel utility. With miles driven trending around 3 trillion miles and an average vehicle lasting an estimated 200,000 miles over its lifetime (approximately 10,000-12,500 miles driven per year over about a 16-20 year useful life), we estimate that drivers in the US are essentially ìusing upî 15 million units-worth of travel utility on an annual basis. With new vehicle sales running below this level since 2008, median vehicle age is accelerating rapidly, fueling the need for vehicle replacement.† Another driver of vehicle demand in the U.S. going forward, according to BAML, are the record numbers of new product launches expected from auto manufacturers over the next few years. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Murphy and Lane expect this "wave of fresh product" to "stimulate demand and get consumers into showrooms, especially as automakers continue to pick up marketing spending." The biggest risk to their sunny outlook right now, write the analysts, is consumer confidence. Indeed, there has been a lot of discussion about the American economy's "moment of truth" ñ the point at which the impact of January tax hikes on consumers becomes clear. For now, though, Murphy and Lane aren't worried.
Photographer Alec Soth recently traveled to the Bakken oil fields in North Dakota to shoot a cover story for the New York Times magazine. Now he and director Isaac Gale have published a short video documentary, "Sweet Crude Man Camp," depicting some of the less sunny aspects of living and working in the middle of an oil boom. In striking black and white, they track the lives of roughnecks as they eke out a living on North Dakota's seemingly endless plains, struggling with the responsibilities of family ó or, in some cases, the mental strains of lonelineess.† Check it out:  Sweet Crude Man Camp from Little Brown Mushroom on Vimeo.
The Senate Finance Committee just started Jack Lew's Treasury Secretary confirmation hearing, and already he has clear directives on his plate. At the same time, anyone watching this hearing likely already has a sense of how it's going to go. Republicans, Democrats, and Lew laid out their positions pretty clearly in their opening statements. Lew was Obama's Chief of Staff, and a former budget director for both the Obama and Clinton administrations. He also did a brief stint at Citigroup and worked under former House Speaker Tip O'Neil (remembered for working across the aisle with Ronald Reagan to pass 1986's tough tax and budget reform). Lew's expected to enter a Treasury Department focused on cleaning up our current federal budget, rather than a national financial crisis, and his prepared comments reflect that. Via Politico: ìWe must put our nation back on a path of fiscal sustainability. Over the past two years, we have locked in $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction through spending cuts and revenue increases...And we can do even more to shrink the deficit over the next decade through a balanced mix of spending reductions and tax reforms, and sensible reforms to Medicare that will help the program stay sound in the future.î Senator Max Bacchus (D-Mont.), in his opening remarks, added three more vital tasks for Lew to focus on ó jobs, tax reform, and "creating...stability in Washington." Bipartisanship.  Senator Chuck Schumer, introducing Lew and recommending him highly, stressed Lew's ability to work across the aisle. Lew emphasized it in his prepared remarks as well. ìIn recent years, some have argued that Washington is irrevocably broken. That our government cannot tackle the nationís most serious problems. That bipartisanship is a thing of the past. I disagree,î Lew said. ìI have seen and learned a lot. And I can honestly say that the things that divide Washington right now are not as insurmountable as they might look.î On the other side the Republicans, first represented by Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), are focusing on how Lew wants to balance the budget, specifically on his views on raising taxes. Here's what Hatch said about that last week (from Reuters): "We need a better understanding ... of what kind of plan the Obama administration has to confront our skyrocketing debt and our broken entitlement programs," said Senator Orrin Hatch, the top Republican on the finance panel Additionally, and Hatch spent some time on this in his opening remarks, the Republicans are scrutinizing Lew's stint at Citigroup and how that will influence his implementation of Wall Street regulatory legislation, the Volcker Rule and Dodd-Frank. Lew made $2.65 million at Citigroup in 2007 and 2008. He started in 2006 as COO of the bank's global wealth management division. Right before Citigroup took a government bailout during the financial crisis, Lew† got a $940,000 bonus. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) has already said he'll be jumping on that saying last week, "the Treasury Secretary can't owe anyone on Wall Street any favors." All that said, no one really expects Lew to get the same grilling Chuck Hegel got during his confirmation process for Defence Secretary. The Senate will, however, be giving Lew additional questions that he will have a week to answer. He won't be confirmed before that.
Oil Benchmark¬†It is a sad state of affairs that the entire world of energy, and consumer energy prices are all based upon a fraud of an energy contract masquerading as the Industry`s Benchmark, setting the price for all other grades.Monthly Rollover RampHere is an idea of how manipulated the Brent Oil contract that trades mainly on the ICE exchange is we are at rollover time once again in the Brent oil contract and sure enough as day, the contract is moved up substantially right before expiration.¬†This happens almost every rollover, and is impossible to do in a non-deliverable market without precise market manipulation.¬†Always Positive Rollover CarryThe other common feature of the Brent contract is the expiring month is always higher by a dollar, dollar and a half, than the contract for the next month without fail. Again this happens every single rollover without fail, and again very hard to ‚Äúnaturally occur‚Äù.¬†It might be reasonable in the old days, or in a market that was partly physical deliverable that you would have times that exhibit Contango features that would account for this price differential.¬†No Physical Delivery¬†But this happens every time, and the old rules of Contango and Backwardation don`t apply to purely paper markets as there is no need from one month versus the next for ‚Äústronger demand‚Äù as nobody ever takes delivery of a Brent contract of oil. There is no demand for near term oil contracts due to supply shortages in the oil market.The only reason for this price differential which always occurs and is heavily manipulated is to ensure for a positive rollover effect for the big players in the market. http://www.econmatters.com/2013/02/after-election-obama-doesnt-care-about.htmlNo Rollover Risk equals much easier to invest capital in the marketWhy lose money if in basically an unregulated space you can just move up the front month at expiration so that when you sell to close out the position on the front month at a higher price, and buy the next month to reestablish a position at a lower price you have a positive built in rollover.¬† Makes the risk of investing in oil with an always positive carry much less. It is a scam of major proportions when you factor in how many years this has been going on in the ICE market.Not fully credentialed to be a Benchmark for anything However, that isn`t the only thing that doesn`t pass the smell test with the Brent contract. The main problem is the Brent contract is illegitimate and should not serve as a founding basis for any price discovery.It trades on essentially an unregulated market with little or no accountability in regards to transparency. And this contract is setting the price of oil for the entire oil supply chain. http://www.econmatters.com/2013/02/us-consumers-subsidizing-venezuela.htmlRepresents what Storage Facilities? First of all the Brent contract needs to be tied to actual oil inventories in Europe so that supplies can actually be tracked and evaluated on a historical basis.¬†For example, WTI is based upon oil inventories at Cushing Oklahoma, which can actually be tracked in a weekly report, and reported by an independent government agency in the EIA, for Brent to become a legitimate Oil contract it needs to do the same.¬†Needs to be actually Regulated Or frankly regulators need to force the ICE exchange to do so or discontinue the futures contract, as it has become far too important at setting world oil prices to remain in this non-transparency illegitimate status.¬†Independent Governmental Agency Reporting of Supply Data So once actual inventories of oil supplies are attached to the Brent Contract, there needs to be an independent government agency like the EIA in the US which collects data on an independent basis and provides weekly, quarterly, and annual reports on oil stockpiles.We live in the Information Age We do live in the modern age of increased technology, data collection, and transparency with unprecedented access to all types of information.¬†ICE exchange has no incentive to change status quo without Regulatory Pressure It is about time that the ICE exchange is forced by regulators to come into this century, especially given the important role that Brent has become as a benchmark for setting price in the oil markets, and thus derivatively gasoline and heating oil markets, by being forced to comply with these aforementioned instrumental changes, or be forced out of the market.¬†Brent is so much easier to Rig than WTI: This attracts Fund Flows You want to know the real reason that the Brent market has traded at so high a premium to WTI, and became so popular by the major players in the oil trading and investment community?¬† It is because the contract is based on ‚Äúnothingness‚Äù has no supervision by regulatory authorities, completely non deliverable, represents no actual storage facilities, no data tracking, has no independent weekly status reports, a forever positive carry, no transparency, and very easy to manipulate.¬† http://www.econmatters.com/2013/02/so-david-einhorn-is-dumb-money-on-apple.htmlFund Inflows Set Price not the Fundamentals Anymore Moreover, since oil prices are not set by the fundamentals of supply and demand, price is solely determined by fund flows, i.e., investment capital goes into a commodity it goes up, investment capital goes out of a commodity it goes down.‚ÄúAsset Class‚Äù Investing has a built-in Long Bias I know theoretically capital inflows could come into a market and price could go down, i.e., they could all go short, but for various reasons these shorting periods are relatively few and far between in the modern era of oil trading.¬† The same reason investment capital for the S&amp;P 500 has a long bias applies to oil markets as well in the modern era of asset class investing. Funds want exposure, and the modern definition of an ‚Äúasset class‚Äù by investors is inherently long biased. It is just how it actually plays out, theoretically it doesn`t have to, but it just does.The Dirty Little Secret of the Brent Premium to WTI So given this state of affairs, and prices have no real attachment to the fundamentals of supply and demand, fund inflows into the futures market increase price, and consumers all over the world pay for end use products based upon these fund inflows, not the fundamentals.¬† So the dirty little secret why the Brent Contract is so much higher than WTI is it attracts more fund inflows by the large players who want exposure from an investing standpoint to the commodity, thus increased fund attractiveness equals increased prices, and a much larger premium to WTI than would otherwise be the case. It all has to do with fund inflows, and the deleterious effects for consumers play out in the following: Fund inflows into Brent, Finished Petroleum Products pegged to Brent Price, Consumers pay higher prices with no change in the fundamentals of supply and demand in the marketplace.¬†http://www.econmatters.com/2013/02/goldman-sachs-jeff-currie-continues-to.htmlGiven the slow growth economy, consumers should be getting a break at the pump!We have gone from a supply and demand market to a funds flow market and this really sucks for consumers.¬†This is where the regulators are supposed to step in and protect consumers. After all, this is part of what governments can offer citizens for taking substantial pieces of their income via taxes.But the regulators to date have been unwilling to step in and regulate the oil markets, and consumers and businesses will continue to pay more than they should for gasoline and heating oil products in the marketplace.¬†ZERO-SUM Game in Oil MarketsHowever, what sucks for one group is often great for another constituency, and for large banks, hedge funds, and financial institutions that have been known to rig a market wherever and whenever they can, this ICE exchange traded Brent Oil contract is a dream come true for their needs. ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
Ret Fetz/FlickrIt looks like things are going to slow down for American farmers after months of crazy receipts, according to¬†John Deere's latest slides on the state of the farm world. After a year of record profits, income is expected to flatline heading into the next planting year as weather moderates. But outside of North America ‚Äî and Europe, of course ‚Äî the rest of the world looks pretty good, and Deere is actually revising its global growth outlook upward. We pulled eight key slides from Deere's 38-slide presentation that explain what's going on.
Speaker.gov Behind a podium displaying the #obamaquester hashtag this morning, House Speaker John Boehner and other Republican leaders called on President Barack Obama to†put forward a proposal to replace the looming cuts scheduled to take effect as a result of the sequester. "The sequester is bad policy," Boehner said. "I would hope that it wouldn't happen. I've made that perfectly clear. It's taking a meat axe to government spending. That's why the President ought to be forthcoming about a plan to replace the sequester." Boehner reiterated that the House has taken action to replace the sequester with other cuts. He said that it's "time for the Senate to act." "We mean business Mr. President. We're willing to work with you," House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said. Boehner also slammed Obama's proposal outlined in his State of the Union address to raise the minimum wage to $9 an hour. "When you raise the price of employement, guess what happens?" he said. "You get less of it. At a time when Americans are still asking the question, 'Where are the jobs?' why would we want to make it harder for small employers to hire people?"
We are less sanguine.† There is a third asset class that needs to be integrated into the analysis:† cash.† After surveying the data and various reports, it looks to us that the flows into equities is not coming out of fixed income but rather money market funds and deposits. At the end of last year, perhaps spooked by the pending fiscal cliff and policy paralysis, many investors boosted cash (money market and deposits).† One estimate had cash holdings rising by about $350 bln in the Nov-Dec period and about $165 bln has flowed since the start of the year. Through last week, equity funds (counting ETFs) saw an inflow of around $70 bln (compared with $23 bln in all of 2012).† The $30 bln inflows being reported by bond funds is a major argument against the "Great Rotation", though this is a bit off the pace seen last year ($40 bln inflows during the same period). Drilling down a bit deeper may offer greater insight into what investor are doing.† Of the $70 bln that went into equity funds (and ETFs), about 40% went international/global funds, which is more than half they took in all last year.† Among bonds, about 40% also went to emerging markets, which is roughly tracking last year's record pace. Lipper reported that in the week ending Feb 6, equity funds (mutual funds and ETFs) saw $6.1 bln in new inflows.† It was the seventh consecutive week of inflows.† Of this sum, $2 bln as in ETFs.† However, Lipper notes that the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF fell from top position the previous week to last on the back of $3 bln of redemptions.† The iShares Russell 2000 index was on top with $700 mln inflow, followed by ishares Dow Jones Real Estate ETF, which took in $600 mln.††  Traditional open-ended equity mutual funds saw inflows of $4.1 bln.† According to Lipper data, the 5-week inflow of almost $25 bln is the largest inflow for such a period since the beginning of Q2 2000.† Domestic funds, led by large cap, drew $1.1 bln.† Global and international funds reported inflows of $3.1 bln.† Emerging market funds saw $1.8 bln inflows.† Lipper notes this was the fifth consecutive week that emerging market funds drew more than $1 bln.†  Many Asian bourses have reported strong inflows (greater than last year) thus far this year.† In terms of the biggest gain from the year ago period, investors have bought almost $1.1 bln of Indonesian shares, which represents.† In terms of dollar amount, Japan of course is the largest bourse and in play, given the yen's weakness.† Foreigners have bought about $14.1 bln of Japanese shares this year, which is 135% above the year ago pace.† India is also a large beneficiary of foreign purchases.† The $7.6 bln that has flows in represents a 725 increase from a year ago.††  On the other side, South Korea is a significant exception.† Foreign investors have sold about $1.5 bln of Korean equities.† The appreciation of the won against the yen appears to have contributed to the profit-taking.† Taiwan and Thailand have seen inflows ($1.6 bln and $22 mln respectively), but are well off last year's pace.†  That said, we note that the Korea's Kospi appears to have bottomed at the second half of last week.† The 2.5% bounce has brought it to a trend line drawn off the Jan 3 and Jan 23 highs. †† The next target is near 1985 (closed near 1976 today). Longer-term, a recovery could see 2040-2050. † The technical condition looks favorable as the RSI has turned higher and the and MACDs are crossing.        Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
When emails on Wall Street get made public it can be really, really embarrassing. The emails can make the person or their firm look bad and they can get taken out of context.¬†It happens all the time. It appears that Steve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital used to have a policy in place that would avoid this. ¬† Bloomberg News' Greg Farrell reports¬†that until the fall of 2008 SAC's emails would be automatically deleted if they were 30 or 60 days old, according to a two year-old deposition transcript from a case that was dismissed.¬† It's smart when you think about it. No one would want their emails made public. Ever. ¬† Now this is also an interesting twist into the government's investigation of SAC. It's possible that the fund's email retention policy may have hindered the government's probe through a lack of formal email evidence, the report said. ¬† July 2008, which is when the policy was in place, is a time period that would be of interest for the government.¬† Former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was charged¬†back in November 2012 in what is believed to be¬†"the most lucrative"¬†insider trading scheme ever. ¬†The complaints against him allege¬†that the insider trading scheme involved information in pharmaceutical companies, Elan Corporation and Wyeth, between the summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. ¬† In the fall of 2008, SAC changed its email retention policy so it would keep emails. Of course, this does not suggest any wrongdoing on SAC's part.

Wikimedia Commons/Kane5187Every year, thousands of young men at college campuses across the U.S. rush fraternities. ¬† Their reasons for joining these groups might vary. ¬†Most probably want to make more friends and have a full social calendar, while others might want to form connections with past and current brothers that could be useful in later life. We combed through a bunch of fraternities notable members lists to find big Wall Street names, both past and present, who were brothers. ¬† We've included a round up of frats that have produced some of the biggest, and in a couple cases some of the most infamous, names on the Street.¬†
APPresident Barack Obama laid out a sweeping blueprint for economic growth in his State of the Union, unveiling an ambitious liberal agenda that he promised would deliver a "growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs."† Picking up on the assertive tone of his second inaugural address, Obama outlined a package of policy proposals Tuesday, arguing that his plans would create jobs by increasing public investment in manufacturing, clean energy, infrastructure, and education.† "It is our generationís task, then, to reignite the true engine of Americaís economic growth ñ a rising, thriving middle class," Obama said. "A growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs ñ that must be the North Star that guides our efforts."† Despite these lofty ambitions, however, most of the proposals that Obama put forward to Congress Tuesday night are likely D.O.A. The political reality is that Obama begins his second term amid high partisan tensions. Republicans control the House of Representatives, and are disinclined to help their White House rival achieve his domestic policy goals; meanwhile, Obama has been ineffective as a dealmaker, and his administration's relationships with Hill lawmakers ó including Democrats ó have been notoriously fraught.† On top of that, Obama's aggressive economic agenda offers little room for legislative compromise with Republicans. Here's a breakdown of some of his key proposals:† In the end, the President's policy proposals are bold ideas that seem doomed to remain just that. And despite his renewed, and lengthy, focus on economic issues Tuesday, Obama did next to nothing to advance the debate over growth, job creation, and government spending.††
via University of Alabama School of LawNational Jurist has come out with a new law school ranking that completely disregards the criteria used by traditional ranking systems.¬† Instead of looking at GPA or LSAT scores, National Jurist said its "goal was to provide an alternative ranking that was focused more on results and service, and that would provide legal education with admirable incentives." TaxProf Blog has a complete breakdown of National Jurist's ranking system, including how the magazine uses RateMyProfessors.com as a ranking tool:¬† Post-Graduate Success:¬† 50%Employment Rate:¬† 22.5%Super Lawyers:¬† 12.5%Partners in NLJ 200:¬† 10%Bar Passage:¬† 5% Student Satisfaction:¬† 35%RateMyProfessors.com:¬† 20%Princeton Review:¬† 15% Affordability and Diversity:¬† 15%Debt:¬† 10%Diversity:¬† 5% Check out the 15 best law schools, according to National Jurist's rankings:¬† via National Jurist  These rankings, first brought to our attention by Above The Law, are problematic for a number of reasons. They rely heavily on a website that allows students to either rant or rave about professors based on their personal experiences.  Plus, RateMyProfessors.com is notoriously inaccurate when it comes to law professors, according to University of Chicago Law School professor Brian Leiter.¬† Leiter examined National Jurist's rankings and then checked out RateMyProfessors.com and found the site often fails to actually classify law professors as law professors, meaning they aren't rated properly, which completely skews National Jurist's rankings.¬† In short, 20% of the overall score is fraudulent on its face," Leiter wrote on his blog Brian Leiter's Law School Reports. "And it's that 20% that explains all the variance." Secondly, Yale and Harvard law schools are almost universally recognized as two of the best law schools in the country. To have them ranked so low, and surpassed by other, lesser known schools damages this new ranking's credibility.
Retail sales climbed by 0.1 percent in January, which was right in line with expectations. This is largely being taken as good news because this was the first month that consumers got his with the payroll tax hike.† In other words, it was a good thing that the report wasn't much worse than expected. However, a handful of economists warn that the impact will likely have a more pronounced effect in future reports. "[T]he tax hikes and latest leap in gasoline prices (which will leave households with less cash to spend on other items) could hit spending harder in February and March," says Paul Dales of Capital Economics. High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan also thinks we shouldn't get too excited about positive growth in today's report.† Like Dales, O'Sullivan thinks the impact of the tax hike could show up in a future report.† From a note earlier this week. The apparent strength in retail sales in January should not be viewed as evidence that the payroll tax hike will have no impact: With the tax reducing disposable income by 0.9%óequivalent to 0.7% of GDPóand many individuals living paycheck to paycheck, there clearly will be an impact on growth. The CBO has estimated a 0.5-point hit to GDP in 2013; that number looks reasonable to us. So why the apparent rise in spending in January? In part, the pattern reflects lags, with consumers adjusting their spending over several months. The impact on spending was not immediately obvious when payroll taxes were cut two years ago, either. In part, it reflects the vagaries of January data, with spending down sharply from December before seasonal adjustment. Also, some of the spending in January is a product of gift cards purchased and received in December. However, part of the pattern likely also reflects the spending power being generated by an increasingly healthy labor market recovery. Here's O'Sullivan's chart: HFE
PolandMFA / FlickrMarkets were down for much of the European trading session. But now they're up across the board. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. Germany's DAX is up 0.6%. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 0.6%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.4%. Earlier this morning, we learned that industrial production grew at a faster-than-expected pace in the euro area. Generally, it's looking like another quiet day to continue a quiet week.¬† Also, an Italian bond auction went on without hitch. Click Here For Updates &gt;
cristiano_betta / FlickrThe January retail sales report is out, and it was basically in line with expectations. The headline number climbed 0.1 percent, which was right in line. Excluding autos and gas, retail sales climbed by 0.2 percent.¬† This was a bit lighter than the 0.4 percent growth expected. This report is being carefully scrutinized as it is the first reading of how the recent payroll tax hike may have impacted consumer spending. Everyone is likely breathing a sigh of relief as the report didn't come in much worse than expected. It's worth noting that economists weren't expecting an all-out decline thanks to seasonal factors like holiday gift card spending. Here's a breakdown of the numbers via the Census: Census
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ó A shareholder rebellion against Dell's proposed $24.4 billion sale to its founder and other investors is gaining more support, fueling a belief that the struggling personal computer maker will have to wrangle a higher price to get the deal done. Mutual fund firm T. Rowe Price joined the opposition Tuesday. T. Rowe Price and another shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management, believe that founder and CEO Michael Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake are being allowed to seize control and end Dell Inc.'s 25-year history as a publicly held company for too little money. "We believe the proposed buyout does not reflect the value of Dell, and we do not intend to support the offer as put forward," T. Rowe Price Chairman Brian Rogers said in a statement. Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Southeastern are the two largest independent shareholders and own nearly 13 percent of the company combined. Michael Dell has committed his 14 percent stake toward the deal, but he is the only investor to own more stock than either of the two. Although Dell remains one of the world's largest technology companies, with about $57 billion in annual revenue, it has become less attractive to investors as smartphones and tablet computers siphon sales away from PCs. To make matters worse, Dell has been losing market share to its rivals. The company once was the world's largest PC maker, but now ranks third behind Hewlett-Packard Co. and Lenovo Group. Michael Dell believes it will be easier to accelerate Dell's expansion into more lucrative areas such as technology consulting and business software if the company doesn't have to cater to Wall Street's fixation on whether profits are rising from one quarter to the next. The company, which is based in Round Rock, Texas, said it remains convinced that it is selling at a fair price, which represents a 25 percent premium from where the stock stood before word of the buyout negotiations leaked last month. During the talks, Dell's board said it also considered a wide range of other alternatives. The proposed price of $13.65 is more than 40 percent below Dell's stock price of roughly $24 six years ago when Dell returned for a second stint as CEO. Southeastern, which came out against the proposed deal last week, argues that Dell is worth $23.72 per share, or about $42 billion. T. Rowe Price didn't provide an estimate of what it believes Dell is worth. It's still unclear how other large Dell shareholders feel about the deal, but the opinions of Southeastern and T. Rowe Price seem likely to embolden others to join the resistance. Southeastern owns an 8.4 percent stake in Dell, according to a Tuesday regulatory filing that revised the size of its stake from 8.5 percent in documents submitted last week. T. Rowe Price owns a 4.4 percent stake in Dell, according to FactSet. Michael Dell is contributing his holdings to the proposed sale, along with cash that will bring his total financial commitment to about $4.5 billion. The rest of the proposed deal's financing is being provided by Silver Lake and loans from Microsoft Corp. and an array of banks. In a Tuesday research note, Jefferies analyst Peter Misek predicted the current offer will have to be sweetened to $15 per share, or nearly $27 billion, to placate riled shareholders. Dell's stock is now trading above the current offer, a sign that more investors are becoming convinced the bid will be raised. Dells shares gained 9 cents to close at $13.79 Tuesday. The door remains open for another suitor to emerge. Dell said it will accept other bids until late March. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
rachel a. k/FlickrAt 8:30 AM ET, we'll get the January reading of U.S. retail sales. This particular report, however, will be more scrutinized than usual.† And it is expected to have big implications on economists' forecasts for the economy. Why? This is the first month where U.S. workers got hit with the recent payroll tax hike.† Economists are looking for a modest increase in sales.† But many have noted that it's unclear how much the tax hike affected consumer sentiment. Citi's Steven Englander has declared it 'The Most Important Datapoint So Far This Year.' His commentary: The big question for the US economy is how much of a headwind the January 1 tax hike has become for US activity. January retail sales would by far be affected more directly than January payrolls or ISMs, so retail sales will be the first really hard data on the impact of the tax hike.† Expectations are relatively muted. The consensus is for headline and ex-autos at +0.1% m/m (Citi economists expect +0.2% and +0.3%, on the view that momentum will persist. Core retail sales are expected to growth 0.3% m/m by the consensus and 0.4% by Citi economists. And the tax hike isn't the only fiscal issue on consumers' minds.† BofA/ML strategist David Woo described this current period to us as a "moment of truth" for the economy, and anticipated the fight over the sequester (which takes place over the coming weeks) will be where it all happens. Follow the release live at BusinessInsider.com.
Lisa Maree Williams/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Wikimedia CommonsDeere, the maker of farm machinery, just announced quarterly financial results that blew away expectations. Earnings per share jumped to $1.65 in the fiscal first quarter from $1.30 a year ago. Analysts were looking for just $1.40. Revenue jumped to $7.42 billion, which was a full billion dollars above expectations. Here's what they said about their upwardly revised outlook: Company equipment sales are projected to be up about 6 percent for fiscal 2013 and up about 4 percent for the second quarter compared with the same periods of 2012. For the full year, net income attributable to Deere &amp; Company is anticipated to be approximately $3.3 billion. Although Deere is looking to achieve strong results in 2013, persistent global economic and fiscal concerns warrant continued caution. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre confident our investment in new products and additional capacity will help Deere fully capitalize on the world‚Äôs growing need for food, shelter and infrastructure in the years ahead,‚Äù Allen said. ‚ÄúHowever, the near-term outlook is being tempered by uncertainties over fiscal, economic and trade issues that are undermining business confidence and restraining growth.‚Äù ¬†
Though the U.S. economy seems to be entering a period of recovery, President Obama‚Äôs Treasury Secretary nominee, Jacob ‚ÄúJack‚Äù Lew, would still face enormous challenges in office. A battle over raising the debt ceiling and a longer-term debate about America‚Äôs debt and deficits are examples. A still-shaky euro zone and China‚Äôs continuing economic evolution are likely to add plenty of international issues to the next Treasury ‚Äòs agenda. Lew served as budget director to both Bill Clinton and Barack Obama and has plenty of experience in fiscal issues and Congressional wrangling. He also worked for several years in a high-ranking role at Citigroup, but many Washington watchers have noted that Lew has less experience in financial markets than his predecessors. With Lew‚Äôs Senate confirmation hearings set to get underway tomorrow, The Financialist asks the questions we‚Äôd like answered about what a Treasury Secretary Lew might do in office. How would you balance the need to reduce America‚Äôs budget deficit with the impact significant spending cuts could have on the economy? Under current laws, by 2015 the U.S. budget deficit is expected to shrink from 5.3 percent of GDP to 2.4 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). However, deficits are set to hit 4 percent of GDP by 2023. By the end of this fiscal year, U.S. debt will account for 76 percent of GDP, the highest level since 1950. Many economists believed the so-called fiscal cliff, a package of tax increases and $1.2 trillion in federal spending cuts over the next decade, would have caused another recession if it had gone into effect as planned at the beginning of the year. Even without the cuts, U.S. GDP contracted in the last quarter of 2012, and unemployment remains at 7.9 percent. Lew presided over budget talks in 2011 that resulted in spending caps set to slash federal outlays by about $900 billion over the next decade. It is important to know his thinking on addressing U.S. debt and deficits during a nascent economic recovery. What is your stance on entitlement reform? The Congressional Budget Office forecasts that Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security spending will increase from 10 percent of GDP to 16 percent over the next 25 years. Lew is said to be a strong advocate of these so-called entitlement programs, which are likely to be a key part of an upcoming battle this year between Republicans and Democrats in Congress over raising the debt ceiling. President Obama has suggested recently that changing the inflation index for Social Security benefit increases and charging higher Medicare premiums to wealthy recipients might be an acceptable way to curb entitlement spending. What entitlement reforms would Lew support? How should the United States deal with China on currency valuation issues? Former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and outgoing Secretary Timothy Geithner were both interested in and deeply knowledgeable about China. Lew has less experience with the country Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said he would label a currency manipulator on his first day in office. The Treasury refused such a label last year but said in a November report that the yuan is ‚Äúsignificantly undervalued.‚Äù With China set to become the world‚Äôs largest economy by purchasing power parity as soon as 2017, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, it is worth asking how a Treasury Secretary Lew would handle the currency valuation issue. Tell us your view on the European debt issue ‚Äî is the European sovereign debt crisis still an issue that could negatively impact the U.S. economy? The impact of the European debt crisis on the U.S. economy has been an ongoing source of concern for the Obama administration. While in office, Secretary Geithner repeatedly urged bold action to end the crisis. Five years on, the¬†euro zone may have finally turned a corner and given itself the tools to effectively manage the crisis. In the past year, European governments have agreed to better coordinate their economic policies. They‚Äôve also agreed to form a banking union, overseen by the European Central Bank, to regulate the continent‚Äôs 6,000 lenders. These are certainly the sorts of bold actions the Obama administration and Secretary Geithner wanted to see, but what does Lew think the euro zone‚Äôs remaining needs and challenges are? Could the capital requirement outlined in Dodd-Frank act as a brake on the U.S. economy? The Dodd-Frank Act requires U.S. regulators to implement strict capital requirements that are bound to impact the balance sheets of U.S. banks and U.S. subsidiaries of large foreign banks. These rules are layered on top of strict international standards known as Basel III. Banks argue that having multiple capital buffers limit the amount of money they are able to put to work in the economy. Regulators recently agreed to extend the full implementation of Basel III to 2019, partly to offset concerns that a quick adoption of its capital requirement would tighten lending and hurt the global economy. An incoming secretary should spell out his views on how to balance financial regulation with the need to maintain lending to businesses and households. Are Basel III standards strong enough to avert the threat of future bank failures? Last summer the U.S. Federal Reserve officially came out in favor of the Basel III capital requirement rules. Secretary Geithner is also a strong advocate of Basel III. But over on Capitol Hill, some lawmakers say Basel III rules do not go far enough in offsetting a potential financial crisis. In a letter last fall to key regulators, including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Senate Banking Committee members Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, and David Vitter, R- La., called for tougher capital rules that¬†‚Äúproperly align incentives for megabanks by lessening government support for the financial sector, and reassure financial markets that the U.S. financial system is healthy.‚Äù Which side of this debate does Lew fall on?
Wikimedia CommonsIn love and economics, words only go so far. That's why we turn to charts... in both love and economics. Elizabeth Fosslien, a chartsmith and analyst at Arc Worldwide, created 14 admittedly cheesy charts that communicate love through economic puns. "Give them one of these (charts) and anything they receive next year will be a step up. It's called expectation management and is the key to a long and happy relationship," she says. Check out these swoon-inducing charts that she created, perfect for telling your true love just exactly how much they mean to you. Thanks to Elizabeth for giving us permission to feature these charts!
Flickr/Chris BreezeLONDON (Reuters) - Companies that specialize in testing food ingredients stand to gain from increased scrutiny of meat products in the wake of the horsemeat scandal that has spread across Europe since the beginning of the year. French-listed Eurofins &lt;EUFI.PA&gt;, the largest food testing specialist in Europe, and British firm Intertek &lt;ITRK.L&gt; both said they had already seen a pick-up in demand. Customers that routinely send samples to check on the type of meat in products don't seem to be affected, said Bert Popping, director of scientific development at Eurofins. "But we're seeing more samples coming now from companies that have not previously tested those parameters." Eurofins did the tests which helped to confirm the presence of horse in Irish-produced burgers that sparked the scandal. The discovery of horsemeat in imported beef products in Britain, blamed by government ministers on "an international criminal conspiracy," has prompted investigations into products and suppliers and calls for tighter regulation. British and European Union officials will meet in Brussels on Wednesday to decide how to deal with the situation involving several countries in a complex supply chain across the continent. British Environment Secretary Owen Paterson held meetings on Tuesday with the British Institute of Grocery Distributors to discuss standards for the regular testing of meat products by retailers and what will happen in future. Any new regulation or tougher enforcement of existing European rules would be a boon to the highly-specialized food testing sector. "Within the support services group as a whole, regulation is what they thrive on ... it's what drives the whole industry," Robin Speakman, an analyst from Shore Capital, said. British retailers have already been told by regulators to conduct more authenticity tests on beef products, such as beefburgers, meatballs and lasagne, by Friday. As a result, Intertek &lt;ITRK.L&gt; has seen more business at its food laboratory in Stoke-on-Trent. "The current demand we are seeing is focused around identification of the cause and scale of the current issue," Chetan Parmar, Intertek vice president of food services, said. "The medium and longer-term effect on our business, as with all quality scares, depends on the sustained response by the industry and regulators," he added. Food testing currently accounts for less than 5 percent of business services group Intertek's global revenue. In 2011, the company spent 7.3 million pounds on two food testing businesses in the UK and Chile, and opened a new laboratory in Turkey. SHARES RISE Will Kirkness, an analyst from Jefferies, said that the scandal could lead to a single-digit upgrade in earnings per share for Eurofins, which focuses exclusively on food testing and has an extensive network of labs and offers the greatest range of tests. Kirkness said it would probably not move the dial for the three largest European firms SGS &lt;SGSN.VX&gt;, Bureau Veritas &lt;BVI.PA&gt; and Intertek, which offer food testing along with other services. But he said it was positive for industry sentiment. Shares in each of the four companies have risen by more than 5 percent since January 15 when British retailer Tesco &lt;TSCO.L&gt; withdrew the first batch of beef burgers from its stores. Eurofins' Popping said that although he believed current food labelling regulation was adequate, better enforcement and increased awareness on the part of the companies that source products would drive new business for the company. Speakman from Shore Capital said that although there could be changes in the UK, the biggest opportunities lay in the countries where the meat originates. "Those specialists that have capability at the source of production are going to have the greatest opportunity, because they will be best placed to control, monitor and ensure compliance within the food chain," he said. But the business services sector's biggest competitors can often be its customers which can decide to do their own testing. "If it becomes a necessary part of compliance for the food retailers themselves, there's a fair chance that they will want to take control themselves and perhaps have it in house," Speakman said. (Reporting By Christine Murray. Editing by Jane Merriman) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
APAs President Barack Obama heads to Asheville, N.C., Wednesday to push the themes outlined in his State of the Union address, the White House has unveiled a four-step plan it claims would make the U.S. a "magnet for jobs" by investing in manufacturing. The White House's plan follows four general guidelines: Investing in American-made technologies; ending tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas; new partnerships to bring jobs back to America and encourage companies to hire in America; and opening global markets to American-made goods. Obama will outline the plan during his speech in Asheville, where he will visit the Linamar Factory, which produces†heavy-duty engine and driveline components. In his State of the Union Tuesday, Obama outlined proposals to revitalize American manufacturing and bring jobs back to the country, including plans to launch manufacturing hubs, that would leverage public-private partnerships to boost technologies and capabilities. Obama said he would begin the initiative with an executive order to launch three additional hubs, and†called on Congress to invest $1 billion to create a network of 15 of these hubs.† Here's Obama's full manufacturing plan, via the White House: In his State of the Union, the President outlined a comprehensive agenda to attract more jobs to our shores. As part of this effort, he is committed to investing in U.S. manufacturing: 
Russ Koesterich, CFA and BlackRock's Chief Investment Strategist, thinks the January retail sales number could be much worse than consensus, which is currently looking for 0.1 percent growth. He's going by Redbook Weekly Retail Sales data, which measures how much stuff Americans are buying by looking at weekly same-store sales at chain stores, discounters, and department stores.† From his post on BlackRock's iSharesBlog: Based on this index, which is admittedly narrow, retail sales have been negative for five consecutive weeks. While the drop in sales has been modest, it has been consistent week after week. It leaves open the possibility that the new tax hike hitting consumersí paychecks ñ remember it has impacted most workers and is expected to subtract roughly 1.5% from personal income this year ñ could send the headline retail sales number even lower than the consensus estimate of 0.1% growth from December. Koesterich warns that if the retail sales number does get slammed, it would make stocks more vulnerable to a sell-off. All eyes are on today's retail sales report to see just how much the recent payroll tax hike has hit consumer spending. Here's what the Redbook Index looks like: iShares Blog, Bloomberg
Caitlin via flickr Italy just sold 3.449 billion euro worth of 3-year bonds at a yield of 2.3 percent, up from 1.85 percent at a similar auction in January.¬† This is according to Bloomberg. The bid-to-cover ratio, a measure of demand, was 1.37, down from 1.45. Despite the higher borrowing costs and lower demand, this wasn't a terrible auction, especially considering all of the uncertainty that has surfaced ahead of Italy's upcoming elections.
EurostatIndustrial production in the euro area climbed by 0.7 percent in December.¬† This was a better than the 0.2 percent economists were looking for. Markets haven't moved much on the news. From Eurostat: Monthly comparisonIn December 2012 compared with November 2012, production of non-durable consumer goods grew by 2.0% in the euro area and by 1.3% in the EU27. Durable consumer goods increased by 2.0% and 0.4% respectively. Capital goods rose by 1.3% in the euro area and by 1.2% in the EU27. Intermediate goods fell by 0.2% and 0.3% respectively. Production of energy dropped by 1.2% in the euro area and by 0.4% in the EU27. Among the Member States for which data are available, industrial production rose in fourteen, fell in six and remained stable in Spain, France and Romania. The highest increases were registered in Ireland (+8.5%), Latvia and Slovenia (both +2.7%), and the largest decreases in Slovakia (-4.4%) and Denmark (-2.3%). Annual comparisonIn December 2012 compared with December 2011, production of intermediate goods fell by 4.6% in both the euro area and the EU27. Durable consumer goods dropped by 3.9% and 4.8% respectively. Capital goods decreased by 2.9% in the euro area and by 2.3% in the EU27. Non-durable consumer goods declined by 1.3% and 1.9% respectively. Production of energy increased by 1.2% in the euro area and by 0.4% in the EU27. Among the Member States for which data are available, industrial production fell in fifteen and rose in eight. The largest decreases were registered in Spain (-6.9%), Italy (-6.6%), the Czech Republic (-5.8%) and Poland (-5.4%), and the highest increases in Latvia (+10.7%), Malta (+10.3%) and Lithuania (+9.1%).
screengrab / Casino RoyaleHere's run down of the today's economic reports courtesy of Calculated Risk: Wednesday economic releases: ‚Ä¢ At 7:00 AM ET, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) will release the results for the mortgage purchase applications index. ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, Retail sales for January will be released. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.1% in January, and to increase 0.2% ex-autos.‚Ä¢ 10:00 AM, the Manufacturing and Trade: Inventories and Sales (business inventories) report for December will be released. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in inventories. Retail sales will be watch particularly closely because it will be the first month that incorporates the recent payroll tax hike.¬† Citi's Steve Englander has declared it the "The Most Important Datapoint So Far This Year."
Last night, President Barack Obama delivered his State of the Union speech.¬† It had its moving moments and bizarre moments. In terms of the message, Obama called for a $9 minimum wage.¬† But overall, his policy stance was largely reiterated. European markets and U.S. futures are up a tad this morning.¬† But it doesn't seem like the market will move a whole base on the speech alone. "Most SOTU speeches see less than a 1% move in the stock market on the following day, and the average move is only 0.15%," wrote LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop in his weekly market commentary yesterday. Here's a look at the post-SOTU stock market moves since 1934: LPL Financial
Veteran trader Art Cashin has been more concerned about the threat of inflation in the U.S. than most. In a recent interview with Eric King of King World News, he notes that the once dormant threat of inflation could be waking up. From King World News: ...That having been said, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis puts out what is called the ëMonetary Stock.í† It is the ëraw materialí of the money supply, and it has been dormant throughout the year. The report for the first part of this year suddenly spiked higher, and itís something that Iím going to keep a very close look at.† It may be, and there is some seasonality, but I think people need to begin watching the money supply, particularly the M2, and see if that starts to accelerate... If the velocity of money begins to accelerate and M2 begins to move up, then you will begin to hear people talking about or at least worrying about inflation again..."† Cashin notes that this isn't just theory.† Indeed, we've seen it before in history.† Most people know of the most notorious experiences: Weimar Germany and Zimbabwe. Somebody once asked a famous literary character (who lived through the Weimar hyperinflation) how did he go broke?† He said, ëSlowly and then suddenly.í† The Weimar Republic saw inflation develop very slowly, and then suddenly.† Once it developed it was almost like Zimbabwe except it was in a major nation, and destroyed the moral values of a whole civilization and basically led to the underpinnings of World War II.î  Read more at KingWorldNews.com &gt;
