Tesla¬†(NASDAQ:TSLA) CEO¬†Elon Musk might be arrogant about his Model S, but he is also realistic about the company‚Äôs share price, and he hinted at a warning Thursday that the stock is overvalued.¬†Musk was the subject of a¬†Bloomberg Television¬†interview when he made the weighty remark, but the statement was followed up by his¬†explanation of the Model S fire, and that effectively won most of the interviewer‚Äôs attention. Nonetheless, the CEO made his point when he asserted that, ‚ÄúThe stock price that we have is more than we any right to deserve,‚Äù and he also added the warning, ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs difficult to predict where it goes in the short- and medium-term, but I do feel good about having the company achieved that value more in the long-term. It‚Äôs easy to understand why the CEO is concerned over Tesla‚Äôs rising stock price, as¬†CNN¬†highlights that¬†shares are up 400 percent this year¬†and are trading at almost 100 times the company‚Äôs earnings estimates, but investors are still not exactly heeding warnings. Musk offered similar indications back in August that shares are rising too high, but the stock has jumped 10 percent since then, and that pattern doesn‚Äôt appear to be slowing. CNN¬†highlights that Tesla‚Äôs possible overvaluation mirrors that of¬†Netflix‚Äôs¬†(NASDAQ:NFLX) in 2003. Back then, CEO Reed Hastings warned that the company‚Äôs stock was rising too quickly, and investors learned that the hard way when it plunged in 2004 and has been volatile ever since.¬†Coincidentally, Netflix‚Äôs stock is up again, this time at 260 percent, and Hastings offered another note of caution this week. Despite the warnings, it‚Äôs safe to say that investors don‚Äôt always learn from their mistakes, and Musk just hopes he isn‚Äôt the next CEO to facilitate a disappointment.¬†It‚Äôs no doubt hard to back off from a rising stock, and many investors aren‚Äôt like Carl Ichan who just recently sold half of his stake in Netflix. However, it‚Äôs also important for bankers to heed warnings, especially when they‚Äôre delivered from the CEO himself.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. authorities have seized an estimated $28 million in the digital currency bitcoins from the alleged owner of "Silk Road," the online marketplace for drugs and criminal activity that law enforcement shut down three weeks ago. Federal prosecutors in New York said Friday that the 144,336 bitcoins, a digital currency widely used on the defunct site, were discovered on computer hardware belonging to†Ross William Ulbricht, known online as "Dread Pirate Roberts," who was arrested October 1 in San Francisco†and charged with various conspiracy counts. They said it represented the largest ever bitcoin seizure. Ulbricht's lawyer could not immediately be reached on Friday evening, though he previously told reporters that Ulbricht denied the charges. Since it began operations in 2011, Silk Road provided an anonymous site where drug dealers, counterfeiters and other criminals could shop for everything from heroin to hit men, according to the Justice Department. More than 900,000 registered users of the site bought and sold drugs using bitcoins, according to authorities. The currency, which has been around since 2008, first came under scrutiny by law enforcement officials in mid-2011 after media reports surfaced linking bitcoins to Silk Road. With nearly 30,000 bitcoins previously seized, federal agents have now collected more than $33 million in bitcoins, based on current value, the†U.S. Attorney's Office†in Manhattan said. The seizures were carried out as part of a corresponding civil action against Silk Road and Ulbricht. Ulbricht, who is detained in†California, is expected to appear within weeks in Manhattan federal court to face criminal charges of narcotics trafficking conspiracy, computer hacking conspiracy and money laundering conspiracy. Court documents allege that Silk Road saw some $1.2 billion in bitcoins change hands during more than two years of operation and charged between 8 and 15 percent in commissions. (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
A year ago this week, Hurricane Sandy devastated coastal communities from Jamaica to Canada. In the U.S. alone, the storm caused an estimated $65 billion in damages. The Tri-State area was arguably hit the hardest, and some families still haven't recovered.¬†To show the devastation and recovery ‚Äî or lack thereof ‚Äî Getty photographers published a series of shots from the disaster and a year later. Here are some of the comparisons: Getty Images/Andrew Burton Getty Images/Andrew Burton Getty Images/John Moore  Getty Images/John Moore  Getty Images/John Moore  Getty Images/Mario Tama/Andrew Burton Getty Images/Bruce Bennett Getty Images/Spencer Platt Getty Images/Mario Tama/Andrew Burton Getty Images/Mario Tama/Andrew Burton Getty Images/Allison Joyce/Andrew Burton
Flckr/DonkeyHoteyFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. What The Financial Services Industry Could Look Like In 2030 (Tiburon Research via Nerd's Eye View) The size of the financial markets hasn't grown in the last six years even as the industry has tried to grow, reports Matt Lynch of the Tiburon Strategic Advisors. This has been complicated by other industry trends like¬† 1. Increased expectation for a fiduciary standard. 2. Shrinking pool of advisors that has to deal with "intergenerational transfer of wealth." 3. The growth of "women as a major market" when women advisors market up only 30% of the industry. 70% of widows change financial advisors within a year of their husbands' deaths. 4. Increasing social diversity. 5. Changing technology.¬† This leads Lynch to posit two 2030 growth scenarios. The first is the "continued growth in the wealth management business" that is "driven by independent advisors, online tools and advice companies, and emerging international markets." The financial industry will have consolidated through mergers and acquisitions. The second sees the industry lose the trust of consumers, prompting them to turn to a self-service model that excludes "advisors and major financial institutions." He projects four major outcomes. 1. "Leading fee-based financial advisors increasingly will dominate the market. 2. "Retail banks will continue to lose power." 3. "Wirehouses will embrace the fee-based channel and direct resources into acquisition and organic growth of registered investment advisors." 4 "Direct distribution models are also likely to grow as consumers continue to embrace technology to help them meet their financial services needs." BLACKROCK: Three Things Investors Should Consider Before Turning Defensive (Advisor Perspectives) Despite the U.S. avoiding a default on its debt, there is a lot of policy uncertainty. So it's no surprise that many investors are still turning to 'defensive' investments writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich in a new Advisor Perspectives column. These investments involve buying short-term bonds, blue-chip stocks, and other low risk investments. But Koesterich thinks investors need to ask themselves three things before they turn to defensive investments.¬† 1. "What they‚Äôre trying to defend against." 2. "How has a company or sector changed over time?" 3. "The cost of the defensive strategy." Investors Went All-In On Stocks All Around The World This Week (BofA) Investors poured $21.4 billion into global equity funds this week, according to data from EPFR Global.¬†¬† "Fed goes AWOL...investors go All-In. Big, frothy inflows to stocks," writes Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at Bank of America. "Since June, $83 billion into equity funds versus $80 billion out of bond funds; investors beginning to worry about a repeat of Q4 1999, when the Fed left the liquidity gates wide open because of 'Y2K' fears with tech bubble outcome." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global Biotech Stocks Are Losing Favor With Some Advisors (The Wall Street Journal) Biotech stocks are losing favor with advisors, reports Murray Coleman of The Wall Street Journal. High valuations and "disappointing clinical trials and regulatory reviews" have caused some advisors to change their opinion on bio-tech stocks. Not everyone thinks the tide has turned however. "We aren't seeing any reasons to believe that the biotech market is facing any significant slowdown--the industry's pipeline for new drugs is strong and late-stage clinical trials are still very active," Christopher Raymond of Robert W. Baird &amp; Co. told the the WSJ. But others think the recent blow to biotech stocks should be a "reminder of how volatile the biotech market can be at times," reports Coleman.
John Burns Real Estate ConsultingIt is hard to say that housing is still a great deal. While mortgage rates remain near historical lows, home prices have come back strong.Thanks to strong price appreciation, the ratio of Median Home Price / Median Household Income now exceeds historical averages (since 1981) in 20 of the top 21 housing markets. See the chart below. While we remain optimistic on the future of home prices and housing construction, our optimism is founded more on assumed low mortgage rates, solid economic growth, and low new home supply than it is on household income growth and solid demographics.
REUTERS/Yuri Gripas The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) has announced a $5.1 billion settlement with JPMorgan Chase over mortgage claims from the financial crisis. ¬† This is less than was previously expected. ¬†It was reported that the bank may have to pay¬†$6 billion. ¬† From the press release [.PDF]:¬† Washington, DC ‚Äì The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, today announced it has reached a settlement with J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. and related companies for $ 4 billion to address claims of alleged violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with private-label, residential mortgage-backed securities (PLS) purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Under the terms of the agreement, J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. will pay approximately $2.74 billion to Freddie Mac and $1.26 billion to Fannie Mae to resolve certain claims related to securities sold to the companies between 2005 and 2007 by J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co., Bear Stearns &amp; Co., Inc. and Washington Mutual. In separate settlements, J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. resolved representation and warranty claims with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac related to single-family mortgage purchases by the two companies. Under the terms of the agreements, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A. will pay a total of approximately $1.1 billion -- $670 million to Fannie Mae and $480 million to Freddie Mac. ‚ÄúThe satisfactory resolution of the private-label securities litigation with J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. provides greater certainty in the marketplace and is in line with our responsibility for preserving and conserving Fannie Mae‚Äôs and Freddie Mac‚Äôs assets on behalf of taxpayers. This is a significant step as the government and J. P. Morgan Chase move to address outstanding mortgage-related issues,‚Äù said FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco. ‚ÄúFurther, I am pleased that a resolution of single family, whole loan representation and warranty claims could be achieved at the same time. This, too, will have a beneficial impact for taxpayers and the housing finance market.‚Äù FHFA‚Äôs General Counsel noted, ‚ÄúOur lead representation by Philippe Selendy and the firm of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &amp; Sullivan was central to reaching this landmark settlement and their work continues in the remaining PLS cases. I want to cite the strong work of the FHFA Office of General Counsel‚Äôs litigation group under Stephen Hart and the legal and business teams at Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. ‚ÄúThe settlement of the PLS litigation was initiated by U.S. District Court Judge Denise Cote‚Äôs direction to undertake mediation of the PLS cases under her jurisdiction. The settlement also is aligned with the working group of federal and state authorities addressing claims related to private-label securities and FHFA has and continues to work with all the government entities¬†involved.‚Äù FHFA has now settled four of the 18 PLS suits it filed in 2011, and remains committed to satisfactory resolution of the pending actions. The settlement agreement regarding private label securities claims between FHFA and¬†J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. involves the following cases: FHFA v. JP Morgan Chase &amp; Co.,¬†et al., No. 121 CIV. 6188 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y.)(and other named defendants); FHFA v. Ally¬†Financial Inc., et al., 11 CIV. 7010 (DLC) (S.D.N.Y.); FHFA v. First Horizon National¬†Corp., et al., No. 11 Civ. 6193 (DLC)(S.D.N.Y.) and FHFA v. SG Americas, Inc., et al.,¬†No. 11 CIV. 6203 (DLC)(S.D.N.Y.) ¬†
JPMorgan Chase execs are totally geeking out over the Twitter initial public offering.† According to CNBC's Kayla Tausche, JPMorgan was blasting "Rockin' Robin"†as Twitter execs took the stage on the 50th floor of the bank's Park Avenue offices for the IPO roadshow. It's unclear which version of the song they were playing, but we're going to guess it was the original by Bobby Day.† Also,†according to Tausche, JPMorgan made custom track jackets for the IPO similar to what they did with Facebook. This time, though, the jackets have been upgraded to Lululemon. † Check it out (photo credit: Amara Omeokwe):† CNBC  Here's Rockin' Robin: 
REUTERS/Alvin Baez  The EconomistA heavily indebted island weighs on Americaís municipal-bond market ALTHOUGH investors are now less jittery about a possible default by the American Treasury, they are rightly still nervous about a drama unfolding in the market for state and local debt. Since May, yields on bonds issued by Puerto Rico, a self-governing American territory, have shot up to between 8% and 10%, despite their (barely) investment-grade rating and tax-exempt interest. Puerto Rico carries outsized importance in Americaís almost $4 trillion municipal-debt market, which includes bonds issued by states and other local authorities as well as by cities. The islandís current debt, between $52 billion and $70 billion (depending on how it is measured), is the third-largest behind Californiaís and New Yorkís, despite a far smaller and poorer population. In Americaís 50 states the average ratio of state debt to personal income is 3.4%. Moodyís, a ratings agency, puts Puerto Ricoís tax-supported debt at an eye-watering 89% (see chart). Puerto Ricoís debt has long been a staple of American municipal-bond funds because of its high yields and its exemption from federal and local taxes--of particular appeal to investors in high-tax states. That let Puerto Rico keep borrowing despite its shaky economic and financial condition, until Detroitís bankruptcy in July alerted investors to the threat of default by other governments in similar penury. America won control of Puerto Rico in the Spanish-American war of 1898. Its people have American citizenship and receive American government pensions, but pay no federal tax on their local income. The economy has big structural problems. Participation in the labour force, at 41%, is some 20 percentage points below Americaís. The island has the federal minimum wage, even though local productivity and incomes are far lower than in the rest of America, creating a strong disincentive to hire. Inflated benefit payments, for disability for instance, discourage work. Moodyís Analytics reckons the territoryís bloated public sector accounts for 20% of employment, compared with 3.7% for the average state (though it provides some services that the federal government would on the mainland). Growth and investment are hampered by bureaucracy, stunted infrastructure and crime. Puerto Rico has been in recession virtually since 2006, when a federal tax break for corporate income expired, prompting many businesses to leave. As Puerto Ricans with prospects emigrate, the remaining population has aged and shrunk. The government has run budget deficits (prohibited for states) for the past decade, averaging 2.5% of GDP from 2009 to 2012. Its pension fund is only 7% funded, which is abysmal even by the standards of other American states and territories. The current administration has sought to shore up its finances by increasing taxes by $1.1 billion (about 1% of GDP) and raising the retirement age for government employees, as well as the share of their salaries they contribute to their pensions. It has promised to wipe out its budget deficit, projected at $820m this fiscal year, by 2016. Such austerity could further hobble growth, making it harder to shrink debt ratios. Luis FortuÒo, the previous governor, lost his job last year partly because of public anger at the cuts he oversaw. Like Greece in the euro zone, Puerto Rico has no control over monetary policy (the preserve of the Federal Reserve), and so cannot mitigate a fiscal tightening with lower interest rates or a cheaper currency. Investors meanwhile are so wary, after years of missed deficit targets, tardy financial reports and accounts opaquer than those of other states, that Puerto Rico has had to cut back on new bond issues. It is filling the gap with more shortñterm bank loans; but they come at punitive rates of interest and must be rolled over more often. Investors are now openly debating whether Puerto Rico will default. Its constitution requires that its general-obligation bonds ($10.6 billion of the total) get first claim on tax revenues. Other bonds are backed by dedicated revenue such as sales tax and power bills and by a law authorising the government to pay interest ahead of other claims. "Honouring debts is not only a constitutional but also a moral obligation," Alejandro Padilla, the governor, told investors earlier this month. Yet politically it may be tough to gratify bondholders if police, doctors and teachers go unpaid. The federal government cannot be counted on for a bail-out: fiscal hawks in Congress would almost certainly balk at the expense and the precedent. Should Puerto Rico seek to restructure its debts, it would be entering uncharted legal terrain. Unlike a city it cannot declare bankruptcy. It does not enjoy the same sovereignty the constitution grants the states; should it try to renege on its debts, Congress might intervene. Years of litigation would follow. Puerto Ricoís problems have not yet had much effect beyond its shores. Its debt is held mainly by mutual funds and individuals, although in recent months many have sold to distressed-debt specialists. Some brokers have stopped selling its bonds to their clients. Borrowing costs have risen for a few highly indebted states such as Illinois, but the majority have no trouble selling bonds, says Chris Mier of Loop Capital Markets, which specialises in municipal debt. Happily, state finances are much healthier today than in 2010. But complacency would not be wise. No state has defaulted since 1933. A default by Puerto Rico could come as a wake-up call. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images The EconomistMIRIM HIGH SCHOOL for girls in Seoul is living proof that South Koreans take education seriously. The students, aged 15 to 18, bow respectfully whenever a teacher passes. Many of them board, and all attend extra-curricular classes from 6pm to 9pm. Do they work too hard? Chang Byong-gap, the headmaster, laughs at the question. South Koreaís passion for education has historical roots. In the early years of the Choson dynasty, which lasted from 1392 to 1910, those who passed a civil-service exam could gain entry to the privileged yangban class, a scholarly aristocracy. Those roots were reinforced by more recent history, notes Michael Seth, author of "Education Fever". Under Japanese colonial rule between 1910 and 1945, Koreansí educational aspirations were frustrated, resulting in pent-up demand. In the carnage of the Korean war of 1950-53, many of the old social hierarchies crumbled, convincing people they could succeed by their own efforts. Before 1971 children were taught in two shifts because school-building could not keep up with the numbers. By 1980 almost every primary-school student was going on to middle school at age 11. In 1995 the government promised to usher in an "edutopia", encouraging the entry of private universities. In response, higher education boomed. The proportion of high-school graduates going on to higher education rose from 40% in the early 1990s to almost 84% in 2008. But since then, remarkably, the rate has declined (see chart 2). South Koreaís national obsession with ever higher levels of education appears to have reached a ceiling. Despite their top-notch schooling, none of the girls graduating from Mirim High School this year went straight on to a full-time university degree. The school is one of 35 "Meister" schools introduced by the previous president, Lee Myung-bak, in an effort to raise the prestige of vocational education and break the grip of universities on the minds of South Korean parents, 93% of whom expect their children to go to college. The schools, modelled on Germanyís example, aim to produce masters of a trade (known as Meister in German) rather than bookish swots. Mirim High School concentrates on the programming and design of apps that people download onto their smartphones and tablets. In the past, parents pushed children to enter university whatever their aptitude or inclination, says Seo Nam-soo, the education minister. Some wanted their children to go on to higher education because they never had the chance themselves. But a growing number now believe their children should do what makes them happy, he says. Parents may also be deterred by the cost. Throughout their childrenís school years, they spend an extraordinary amount preparing them for the brutally competitive day-long university entrance exam, the suneung. All told, education accounted for nearly 12% of consumer spending last year. A big chunk of that went on extra English classes. Learning the language has become a "collective neurosis", according to one professor. Some mothers move with their children to an English-speaking country. A cheaper alternative is to spend a summer at a mock-English village in South Korea, such as the Gyeonggi English Village, a place with red telephone boxes where only English is spoken. The cost of education may be the main reason why South Koreans are having so few babies. In surveys, they cite financial burdens as the biggest obstacle and single out education as one of the heaviest components. Thomas Anderson and Hans-Peter Kohler of the University of Pennsylvania have shown that the South Korean provinces with the lowest fertility rates are also the places where families spend the most on education. This spending, however, no longer yields rich returns. Going to university racks up tuition fees and keeps young people out of the job market for four years. After graduation it takes an average of 11 months to find a first job. Once found, the jobs remain better paid and more secure than the positions available to high-school graduates, but the gap is narrowing. The McKinsey Global Institute reckons that the lifetime value of a college graduateís improved earnings no longer justifies the expense required to obtain the degree. The typical Korean would be better off attending a public secondary school and diving straight into work. If the private costs are no longer worthwhile, the social costs are even greater. Much of South Koreaís discretionary spending on private tuition is socially wasteful. The better marks it buys do not make the student more useful to the economy. If one student spends more to improve his ranking, he may land a better job, but only at the expense of someone else. In the first decades of the South Korean republic the government tried to keep up with the education fever, building schools and hiring teachers at a frantic pace. In more recent decades it has tried to cool it down. In 1971 it abolished the entrance exam for middle school, but that only heightened the competition for high-school places, so a few years later it replaced the high-school entrance exam with a lottery. The result was the insanely competitive university entrance exam. By easing competition at one stage of education, it only intensified it at the next. In 1980 the government outlawed private out-of-school tutoring, which drove the industry underground. The ban was declared unconstitutional in 2000. Since then efforts to soothe the education fever have been more modest. Seoul imposes a 10pm curfew on cramming schools, but pupils can dodge the curfew by learning online after hours. The government will introduce test-free semesters in all middle schools by 2016 to give pupils some relief from rote learning. South Koreaís education arms race poses a puzzle. Students spend vast amounts of time and money to move up in the queue for good jobs. But queues are needed only for things that are in short supply. Why should good jobs be rationed? The number of "good" employers should, in principle, expand in line with the scale and skill of the available workforce. So perhaps the preoccupation with educational qualifications reflects problems in the labour market. As South Koreans see it, good jobs are indeed rationed. The university-educated aspire to work in the government and its allied enterprises, the banks or the chaebol, South Koreaís family-owned conglomerates. These employers provide the kind of secure, well-paid and prestigious jobs with which the rest of the labour market cannot compete. South Koreans refer to some of them as "Godís place". The very best are known as "the place that even God does not know". The well-educated are prepared to "queue" for these jobs by adding to their educational credentials and even by enduring post-graduation unemployment until a job becomes available. Of the 5.4m South Koreans aged 15-29 who are not economically active, 11% are preparing for various kinds of professional exams to enter Godís place. A similar division prevails among blue-collar workers. Hyundai Motor, which makes about 40% of the cars sold in South Korea, has 59,800 regular workers as well as over 6,000 "temporary" workers, often hired by companies set up expressly for that purpose. The two kinds of employees do identical amounts of the same work on the same site, but the temporary staff get paid only 70% of the regularsí wages, according to union leaders, or 85%, according to the management. The regular workers are represented by a union with 19 full-time leaders, paid for by the company. In the stairwell of the union offices a cartoon strip depicts a huddle of flagellated men turning on their whipmaster. Inside, union members are voting on a settlement to end their latest strike, one of many in recent years. They had drawn up a long list of demands, one of which in particular caused public outrage. Hyundai Motor subsidises the university education of its workersí children. The union wanted it also to subsidise the vocational education of children who do not go to college. Moon Young-moon, a union leader who has worked at Hyundai Motor for 27 years, says he is just moving with the times. It is, after all, government policy to "remove the social pressure to go to university". Not all chaebol jobs are good jobs, but as far as South Koreans are concerned, most good jobs are still chaebol jobs. Will that remain true? Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
REUTERS/David GrayA member of the public takes a photograph of a sculpture by artist Lucy Humphrey titled 'horizon' on a rocky cliff which is part of the "Sculpture by the Sea" exhibition at Sydney's Tamarama Beach, October 24, 2013. Two tech behemoths made massive moves today sending the S&amp;P 500 to an all-time closing high. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Well that didn't go so hot... Omar Kahn, The CEO of Chinese Mobile company NQ just gave an interview on Bloomberg TV to defend his company from allegations from investment firm Muddy Waters and the stock just started plunging again. When Kahn started the interview, the stock was down 4.5%, and now it's down 16%. Yesterday Muddy Waters published a report saying the firm was a straight up fraud ó that its number of paying users was inflated, and that it was counting revenue that simply didn't exist. On that report, the stock plunged a whopping 57% and trading was halted until this afternoon. Today Kahn said Muddy Waters' allegations were "nonsense." Looks like the market doesn't agree:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Bloomberg TV                                            Carson Block                                            Muddy Waters                                            Short                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						0									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Welp, Looks Like That Interview With The CEO Of NQ Didn't Convince The Market One Bit    Welp, Looks Like That Interview With The CEO Of NQ Didn't Convince The Market One Bit        Not good.
UBS"As people are living longer, the definition of ‚Äúold‚Äù is changing," write the folks at UBS Wealth Management. Traditionally, when you get old, you retire. But these days, people are less likely to make the connection between retirement and old age. UBS recently conducted a survey of 2,319 of its wealth management clients, and they asked them: "Do you consider yourself 'old'?" "Most investors do not feel ‚Äúold‚Äù until they are in their 80s," found UBS. "Only 31% who are in their 60s and 47% who are in their 70s feel old, while 77% of those in their 80s feel old. This demonstrates a notable shift from prior generations, as investors believe on average that their parents were old at 62, a number that also coincided with when people typically retired." "But today, retiring from work does not equal old," they added. "And even the onset of health and memory loss issues doesn‚Äôt equal old. To most people, it‚Äôs when people can no longer live in their own homes or when they can no longer drive. In short, you get old when you lose your individual independence, when you can‚Äôt do things for yourself." UBS While it is fascinating to see how we perceive old age, there are real implications for all of this. And it has to do with retirement. "Overall, investors seem to underestimate how much of their prior income they think they will need during retirement," writes UBS. "On average, they believe they will need about 60% of their prior income during retirement. This is well below standard industry estimates of 78% of prior income. Underestimating annual income needs becomes even more acute in the context of a retirement that may last as long as 30 years." It may come off as good news that we're living longer. However, living longer comes with greater living costs. Plan accordingly. Read UBS's whole report here.
Bloomberg TV screenshotOmar Khan, co-CEO of Chinese company NQ Mobile, was just on Bloomberg TV refuting investment firm Muddy Waters' accusation that his company is a fraud. Yesterday, when Muddy Waters announced their position, NQ stock fell 57% and had to be halted. It's trading again as of this afternoon, and the stock's down around 7.6%. Muddy Waters CEO Carson Block says NQ's reaction is right out of the "standard fraud playbook." Kahn, on the phone with Bloomberg TV, said he was very busy "responding to this nonsense." The company "transparently and openly" addressed the issue on a call with investors this morning. He added that Block doesn't understand his business. Which actually, is exactly what Block said he would say in his interview with Bloomberg TV earlier today. "We have 8 years of experience in our industry. We were the pioneers of our industry... we are one of the largest operators of mobile games in China," said Kahn. He also said that his company monetizes by connecting users with advertisers. Carson Block says that the company has 250,000 users in China. Kahn says the number is 6 million. Block also says that NQ recognizes revenue that doesn't necessarily exist. Kahn says that "we actually take a very conservative policy when recognizing net revenue," though it varies based on contracts. According to Kahn, three separate investment banks have verified NQ's cash and the company "welcomes" Carson Block to talk to them about their numbers ó something he hasn't done. They want to be transparent. We know what Block would say to that.
The Fine Young Gentleman Men have two goals when they packó The first goal is to economize space while still having enough clothing to keep up appearances.† The second is to pack in a way that is best for your clothing; essentially, in a manner†that will limit the possibility of creasing, wrinkling, stress and stains. Before we get into how to pack your wardrobe, letís first go over a few facts that will†help you keep your expectations reasonable when packing and unpacking. First,†packing is not a perfect art, it is impossible to pack, travel and unpack and not have†any creases or wrinkles in any of your clothing. One of the most important things†to do is the make sure things stay in place. When they are able to shift around†a likelihood of creases (and thus ironing) increases. Second, not all textiles are†created equal. Certain fabrics will crease more easily than others. For instance,†linen will crease just by looking at it, whereas wool is a bit hardier. Also as part†of this, it is important to realize that heavier weight fabrics crease less easily than†lighter weight ones. For instance, a heavy wool flannel suit will rarely crease†whereas a tropical wool suit will crease relatively easily. Third, garment bags are†a waste of money. You can pack your suit, shoes and shirts in your normal suitcase†and they will emerge in a similar, if not a better state.
flickr, City of Toronto ArchivesThe rise of activist hedge funds in the last few years has American companies looking over their shoulders to see if an investor boogie man is following somewhere close behind. It's scary, but here's the thing ‚Äî American companies brought it on themselves. Looking back, it made sense that companies were afraid to use their cash after the financial crisis. The world was at a standstill. Demand was weak because unemployment was even higher than it is now. As the economy rose off its 2009 post financial crisis low and battled thought the worst of the Euro crisis from 2010-2011, however, people started wondering: When are companies going to start reinvesting all the cash they've been sitting on? Real estate mogul Sam Zell even said he needed an "all clear" sign before he would start putting his cash to work. But that's not what he, or any other American company that has been hoarding cash for the past few years is getting now. Instead of an all clear, they're getting a warning shot from hedge funds hunting for cash fat targets. Those hedge funds want the companies to use that cash to buy back stock and make shareholders (the hedge funds and their investors) more money. That, after all, is their job. Here's a perfect example: San Francisco based fund Marcato Capital Management sent a letter to Sotheby's this week arguing that they should sell some real estate in London and New York to free up $1.3 billion in cash. Sure, Sotheby's could then invest that cash into expanding their Contemporary art offerings, as another activist on their tail, Dan Loeb has said. But really, you can bet that if that real estate is sold, Marcato, the third largest shareholders of Sotheby's stock, will then push for a stock buy back. And who does that help? Sotheby's shareholders ‚Äî Marcato. Now, Sotheby's (like other cash rich companies) could've spent the money on R&amp;D, it could've hired people (something that would help solve corporate Americas initial problem ‚Äî lack of demand), it could've paid people a little more (you do NOT want to be a 25 year-old working at Sotheby's and trying to live in NYC or London without help). But no. Now, Sotheby's will have to worry about waging fierce, expensive fight to fend off investors that don't quit ‚Äî guys like Third Point's Dan Loeb ‚Äî that have no problem taking a company to war. And the rest of Wall Street has caught on to this strategy because it works, and because there are targets everywhere. This week, two veteran hedge fund managers ‚Äî Jason Ader, of Ader Investment Management, and Andrew Wallach of Cumberland Associates ‚Äî joined forces to start their own firm. Ader has a background in activism, but Wallach is a value guy. "I've been frustrated over the years," Wallach told Business Insider. "I can't tell you how many companies I've tried to explain to share repurchase to. I'm tired of it." The language hedge funds use to announce their targets almost boiler plate at this point, too. Check out this press release from Kerisdale Capital, a hedge fund founded by a young investor, Sahm Adrangi. He's going after Lindsay Corp., an irrigation company where Howard Buffett sits on the board. Lindsay's management team boasts an enviable track record... Overall, we believe management's operating execution has proved exemplary. However, on the issues that fall into the domicile of Board oversight, our assessment is less glowing. Lindsay maintains an overcapitalized balance sheet and its capital allocation plan is ambiguous. Over the past five years, Lindsay has accumulated$100 million of cash on its balance sheet, such that net cash currently comprises $150mm, or more than 15% of the company's market capitalization. Lindsay's cash balance has earned less than 1% annually over the past five years, while Lindsay's return on equity has ranged from 10% to 20%. Management has suggested that the large cash reserves would allow the company to react quickly to a potential acquisition target. Yet Lindsay hasn't made an acquisition larger than $35 million in over two decades. That $35 million acquisition was of Barrier Systems, Inc. in 2006, a business that is currently break even and that we believe to have been a suboptimal use of capital and management attention... Basically, if you won't put your cash to work, we will do it for you. Throw the word 'Apple' in there instead of 'Lindsay' and you can almost hear Carl Icahn talking on CNBC yesterday. This isn't to say that every target isn't putting their cash to good use (with Apple especially, that is debatable) but lets be real ‚Äî American companies are fat. They got that way because they were scared. Instead of putting their money to work for the good of the country, putting more Americans to work, or putting more cash in their pockets, American companies kept that cash for themselves. And now Wall Street has come to repossess it.
Yesterday, after billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn appeared on CNBC for almost an hour to discuss his proposal that Apple CEO Tim Cook should initiate a $150 billion share buyback, Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson pointed out in his "chart of the day" that Icahn is not even a top-2o shareholder of Apple. In today's chart, Wilkinson points out that Icahn's tweets aren't moving the market like they used to. Miller Tabak Wilkinson explains in a note to clients: Icahn Tweets Prove Less Pull ñ Carl Icahn seems to like taking to Twitter at 2:15pm apparently, which makes it that little bit easier to compile our chart of the day. It measures the impact of Mr. Icahnís tweets on Appleís share price on August 13 as he announced his purchase of the stock and compares it to the October 23 Tweet when he announced his letter to the company arguing in favor of a share repurchase. Each bubble represents the volume traded during 10-minute periods following the Tweets. The larger the bubble the greater is the volume traded. Each series measures the percentage change in†Appleís share price through the close the following day. Mr. Icahnís August announcement of his stake in Apple riveted tech-hopefuls driving shares 6% higher on heavy volume. Throughout the remaining two hours of trading and until the close the following day, 45 million Apple shares traded closing 4.57% higher. But this weekís latest Tweet was far less successful in driving Apple ahead. While shares closed 1.76% higher following the Tweet by Thursdayís close, the announcement generated far less buzz amongst investors. Overall volume over the comparable period since Wednesdayís Tweet is just 15 million shares and is therefore just one-third of the August total. Here's Icahn's first tweet: We currently have a large position in APPLE. We believe the company to be extremely undervalued. Spoke to Tim Cook today. More to come. Just sent a letter to Tim Cook. Full letter will be disclosed on my website, the Shareholdersí Square Table, which will be launched tomorrow
Surging property prices are again raising concerns about a property bubble in China. Chinese home prices climbed in 65 of 70 cities monitored by the National Bureau of Statistics in September. Prices are close to record highs.¬† On a monthly basis home prices were up 0.67%, which was slower than 0.79% in August. And housing inflation was much stronger in first tier cities, namely, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong and Shenzhen, than in lower tier cities.¬† Bloomberg chief economist Michael McDonough tweeted a chart of year-over-year gains in Chinese home prices, saying, "As I board my flight to Shanghai: A Very Simple Chart Likely Worrying China's Policy Makers." Michael McDonough/Bloomberg LP via Twitter Sales volume growth in China slowed to 21.2% year-over-year in Q3, from 32.4% the previous quarter, and housing investment is slowing too. Housing starts are expected to slow in coming months. "The under-supply situation in big cities is unlikely to change in the near term," writes Societe Generale's Wei Yao. Societe Generale To help address rising property prices Beijing unveiled seven new regulations or Beijing Seven Rules, according to Caixin Online. These rules are centered on making homes more affordable and on homes that will likely be bought by the lower and middle income group. From Caixin Online: "There are four types of restrictions. The first regards price. Self-use commercial housing must be 30 percent cheaper than normal commercial housing in the same area. Regarding size, the flats concerned will be 90 square meters or less. Third, owners are not allowed to sell the property within five years of purchase. If they do, they must return 30 percent of the profit. Finally, only people with Beijing Hukou, or residence registration, are eligible, and a family cannot own more than one property when they buy under the new rules. People lacking a Beijing Hukou must prove they made tax payments and contributions to their social security account for five straight years." But this might not be enough. "In terms of policy, we see no grand tightening in the offing, except that banks are extending fewer mortgages," according to Yao. "Long-term solutions, such as property taxes, land reform, and sustainable funding sources for affordable housing, are still slow to come."
(Reuters) - Toyota Motor Corp reached a deal on Friday to resolve a lawsuit in the United States over unintended acceleration issues, one day after a jury found the Japanese carmaker liable and ordered it to pay $3 million for defects that caused a 2007 fatal crash. A jury in Oklahoma on Thursday ordered the company to pay $3 million in compensatory damages to Jean Bookout, a driver injured in the 2007 crash, and the family of Barbara Schwarz, who was killed. Jurors were scheduled to resume deliberating on Friday on whether to award punitive damages against Toyota. Before the jury could reach a decision, Toyota and lawyers for the plaintiffs announced they had reached a confidential settlement on punitive damages to resolve the case. The lawsuit is one of the first involving acceleration issues to go to trial since similar concerns prompted Toyota to begin in 2009 to recall millions of vehicles. The lawsuit alleged that software defects in the electronic throttle control system of Bookout's 2005 Camry caused it to speed out of control and crash, killing Schwarz. "While we strongly disagree with the verdict, we are satisfied that the parties reached a mutually acceptable agreement to settle this case," Toyota spokeswoman Carly Schaffner said in a statement. A lawyer for the plaintiffs, J. Cole Portis, said they were pleased with the jury's decision. "We are fully convinced that Toyota's conduct from the time the electronic throttle control system was designed has been shameful," Portis said in a statement. "We appreciate that the jury had the courage to let Toyota and the public know that Toyota was reckless." The case is the first loss for Toyota in a string of early trials over acceleration issues, which prompted hundreds of lawsuits across the country in the wake of the recalls. The 2005 Camry at issue in the Oklahoma trial was not included in the recalls. Two earlier trials in Brooklyn, New York, and California, absolved Toyota of liability for alleged acceleration-related defects. There have been roughly 200 proposed class actions and more than 500 individual cases filed against Toyota since February 2009 over the alleged acceleration issues, according to a regulatory filing from the company. Toyota has already agreed to pay a settlement valued at $1.6 billion to resolve claims for economic losses, such as repair costs or lowered resale value, over acceleration issues. That settlement did not cover personal injury or wrongful death lawsuits. (Reporting by Jessica Dye in New York; Editing by Tim Dobbyn)
ptwc.weather.govAn earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.3 has hit near the Fukushima prefecture in Japan, according to USGS. Japan Meteorological Agency puts the quake's magnitude at 7.1 currently. The earthquake hit at 2:10 a.m. on Saturday, according to†The Associated Press. Japanese authorities issued a tsunami advisory for Fukushima prefecture, expecting a 3-foot tsunami by 1:40 p.m. ET, according to the Weather Channel. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center says there is "no widespread tsunami hazard" for this quake. A small, 30-centimeter tsunami hit the coast of Japan, but so far there are no reports of damage, BBC reports. Hiroko Tabuchi of The New York Times says that all tsunami alerts have been lifted. Two years ago another earthquake caused a tsunami that reached heights of 133 feet in some places. The tsunami led to a meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear power plant that is still being cleaned up today. Nuclear plant workers have been evacuated, Sky News reports.
OGX, the sickest of all former Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista's six ailing companies, will file for bankruptcy in the next few days, according to the WSJ. It was lower-than-expected outputs from the oil and gas company that began the end of Batista in the first place. That was back in 2012. Now things have deteriorated to the point that, earlier this month, OGX started defaulting on a $45 million interest payment to bondholders (it will officially be in default on October 3oth). The company's stock is down 90% this year. Batista's empire, all held under the his holding company EBX, is very interconnected. So this could be the beginning of something very ugly (as if things weren't ugly enough). From WSJ: OGX is preparing a so-called judicial recovery plan for reorganization, similar in part to a streamlined U.S. bankruptcy filing, the people said. This approach differs from the traditional Brazilian bankruptcy process that tends to end in liquidation, some of these people said... The cash-strapped company, operating with about $3.6 billion of debt, has tried but so far has yet to reach a restructuring deal with creditors, many of whom traveled to Brazil to meet with advisers and management this week, the people familiar with the matter said. The company asked creditors for a $75 million capital injection but didn't get an immediate answer from creditors, who are concerned they won't recover the money, the people said. Batista, once the 7th richest man in the world with a fortune of $34 billion, is now down to $200 million
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergUranium prices have been in steady decline since peaking above $70 per pound in early 2011.Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Rob Chang warns clients that uranium is "set for a violent move higher" in his latest note. The metal has been on a steady grind lower for most of this year, much like most of the past three years. The reason, according to Chang: since the earthquake and nuclear disaster at TEPCO's Fukushima power plant in April 2011, Japanese reactors have been shut down, and inventories of unused uranium have piled up, weighing on the price. Chang thinks that is all about to change. In his note, he writes: We continue to stress that the marginal cost of current production for uranium is US$40/lb and that the minimum incentive price for future supply to match future uranium demand is US$70/lb. The reason why the price is as low as it is now is due to excess uranium inventories stemming from material earmarked for Japanís 50 reactors not being consumed for the last two and a half years. With Japan set to restart some reactors either late this year or early next year (we forecast 10 to restart in 2014 but none this year) this issue will soon resolve itself ñ especially since there are more reactors under construction, planned, and proposed now (557) than since before Fukushima (541). In fact, we forecast that the price of uranium will make significant and dramatic moves higher when it does correct upwards. Our rationale stems from our supply and demand forecast, which indicates that there will be a large and unavoidable supply deficit beginning in 2020 as global demand outpaces global supply under the current price environment. Given that it takes 7-10 years for a uranium project to move from greenfield discovery to first production, the fact that 2020 is only six years away means that we will already have a deficit no matter what happens to uranium prices and to mine development plans. Cantor Fitzgerald forecasts an average 2014 uranium spot price of $43.25 per pound, an average 2014 price of $62.50, and an average 2016 price of $70.
APSen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) is threatening to put a "hold" on the nomination of Janet Yellen to chair the Federal Reserve unless he gets a¬†vote on his Fed transparency bill,¬†according to CNBC's Steve Liesman.¬† "As part of Senate consideration of the Janet Yellen nomination to be Chair of¬†the Federal Reserve, I will request a vote on my bipartisan Federal Reserve Transparency Act, S. 209," Paul said in a statement. "The American people deserve transparency from the Federal Reserve and the federal government as a whole.‚Äù A "hold" is an informal Senate procedure to signal a senator's intentions that he or she does not want a bill or nomination to reach the floor. In February, Paul put a hold on the nomination of John Brennan to be CIA Director while he awaited answers to questions about the U.S.' drone program. A few weeks later, Paul began his historic talking filibuster of Brennan's nomination. Paul's intention to hold Yellen's nomination depends on whether fellow Senate Republicans go along with him. If Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has 60 votes, Yellen's nomination will get through to a final confirmation vote. "I don't know enough yet to know whether his request for a vote will be taken seriously, but I kind of doubt it," a Senate Democratic leadership aide told Business Insider. This post has been updated.
Alexey Nikolsky/RIA NOVOSTI/AFPThe new polypropylene production facility of Tobolsk-Polymer, a subsidiary of Russian petrochemicals company Sibur in Tobolsk on October 15, 2013Russia's third-quarter growth rate fell well below expectations on Friday in a fresh blow to government hopes of avoiding the worst economic performance since the 2008-2009 global crisis. Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Klepach said Russia's $1.95-trillion (1.41-trillion-euro) economy expanded by 1.2 percent between July and September compared to output in the same period in 2012. The annual rate -- the slowest among the big emerging markets and about half the pace enjoyed in the United States -- was the same as in the second quarter and slower than the 1.6-percent rise witnessed in the first three months of the year. "The third quarter was not one of economic revival," Klepach admitted. "The stagnation continues. There is a pause in growth." Klepach said a closer look at the figures revealed disappointing signs of an economy that was actually losing momentum rather than gathering pace. Seasonally-adjusted growth slowed by 0.1 percent in September from August. The figure for that month was 0.1-percent less that the one in July. Both the government and economists had expected Russia's output to pick up in the second half of the year and reach an annual rate of about 1.8 percent. But Klepach said that figure will now be reached only if fourth-quarter performance suddenly accelerates to 3.4 percent. "We could see a small rebound in the fourth quarter," said Klepach. "We are not yet revising the 1.8-percent forecast. But it does look optimistic." President Vladimir Putin had initially promised growth of 5.0 percent in 2013 -- a figure that was meant to improve on the 3.4-percent to 4.0-percent yearly performances witnessed between 2010 and 2012. Bank of America Merrill Lynch had predicted growth of 1.6-1.7 percent in the third quarter -- a slight downgrade from its own earlier estimate. It attributed Russia's latest disappointment to a poor harvest that was damaged by one of the wettest autumns in years. "We think that the disappointing rate of improvement can be attributed partly to the poor weather conditions, which have constrained potentially strong agricultural output this year," said Bank Of America Merill Lynch analyst Vladimir Osakovsky. He noted that a large part of a harvest that was expected to grow by 30 percent on last year "seems now to have been lost." But most analysts believe Russia's economic problems run much deeper. Moscow's VTB Capital investment bank highlighted "a sharp deceleration in retail sales, declining employment and contracting investments" as the most immediate challenges facing Putin's government. The International Monetary Fund has recommended that Russia "protect growth-enhancing investment spending" by overhauling the outdated pension programme and limiting spending on inefficient projects. It also urged the central bank to stamp down harder on interest rates -- now at the top of 5.0 to 6.0-percent annual target after spending the summer above 7.0 percent -- by keeping any monetary easing policies in check. Klepach said he did not expect to see any rate cuts before next year. The bank's board of governors has called Russia's economic problems primarily structural and warned that a sudden cash infusion could result in higher inflation while producing no growth benefits. Standard and Poor's agreed in late September that "the economy is reaching the limits of its capacity" and needs a quick business climate improvement that could generate lacking investment growth. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Eric WilkinsonWe're told from a source that hard lines to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in Chicago are down.¬† Right now, traders only have wireless access, our source said.¬† However,¬†Twitter user AgMTKS1, who is a member of the Chicago Board of Trade, says that the floor wireless has gone down. "Volumes have been pathetic anyway. A slow day just got slower," our trader source tells us.¬† A spokesperson from the CME confirmed that there was a power surge this morning that has impacted the phone and internet for some traders at the¬†Board of Trade¬†North¬†Building at 141 W Jackson Boulevard.¬† The spokesperson said that trading on CME markets hasn't been impacted and that they are continuing to look into the situation. ¬† If anyone else knows anything about what's going on in Chicago, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.¬† Here's what folks on Twitter are saying:¬† Our option software provider just informed us it's a power outage affecting CME's network...still unable to connect to our server... how do we lose internet service on the CME floor @CMEGroup Floor wireless is down, sheeets
flickr/Hash MilhanPost-government shutdown economic data from private surveys over the past two days have given us the first good look at the effect of the October fiscal crisis in Washington, D.C. on the American economy. The results of the surveys are not pleasant. Markit's flash U.S. manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index survey revealed the first monthly contraction in manufacturing output since September 2009. The University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey revealed a sharp drop in sentiment over the course of October. Wall Street economists largely expect this to be a minor episode before the economy finally accelerates in 2014. ISI Chairman Ed Hyman pegs the odds that the economy appears to accelerate over the next six weeks at 60%. However, he says a frightening new "shadow consensus" is emerging that economic acceleration will never come. In a note to clients, Hyman describes the scenario: Growth remains at around +2.0% -- odds 35%. Under this scenario, which is becoming the shadow consensus, nominal GDP would be +3.0%. Revenues for S&amp;P companies would be +4.0%, reflecting global growth. Profits would increase +4.0% (flat margins), and EPS would increase +5.0% with stock buybacks. So earnings a year from now would be $112, which with a P/E of 18 -- which as calculated from Graham and Doddís equation -- would put the S&amp;P at 2016. Inflation remains tame. Central banks remain accommodative. We "never" have another recession. So, Plan B would be just fine for asset prices. Continued monetary easing, continued stock market gains, and a continued lackluster economic recovery. In short: more of the same. Dominic Konstam, global head of rates research at Deutsche Bank, believes the U.S. economy is already entering into a "late-cycle" stage. "A growing number of indicators are showing late-cycle dynamics, and while this need not imply a recession it might well indicate a shift into a period of slower growth and lower inflation," he writes in a recent note to clients.†"All else equal, our investment model that is derived from profits now clearly shows falling investment spend in 2014. So much for animal spirits: the corporate sector has little economic reason to invest, animal or not." Konstam, along with Nomura chief economist Richard Koo, believes the rise in long-term interest rates sparked by talk of tapering quantitative easing from the Fed earlier this summer hindered the economy to the point where the central bank was unable to then justify its decision to taper later on based on the economic data. Koo calls this concept the "QE trap." The economist visited U.S. clients and Fed officials in a recent trip, and he†said no one was able to refute his theory. Yesterday, a research piece making the rounds on Wall Street bond trading desks asserted that the Fed had hit the reset button on tapering. Part of this new shadow consensus is the notion that the Fed may have blown its chance to pull back a bit in September.
It's ironic that we're never taught about negotiations in classes. I suppose it was something where actual practice is needed, but it certainly helps to have some guidelines or emphasis on it (not only until we started our careers!). Just like interviewing, networking, or just knowing what to do to get the promotion, or just becoming more awesome at your job, negotiations are part and parcel of life, especially at work. Practicing and learning more about it earlier always never hurts.¬† That said, it's so easy to take the easy way out and avoid the uncomfortable conversation when asking for a raise. Like it or not, it's something you've to get comfortable of as no one is going to voluntarily offer and match your value to the salary you receive at all times - except yourself. This is one of many things you need to do in managing your career and here's a few useful tips to help you through that (it's can be quite a fun process really)! #1. It's not you vs. them Sometimes it's easy to fall into the trap in thinking that negotiation is a war, it's "you vs. them". Changing this mindset is crucial to improve your chances for a successful outcome. You need to¬†view the negotiation as a discussion and a partnership instead. By making it less personal, you'd be in a "friendly but assertive mindset", trying to work things out for the benefit of both parties. It's something you have to do for yourself in planning your financial future and career.#2. Know how much you're worth to your employer Of course, you need to enter a salary negotiation prepared. It's hard not to get emotional, but you need to treat it as if it's a pitch for a project, for your services. Most importantly, you need to have a good idea of how much you're worth to your employer, and there are many ways to do that: #3.¬†Demonstrate value add, outline your accomplishments Time to sell/pitch about how awesome and valuable you're to your firm. It helps to have materials that help demonstrate your value to the organisation.¬†This can be anything from printed materials to an actual presentation. It's especially helpful if you're multi-skilled and contribute in various areas, because this is highly likely to mean that the company will incur more cost in replacing you with a few individuals with specific skill sets. What you're trying to drive across here is your contribution to your firm, and the message that "oh my God, I hope you don't leave because it'll be a nightmare".#4. Never be the first to name a numberOne of the cardinal rules of negotiation is that you should never be the first to name a number. That question will pop up for sure and you'd be pressured to give a number. If your efforts to deflect this discussion isn't successful, give a narrow-ish range which you'd be happy with if they offer the lowest of that range; or deflect this with any of the below phrases temporarily:#5. Be ready to discuss more than moneyIt's often that politics or organisational structure that comes in the way too. It could be that your boss values your contribution, but is unable to budge on salary due to budget limits, arbitrary standardisation etc. Then, the next question you've to ask is: "Are there any other compensation elements that we can discuss?" By being collaborative in that way, understanding their position (they want to keep you happy too if they know your value add to the firm), they are more inclined to help you out in improving your offer by being more flexible on these aspects:  Know what you want to ask for here!#6. Stay silent (momentarily) People are naturally conditioned to fill silences. When being made an offer, don‚Äôt feel compelled to answer right away. Remember: you‚Äôre in control of the conversation. Let any offers breathe and often times, you‚Äôll be on the offensive without saying a word as the other party rushes to fill the awkward silence ;)
The three charts below offer insight to the rottenness at the core of a banking and political system that relies entirely on the money of others--taxpayers, pensioners, those who pay insurance and, most disturbingly, future American earnings--to create short-term, private-sector income around housing and finance. With these profits, the banking system deals in politicians by offering political bulletproofing in the form of low-cost financing for housing using--you guessed it-- other people's money. Until we deal with this problem, which is deeply entrenched in our election finance system, our government will continue to borrow and tax us to serve its short-term interests even as our lives become more expensive and offer less in return. First, take a look at our Long-Term Debt:Dylan Ratigan Our nation's leviathan debt expansion began in 2001. The War on Terror and President Bush's Medicare Part D--each implemented without proper consideration for costs, the possibility of a long, protracted war, US healthcare monopolies and our out-of-control drug pricing. Debt exploded in 2008 as the US government provided a multi-trillion dollar safety net to insolvent banks while attempting to provide a cushion for individual citizens in the form of social services, which exploded following the spike in unemployment (caused in large part by the lending contraction from the banks). The stunning chart below shows what happens when an extractive alliance between bankers chasing bonuses and politicians chasing votes. The game is cemented by profits generated by banker custody of the money of others in order to finance housing. These profits are partially invested in the pockets of those politicians willing to continue providing favorable legislation. And, of course, the illusion of growth helps keep these elected officials firmly in control of their congressional seats. The chart below is represents more than a century of housing data. Look at the stunning distortion in home prices this extractive alliance created.Dylan Ratigan A few things drove this. In no particular order:Politics - Homeownership became a political metaphor for freedom and the "American Dream." Left-leaning politicians even articulated it as a right as important as freedom of speech and religion.Private-Sector Marketing - Like diamonds or tulips, billions were invested in the glamorization of homeownership as the peak of adult social status.End of the 30-Year Bond - Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin abolished the 30-year bond, forcing pension and insurance portfolio managers to move billions of dollars into the only government-backed 30-year duration investment left, which just so happened to be housing bonds sold by thegovernment agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Zero percent interest from the Federal ReserveNew Default Swapping Derivatives - These instruments were designed to eliminate all risk from banks and transfer it to the investment pools of insurance companies and pensions. The housing price collapse seen in the chart above precipitated lending contraction, which led to layoffs and a slowdown in new business formation. This, in turn, caused a spike in unemployment which exacerbated the housing decline in a vicious cycle as the newly jobless could no longer buy homes or pay mortgages Check out the spike in long-term unemployment below:Dylan Ratigan When faced with all of this in 2008 and 2009, our President and Congress decided to ignore all of the underlying factors and rely on our central bank to manufacture trillions of new dollars to stabilize the banks while allowing our debt to spiral out of control and looking to increased taxes to stanch the bleeding. All of this was driven by the decline in housing, where the bankers and politicians had all of our eggs stored. The unemployment some politicians ascribe to a softening of American spirit was actually caused by the reckless lending from banks and our government in between 2001 and 2008. The reason our politicians consent to the madness represented in these charts is that they work for the 150,000 people in America who finance our elections, rather the 300 million people whose money they spend.In a nutshell, until we reform our banking system to eliminate "Too Big Too Fail" and reform our political system to be less corrupted by the 150,000 folks who finance it at our expense, the mainstream dialogue is nothing more than useless distraction. Read more posts on The Huffington Post ª
The currency markets can be very complicated, and there are many theories explaining how and why they move. One of the more basic theories is interest rate parity, which argues that fluctuations between two currencies can be explained by interest rate differentials.¬† The idea is that if one country offers a better interest rate than another, a trader would convert currencies and buy bonds at the higher rate. But what would seem like a guaranteed profit for the trader would be offset by a move in the foreign exchange rate. In recent years, the moves between the euro and U.S. dollar appeared to reflect interest rate differentials. But in more recent months, that relationship has decoupled. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redekar explains: Concerning the performance of the EUR, we have to differentiate between noise and trends. At this stage, it is the flow into the eurozone equity markets and eurozone banks reducing the size of their balance sheets, which are driving EUR, and not the relative growth trend or even interest rate differential. The chart below illustrates the de-coupling of EURUSD from rate differentials, bearing a very clear message. During the week ending October 23, investors plowed $5 billion into European equity funds, the biggest weekly inflow ever. "These funds have seen nothing but inflows for the past 17 weeks," reported BI's Matthew Boesler. "Only when banks have prepared balance sheets well enough for the [Asset Quality Review] does the EUR have the potential to fall back to ‚Äòfair‚Äô levels defined by yield and interest rate differentials," added Redekar. "Since the AQR will reference 2013 year-end balance sheets, we think the EUR is likely to peak in early to mid-December." Morgan Stanley
Does it make sense to increase the age of Medicare eligibility in order to lower entitlement spending? A new study shows that this is clearly a bad idea ‚Äî because it would hardly save any money. The Congressional Budget Office dramatically reduced its projection of the deficit savings that would come from raising the Medicare eligibility age to 67, perhaps providing even less of an incentive for lawmakers to consider what was already a politically risky option.¬† The nonpartisan CBO now estimates¬†that raising the eligibility age would reduce the federal budget deficit by just $19 billion over 10 years. That's down from $113 billion it projected in savings last year.¬† During 2011 deficit-reduction talks between President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner, Obama reportedly agreed to gradually increase the eligibility age to 67 over a two-decade period. That was before talks between the two parties broke down.¬† The CBO report also comes as ahead of a House-Senate budget conference that is scheduled to begin next Wednesday. The reasoning for the CBO's massive shift is pretty simple. Most 65- and 66-year-olds who enroll in Medicare are healthier than those already enrolled at 65 because of disability. It also projects that these 65- and 66-year-olds will have greater access to employer coverage. Both of these factors mean that the beneficiaries will cost the federal government substantially less money. "For most of those workers, employment-based health insurance is the primary source of coverage, and Medicare is a secondary payer ‚Äî meaning that Medicare's payments are limited to the cost-sharing obligations that beneficiaries face under their employment-based health insurance policies," the CBO wrote in its analysis.¬†
David McNew/Getty ImagesTech stocks are going crazy this morning after a round of strong earnings reports released Thursday after the closing bell. Right now, the Nasdaq is up 0.6%, while the S&amp;P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average are up only 0.2%.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalThis week, there was a massive push into global equity funds ‚Äî to the tune of $21.4 billion, according to the latest data from EPFR Global. $6.0 billion of the inflows went into long-only funds ‚Äî the biggest week for the asset class in 9 months. "Fed goes AWOL...investors go All-In. Big, frothy inflows to stocks," writes BofA chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett writes in a note to clients. "Since June, $83 billion into equity funds versus $80 billion out of bond funds (Chart 2); investors beginning to worry about a repeat of Q4 1999, when the Fed left the liquidity gates wide open because of 'Y2K' fears with tech bubble outcome." U.S. equity funds expanded assets under management by $11.5 billion, but $8.6 billion of those inflows were into exchange-traded funds like SPY, QQQ, and MDY. European equity funds saw their biggest weekly inflow ever, taking in $5.0 billion. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's fund flows, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows  Equities: big $21.4bn inflows; ($6.0bn into LO funds = largest in 9 months) Bonds: $0.5bn inflows (ends 3 straight weeks of redemptions) MMF: as in 2011, big MMF outflow followed by big inflow this week post debt- ceiling resolution  Precious metals: $0.7 outflows (6 straight weeks) Equity Flows  Europe: largest weekly inflows $5.0bn on record (in absolute terms); 17 straight weeks of inflows  US: $11.5bn inflows ($8.6bn via ETF's - SPY, QQQ, MDY) EM: $2.6bn inflows (largest in 6 weeks) Japan: $0.4bn inflows (7 straight weeks)  Fixed Income Flows  70 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt ($0.8bn)  7th straight week of inflows to HY bond funds ($3.7bn) Small inflows to IG bond funds ($0.3bn)  7th straight week of redemptions from govt/tsy funds ($1.4bn)  $2.6bn inflows to EM equities, but $1.6bn outflows from EM debt funds (largest in 8 weeks)  28 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS ($0.2bn)
REUTERS/Max RossiThe final results of the University of Michigan's October consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index of confidence fell to 73.2 from October's 77.5 reading. Economists predicted a smaller drop to 75.0, while preliminary results released by the University of Michigan earlier this month suggested a drop to 75.2. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 89.9 from September's 92.6 reading, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 62.5 from 67.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead were 3.0%, down from 3.3% the month before, while inflation expectations five years ahead were 2.8%, down from 3.0%. More high-frequency measures of confidence, like Gallup's daily Economic Confidence Index, plummeted over the first two weeks of October as warring parties in Congress sparred over the debt ceiling amid a government shutdown. "Overall, the decline in confidence makes better sense than the original report which in the event surprised because of the blip higher in the current gauge in the face of the government shutdown," says Miller Tabak chief economic strategist Andrew Wilkinson. "All said and done the reading should be of no surprise but adds little fresh evidence to play with." The shutdown caused Bank of America to downgrade its forecasts for Q3, Q4, and Q1 2014 GDP growth. In a note to clients, BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris wrote: As we have noted before, the shutdown has made the economic and Fed outlook much more uncertain. Prior to the shutdown, the economy seemed to be still stuck at 2% growth, but with hope of stronger growth ahead. The shutdown caused both an austerity shock ‚Äî cuts in government spending ‚Äî and an uncertainty shock. The shutdown has hurt sentiment a lot, pushing many survey measures lower. Looking ahead, the issue now is does sentiment quickly go back to pre-crisis levels or does it linger lower? The latter is likely if people worry about a sequence of shutdowns. Hence we need to wait for post-crisis survey data to get a clear sense of the lasting damage. Given release lags, it will take even longer to judge the impact on hard data. Yesterday's flash PMI release was the first post-shutdown survey, and the results weren't pretty. It revealed the first drop in manufacturing output since September 2009, at the height of the global financial crisis. Today's release isn't particularly comforting either.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Boeing Co &lt;BA.N&gt; has secured commitments for around 200 of its 737 Max aircraft, the upgraded variant of its best-selling short-haul planes, from multiple Chinese customers, said two sources familiar with the deals. The deals are worth a combined $20.7 billion at list prices and must be approved by the Chinese government, a usual practice for aircraft orders in the country, before the customers can be identified, the sources said. These are the first commitments for the 737 Max from China, the world's fastest-growing airline market. Officials from both Boeing and Airbus &lt;EAD.PA&gt;, which makes the A320 that competes with the 737, have said China is likely to overtake the United States as the world's largest market over the next 20 years. The commitments come from a range of customers including state-owned airlines via the national procurement agency, China Aviation Supplies Holding Company, as well as leasing firms associated with the country's banks, the sources said. China Aviation Supplies could not be immediately reached for comment. Airlines such as Air China &lt;601111.SS&gt;, China Eastern Airlines &lt;600115.SS&gt; and China Southern Airlines &lt;600029.SS&gt; are all operators of the current models of the 737 in the country. Committing to the aircraft while waiting for the government to approve their fleet growth plans allow the airlines to secure some of the earlier delivery slots for the 737 Max, for which there have been 1,567 orders. A Boeing spokesman declined to comment on the deal, and would only say, "discussions with customers are confidential." The 737 Max has been upgraded with new CFM Leap engines, and has several other enhancements that make it a more fuel-efficient aircraft than the existing models. CFM is a joint venture between GE Aviation &lt;GE.N&gt; and Snecma. Boeing said in a report in August that there are 1,650 single-aisle aircraft in China, with existing orders for another 700. These fly on domestic and regional routes of up to five hours. The planemaker also forecast that China will take delivery of 3,900 single-aisle aircraft over the next 20 years. The 737 Max competes with the Airbus A320 neo, the re-engined variant of the European planemaker's popular single-aisle aircraft. Airbus said last month it has commitments for 100 A320 neo, including 60 from flag carrier Air China and 20 from leasing firm ICBC Leasing. China is also developing its own single-aisle narrow-body aircraft, the Commercial Aircraft Corp of China (Comac) C919, to compete with the A320 and 737. The first flight has been delayed to 2015, with the deliveries not expected to begin until a few years after that. (Editing by Ryan Woo)
REUTERS/Frank PolichDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the ultra-concise guide to what traders are talking about today. †Massive inflows into US and EU equities // Pessimism At Lowest Level Since January 2012, but NOT a red flag? // heavy pressure in Asia as Yen tests 200dma, and China rates spike // Chinaís Repo Rates still well off Summer stress levels // Samsung leading the KOSPI lower // Chinaís ETF signaling trouble for Aussie, this weekís best performing market? // Dollar is breaking toward 2Y lows this week, but Germanyís IFO reversing // C$ biggest hit in 2 months as their Central Bank shelves Hawkish commentary // Signs of Inflationary trends mounting in Japan? // Norway's $810 bln oil fund hikes holdings in emerging markets ñ DXY a† huge tailwind // Heavy Corporate Issuance this week as HYG breaks higher // Guidance deteriorating as Earnings grinds on // Great analysis of funds chasing the winners thru Thanksgiving // Homebuilders surging on Technicals // Huge Consumer Tailwinds developing as AMZN sees a strong Holiday season // Gasoline prices drop again as RINs deteriorate, watch the Casual Diners // Heavy Rail Tailwinds from Retailers and Oil Producers // Oil worst week in months as gluts in USA develop // OIH, XOP at risk as Oil deteriorates For more on what's going on, see 10 things you need to know before the opening bell.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergDavid Rosenberg's recession indicator doesn't have bad news yet.September durable goods orders data are out. Total orders rose 3.7%, above expectations for a 2.3% gain. August order growth was revised up to 0.2% from 0.1%. Orders of durable goods excluding transportation, however, fell 0.1%, versus expectations for a 0.5% rise. August order growth was revised down to -0.4% from -0.1%. Orders of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft (a.k.a. "core capex") also unexpectedly fell 1.1%. Economists were looking for a 1.0% advance. August core capex growth was revised down to 0.4% from 1.5%. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft fell 0.2%, versus expectations for a 1.1% rise. This number is figured into the calculation of GDP. August shipment growth was revised down to 1.3% from 1.1%. The headline number was boosted by a 57.5% rise in orders of aircraft and parts. Despite the drop in core orders and shipments, the trend remains healthy for now. The chart above shows the year-over-year change in the 3-month moving average of core capex, which Gluskin Sheff chief economist David Rosenberg says is one of his favorite warning signs of an imminent recession (when the number goes negative). He says it's the purest look at what companies are doing with their cash. Click here for the full release ¬ª
The company reported Q3 revenue of $13.52 billion, this modestly missed expectations for $13.59 billion. Revenue was boosted by U.S. e-commerce shipments and strong European export growth. UPS delivered over 1 billion packages in the third quarter, up 4.6% year-over-year. The company reported that many retailers expected caution about holiday spending, but expect "robust online sales." CFO Kurt Kuehn reiterated his full-year guidance of adjusted diluted earnings per share of $4.65 - $4.85. UPS is widely considered a reliable indicator of economic activity.
Bloomberg TVStocks are getting more expensive by the day, as they continue to hit brand new highs. That seems to be causing some strategists to reassess their bullish stances, and re-justify buying stocks are these lofty levels. For example, JPMorgan's Tom Lee is out with this note about why he's "still constructive." We remain comfortable being ìslow buyers of equitiesî even as the market remains close to all-time highs. Our constructive stance is supported by (i) improving economic visibility (Europe, stability in China, pent-up demand in the US); (ii) a re-rating of US equities towards a 16X-plus P/E (Fed support plus relative value vs. bonds); and (iii) FCF supports rising distribution rates (via buyback and/or dividends). Still, many investors remain perplexed by the contrast between equity market gains (S&amp;P 500 is up 23% YTD) and less impressive earnings trends (2013 bottoms-up earnings have been revised down by 283bp YTD from the estimate on Jan 1st). Greg Valliere of Potomac Research writes: THE TRUMP CARD:† The most bullish story of all comes from Washington, D.C., of all places . . . The Federal Reserve may not even begin its tapering of $85 billion in monthly asset purchases until its March policy session, former Vice Chairman Don Kohn said on our Potomac Current call yesterday.† He goes onto note that a fiscal crisis is now unlikely. And earlier we mentioned this from Dan Greenhaus of BTIG: Despite the doomsayers the worriers and those calling curtains on the rally, our clients continue to believe, as do we, the bias is to the upside for now. If the central bank stays accommodative and earnings keep doing what theyíre doing, why not?
REUTERS/Eduard KorniyenkoA member of a special forces unit under the military intelligence service takes part in a demonstration of skills in the city of Stavropol in southern Russia October 24, 2013. The day of special forces units of the Main Intelligence Directorate under the General Staff of the Armed Forces' of Russia is marked on October 24.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
YahooA Wall Street analyst, Jordan Rohan of Stifel, has raised his price target on Amazon to $400 a share. This target hike comes in the wake of another explosive move upwards in Amazon's stock price and another Amazon quarter that befuddled Wall Street. (Rohan was excited about Amazon's quarter, saying it beat expectations. Other analysts say the quarter missed expectations. Regardless, the stock exploded to a new all-time high.) Given that Amazon is now trading at $360 a share, a price target of $400 would not be notable except for the fact that this is the same famous price target another analyst put on the stock 15 years ago, way back in 1998. That analyst was me. Amazon's stock has split several times since then, so today's $400 is not the same as the 1998 $400. (The 1998 $400 is equivalent to $67 in today's Amazon stock). Also, although Amazon's stock briefly blew through my 1998 $400 price target in 1999 and 2000, it then cratered and spent 7 years in the wilderness. So this is not a humblebrag. Me, back in the day.One thing that is the same between the Amazon of today and the Amazon of 15 years ago, however, is that the stock is still violently controversial. For the past 10 years, as Amazon has recovered from its dotcom-bust low, it seems that every week or two, there's some new analyst on TV proclaiming that the stock's valuation is "ridiculous" because Amazon "makes no money." And that's exactly the same thing that many very self-assured analysts said in the 1990s. Which just goes to show you... Making money isn't everything.¬† From the beginning of its history as a public company, Amazon has been upfront and unapologetic about its intention to put its customers and long-term investments ahead of the short-term profit demands of Wall Street. This approach has been as successful as it is rare. Amazon is one of the few companies launched during the heyday of the Internet boom that has powered through the bust and gone on to make its euphoric late-1990s stock price look cheap. And that is despite ever dropping anything meaningful to the bottom line. If more companies behaved the way Amazon does, reinvesting more of their earnings, putting customers and long-term value creation ahead of near-term profit, the U.S. economy would be much better off. Fewer companies would be making nearsighted decisions designed to boost the current year's profits while under-investing in the long term. Fewer companies would be firing thousands of valuable employees just to meet random quarterly financial targets. And more Americans would be working and having more money to spend, thus boosting the rest of the economy (almost every dollar a company spends in this country becomes revenue, wages, and spending money for other companies and people). For now, unfortunately, corporate America's obsession with profit still carries the day. But, hopefully, as Amazon's stock blasts ever higher, and the company's global franchise becomes ever stronger, other companies will begin to see the wisdom in Amazon's approach. Creating value is more important than creating profit. SEE ALSO: Create Value, Not Just Profit Disclosure: I have owned Amazon's stock since 1999, despite the fact that it is making less money than I thought it would. Amazon's founder and CEO Jeff Bezos is also an investor in this company.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global In the week ended October 23, investors poured $5 billion into European equity funds, marking the biggest weekly inflow ever into the asset class. These funds have seen nothing but inflows for the past 17 weeks ‚Äî since the beginning of the second quarter, when PMI surveys suggested the eurozone was finally emerging from recession. In recent weeks, some shops have been building the case for European equities vis-a-vis their U.S. counterparts. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale's asset allocation team, for example, released a report arguing that the S&amp;P 500 would drop 15% when the Federal Reserve winds down its quantitative easing program in 2014, then go nowhere for years. "Strategically, we advise investors to switch into eurozone and Japanese equities, where economic policy is much clearer, monetary policy very loose and positioning is low," said SocGen's global head of asset allocation, Alain Bokobza, in the report. SocGen equity strategist Paul Jackson followed up the report with 12 charts making the case for European stocks. Meanwhile, European earnings estimates continue to face downgrades. "Yet another month of (broad-based) earnings cuts ahead of the Q3 reporting season," writes Deutsche Bank strategist Lars Slomka in a note to clients. "Monthly earnings revisions remain 1) negative and 2) broad-based in Europe as indicated by our company revision ratio (up-downgrades relative to total up-/and downgrades), which deteriorated further to -0.27 in October (vs. -0.24 in September)." Morgan Stanley strategist Graham Secker says investors "may be assuming too much too soon." "Of particular interest to us is the renewed drop in European earnings revisions that have fallen for the last three weeks and are now down to -7%," writes Secker in a note. "Although we‚Äôre only just starting Europe‚Äôs 3Q reporting season, the early signs have been supportive to our view that we‚Äôre still a quarter or so away from an upgrade cycle and that expectations for the more cyclical areas of the market may be assuming too much too soon." BofA Merrill Lynch strategist John Bilton shows less concern. "We wouldn‚Äôt extrapolate early weakness into the full [earnings reporting] season, as some firms who warned chose to report early," says Bilton. "Staples &amp; hard cyclicals likely continue to struggle, but we‚Äôre optimistic on domestic EU sectors and financials. 3Q and 4Q are the 'show me' quarters for EU earnings. But portfolio managers care most about the 2014 outlook; EPS beats of 45-50% in 3Q is likely enough to keep PMs overweight Europe."
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidOnce again, Paul Krugman is teeing off on the Very Serious People who keep running around claiming that the US is on the verge of a major debt crisis, and that we're doomed if we don't cut entitlement spending NOW. This is pretty familiar territory for Krugman, who goes after this crowd all the time and in his columns, but it's still enjoyable to watch. This week Krugman includes in his target list hedge funder Stanley Druckenmiller, who has been going around to college campuses warning of "Generational Theft" and how young people will get screwed by the old people on Social Security. A couple paragraphs really stand out: †Once upon a time, walking around shouting ìThe end is nighî got you labeled a kook, someone not to be taken seriously. These days, however, all the best people go around warning of looming disaster. In fact, you more or less have to subscribe to fantasies of fiscal apocalypse to be considered respectable. This is so spot on. Being extremely worried about the future is the mark of respectability these days, even though these "end is nigh" calls have been terrible. Everything people have said about how debt and money printing would lead to spiking interest rates and a collapsing dollar have been 100% wrong. It doesn't matter. If you don't believe in some major looming crisis, you're seen as having your head in the sand, and being unrealistic. It's a strange time for that reason. Krugman ends with some great advice: So the next time you see some serious-looking man in a suit declaring that weíre teetering on the precipice of fiscal doom, donít be afraid. He and his friends have been wrong about everything so far, and they literally have no idea what theyíre talking about. Read his whole column here &gt;
WTI crude oil has undergone a substantial correction in the last few days. What's going on? A few reasons for this price adjustment come to mind: 1. Iran seems to be getting ready to enter the market as it prepares for sanctions to be lifted. 2. This week's employment report points to weak economic growth, tapering demand expectations for crude. In particular, private payrolls growth came in way below expectations. 3. Related to the slower growth expectations for the US as well as to the recent government shutdown is the buildup of crude oil inventories. That expectation of 3 million barrels increase was too low. The actual number this morning was 5.2 million, as inventories continue to build.
Here's an important indicator of the economy that appears to be getting stronger and stronger. Rail traffic growth is at a 6-month high per this chart from Cullen Roche. PragCap Rail tends to be a reliable gauge of the overall economy, given that various commodities and industrial goods are shipped that way. So this is a good sign.
REUTERS/Gene Blevins "If the central bank stays accommodative and earnings keep doing what they‚Äôre doing, why not?" That's from Dan Greenhaus of BTIG from his latest note to clients. It captures the bullish sentiment he's picking up from a lot of clients right now, as he meets with them. And it might be the perfect way to characterize what's going on. There aren't any huge, obvious risks on the horizon (Europe isn't blowing up, the U.S. fiscal fights have been pushed back and the GOP probably won't take a stand the way they did this month). Earnings are doing fine and there's no inclination that any major central bank is in the mood to tighten policy. So obviously the thinking is to buy stocks. Why not?
China's central bank on Friday unveiled a new regime to allow banks to set a prime lending rate, in what it said was a further step towards liberalisation. Under the system, nine commercial banks will submit the lending rate they charge their best quality clients each day to set the prime rate, the central bank said in a statement. Since July, the People's Bank of China has technically allowed banks to set their own lending rates, though deposit rates remain fixed by government order. But the central bank still publishes a "policy" lending rate, which it said will be phased out after a "certain period of time" to be replaced by the new prime rate. The move is seen as part of the government's reforms to liberalise the setting of interest rates as China seeks to restructure its economy for sustainable, although slower, growth. The regime will "help the smooth transformation of the (loan) pricing benchmark from being set by the central bank to being decided by the market", the central bank said. "It will help lay the institutional foundation for further facilitating the market reform of interest rates," it said. A weighted average will be calculated based on the submissions by banks and announced daily by China's interbank market, the central bank said, adding that initially only the one-year rate will be published. It was set at 5.71 percent on Friday, according to the official website for interbank rates. In a research note, ANZ Banking Group said the move was "a step towards further interest rate liberalisation". "The (rate) could replace the current policy lending rate and will be used as a new benchmark for lending rates gradually," it said.
More confirmation that the UK recovery is on the mend. The first pass at Q3 GDP just came in registering growth of 0.8%. That's the strongest since Q2, 2010, per CNBC. Construction is really leading the way. From Markit: Markit
Stocks are lower in Europe and US futures are off a bit. But the real story is in Asia, which had a really rough night. Japan got pasted. Here's the Nikkei. Nikkei.com Shanghai lost 1.5%, as well. Korea dropped 0.6%. The big story is the spike in short-term Chinese interest rates, as policymakers are seen as trying to cool the economy once again.
