Business Insider/Mike NudelmanIn the fall of 2010, Twitter was in chaos. The micro-blogging site, which had been founded four years earlier, still wasn't generating much revenue despite having 145 million users. The site was still crashing constantly. The staff were at each other's throats. Chaos, moreover, was not an unfamiliar state for Twitter to be in. Twitter's first CEO, Jack Dorsey, had taken the company from idea to reality, but then made a mess of the place before getting fired. Twitter's current CEO, Evan "Ev" Williams, had overseen huge user growth but was now moving too slowly and indecisively. Twitter's board decided it now had to fire Williams, too. But who would take over? A former stand-up comic and entrepreneur named Dick Costolo was one possibility. He was Twitter's COO. But Costolo had never run a large company before, so he hardly seemed the guy to finally get the chaos under control. The largest company Costolo had managed, in fact, was the one he had founded, Feedburner. A content syndication service, Feedburner had had fewer than 100 employees when Google acquired it in 2007. Twitter already had more than 300. Also, Costolo was 47. In Silicon Valley, that's old. Famous founders like Mark Zuckerberg and Drew Houston were half Costolo's age and more accomplished. At wits end, the Twitter board reviewed its options. It could make Costolo an interim CEO until it found someone more established. Twitter had worked frequently with an executive recruiter, Paul Daversa, to unearth talent, and the board had a few more serious-seeming candidates in mind. Or the board could take a chance on Costolo, who had risen to the occasion once before. The Twitter COO job had been a leap for Costolo, and he had excelled at it.†Costolo also already knew the company's inner workings, and he had the respect of Twitter's management team, partially because he had helped hire most of them. Fred Wilson, a Feedburner investor and partner in Union Square Ventures, and one of Twitter's board members, trusted him.† Flickr/Ford SchoolDick Costolo, the stand-up comic who would finally get the chaos under control. In typical chaotic Twitter fashion, the choice was ultimately made by the man who was getting sacked. In addition to being Twitter's CEO, Evan Williams was its largest shareholder. Williams and Costolo had known each other for more than a decade, having been†introduced†by a mutual friend†in the mid-1990's, Eric Lunt. To soften the blow of his ousting, Twitter's board told Williams he could be part of the CEO search process. Initially, Williams wasn't thrilled with the idea of Costolo taking his place. But he came around and eventually†pushed for Costolo to permanently take his job.† On October 4 2010, Williams resigned as Twitter's CEO. Costolo took over. With Twitter set to go public at a $15+ billion valuation next month, the company's success seems as though it has always been smooth sailing. In fact, it has been anything but. The whole Twitter story, for example, even starts with an argument:†Who is really responsible for the company's success? Does the credit belong to Jack Dorsey, who came up with the original idea? Does it belong to Evan Williams, who backed the concept and then took over as CEO? †Should it go to Dick Costolo, who turned Twitter into a real business? Or do Twitter's investors or other lesser-known heroes deserve the nod? The truth is that, more than any other rocketship Silicon Valley startup in memory, Twitter's success has been a product of collaboration, not one genius visionary. At different times in its history, different people have provided the leadership, vision, and skills that the company needed.† But this group collaboration has been the farthest thing from pretty. When Costolo was handed Twitter three years ago, the company was a mess. Its four-year history was bloodied with founder feuds, failed products, office politics, and executive turnover.† "The act of getting from there to here," Benchmark Capital's†Peter Fenton†says, "was violent." Why was Twitter's early history so chaotic? And how did it finally get the place under control? Over the years, we've reported many episodes in the Twitter story. Recent interviews with a number of sources, as well as reporting by other tech journalists, have helped us fill in some gaps.  So here is the wild ride of this year's mega tech IPO...
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVGary ShillingThe U.S. government shutdown and debt ceiling have brought uncertainty to the economy that is putting pressure on the Federal Reserve to further delaying the tapering, or gradual reduction, of its stimulative quantitative easing policy. Economists and traders are struggling to figure out exactly when that taper may begin. But economist Gary Shilling thinks that quibbling about the taper is small potatoes compared the much larger forces in the American monetary system. Business Insider recently asked Shilling for what he considered to be the most important chart in the world. And he sent us an eye-popper. ‚ÄúEverybody is worrying about the Fed tapering, but this only concerns an initial small reduction in the $85 billion per month in securities and Fed purchases, most of it going into excess reserves," he told us. "These surplus reserves, the difference between required reserves and total, now total a gigantic $2.2 trillion and growing. "When the economy resumes normal growth after the Age of Deleveraging is over, these excess reserves will spawn huge loans and money expansion, propelling the economy past full employment and into serious inflation. So the Fed's major job is to get rid of these excess reserves by selling securities. Tapering ‚Äî i.e., adding more to this hoard ‚Äî is just the start.‚Äù Business Insider / Gary Shilling
UBSArt CashinThe way people are treating technology companies, it's starting to feel a bit too much like 1999 and 2000, Art Cashin said on Thursday's "Futures Now." "I do worry a little bit that we're beginning to hear things that are reminiscent of the 1999-2000 periodóthe number of hits, the number of eyeballs," said Cashin, the director of floor operations for UBS Financial Services. In the heat of the tech bubble, investors infamously valued site viewersóor "eyeballs"ómore highly than revenue. In one of the most dramatic examples of this,†Yahoo†purchased Web hosting site GeoCities for some $3.6 billion in January 1999ódespite the fact that GeoCities' expenses at the time were trumping the minuscule amount of revenue the company was taking in. Yahoo overlooked the financials in favor of the fact that it was the third-most-visited site on the Internet. But as those visitors steadily disappeared, Yahoo's decision looked the opposite of prescient. When Cashin surveys the tech landscape today, he similarly hears rhetoric that values users over profits. "I think if we hold to the old tried-and-trueóhow many dollars are coming inóthen we might be better served," Cashin said. "But people are extrapolating, in some way, in a manner similar to the way they did in 1999-2000." Cashin notices a heavy emphasis on certain narrow types of tech businesses. "We're beginning to see a case of old tech/new techóand the key topic this earnings season is how deeply you are involved in cloud technology and/or can you make money on the mobile side," he said. After all,†Facebook†rose sharply after its July earnings report showed strong mobile monetization. But with a price-earnings ratio of nearly 200 on Thursday as the stock hit a new all-time high, there is no comparing its valuation to a company like†IBM, which has a price-to-earnings ratio of 12. For Cashin, the de-emphasis of typical modes of valuation gives him a bad case of dÈj‡ vu. "For an old fogy like me," the trend of extrapolating future earnings based on users and viewers "gets the warning flags flying," Cashin said.
The debt ceiling is the limit on the total amount of debt that the US Department of the Treasury can issue to the public and to federal agencies. That ceiling had been hit, and the US borrowing authority would have lapsed on October 17 unless action was taken to increase it. If Congressional lawmakers failed to raise the debt ceiling, the US could, for the first time in history, have faced a default on its obligationsñ including to international investors such as China and Japan. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the country would likely have run out of money to pay all of its bills, including benefits, salaries and interest, before month-end, if a deal was not struck this week. While the immediate threat of default has passed, the US fiscal problems have been tabled, not resolved. Of course, a major US debt shock would impact markets around the world, but I think it would be temporary. As is the case in all such market crises, I believe there should be opportunities for some and losses looming for others. In my opinion, it is very unlikely that the US would default on its foreign debt in particular.†First, there could be extra funds in the government budget which could be found to meet current interest payments.†In addition, government leaders of both parties would be reluctant to allow that to happen because it would end the ability of the US to borrow at low rates.†There is an additional US national security issue: by having the US dollar as the worldís main reserve currency and its main trading currency, the US global reach and security is enhanced with the ability to restrict and monitor international money flows and facilitate sanctions against countries. If the US government faces a future debt crisis (default), the immediate response would likely be high volatility in markets around the world.†However, I believe predictions of a ìmeltdownî are probably exaggerated since the world today is highly diversified. Even though the major global currency is the US dollar, many transactions are carried out in euro and increasingly in Chinaís renminbi.†I also think these continued issues in the US could likely change investment allocations around the world, with less emphasis on holding US dollars and more diversification into other currencies as well as other assets. Global trade could change, with more trade being settled in other currencies such as the euro and RMB.†In addition, precious metals and other rare collectables could rise in USD value.†† From my point of view, the problems the US is now facing with its budget and the discussion of the (very unlikely) possibility of the default could be an inadvertent positive for some emerging market countries over the long term because outflows from US Treasuries could go into other markets. It could incentivize investors who are heavily invested in US debt and the US market generally to have second thoughts about putting too many of their eggs in an uncertain US basket and lead them to diversify their investments more globally. Such a portfolio could include greater allocations to emerging markets. The US has a high debt-to-GDP ratio1, slow growth and limited foreign reserves. In contrast, relative to the US, emerging markets generally have much lower debt to GDP ratios, more foreign exchange reserves and much higher GDP growth rates. When incorporating the entire universe of emerging market stocks and not just index representations, emerging markets now represent 35% of the worldís market capitalization2. As the late Sir John Templeton once said, ìto avoid having all your eggs in the wrong basket at the wrong time, every investor should diversify3.î 1. Federal debt held by the public is now about 73 percent of the economyís annual output. Source: US Congressional Budget Office, September 2013. 2. As of December 31, 2011. Sources: Bloomberg LLP, FactSet. © 2013 FactSet Research Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to FactSet Research Systems Inc. and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither FactSet Research Systems Inc. nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.† 3. Diversification cannot guarantee profit nor protect against loss. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
REUTERS/Michael Buholzer  Switzerland has a very direct style of democracy. For example, changes to the constitution, or "popular initiatives," can be proposed by members of the public and are voted on if more than 100,000 people sign them. If a majority of voters and cantons (Swiss states) agree, the change can be come law. This system not only allows individual citizens a high degree of control of their laws, but also means that more unorthodox ideas become referendum issues. Recently, there has been a spate of popular initiatives designed to curb inequality in the country. Earlier this year Swiss voters agreed to an idea proposed by entrepreneur Thomas Minder that limited executive (in his words, "fat cat") salaries of companies listed on the Swiss stock market. Next month¬†voters will decide on the 1:12 Initiative, which aims to limit the salaries of CEOs to 12 times¬†the salary of their company's lowest paid employee. There's a crazier proposal than this, however. Earlier this month an initiative aimed at giving every Swiss adult a "basic income" that would "ensure a dignified existence and participation in the public life of the whole population" gained enough support to qualify for a referendum. The amount suggested is 2,500 francs ($2,800) a month. While most observers think that the vote is a longshot, it has certainly sparked debate ‚Äî and not just in Switzerland. Writing for USA Today, Duncan Black said that a "minimum income" should be considered for the U.S. "It's pretty clear that the most efficient way to improve the lives of people is to guarantee a minimum income," Black concludes. However, Black understates just how radical the proposal is. We spoke to Daniel Straub, one of the people behind the initiative, to get a better understanding of what the proposal really means, why it is so radical, and what the world could learn from it. Business Insider: Can you tell me a little bit about how the idea came to be? Daniel Straub: A lot of people have proposed this idea. For example Thomas Paine in the United States or also the famous psychologist Erich Fromm has written about it in the sixties. BI: Why choose a minimum income rather than, say, a higher minimum wage?¬† DS: We are not proposing a minimum income ‚Äî we are proposing an unconditional income. A minimum wage reduces freedom ‚Äî because it is an additional rule. It tries to fix a system that has been outdated for a while. It is time to partly disconnect human labor and income. We are living in a time where machines do a lot of the manual labor ‚Äî that is great ‚Äî we should be celebrating. BI: How was the figure of 2,500 Swiss francs settled on? What standard of living does this buy in Switzerland?¬† DS: That depends where in Switzerland you live. On average it is enough for a modest lifestyle.¬† BI: What effect would you expect the minimum income to have on Swiss government expenditure?¬† DS: The unconditional income in Switzerland means that a third of the GDP would be distributed unconditionally. But I don't count that as government expenditure because it is immediately distributed to the people who live in this society. It means less government power because each individual can decide how to spend the money. BI: I've seen people compare it to Milton Friedman's negative income tax, do you think that comparison works?¬† DS: We go a step further than Friedman with the unconditionality. This would lead to a paradigm change. Not the needy get an income from the community but everybody. BI: There have been a variety of initiatives recently that appear to be aimed at limiting inequality in Switzerland, from the 1:12 initiative to Thomas Minder's "against rip-off salaries" referendum. Why do you think this is happening? DS: People seem to be unhappy with the rising inequality. The other initiatives try to put a band-aid on an outdated system. We are proposing a new system. BI: On the surface of it, Switzerland is a good place to live, with a high quality of life, relatively high salaries, and good public services. Why do you need to take these big steps to rearrange society? DS: Switzerland has incredible material resources. But we are not using them in a smart way. A lot of people are stressed and there is a lot of fear. Our resources don't lead to the freedom they could. And I am not saying that this freedom is easy ‚Äî but it could lead to more meaningful lives. If more people start to ask what they really want to do with their lives, Switzerland will become an even more beautiful place to live.¬† BI: Switzerland is a unique country in a lot of ways. Do you think that other countries ‚Äî for example, the U.S. ‚Äî could learn from both its referendum system and the egalitarian initiatives enabled by it? DS: I think that our system of semi direct democracy leads to more involvement by the public ‚Äî that is a good thing. What other effects it would have on a system such as the U.S. I do not dare to predict. (The text has been edited for clarity, and links have been added to help explain Straub's responses.)
Morgan Stanley is the last man standing. After a fairly dismal week of earnings, the bank will report its Q3 numbers tomorrow morning at 7:15 a.m., with a conference call to follow at 10:00 a.m. Analysts expect earnings per share to come in at $0.41 (up from $0.28 at this time last year) and revenue is expected at $7.5 billion (up from $5.3 billion in Q3 2012), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Now, about this dismal week. With all banks but Morgan reporting, only one ó Bank of America ó didn't miss expectations. Otherwise, it's been a pretty putrid earnings season on Wall Street. That is mostly attributable to two weak businesses ó mortgage origination and fixed-income trading. Even the mighty Goldman Sachs saw its fixed income trading revenue take a 44% hit year over year.† This was expected. Back in September†Brad Hintz, an analyst at†Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. wrote that Wall Street would see a†ìa full-scale rout" in trading revenue. And that's what would hit Morgan Stanley the hardest ó the fact that uncertainty about Federal Reserve's continuation of its Quantitative Easing bond buying program kept investors on the sidelines through much of Q3. But there are those that say Morgan Stanley will pull out numbers that will make Goldman (and the rest of the Street, for that matter) quite jealous. Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino reported earlier today that Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman is looking quite confident these days because he knows ó as do others at the bank ó that Morgan is going to surprise the Street with a win over its "arch rival", Goldman Sachs. The way Gasparino tells it, this would be intolerable at Goldman. "To understand the culture at Goldman Sachs is to understand how a Harvard MBA would stick a knife in your back," he said. Colorful. See you in the morning.
REUTERS/Jason ReedWith the sighs of relief came the immediate realization. When President Barack Obama signed a budget-battle-ending bill Wednesday night, he staved off these fights for three and four more months, respectively.¬† Another possible shutdown. Another possible brinkmanship game with default hanging in the balance. Or will next time be different? There is no disputing that the shutdown and debt-ceiling debates have fractured the Republican Party, in more ways than one. The party is more unpopular now than at any time in at least the past two-plus decades, according to multiple polls. Moreover, they are split internally ‚Äî the dispute over whether to defund the Affordable Care Act created another rift in the ongoing party civil war.¬† There's also no question that the conservative groups and politicians that began the debate over Obamacare say they are more fired up than ever to keep going.¬† "Nothing has changed," said Dan Holler, the communications director for Heritage Action, a key conservative group that led the fight to defund Obamacare, starting all the way back in July.¬† "It's unclear what the ground will look like, come December or January or February and beyond,"¬†Holler told Business Insider. "But certainly, if there is an opportunity to leverage the legislative process to protect some of the American people from Obamacare, that's something we should certainly do." Erick Erickson, the editor of RedState, struck a similar tone on Thursday. The Senate Conservatives Fund is gearing up to make endorsements for the 2014 elections ‚Äî and, spoiler, they're mostly (if not exclusively) going to endorse politicians who voted, or would vote, to defund Obamacare. Meanwhile, the Republican politicians who engineered the fight over Obamacare that ultimately led to the shutdown aren't backing down. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), who gave a famous 21-hour speech during the debate,¬†wouldn't rule out another shutdown.¬† Speaking to ABC's Jon Karl, he had a similar line as Heritage Action.  ‚ÄúI would do anything, and I will continue to do anything I can, to stop the train wreck that is Obamacare,‚Äù Cruz told Karl. ‚ÄúThe test that matters, Jon, is are we doing anything for all the people that are getting hurt from Obamacare?‚Äù¬† Conservatives in the House held a similar line. Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) said in a statement after the bill passed the House that it moves the debate to "Round 2." Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.) said Republicans are "winning the war." For the shutdown and debt-ceiling threats to really be lifted requires a fundamental change from this debate ‚Äî that GOP leadership does not give into plans led by Cruz and other conservatives; which, incidentally, leadership always said was doomed. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who helped broker the final budget deal on Wednesday, took that kind of firm stance on Thursday.¬† "One of my favorite sayings is an old Kentucky saying, 'There‚Äôs no education in the second kick of a mule,'" McConnell told National Review's Robert Costa. "The first kick of the mule was in 1995; the second one was the last 16 days. A government shutdown is off the table. We‚Äôre not going to do it." Will McConnell's stand hold up? There's reason to be a little skeptical. For one, in the same interview, he said he knew in July this strategy wouldn't work. That might provide a lesson for the next time around ‚Äî but when he'll be in the heat of a primary challenge for his Senate seat, will he really defy conservatives on Obamacare and/or vote to cleanly raise the debt ceiling? Holler brought up the example of the Budget Control Act and the sequester cuts, which came from the 2011 debt-ceiling fight. McConnell has cited keeping the caps of the sequester in place during this round of budget battles as a major victory for Republicans. "As Sen. McConnell has said, it's undeniable that debt ceiling can be extremely productive to advancing good policy," Holler said. "I don't think people are going to be willing to take it off the table. If you want to have some sort of impact on the legislative process, it's a tool you should use."
IncrementumRonald St√∂ferle runs commodity funds that mainly invest in physical gold and silver as a partner at new firm Incrementum AG. St√∂ferle put together a presentation that includes 50 charts making the bull case for gold, which has lost 30% of its value since peaking at $1900 an ounce in 2011. The first series of charts in the slide deck make the case for gold based on a variety of valuation and other metrics. These are followed by a series of charts on debt, the economy, and the actions of central banks around the world.
Charles HaynesIn a new report, Morgan Stanley identifies Korea as "the new safe haven" for investors: From Crisis Prone to Increasingly Resilient: Korea has been in the eye of every economic storm we have seen in Asia over the last two decades. However, 2008 proved to be a watershed year, as regulations were implemented to foster stability in its economy. Whether compared with its own history or with that of other countries in AXJ, Korea now stands out as a safe haven for investors, especially amid global macro uncertainty.  Disciplined Investment and Healthy Corporate Balance Sheet: Korean corporates have turned more disciplined on capex since the Asian financial crisis in 1997. Lack of overinvestment means there should not be any overcapacity issues in the economy.  Not Externally Vulnerable Anymore: Korea is running a record-high current account surplus, supported by its strong export competitiveness. It has more than sufficient foreign reserves to cushion it against external liquidity shocks. It has also received the least amount of ‚Äò‚Äôhot money‚Äô inflows in the region since 2009.  No Need to Worry about Asset Prices in Korea:¬†Unlike the rest of the region, Korea is not seeing any risk of a property bubble. It is probably one of the very few economies in AXJ that could even see upside in its property prices in the next three years rather than the possible correction we may expect in other countries. There Will Be No Policy Dilemma this Time: We believe the Bank of Korea will not be forced to hike interest rates this time as it did in 1997 and 2008. Its accommodative stance can remain in place for longer, in our view. Meanwhile, Korea‚Äôs fiscal position remains solid, and local government debt is not yet an issue. Despite the big vote of confidence in the Korean economy, Morgan Stanley economists Sharon Lam and Jason Liu say they are not ignoring the risks the country faces. "Household leverage is high, but we think it is overstated ‚Äì Korean household assets are also much stronger than before, and they did not participate in the QE liquidity party," write Lam and Liu in the report. "Korea has seen the largest amount of bond investment inflow in AXJ since 2008, but we are not worried about risk of massive unwinding, because foreign ownership is still low and we believe the holders are mainly long-term investors, not speculators."
Julie Bort/Business InsiderGoogle CEO Larry PageGoogle is reporting its third quarter earnings right now and CEO Larry Page just told Wall Street that this would be his last conference call for a while. "Going forward I won't be joining every earnings call," Page said in a quiet, shaky voice. It sounded a little like a good-bye since he thanked employees after. His CFO and chief business officer are "depending on me to prioritize my time," he said. Page's decision shouldn't cause investors to worry. It stems from Page's paralyzed vocal chords, which he's previously disclosed. He has something called Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. Hashimoto's is "an¬†autoimmune disease¬†in which the¬†thyroid¬†gland is attacked by a variety of cell and antibody-mediated immune processes," according to¬†Wikipedia.¬† Page has described it as a "fairly common benign inflammatory condition of the thyroid which causes me no problems." It isn't necessary for CEOs to report company earnings. Steve Jobs didn't handle Apple's earnings calls and Jeff Bezos doesn't do Amazon's. Even after the announcement, Google's stock soared.
REUTERS/M. J. Masotti Jr.Houston Texans running back Arian Foster.Houston Texans running back Arian Foster is going public. A San Francisco-based company called Fantex said today it will offer shares that allow holders to invest in Foster's "brand" ‚Äî i.e., his personal earnings potential. ESPN's Darren Rovell has the details: Fantex is paying Foster $10 million for a 20 percent stake in his future income, including contracts, endorsements and other related business revenue. The company will begin taking reservations in the next two weeks and could be selling shares of Foster in as soon as a month depending on demand and progress with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It's much like fantasy sports, except fans will be trading on Foster's business value. If he does well on the field and companies become more interested in Foster as an endorser, his stock might go up. Fans can then buy and sell shares, with Fantex taking a commission. The company says it is hoping to acquire a future stake in athletes but does not have any other deals finalized at this time. Former NFL Hall of Fame quarterback John Elway sits on the Fantex board of directors. "Fantex represents a powerful new opportunity for professional athletes, and I wish it were available during my playing days," said Elway in the company's press release announcing the Arian Foster IPO. Below is the full text of the Fantex release. ----------------------------------------------- Fantex, Inc.¬†to acquire a 20% minority interest in the brand income of Houston Texans Pro Bowl running back Arian Foster for $10 million SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Fantex Holdings, based in San Francisco, announced today that it is launching two subsidiary companies,¬†Fantex Brokerage Services¬†(FBS) and Fantex, Inc. FBS is an all-new marketplace that allows investors to buy and sell Fantex, Inc. stock linked to the value and performance of the brand* of a professional athlete. Fantex, Inc. is a brand building company, which purchases a minority interest in an athlete brand and works to increase the value of the brand. Holders of shares of a Fantex, Inc. tracking stock will have no direct investment in that brand contract, associated brand or athlete. Rather, an investment in a tracking stock will represent an ownership interest in Fantex, Inc. as a whole. Fantex, Inc. has filed a registration statement for its first tracking stock, which will be linked to the value and performance of the brand of Houston Texans Pro Bowl running back Arian Foster. This will mark the company‚Äôs first Initial Public Offering (IPO). ‚ÄúFantex is bringing sports and business together in a way never previously thought possible,‚Äù said Buck French, co-founder and CEO of Fantex Holdings. ‚ÄúBy building a marketplace that allows customers to buy shares in a tracking stock linked to the value and performance of an athlete brand, Fantex is enabling a new level of brand advocacy through ownership. For the first time, people can now invest real money in a stock linked to the brand of a professional athlete.‚Äù The tracking stock will be offered pursuant to a registration statement that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the stock is linked to the economic performance and value of the professional athlete‚Äôs brand, such as playing contracts, endorsements, and appearance fees. All investor transactions take place on Fantex Brokerage Services. Beginning today, investors can register at¬†www.Fantex.com¬†and fund their accounts. Starting in approximately two weeks, they can place reservations for shares in the IPO of Fantex Arian Foster. The¬†offering is highly speculative and the securities involve a high degree of risk. Investing in a Fantex, Inc. tracking stock should only be considered by persons who can afford the loss of their entire investment. Fantex, Inc.‚Äôs goal is to announce additional brand acquisitions in the months ahead, and over time across the world of sports. There is no assurance that Fantex, Inc. will acquire additional brands. If Fantex, Inc. acquires new brands, it may issue additional tracking stocks which involve additional risks. ‚ÄúFantex represents a powerful new opportunity for professional athletes, and I wish it were available during my playing days,‚Äù said John Elway, Fantex Holdings Board Member, Hall of Fame quarterback and current executive vice president of football operations for the Denver Broncos. While Fantex serves as a new proposition for investors to consider, it also offers a compelling proposition for athletes. Fantex, Inc. creates a unique brand building platform for athletes to increase the reach and engagement of their brand. Fantex, Inc. signs a contract with an athlete to acquire a minority interest in their brand and builds a plan with a goal to increase its value, leveraging its marketing expertise. In order to fund the purchase, Fantex, Inc. develops a tracking stock linked to the economic performance of the brand contract and sells shares in the tracking stock to the general public through a registered initial public offering on Fantex Brokerage Services. For information on trading fees and other details, please visit¬†www.Fantex.com. About Fantex Based in San Francisco, Fantex Holdings serves as the parent company to both Fantex, Inc. and Fantex Brokerage Services. Fantex, Inc. is a brand building company, which purchases a minority interest in an athlete brand and works to increase the value of this brand. In order to fund the purchase, Fantex, Inc. develops a tracking stock that is linked to the economic performance of the brand. The tracking stock is to be offered pursuant to a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The offering takes place on Fantex Brokerage Services, the world‚Äôs first trading platform that lets consumers invest real money in stock linked to the value and performance of the brand of a professional athlete. * Each Fantex, Inc. tracking stock is intended to track and reflect the separate economic performance of a specific brand contract that Fantex, Inc. has signed with an athlete. However, holders of shares of a Fantex, Inc. tracking stock will have no direct investment in that brand contract, associated brand or athlete. Rather, an investment in a tracking stock will represent an ownership interest in Fantex, Inc. as a whole, which will expose holders to additional risks associated with any individual tracking series that Fantex, Inc. establishes and issues in the future. Each Fantex, Inc. tracking stock is only offered through Fantex Brokerage Services. Fantex Brokerage Services cannot assure you as to the development or liquidity of any trading market for these stocks. Fantex, Inc. has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. This investment is complex, risky and speculative. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents Fantex, Inc. has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Fantex, Inc. and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Website at¬†www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Fantex, Inc., any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling toll-free¬†866-315-3482.¬†View the prospectus. Finn PartnersHoward Solomon, 415-348-2733Howard.solomon@finnpartners.comorGabriella Asmus, 415-348-2721Gabriella.asmus@finnpartners.com
The Bureau of Labor Statistics' September jobs report ‚Äî denied to market watchers during the government shutdown ‚Äî will be released Tuesday, CNBC is reporting. As we have noted, the next few weeks will see an avalanche of data that we missed during the shutdown. And the BLS has just released its schedule for releases going forward. Earlier today, the Cleveland Fed said the Consumer Price Index (CPI) is subject to "significant error" for the next 7 months. BLS
Google CEO Larry Page just told Wall Street this was his last conference call for some time. "Going forward I won't be joining every earnings call." His voice was very quiet on the call as he strained to talk. He has suffered from a degenerative disease and he has partially paralyzed vocal cords. His CFO and chief business officer are "depending on me to prioritize my time," he said. He also thanked all Google employees for all the work they have done for him. It was quite a moment. Although not totally unexpected, quietly dramatic nonetheless. Google's Q3 2013 earnings report has propelled its stock back through the $900 barrier to ~$957 in after-hours trading. Here are the numbers: Gross Revenues: $14.98 billion, up 12% ‚Äî that's a beat. Net income: $2.97 billion, compared to $2.18 billion in the third quarter of 2012. EPS: $10.74 ‚Äî that's also a beat. It's up compared to $8.87 in the third quarter of 2012. Google's shares broke the $900 barrier in after-hours trading, up 7.7% to $957 or even more. The stock is on a huge tear. Analysts were expecting: So it's a decent beat on top and bottom lines. ¬†‚ÄúGoogle had another strong quarter with $14.9 billion in revenue and great product progress,‚Äù said Larry Page, CEO of Google. ‚ÄúWe are closing in on our goal of a beautiful, simple, and intuitive experience regardless of your device.‚Äù The big revenue boost seems to have come from an increase in paid clicks: Paid Clicks ‚Äì Aggregate paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, increased approximately 26% over the third quarter of 2012 and increased approximately 8% over the second quarter of 2013. Cost-Per-Click ‚Äì Average cost-per-click, which includes clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, decreased approximately 8% over the third quarter of 2012 and decreased approximately 4% over the second quarter of 2013. Google(Remember, as Google serves more paid clicks, the supply increases, so the cost-per-click goes down. What's important here is that more people are clicking on the ads Google is serving.) Google published its full set of numbers and analyst materials here. The Motorola unit looks like the only downside. Its revenue slipped despite launching the flagship Moto X phone: Motorola Mobile Segment Revenues ‚Äì Motorola Mobile segment revenues were $1.18 billion, or 8% of consolidated revenues in the third quarter of 2013, compared to $1.78 billion, or 13% of consolidated revenues in the third quarter of 2012. Here's our live coverage of the conference call: CEO Larry Page, CFO Patrick Pichette and chief business officer Nikesh Arora are now on the call. Page is giving an update and plugging the new Chromebook and the Moto X phone. Some highlights from Page: Now for highlights from the Q&amp;A portion: How far along are you in voice recognition? Page: We've made tremendous progress, even in the last couple of months the accuracy has caught up quite a bit. [He plugs Google Now on the Moto X]. They're already super-useful and we have a lot of usage coming from voice. Enhanced Campaigns ‚Äî the new system for Adwords which lumps together ad buys across all types of devices from a single platform ‚Äî how is it working? Arora: It's a process. We're all going through this together ... this is definitely the first step we've taken toward multi screen and multi device advertising. Will Google start to take share of TV advertising dollars, which it has not so far? Arora: Watch time on various online videos sites continues to grow ... you're beginning to see a lot more watch time on multi-screen devices ... [it's more measureable] ... that's a superior opportunity for advertisers ... we're gearing up for it. Local and transactional ‚Äî can it be made seamless? Page: In general the experience for users is not that seamless. There are a lot of different pieces of technology to make commerce happen and so on, and that's something we're looking at improving. Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray wants to know "how real" are self driving cars as a business? Page: ... We've made tremendous progress and we've driven large amounts of miles. We've changed the business from something that wasn't going to happen at all to something inevitable. That said, it's still early days. It's still a ways from being a commercial product. We probably over estimate that in the short term and underestimate it in the long term. The future of cookies (which Google is considering replacing with a new system for tracking web browsers for advertisers): Arora: We want to make sure the web stays economically viable ... it's very early right now to talk about what's going to work and what's not going to work. Disclosure: The authors owns Google stock.
Flickr/pheaberChipotle's Q3 earnings report is out. The company reported earnings of $2.66 per share, below the $2.78 EPS expected by Wall Street analysts. Revenues were $826.9 million, better than the consensus estimate of $820.3 million. Same-store sales were up 6.2% in Q3, well above the 4.7% advance predicted by analysts. Shares are up slightly in after-hours trading. Below is the full text of the release: DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE: CMG) today reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2013. Highlights for the third quarter of 2013 as compared to the third quarter of 2012 include: Highlights for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 as compared to the prior year include: ‚ÄúOur unique food culture continues to resonate with our customers. We are proud of the investments we have made over the years to source sustainably raised ingredients, which allows us to serve delicious food. By sourcing the best possible ingredients and cooking them according to classic cooking techniques we continue to demonstrate that just because food is served fast, it doesn‚Äôt have to be a typical fast food experience,‚Äù said Steve Ells, Founder, Chairman and co-CEO of Chipotle. Third quarter 2013 results Revenue for the quarter was $826.9 million, up 18.0% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 6.2% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was driven by increased traffic. During the quarter we opened 37 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,539, including our first restaurant in Germany. Food costs were 33.6% of revenue, an increase of 100 basis points driven by higher ingredient costs. Higher ingredient costs were driven by increased produce prices for tomatoes, corn and tomatillos in our salsas as well as higher costs for dairy and chicken, and finally, more expensive oils as we began converting from GMO soy oil to non-GMO sunflower and rice bran oils. Restaurant level operating margin was 26.8% in the quarter, a decrease of 60 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily driven by higher food and marketing costs partially offset by favorable sales leverage. General and administrative expenses were 6.4% of revenue, a decrease of 50 basis points driven by costs in the third quarter of 2012 for our biennial All Managers‚Äô Conference, partially offset by an increase in legal costs. Net income for the third quarter of 2013 was $83.4 million, or $2.66 per diluted share, compared to $72.3 million, or $2.27 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2012. Results for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 Revenue for the first nine months of 2013 was $2.37 billion, up 16.7% from the prior year period. The growth in revenue was the result of new restaurants not in the comparable base and a 4.3% increase in comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales growth was primarily driven by increased traffic. During the first nine months of the year, we opened 129 new restaurants, bringing the total restaurant count to 1,539. Restaurant level operating margin was 26.9% for the first nine months, a decrease of 110 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease was primarily from higher food costs and higher marketing costs, partially offset by favorable labor leverage. General and administrative expense for the first nine months of 2013 was 6.2% of revenue, or a decrease of 70 basis points from the prior year period. The decrease as a percent of revenue was driven by costs in 2012 for our biennial All Managers‚Äô Conference, lower stock-based compensation expense and lower employee-related payroll taxes, and greater sales leverage, partially offset by an increase in legal costs. Net income for the first nine months of 2013 was $247.8 million, or $7.93 per diluted share, compared to $216.6 million, or $6.80 per diluted share, in the first nine months of 2012. ‚ÄúWe are proud of the results we delivered during the third quarter. Our unique people culture, which appeals to and rewards top performers, is a driving force behind our accomplishments, and helps drive our sustainable growth by developing excellent managers from within. Our top performing managers are creating a culture of empowerment in their restaurants, enabling our energetic and ambitious crew to treat each customer to the best dining experience possible,‚Äù said Monty Moran, co-CEO. Outlook For 2013, management expects the following: For 2014, management expects the following: Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª
REUTERS/Mohamad TorokmanPalestinians enjoy a ride at an amusement park on the second day of the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Adha in the West Bank town of Tulkarm, October 16, 2013.The government shutdown is over, the debt ceiling has been delayed, and the S&amp;P is at an all-time high. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Reuters/Mike SegarDallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban cheers before his team plays the Miami Heat in Game 6 of the NBA Finals basketball series in Miami, June 12, 2011. A jury deliberated for under five hours before finding billionaire Mark Cuban not liable for insider trading ‚Äî an outcome that made the SEC look bad for bringing the case in the first place. Cuban, who owns the Dallas Mavericks, is accused of ditching stock in a metasearch Internet company called Mamma.com in 2004 after he got an inside tip on an upcoming offering that would have diluted his shares. Cuban gave an impassioned speech after the verdict calling the SEC big bullies for suing him. Cuban spent more on the suit than he would have if he'd just paid a penalty, but he wanted to prove a point: The SEC never should have gone after him. Cuban is probably correct, mainly because the SEC didn't have much evidence on its side. The SEC claimed Cuban's decision to ditch his Mamma.com stock helped him avoid $750,000 in losses. But the SEC had to prove that Cuban received confidential, significant, nonpublic information that spurred him to trade his stock, a tall order the agency simply couldn't fill. The case hinged on an unrecorded, eight-minute phone call from June 2004 between Cuban and former Mamma.com CEO Guy Faure. Faure gave a deposition saying he told Cuban confidentially during that call that he was planning a stock offering called a private investment in public equity, or PIPE, Bloomberg reported. ‚ÄúNow I‚Äôm screwed. I can‚Äôt sell,‚Äù Cuban supposedly said, indicating he knew he'd just gotten inside info that was illegal to trade on. The SEC claimed he sold anyway, in time to avoid huge losses. Cuban testified that he couldn't remember details from the conversation but says there are many reasons why he ditched his Mamma.com stock and that he was never told to keep the information secret. He also presented an expert who said the information wasn't that important, and that other investors would have had access to it. Faure gave a recorded deposition that conflicted with Cuban's version of events, but it was one man's word against another's because their phone call wasn't recorded. The SEC also didn't have the power to call Faure to testify in court because he was in Canada. ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt want your star witness on videotape,‚Äù defense attorney Stuart Slotnick told Forbes. ‚ÄúThe jury is deprived of getting to assess his credibility.‚Äù The SEC also had to contend with a formidable expert witness for the defense team ‚Äî Dr. Erik Sirri, a former high-ranking official at the SEC. Sirri testified that the supposed tip Cuban received was readily accessible to the average investor, the Dallas Morning News reported.¬† Sirri showed website postings and SEC records indicating that the public had access to the same information Cuban had before he made the trade, the Morning News reported. Sirri also prepared a study during the case analyzing how the market reacted to the Mamma.com PIPE announcement which claimed that reaction was not "statistically signficant," according to court records. Sirri said his study showed the information Cuban possessed was not "material." (Insider trading requires that a trader act on "material, nonpublic" information, meaning the information must be signficant.) If Cuban had avoided this trial, he could have faced about $2 million in fines, his lawyers told Reuters. He says he spent a lot more than that to prove the SEC wrong.
Stocks tend to move on earnings announcements, as the occasion provides investors an opportunity that only comes around four times a year to update the denominator in popular valuation metrics (like the price-to-earnings ratio). Goldman Sachs equity derivatives strategists John Marshall and Katherine Fogerty took to the options market to see which stocks are expected to move the most on earnings announcements over the coming week. In a note to clients, Marshall and Fogerty write: We identify 14 stocks where the options market expects high earnings-day moves over the next week. The options markets expects a +/- 13.1% earnings-day move for the average stock in this list, almost 3X the +/- 4.8% implied move for the average S&amp;P 500 stock this earnings season. While these implied moves are high on an absolute basis, they are also high after controlling for historical earning-day moves. We believe incremental research time spent on these stocks could likely yield unusually high alpha potential as big implied moves typically foreshadow big moves around earnings-day. Stock specific stories: RSH, CBST, ZNGA. While a low beta suggests low systematic risk, their unusually high absolute implied move, as well as relative to average realized move, suggests stock specific risks on earnings day this quarter. Low realized volatility: EQIX, LXK, AKAM, COH. Recent average daily moves realized by these stocks have been low; however, option prices point to volatile earnings day moves. The table below shows the moves options markets are pricing in for each stock. Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
APNow that the shutdown is over, we'll get an avalanche of government-reported data over the coming days and weeks. But at least one of those figures ‚Äî Consumer Price Index (CPI) ‚Äî will be "subject to significant error" for months. "Since the CPI price collection relies upon field staff visiting shops, some of the October data will never be collected," write¬†the Cleveland Fed's¬†Randal Verbrugge and Sara Millington¬†(via CNNMoney's Annalyn Kurtz). "As a result, the November CPI release, which is based upon October data, will have a much bigger standard error due to the smaller sample." One would think that the problem would just right itself after November, but not all prices are collected every month, so "not all of the error will be reversed right away." In fact, it will take six more months. "This period is so long for cost reasons. The BLS has divided all the goods and services it collects prices on into three categories: goods whose prices are collected each month in all cities; goods whose prices are collected only every other month in most cities (exceptions are Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York City, where all commodities and services except rents are priced monthly); and rents. Rents are collected only every six months; if the rental price on a particular rental unit is collected in January, then the rent on that unit will next be collected in July," they write. "However, year-over-year inflation estimates will continue to be quite reliable," they write.¬†
Ralph Orlowski/ReutersThe S&amp;P 500 has just reached a new all-time high of 1730.24. Earlier this morning, the index passed above its previous record closing high, which was set at 1725.52 on September 18. The index climbed to an intraday high of 1729.86 on September 19. It took the S&amp;P 500 nearly six years to reach the record high of 1576.09 set in October 2007, before the financial crisis and ensuing recession sent the stock market plunging. On April 10, 2013, the index finally rose above the 2007 peak, closing at 1587.73. Since then, it has made a number of new all-time highs after a series of pullbacks and rallies. The Dow Jones Industrial Average still remains about 2.5% below the 15,709.58 intraday high set on September 18, 2013, while the Nasdaq is 31% below its peak at the height of the tech-stock bubble in March 2000.
According Charlie Gasparino, it's an absolute bloodbath at brokerage Lazard Capital Markets. He did a spot on the story on Fox Business this afternoon. Gasparino's comments (via Street Insider): "If you talk to anybody that works there they say the place is basically on its last legs." ìSources are telling the FOX Business Network that there is a mass exodus out of Lazard Capital Markets by employees...They feel that the firm is either going to do one of three things: sell itself to somebody else where theyíll do a massive downsizing or basically look for refinancing which is very difficult or shut down. Lazard tells us theyíre still open for business, thereís no plans to imminently closeÖif you talk to anybody that works there they say the place is basically on its last legs." This conflicts with Bloomberg's 'business as usual'†story at the end of last month, when A Lazard Capital Markets spokesperson said the firm had no plans to shut down.
Bloomberg TVEvery city worth its salt needs a money honey †(or two) to keep the daily discussion on finance going. In London, that's Bloomberg TV's Francine Lacqua's job. Lacqua, an editor-at-large, hosts†"On the Move with Francine Lacqua," which hits the airwaves across Europe when the market opens. That means, naturally, that she's covers everything from the French and Italian elections to Davos to G20 meetings. Lacqua also†hosts, "Eye to Eye," a special series where she sits down with businessmen and top CEOs on London's Eye. You know, usual anchor stuff.
The WSJ tweeted earlier that prosecutors are coming to angreement with SAC Capital over insider trading criminal charges. Remember ‚Äî SAC already paid a $616 million civil fine. U.S. prosecutors and SAC Capital agree in principle on insider-trading penalty exceeding $1billion. http://t.co/hNaBnT26jX For the full story, head to WSJ&gt;
Finance Twitter is atwitter over a glaring mistake in the classic business card scene from "American Psycho,"†the popular 2000 film about a Wall Street serial killer. The Twitter user†Southpaw pointed it out in response to this unrelated†BuzzFeed post from Matthew Zeitlin. In the movie, Paul Allen's department title reads "Mergers and Aquisitions." That should be acquisitions, of course. A cursory Google search shows that the secret has been out for some time. But still, we never noticed. Check it out: Screenshot
China Photos/Getty ImagesYesterday, eBay had some scary things to say about the outlook for consumer spending in its conference call on Q3 earnings results. "The reality is the thing that's caused the most angst is what we believe is a dramatically decelerating U.S. e-commerce growth rate," said eBay CFO Bob Swan on the call. "When we came into the third quarter, we looked at a stable U.S. market, and¬†lo and behold, in a relatively short period of time, we've seen a pretty rapid deceleration in the market." Unfortunately, eBay management doesn't see much improvement headed into the all-important fourth quarter, during which holiday shopping takes place. "We haven't really seen any more positive signs in October than what we experienced through the latter part of the third quarter¬†in the U.S.," said Swan. "It's hard to be really confident when lots of the fundamentals that we're reading about are not all that positive. That being said, we're not expecting really any improvement in the fourth quarter from what we've experienced for the last eight to 10 weeks." While eBay had bad news in its earnings report, American Express had relatively good news: income from its U.S. credit card business was up 12% in Q3 from a year earlier. Meanwhile, American Express isn't seeing any sort of deterioration in consumer spending, even as the government shutdown that finally ended today has weighed on sentiment over the past two weeks. This exchange from the company's earnings conference call sums it up (emphasis added): Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs: Just a follow-up on with your comments pertaining to the government shutdown. I guess, first, can you give us a sense of how spend volumes progressed during the quarter and while you haven't seen a direct impact, did you see corporate spend slowing as the shutdown approached? Jeffrey C. Campbell - EVP and CFO: Well, a couple of comments Ryan. One thing even in three months here I've learned to be a little cautious about it attaching too much significance to daily or weekly trends because they are volatile. With that caveat, what I would tell you is that we are certainly pleased with the modest sequential improvement in our billed business, went from 8% to 9% on an FX-adjusted basis and really if I take the time period from the beginning of the quarter on July 1 really to the most recent days there is no particular trends within that period between the beginning of the quarter and a couple of days ago that show any meaningful variance from that overall sequential trend. So, there is just nothing in our data that would support any particular impact in ‚Äì amongst our customer base and what they spend money on from the economic turmoil. But boy I don't want to in any way draw a conclusion that the uncertainty being created in DC if it continues isn't eventually going to cause a real challenge economically for us and for many people. As Nick Montoya put it in a tweet, the relative outlooks from eBay and American Express management are "telling of the high-low split in U.S. consumer strength." This notion reinforces the results of a survey of 2,000 U.S. consumers by Goldman Sachs, the results of which were published earlier this week. "The total number of consumers who said they spent more in the past three months did tick up in our 3Q survey," said Goldman analysts Michael Kelter, Ivan Holman, and Harsh Aneja in the report. "However, the bifurcation of high vs. low-mid income consumers is clearly evident.¬†Consumers in $90,000+ households reported an increase in spending in 3Q vs. 2Q, while consumers in under-$50,000 households reported a decrease in spending this quarter." Meanwhile, the divergence in economic optimism between the two groups is the widest in the history of Goldman's survey, which dates back to 2005.
Jeff Gundlach, the bond fund manager at DoubleLine Funds, was on CNBC's Squawk On The Street to discuss the the recent U.S. budget deal and outlook for interest rates. CNBC's David Faber opened by asking Gundlach for his opinion of the U.S.'s credit and credibility. "It slowly keeps eroding in the wrong direction," answered Gundlach. He noted that the big three ratings agencies ó S&amp;P, Moody's, and Fitch ó continue to rate the U.S. very favorably. But he also pointed to the recent downgrade by China's Dagong Global Credit Rating Company adding that it reflected "skepticism" by foreign observers. However, he does not think that this means interest rates will surge in the near-term. "One thing we know for sure is short-term interest rates will stay low for as long as the eye can see," he said, arguing that the Federal Reserve would have to end its quantitative easing (QE) policy first. Considering that Vice Chair Janet Yellen is expected to take the helm of the Fed in January when Bernanke retires, Gundlach doesn't see QE ending "for the next few months." So while Gundlach is bearish on U.S. government policy, he is no bear on the government bond market.
Flickr/mattlemmonThis summer the world was horrified after reports that "at least" one million cockroaches had escaped from a farm in Jiangsu, China. While the mental image of one million cockroaches was disturbing enough, the bigger question was was why someone was farming such vast quantities of the insects. Now, thanks to Barbara Demick of the Los Angeles Times, we have the answer: A cockroach bubble. Demick spoke to one cockroach farmer, Wang Fuming, who has six farms with an estimated 10 million cockroaches. Wang sells his cockroaches for use in Chinese medicine, and the price of the roaches has rapidly increased in recent years ‚Äî a pound of dried cockroaches used to cost around $2 and now costs around $20. "With cockroaches, you can invest 20 yuan ($3.25) and get back 150 yuan ($24)," Wang told Demick. Unfortunately, these high returns are creating a risky market, Demick writes, with cockroach farms opening at a very fast rate. It seems to be just a matter of time before the next cockroach escape.
Jeff Gundlach was just on CNBC, mostly talking bonds, QE, politics ó everything everyone is sick of talking about. And then he got to equities. Gundlach told CNBC's David Faber that Tesla is "just fascinating." No, not because Elon Musk buys†James Bond submarine cars. This is not a good fascinating he's talking about. Gundlach pointed out that as Tesla's stock is shooting up, Ford and GM are also in local highs. "There's something wrong with this picture," he said.† Not everyone can be a winner in the auto market. Someone has to win market share, and someone has to lose it. "If Tesla's really going to be this multiple tens of billions of company it's going to come from somebody... It [the stock] is not something I would own." He also said the stock had a "cultish aspect" to it. Gundlach also said he didn't like Google. He doesn't see growth for the company and said that with a $300 billion market cap "it should be harvested in terms of capital gains." Brutal.
Leo Koivulehto/FlickrThe trial of five of Bernard Madoff's former employees has begun, with prosecutors arguing that the defendants, like Madoff, "knew exactly what they were doing." But one anecdote shines through from the opening scene in the courtroom, according to the AP's Larry Neumeister and Tom Hays. From the AP: The prosecutor alleged the defendants went to absurd lengths to cover their tracks. He told an anecdote about how in the middle of an audit, O'Hara, Perez and Krupi needed to quickly cook up a fake document. After pulling the document hot off the printer, they put it in a refrigerator to cool it off and tossed it around to make it look older before handing it over to auditors waiting in a conference room at Madoff's firm, he said. "These are the people who helped him do it," U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz told jurors. "Bernie Madoff needed help to fool so many people for so long." Read the full report at the AP†ª
Wal-Mart is America's biggest retailer.¬† We compiled some facts about Wal-Mart that will blow your mind:¬† Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
Google FinanceU.S. markets are climbing after an early sell-off. The S&amp;P 500 just touched 1,725.6, passing its September 18 all-time closing high. All of this comes a day after President Obama signed into law a a deal to raise the U.S. debt ceiling and end the government shutdown. But the Dow is off by 68 points or 0.4%. The Dow is getting slammed by sell-offs IBM and Goldman Sachs, two of the three largest constituents of the index. You see, the Dow is a price-weighted index, which means a stock with a high per-share price will have a greater influence on the index's fluctuation. A one-point move in any single Dow stock moves the Dow by 6.4219 points. IBM is down $10.30, which hacks 66 points from the Dow. Goldman is down $3.98, which shaves 25 points from the Dow. So that's 91 points of the sell-off in the Dow. (Note: Gains in Dow components American Express and Verizon are offsetting some of these declines.
APA fed-up President Barack Obama told congressional Republicans who disagree with his policies to "make an argument" and "win an election," the day after Washington's latest budget crises came to an end. "You don't like a particular policy or a particular president? Then argue for your position. Go out there win an election," Obama said†in the State Dining Room of the White House. "Push to change it. But don't break it. Don't break what our predecessors spent over two centuries building. That's not being faithful to what this country's about." Obama's remarks came at the end of a 16-day federal government shutdown, the third longest in history. And they come as Congress voted to extend the nation's borrowing authority, preventing a possible default on obligations.† As Congress prepared to enter into budget negotiations, Obama hailed the "Democrats and responsible Republicans" who had ended the shutdown and debt-ceiling crises. But he also reamed into Congress for a constant stream of governing by crisis. He said that the American people have become "completely fed up with Washington." And he said that the way things get done in Washington "has to change." "Now that the government has reopened and this threat to our economy is removed, all of us need to stop focusing on the lobbyists, and the bloggers, and the talking heads on radio and the professional activists who profit from conflict," Obama said.  "Focus on what the majority of Americans sent us here to do. And that's grow this economy, create good jobs, strengthen the middle class, educate our kids, lay the foundation for broad-based prosperity and get our fiscal house in order for the long haul. That's why we're here. That should be our focus." Obama also used the statement to push a few of the items on his legislative agenda before the end of the year ó namely, immigration reform and passage of a farm bill.† Making good on Tuesday comments, Obama urged the House to take up the Senate's immigration bill, which passed all the way back in June. He said that immigration reform could happen by the end of the year. "Now, if the House has ideas on how to improve the Senate bill, let's hear them," he said. "Let's start the negotiations. But let's not leave this problem to keep festering for another year or two years or three years. This can and should get done by the end of this year." At the end of very†brief , three-minute statement Wednesday night, a reporter shouted at Obama, "Isn't this going to happen all over again in a few months?" "No," Obama said, laughing.
Bloomberg, screenshotIBM‚Äôs dismal result last night reminded me of some comments I heard from Jim Chanos last month about value stocks in the tech space,¬†in this Bloomberg interview: As opposed to, some of these companies, who basically‚Ä¶acquire a lot of companies, they are capitalizing their R&amp;D‚Ä¶ (Cory Johnson ‚Äì if they‚Äôre doing a lot of their own R&amp;D, it‚Äôs hurting their operating margins‚Ä¶the accounting rules give them the benefit‚Ä¶and the knuckleheads, who don‚Äôt consider acquisitions as part of free cash flow, think the free cash flow still looks good) Chanos again ‚Äì Exactly, and thus, Dell, or Hewlett-Packard, or IBM, as you mentioned, if you look at acquisitions as capitalized R&amp;D, suddenly a lot of these companies look a lot more expensive than they do on the surface. A simple illustration of the problems at IBM is as follows: Risk Reversal ¬† Sales have grown 2.5% from 2007 to 2013, while adjusted EPS has more than doubled! ¬†Chanos‚Äô point is that the EPS is distorted with many accounting gimmicks, numerous acquisitions being one of them. ¬†A significantly lower tax rate (16% in Q3 2013, vs. 24.6% in Q3 2012) and continued stock buybacks are two other levers that have featured prominently to boost earnings per share at Big Blue. Looking at this quarter, revenues missed estimates about 4%, while EPS beat again. ¬†It‚Äôs much harder for management to massage revenues than earnings, so management pulls the necessary levers to meet or beat that EPS estimate. ¬†But the stock‚Äôs reaction this quarter shows an investor community that has run out of patience. IBM experienced particular difficulties in the BRIC countries, where revenues were down 15%, 12% adjusting for currency, led by China down more than 20%. ¬†What I found notable on the conference call was that IBM management tried to strike an optimistic tone by highlighting its EPS and free cash flow targets ‚Äì precisely the metrics that are easier to influence than revenues. ¬†In short, I expect many more acquisitions in the next year from IBM, as it furiously tries to meet subjective accounting targets, even as its overall business shrinks.
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA woman sleeps after shopping during "Black Friday" sales at the Dadeland Mall in Miami.Yesterday, on eBay's earnings conference call, CFO Bob Swan had some worrying things to say about the outlook for U.S. consumer spending going into the holiday shopping season. "First, from a macro standpoint, Europe and [Asia-Pacific] ‚Äî which created a bit of anxiety for us in the first half of the year ‚Äî have stabilized through Q3," said Swan during the call. "But at the same time, the U.S. e-commerce softened considerably, [and] we have a cautious outlook for the holiday season." During the Q&amp;A, analysts pressed Swan on the outlook for fourth-quarter consumer spending, resulting in the following exchange (emphasis added): Ronald Josey III - JMP Securities: Just a real quick, Bob, if you can go back and talk about the stabilization you saw in EU and Korea and the impact in Marketplaces. I'm wondering is that just better macro or the result of the marketing investments, I think, you made during the quarter. Then also, domestically, any additional color as to why you think holiday might be a little bit weaker this year would be helpful. Bob Swan - SVP, Finance and CFO: Yeah, in terms of Europe and Korea, as you may remember, back in July we had a bit of anxiety just about the signs that we were seeing in both of those markets and how it was impacting our business. During the course of the third quarter, in essence, we looked at stable growth for 11%, Q2, 11%, Q3, and things kind of stabilized, and what, at the time had caused us the greatest anxiety. I think there're some things that are working well in terms of what we're doing and some things that aren't, but in the aggregate, we got nice fundamental strong businesses with good stable growth. That's kind of a first. Secondly, holiday week or ‚Äì the reality is the thing that's caused the most angst is a dramatically decelerating, what we believe is a dramatically decelerating U.S. ecommerce growth rate from the second quarter of 15.5% to 16% from comScore to the third quarter of closer to 13%. So when we came into the third quarter, we looked at a stable U.S. market, and lo and behold, in a relatively short period of time, we've seen a pretty rapid deceleration in the market. I think for us, that deceleration happened throughout the course of the quarter. Then, as always, we take all the information we have at our disposal, which right now is roughly 15 days in, and we haven't really seen any more positive signs in October than what we experienced through the latter part of the third quarter in the U.S. So all of that and all of the anxiety we see when we pick up the newspaper every day, makes us fairly cautious about how we look at the holiday season and it's impacted our outlook for the fourth quarter. I hope I'm too conservative. But right now, all the signs point to a bit of caution. Operator: Colin Sebastian, Robert W. Baird. Colin Sebastian - Robert W. Baird: Maybe just one quick follow-up there on the deceleration in the U.S. Bob, I wonder what your level of confidence is on the Q4 outlook if there is no improvement in the U.S. into the holiday period given overall stable growth rate expectations? My other question would be on the new users coming from mobile. I think you've articulated in the past that they don't monetize quite as well as other users, and I wonder though if you're seeing a trend emerging among these cohorts is their tenure on eBay and PayPal, it starts to lengthen if the monetization is improving? Bob Swan - SVP, Finance and CFO: I'll do the first, John, and maybe hand you the second. I think in terms of the decel that we're seeing in the quarter in level of confidence, we always try to ‚Äì at the risk of repeating myself, we always try to give you our best flip based on everything that we are seeing. It's hard to be really confident when lots of the fundamentals that we're reading about are not all that positive. That being said, we're not expecting really any improvement in the fourth quarter from what we've experienced for the last eight to 10 weeks. So we're not expecting improvement. We're just assuming that things are going to stabilize where they are. Ecommerce growth rates will not accelerate, but they will be stable. We think we're well-positioned to deal with an environment that doesn't get any worse than it kind of is right now. Today, eBay shares are down more than 3% on the company's weak fourth quarter guidance.
Bloomberg TVJPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee.JPMorgan chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee says the end of the government shutdown is bullish for stocks. The S&amp;P 500 has already rallied 4% in the last week as hopes increased that warring parties in Washington, D.C. were close to a deal to end the shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. Now, the index is only 3% away from Lee's year-end target of 1775 ‚Äî the most optimistic forecast on Wall Street. In a note to clients, Lee puts forward "4 reasons post-shutdown relief argues for at least 1775" on the S&amp;P 500: Foremost, fundamentals remain solid and 3Q earnings season is expected to underscore this. As we noted in our 3Q13 preview (see "3Q13E Preview: $28.00 EPS, on track for $110 FY13 EPS" dated 10/15), this is likely to be the best reporting season in 2013: (i) top-line growth of 3% is estimated to be the highest in 2013; (ii) the profit contribution from Cyclicals has turned positive, adding $0.46 of the $1.01 y/y increase in EPS (Cyclicals were negative in 1H13) and (iii) a beat ratio of 69% is the best so far in 2013. The underlying driver, in our opinion, is pent-up demand in the US (housing and autos) and a manufacturing lift in Europe. Second, history shows that markets tend to rally post-government shutdown: 4 of 5 precedent instances of shutdowns (&gt;10 days) saw rallies into YE. As shown on Figure 1, equity markets rallied in 4 of the 5 instances (‚Äò76, ‚Äò77, ‚Äò79 and ‚Äò96) mostly by 3%-6%, with the Fall of ‚Äò78 as the sole exception (we had the fomenting of the Iranian Revolution in ‚Äò78, which could explain the lack of a rally). Moreover, in Fall ‚Äò11, post the conclusion of the Supercommittee, equities gained 10% over the following 3 months (see Figure 2). Bottom line, our 1775 YE target is a mere 3% gain from here, which falls within the range of prior post-shutdown relief rallies. Third, investor positioning, particularly mutual funds, suggests that clients are likely to add risk into YE. As shown on Figure 4, mutual fund beta has been steadily declining since 9/2 and is actually lower than it was right after the conclusion of the Supercommittee (Nov ‚Äò11) just as equity markets were troughing. Hedge fund beta has actually lifted in the last few days, suggesting much of the rally since last Tuesday was driven by HF position squaring. Fourth, the Fed is likely to be on hold even longer given the potential for a political redux in early 2014 and also the near-term ‚Äúcorruption‚Äù of economic data. Lastly, we expect the Fed to remain accommodative and that tightening concerns will likely be pushed later into 2013. There is also additional concerns surrounding the potential for another debt ceiling showdown in early 2014 and as a consequence, we would expect the Fed to exercise similar forbearance as we enter the new year. Moreover, in the near-term, we believe incoming economic data will be viewed as relatively unreliable given the government disruption and the lack of integrity surrounding near-term results. "We have likely avoided a default, a binary outcome that posed great risk to our thesis (even if the likelihood of a negative outcome was small, in our view)," says Lee. "Hence, we are personally relieved as well."
During his speech to mark the end of the Debt Ceiling standoff, President Obama identified three things that should be addressed right away to fix the economy. Here they are: 1 We should pursue a balanced approach to a Federal budget. Basically, he wants to come up with a long-term budget plan that ease long-term burdens while not imposing much austerity now. 2 We should fix immigration. He says this will add significantly to GDP. 3 Passing a farm bill. The Senate has already passed a bill to provide stable laws and subsidies. He noted that there's a lot more he'd like to see, but that he feels these are areas where the government can get stuff done. For more on Obamas speech, see here.
Dated¬†October 14, this was a big surprise. If what Evraz says now is believable, why did the company say publicly on August 29 that it was planning to increase production at Claymont Steel? Less than seven weeks ago, in the Evraz half-yearlyfinancial report¬†this is what the company claimed: ‚ÄúThe key focus of the flat product group, in the period, was enhancing capacity utilisation. To this end, EVRAZ North America is currently finalising works to increase the rolling speed at EVRAZ Claymont which should improve productivity and provide capacity for higher output levels when the order book is strong.‚Äù (page 17).There can hardly be a point to accelerating the rolling speed of a production line that has been switched off. A local¬†publication¬†in Delaware, where the Evraz mill operates, quoted the state governor Jack Markell as saying he had learned of the closure ‚Äúlate last week‚Äù. A statement from Markell‚Äôs office claimed he was ‚Äúdisappointed that Evraz is idling the Claymont facility. The global steel industry remains very challenging and DEDO was told that the facility is losing money as it seeks to compete with unfairly traded imports.‚Äù In March, the state government had arranged to film at the Claymont steelmill a speech by Collin O‚ÄôMara, Secretary for the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, inaugurating a new air pollution control system at the mill.According¬†to the official, ‚Äúit was a multi-million dollar investment. It‚Äôs going to improve the quality of life for local residents, improve the quality of life for the workers, increase productivity and make this plant much more competitive for decades to come. It‚Äôs an example that we can have a strong manufacturing sector and at the same time have a very healthy economy.‚Äù ‚ÄúThrough these investments, Evraz is demonstrating that Delaware will have both a strong manufacturing sector and a healthy environment,‚Äù O‚ÄôMara¬†said. ‚ÄúThe dramatic improvement in air quality in Claymont that will be achieved through this state-of-the-art baghouse would not have been possible without the unwavering dedication and engagement of leaders from Evraz, state and local government, and local community residents.‚Äù In January Markell told¬†the state legislature that the Evraz plant at Claymont was an example of ‚Äúthe world we now live in‚Ä¶ more global, more productive, more competitive. It is a new world of unprecedented opportunities to create new partnerships, to sell to new customers, to innovate and collaborate in ways previously unimaginable.‚Äù There can hardly be a point to an air pollution system if nothing at all is coming out of the chimneys. And if Claymont Steel was as competitive as the governor believed in January, how credible is the reason he says he was given last Friday by Evraz executives ‚Äì that the mill was being driven into closure by ‚Äúunfairly traded imports‚Äù? Just how unfair that trade in imported steel plate can‚Äôt have been guesswork or lobbying talk by the Evraz men. That‚Äôs because it was the target of an eight-month investigation by the US Government‚Äôs International Trade Administration (ITA). The government had been asked by domestic steelmaker Nucor to check whether Ukrainian exporters of plate ‚Äî Metinvest Holding‚Äôs Azovstal Iron &amp; Steel Works and Ilyich Iron and Steel Works ‚Äì were sticking to the terms of an anti-dumping price agreement they had signed with ITA in 2008. Starting this past January, ITA investigators probed whether ‚Äúeach [Ukrainian] signatory producer/exporter individually agrees to make any necessary price revisions to eliminate completely any amount by which the normal value (NV) of the subject merchandise exceeds the U.S. price of its merchandise subject to the Agreement. See Agreement, 73 FR 57602, 57603.‚Äù Here‚Äôs¬†the August 1 report from ITA, concluding there was no unfair import trading. ‚ÄúOur review of the information submitted by the companies indicates that they have adhered to the terms of the Agreement and that the Agreement is functioning as intended.‚Äù So how come Markell reversed himself this week in order to claim the reason for the Claymont closure ‚Äúis a reflection of this industry right now. Some very cheap imports coming in from some other countries and just not enough demand, it‚Äôs a bad combination.‚Äù The shutdown of the US Government, triggered by the US congress, has taken ITA‚Äôs website statistical service offline, and so import volumes for the type of product Claymont Steel makes and sells are temporarily unavailable. Claymont makes steel plate and custom plate products for industrial customers. Total production volumes in H1 2013 and for the whole of 2012 were 171,500 tonnes and 348,000 tonnes, respectively. Comparing the two numbers suggests that the rate of production at Claymont until very recently hadn‚Äôt been changed from last year‚Äôs rate. Even so, the Evraz group admits it is running at a loss at present; according to its first-half financial report, the net loss for the first six months of the year came to $122 million. Its gross debt amounted to $8.2 billion on June 30, up by almost 5% since December 31. Evraz does not issue financial results for its North American division, but based on a goodwill valuation of $135 million in the annual report for 2012, Claymont Steel is worth significantly less to the group than its plants in Oregon, Colorado, OSM Tubular-Camrose, Calgary, or Regina-Steel and Regina-Tubular (Canada). According to Evraz‚Äôs financial report for the six months to June 30, sales revenues for North America came to $1.62 billion; that represents 22% of the group-wide total, and it was down 10.4% compared to the first half of 2012. Today, according to Evraz, ‚Äúmarket conditions continue to be challenging and low market visibility makes it difficult to foresee when positive changes will occur.‚Äù Can a claim as vague as that be the real reason for the plant closure, or for the dissembling of Evraz executives in their reports to the London Stock Exchange, and to the office of Governor Markell? The governor‚Äôs spokesman Catherine Rossi carefully distinguishes between what the governor was told by Evraz and what the US government has found regarding steel plate imports. ‚ÄúGovernor Markell was told by Evraz that the mill closure was due to competition from imports.¬†He was relating Evraz‚Äôs comment to him, not specifically commenting on the USDOC/ITA, its investigation, or Ukrainian steel imports.‚Äù Is it conceivable that the closure is a tactic for persuading the ITA to reintroduce anti-dumping penalties against imported Ukrainian plate, allowing Evraz to restart the Claymont production lines, and start charging higher prices? Evraz was asked three questions: Why was the shutdown of Claymont decided so suddenly and despite announcements indicating there was no such intention a few weeks ago? Why tell shareholders Evraz is enhancing capacity utilization at Claymont and then shut the plant down? What were the revenue, operating profit, Ebitda, and net profit (loss) for Evraz‚Äôs North American division in H1 2013? There has been no reply.¬†
The outlook for general business conditions six months forward in the Philadelphia Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey hit its highest level in over a decade this month. The forward outlook index rose to 60.8 in October from 58.2 in September. The last time it was this high was in September 2003. Here's what the Philadelphia Fed had to say in the release: The surveyís future indicators have suggested markedly improved optimism among the reporting manufacturers in recent months. The future general activity index increased 3 points, from 58.2 to 60.8, exceeding its previous highs since the end of the recession in 2009 (see Chart). Slightly over 63 percent of firms expect increases in activity over the next six months; only 2 percent of firms indicated that they expect decreases over the next six months. The indexes for future new orders and shipments also remained at relatively high levels. Over 67 percent of firms expect increases in new orders and 57 percent of firms expect increases in shipments over the next six months. The future employment index fell 4 points; however, nearly 37 percent of the firms expect to increase employment over the next six months. The Philly Fed survey gauges manufacturing activity in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware. Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius†considers it one of the best predictors†of overall U.S. economic growth. Citi's Peter D'Antonio disagrees. "In the absence of data we caution against looking at the Philly survey, as it is notoriously erratic and poorly correlated with actual activity, in our view," wrote D'Antonio in a preview of the release. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
1.† The "what" was extremely market friendly: By removing (for now) the immediate threat of a debt default and by re-opening the government, Congress clipped a material adverse "tail risk" to growth, jobs and financial stability -- and therefore to company earnings and funding prospects. 2. The "how" is less comforting: The deal reflected negative rather positive drivers. It involves neither a durable resolution nor a fundamental realignment of incentives. It simply kicks the can down the road; and to a time when the 2014 Congressional elections and primaries will seem a lot closer. Think of the Congressional deal as the analytical equivalent of a short-dated ceasefire between (currently-exhausted) parties with deeply-conflicting views about the size and scope of government. As such, the probability of renewed political bickering is far from immaterial; and, as the President stated yesterday, there is a lot of work ahead for Congress. 3. The "how" matters: Neither endogenous growth nor the global economy are strong enough as yet to forcefully overcome political shenanigans. In addition, Congress needs to address other headwinds to growth and jobs. In the meantime, the economy and markets will remain over-dependent on a highly-activist Federal Reserve using experimental policy measures. Instead of decisively emerging from a damaging phase of political dysfunction, Congress appears still stuck in what Game Theorists would call a repeated game with sub-optimal outcomes. Only our lawmakers can change this situation for the better. The rest of us can help: By alerting them of the lasting damage to the economy, job creation and competitiveness; by cautioning them against undermining Americaís standing in the global economy; and by encouraging them to durably improve economic and financial governance.
Don Griffin via RM AuctionsThe working Lotus submarine car from a 1977 James Bond movie may have been bought by Elon Musk.Tesla Motors and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk is the secret buyer of the Lotus submarine car used in the James Bond movie "The Spy Who Loved Me," Jalopnik is reporting. The Esprit Series 1, which was converted into a working submarine for the 1977 film, was sold in London by RM Auctions in early September. It went for ¬£616,000 ($989,000), according to RM. The submarine car, known as "Wet Nellie" during filming, was built for more than $100,00 (approximately $500,000 today) from the shell of the Lotus Esprit.
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIt only took 16 days, but the government shutdown¬†managed to sap $24 billion out of the economy, according to S&amp;P. That's $1.5 billion a day. "The bottom line is the government shutdown has hurt the U.S. economy," the S&amp;P wrote. "Since our forecast didn't hold, we now have to lower our fourth-quarter growth estimate to closer to 2%." $24 billion is a lot of money to willfully drain from the economy. So in order to make sure Washington doesn't let this happen again, we thought we'd give a roundup of what Congress could have purchased instead.
AP ImagesFormer NFL linebacker Brandon Short worked at Goldman and is now launching his own firm. It's football season so we've decided to highlight some of the biggest players on Wall Street. Anyone who plays football professionally knows that they won't be able to play forever. That means they need to have post-football career plans in mind. For some, finance is the perfect fit. ¬†It's cut-throat, super competitive and it takes a lot of discipline to put in all those long hours. So it should come as no surprise that there are a bunch of former football stars working in trading, investment banking and wealth management. We've compiled a list of some of the best football players in finance. (Note: These names are not in any particular order).¬† Many of these guys played professionally before heading to Wall Street. Others were standouts in college. ¬†Some have even done internships at investment banks during the off-season while still playing in the NFL. If we're missing any big names, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com¬†to add to the list. A photo would also be greatly appreciated.¬†
Philadelphia FedThe results of the Philadelphia Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 19.8 in October from September's 22.3 reading. Economists predicted a bigger slide to 15.0. The new orders sub-index jumped to 27.5 from 21.2, and the number of employees sub-index rose to 15.4 from 10.3.¬†The average employee workweek sub-index, however, fell to 8.5 from 12.2. The Philly Fed survey gauges manufacturing activity in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware. Goldman Sachs economist Jan Hatzius considers it one of the best predictors of overall U.S. economic growth. Citi's Peter D'Antonio disagrees. "In the absence of data we caution against looking at the Philly survey, as it is notoriously erratic and poorly correlated with actual activity, in our view," wrote D'Antonio in a preview of the release. Below is the full text of the release: October 2013 Business Outlook Survey Manufacturing growth in the region continued in October, according to firms responding to this month‚Äôs Business Outlook Survey. The survey‚Äôs broadest indicators for general activity, new orders, shipments, and employment were positive, signifying growth. The survey's indicators of future activity suggest continued optimism about growth over the next six months. Indicators Suggest Continuing Expansion The survey‚Äôs broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, edged down from 22.3 in September to 19.8 this month (see Chart). The index has now been positive for five consecutive months. The percentage of firms reporting increased activity this month (36 percent) was greater than the percentage reporting decreased activity (16 percent). The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by the current new orders index, increased 6 points, to 27.5, its highest reading since March 2011. Shipments continued to expand: The index fell 1 point to 20.4, following a 22 point increase last month. The diffusion indexes for inventories, delivery times, and unfilled orders were all positive and higher than last month. Labor market indicators showed improvement this month. The current employment index increased 5 points, to 15.4, its highest reading since May 2011. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment (23 percent) exceeded the percentage reporting decreases (8 percent). Price Indexes Suggest Moderate Pressures The indexes for prices reflected moderate price pressures this month. Input price pressures were slightly less widespread this month: The prices paid index fell 4 points, to 21.7. With respect to prices received for manufactured goods, 21 percent of firms reported higher prices, and 7 percent reported lower prices. The prices received index increased 2 points, to 14.2. Six-Month Indicators Reflect Optimism The survey‚Äôs future indicators have suggested markedly improved optimism among the reporting manufacturers in recent months. The future general activity index increased 3 points, from 58.2 to 60.8, exceeding its previous highs since the end of the recession in 2009 (see Chart). Slightly over 63 percent of firms expect increases in activity over the next six months; only 2 percent of firms indicated that they expect decreases over the next six months. The indexes for future new orders and shipments also remained at relatively high levels. Over 67 percent of firms expect increases in new orders and 57 percent of firms expect increases in shipments over the next six months. The future employment index fell 4 points; however, nearly 37 percent of the firms expect to increase employment over the next six months. For this month's special questions, manufacturers were asked about changes in their workforce and the changing use of flexible workers over the past year (see Special Questions). The share of firms that increased their total workforce over the past year (51 percent) was significantly greater than those that decreased their workforce (27 percent), reflecting a marked improvement from when the question was asked last year. The mix of employment has changed for many firms. For example, 76 percent of firms indicated that they use part-time workers. Of this number, 15 percent of firms indicated that their share of the total part-time workforce has increased over the past year, whereas 5 percent of the firms decreased their share of these workers. Fewer firms use temporary/agency workers (65 percent) and contract workers (39 percent) compared with part-time workers. Among the firms that use temporary/agency and contract workers, these workers account for nearly 10 percent of their workforce. Summary According to respondents to the October Business Outlook Survey, the region‚Äôs manufacturing sector continued to grow this month. All the broad indicators were positive, with firms reporting improvements in new orders and hiring. Input price pressures were slightly less widespread this month. Firms‚Äô outlook has shown notable improvement in recent months, with a majority of firms now expecting to expand manufacturing activity over the next six months and more than one-third expecting to add workers. Click here for the full release ¬ª
Goldman Sachs just reported its worst revenue since the Euro crisis was plaguing markets¬†last summer ‚Äî$6.72 billion where analysts expected¬†$7.36 billion. Net income was also essentially flat from this same period in 2012, hovering at¬†$1.52 billion (last year it was $1.51 billion). And on Wall Street, flat is a four letter word.  What's more is that this is all going going down while bank's operating expenses fell 25% for the quarter year over year. Compensation is down 35% year over year as well. So what happened? Primarily Goldman suffered from a sickness that hit all of Wall Street this summer ‚Äî dismal fixed-income trading revenues. As fears that the Federal Reserve would taper its quantitative easing program scared investors out of the market this summer, trading volumes slumped. This carnage was expected.¬†At the end of September, Brad Hintz, an analyst at¬†Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. wrote that Wall Street would see a¬†‚Äúa full-scale rout" in trading revenue, and Jefferies, a smaller boutique bank, sent out a warning shot to the entire Street that month when it reported that its fixed-income trading revenue fell 88% year over year. Goldman, for its part, saw fixed-income trading fall 44% (more than any other major bank that's reported in the last week). From their report: Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $2.86 billion, 32% lower than the third quarter of 2012 and 34% lower than the second quarter of 2013.  Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $1.25 billion, 44% lower than the third quarter of 2012, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and interest rate products, as well as in currencies. In addition, net revenues in credit products were lower, while net revenues in commodities were higher compared with the third quarter of 2012. During the third quarter of 2013, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging environment, which was characterized by economic uncertainty, difficult market- making conditions in certain businesses and lower levels of activity. This malaise seems to have crept into equities trading as well, as the bank reported a 16% year over year decline in that business. Goldman also slipped in what was ¬†one of the hottest businesses in investment banking last quarter, debt and equity underwriting. The bank earned $1.06 billion in that business in Q2, this quarter it's down to $743 million. In his statement, CEO Lloyd Blankfein said "we saw various signs that our clients are prepared to act on significant transactions and we believe that the firm is well positioned to help our clients accomplish their objectives. As longer term U.S. budget issues are resolved, we could see an improvement in corporate and investor sentiment that would help lay the basis for a more sustained recovery." In other words ‚Äî Goldman thinks The Street's going to see mergers and acquisitions ¬†and trading activity pick up once this country gets its policy act together. Given that this whole budget debacle has just been postponed to Q1 2014, we'll see how that works out. 
Irony of ironies. Everyone expected that gold would rise during the debt ceiling crisis and fall after it was over. Instead: exact opposite. Gold fell during the recent crisis and is exploding now that it's over. Kitco
As a result of that searing experience, business managers remained very cautious about hiring and expanding their capacity even as their sales recovered. Many remain cautious, preferring overtime, part-timers, consultants, and outsourced vendors to increasing full-time payrolls. Rather than expanding their facilities, they've increased shifts if possible. The primary focus is on using technology to increase productivity and profitability. This certainly explains why the current economic expansion has been one of the weakest on record for real GDP, employment, and capital spending. On the other hand, it's been one of the best recoveries in corporate profits and margins. The bottom line is that the Trauma of 2008 has been bullish. It should continue to be so. However, let‚Äôs not get too complacent just because stocks have performed so well recently despite the shenanigans in DC. After all, the latest deal just postpones the fiscal fistfight for a few months. Earlier this month, House Majority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) said that the government shutdown isn‚Äôt a game. Kicking the can down the road certainly is a game. In any event, maybe now we should fear that we have nothing to fear for the next few months. My concern is that the bears have stopped growling. The immediate risk is a melt-up in stock prices as investors overcome their trauma. If greed trumps fear, then soaring stock prices to new record highs might be imminent. The problem with melt-ups is that they tend to be followed by meltdowns, or at least very nasty corrections. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Trauma of 2008. (1) No serious correction since last June. (2) Bad news doesn‚Äôt faze the bull. (3) Fretting but not selling. (4) A unified theory of the bull market. (5) Near-death experience. (6) People don‚Äôt do pain very well any more. (7) All together now: ‚ÄúNo more Lehmans!‚Äù (8) Profitable businesses running scared. (9) Investors showing signs of anxiety fatigue. (10) Subpar growth is bullish. (11) Nothing to fear but nothing to fear. (12) High flyers. (More for subscribers.)
REUTERS/Joseba EtxaburuPresident Obama signed a deal that would end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. Critics note that under the terms of the deal, we would wind up back here again in a few months. Potomac Research Group political strategist Greg Valliere is not going down that road. "We think it's worth reiterating the two very bullish¬† themes that still dominate this city," he wrote in a note this morning. Here's what he said: THEME ONE: THIS IS THE MOST DOVISH FED IN OUR LIFETIMES,¬†with central bankers in no rush to begin tapering their asset purchases in light of the damage done to fourth quarter GDP growth. ¬†(We'll hear from former Fed Vice Chairman Don Kohn on a conference call¬†next Thursday.) THEME TWO: FISCAL RESTRAINT¬†is still firmly in place, with the budget deficit in free-fall. Yes, the past two months were an embarrassment, but more fiscal restraint is coming -- either another year of sequester or fresh spending reforms, which brings us to our contrarian view of the next chapter. Valliere assigned a 40% chance of a new deal by mid-December. And if there is a deal, he says, the fiscal restraint story will prove even more bullish.¬†
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithThe Department of Labor's latest tally of weekly initial unemployment claims is out. Claims fell by 15,000 to 358,000. However, this was higher than the 335,000 expected by economists. However, it appears that technical glitches touched the number this week. "Applications in California remained elevated an the total also included some non-federal workers dismissed due to the gridlock in Washington," reported Bloomberg citing a Labor Department spokesman. Last week, the Labor Department said around half of the then 66,000 increase in claims was due to technical issues, which continue to be worked out.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a peculiar stock market index for several reasons. For one, it's a price-weighted index, which means a stock with a high per-share price will have a greater influence on the index's fluctuations. And currently, a one-point move in any single Dow stock moves the Dow by 6.4219 points. As of yesterday's market close, the three highest-priced stocks in the Dow were Visa ($195), IBM ($186), and Goldman Sachs ($162). Early in trading, IBM and Goldman Sachs are each down sharply in the wake of their earnings announcements. IBM is down $13.45, which hacks 86 points from the Dow. Goldman is down $4.09, which shaves 26 points from the Dow. So, two stocks are responsible for a 112-point decline in the Dow. Now you see why people hate the Dow.
For the third quarter, adjusted earnings per share came in at $2.88 beating Wall Street analyst estimates. ¬† Revenue came in at $6.72 billion, missing consensus estimates.¬† Wall Street analysts, on average, expected Goldman to report adjusted earnings per share of $2.46, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were expected to come in at $7.352 billion. ¬†Net income (adjusted) was expected to be $1.283 billion, according to Bloomberg. ¬† Goldman also boosted its dividend to 55 cents versus 50 cents.¬† Compensation for the third quarter was $2.38 billion, 35% lower than the third quarter of 2012. ¬†The compensation ratio was 41%.¬† "The third quarter‚Äôs results reflected a period of slow client activity," Lloyd Blankfein said in the release. "Still, we saw various signs that our clients are prepared to act on significant transactions and we believe that the firm is well positioned to help our clients accomplish their objectives. As longer term U.S. budget issues are resolved, we could see an improvement in corporate and investor sentiment that would help lay the basis for a more sustained recovery." Shares of Goldman are trading lower in the pre-market.¬† Here's an excerpt from the release:¬† NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) today reported net revenues of $6.72¬†billion and net earnings of $1.52¬†billion for the third quarter ended September¬†30,¬†2013. Diluted earnings per common share were $2.88 compared with $2.85 for the third quarter of 2012 and $3.70 for the second quarter of 2013. Annualized return on average common shareholders‚Äô equity (ROE)¬†(1)¬†was 8.1% for the third quarter of 2013 and 10.4% for the first nine months of 2013. Highlights ‚ÄúThe third quarter‚Äôs results reflected a period of slow client activity,‚Äù said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ‚ÄúStill, we saw various signs that our clients are prepared to act on significant transactions and we believe that the firm is well positioned to help our clients accomplish their objectives. As longer term U.S. budget issues are resolved, we could see an improvement in corporate and investor sentiment that would help lay the basis for a more sustained recovery.‚Äù Net Revenues Investment Banking Net revenues in Investment Banking were $1.17¬†billion, essentially unchanged compared with the third quarter of 2012 and 25% lower than the second quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $423¬†million, 17% lower than the third quarter of 2012, reflecting a decrease in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in the firm‚Äôs Underwriting business were $743¬†million, 13% higher than the third quarter of 2012. This increase reflected significantly higher net revenues in equity underwriting, primarily due to higher net revenues from initial public offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were essentially unchanged compared with the third quarter of 2012. The firm‚Äôs investment banking transaction backlog increased significantly compared with the end of the second quarter of 2013.¬†(7) Institutional Client Services Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $2.86¬†billion, 32% lower than the third quarter of 2012 and 34% lower than the second quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $1.25¬†billion, 44% lower than the third quarter of 2012, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and interest rate products, as well as in currencies. In addition, net revenues in credit products were lower, while net revenues in commodities were higher compared with the third quarter of 2012. During the third quarter of 2013, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging environment, which was characterized by economic uncertainty, difficult market-making conditions in certain businesses and lower levels of activity. Net revenues in Equities were $1.62¬†billion, 18% lower than the third quarter of 2012, primarily due to the sale of the firm‚Äôs Americas reinsurance business¬†(8). Net revenues in equities client execution (excluding net revenues from the firm‚Äôs Americas reinsurance business) and commissions and fees were both essentially unchanged compared with the third quarter of 2012. In addition, securities services net revenues were lower compared with the third quarter of 2012, primarily due to the sale of the firm‚Äôs hedge fund administration business in 2012. Although global equity prices increased during the quarter, Equities operated in an environment characterized by lower levels of activity and volatility. The net loss attributable to the impact of changes in the firm‚Äôs own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $72¬†million ($47¬†million and $25¬†million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the third quarter of 2013, compared with a net loss of $370¬†million ($225¬†million and $145¬†million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the third quarter of 2012. Investing &amp; Lending Net revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $1.48¬†billion for the third quarter of 2013. Results for the third quarter of 2013 included net gains of $938¬†million from investments in equities, primarily in private equities, driven by strong corporate performance and company-specific events. In addition, Investing &amp; Lending net revenues included net interest income and net gains of $300¬†million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $237¬†million related to the firm‚Äôs consolidated investments. Investment Management Net revenues in Investment Management were $1.22¬†billion, 2% higher than the third quarter of 2012 and 9% lower than the second quarter of 2013. The increase in net revenues compared with the third quarter of 2012 reflected higher management and other fees, primarily due to higher average assets under supervision and favorable changes in the mix of assets under supervision, partially offset by lower transaction revenues. During the quarter, total assets under supervision¬†(3)¬†increased $36¬†billion to $991¬†billion. Long-term assets under supervision¬†(3)increased $35¬†billion, reflecting market appreciation of $19¬†billion, primarily in equity assets, and net inflows of $16¬†billion, primarily in fixed income assets. In addition, liquidity products¬†(3)¬†increased $1¬†billion. Expenses Operating expenses were $4.56¬†billion, 25% lower than the third quarter of 2012 and 24% lower than the second quarter of 2013. Compensation and Benefits The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, estimated year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) was $2.38¬†billion for the third quarter of 2013, 35% lower than the third quarter of 2012. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first nine months of 2013 was 41.0%, compared with 43.0% for the first six months of 2013 and 44.0% for the first nine months of 2012. Total staff¬†(9)¬†increased 3% compared with the end of the second quarter of 2013. Non-Compensation Expenses Non-compensation expenses were $2.17¬†billion, 9% lower than the third quarter of 2012 and 4% lower than the second quarter of 2013. The decrease compared with the third quarter of 2012 included a decline in insurance reserves, reflecting the sale of the firm‚Äôs Americas reinsurance business, and lower depreciation and amortization expense, primarily reflecting lower expenses related to consolidated investments. These decreases were partially offset by increased net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings and higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees. The third quarter of 2013 included net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of $142¬†million. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for the first nine months of 2013 was 30.3%, essentially unchanged compared with 30.4% for the first half of 2013. Capital As of September¬†30,¬†2013, total capital was $245.70¬†billion, consisting of $77.62¬†billion in total shareholders‚Äô equity (common shareholders‚Äô equity of $70.42¬†billion and preferred stock of $7.20¬†billion) and $168.08¬†billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. Book value per common share was $153.58 and tangible book value per common share¬†(10)¬†was $143.86, both approximately 2% higher compared with the end of the second quarter of 2013. Book value and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 458.5¬†million as of September¬†30,¬†2013. During the quarter, the firm repurchased 10.2¬†million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $161.59, for a total cost of $1.65¬†billion. The remaining share authorization under the firm‚Äôs existing repurchase program is 65.7¬†million shares.¬†(11) On October¬†1,¬†2013, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Berkshire Hathaway) exercised in full their warrant to purchase shares of the firm‚Äôs common stock. The warrant agreement required net share settlement and the firm delivered 13.1¬†million shares of common stock to Berkshire Hathaway on October¬†4,¬†2013. The impact to both the firm‚Äôs book value per common share and tangible book value per common share was a reduction of approximately 3% in October. Under the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank holding companies, the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 capital ratio¬†(6)¬†was 16.3%¬†(5)¬†and the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 common ratio¬†(6)¬†was 14.2%¬†(5)¬†as of September¬†30,¬†2013, up from 15.6% and 13.5%, respectively, as of June¬†30,¬†2013 (in each case under Basel¬†1 and reflecting the revised market risk regulatory capital requirements which became effective on January¬†1,¬†2013). Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics Dividends The Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. increased the firm‚Äôs quarterly dividend to $0.55 per common share from $0.50 per common share. The dividend will be paid on December¬†30,¬†2013 to common shareholders of record on December¬†2,¬†2013. The firm also declared dividends of $239.58, $387.50, $255.56, $255.56, $371.88 and $343.75 per share of Series¬†A Preferred Stock, Series¬†B Preferred Stock, Series¬†C Preferred Stock, Series¬†D Preferred Stock, Series¬†I Preferred Stock and Series¬†J Preferred Stock, respectively (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock), to be paid on November¬†12,¬†2013 to preferred shareholders of record on October¬†28,¬†2013. In addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,000.00 per each share of Series¬†E Preferred Stock and Series¬†F Preferred Stock, to be paid on December¬†2,¬†2013 to preferred shareholders of record on November¬†17,¬†2013. ______________ The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains ‚Äúforward-looking statements‚Äù within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the firm‚Äôs beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the firm‚Äôs control. It is possible that the firm‚Äôs actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and important factors that could affect the firm‚Äôs future results and financial condition, see ‚ÄúRisk Factors‚Äù in Part¬†I, Item¬†1A of the firm‚Äôs Annual Report on Form¬†10-K for the year ended December¬†31,¬†2012. Certain of the information regarding the firm‚Äôs capital ratios, risk-weighted assets, total assets, level¬†3 assets and global core excess liquidity consist of preliminary estimates. These estimates are forward-looking statements and are subject to change, possibly materially, as the firm completes its financial statements. Statements about the firm‚Äôs investment banking transaction backlog also may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that the firm actually earns from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect the firm‚Äôs investment banking transactions, see ‚ÄúRisk Factors‚Äù in Part¬†I, Item¬†1A of the firm‚Äôs Annual Report on Form¬†10-K for the year ended December¬†31,¬†2012. Refresh this page for updates.¬†
U.S. House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) (C) walks to the House floor for a vote on fiscal legislation to end the government shutdown, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 16, 2013.REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
APThe supposedly fiscally responsible Rep. Paul Ryan, who just voted for default.After a disgraceful 16-day government shutdown in which many members of Congress threatened to force the United States of America to default on its obligations, a short-term deal has finally been cut. It's not a long-term deal, of course. In fact, it's not even a medium-term deal. It's a two or three-month deal. Which means that the Congress-people elected to lead our country will once again soon be in their favorite position in the world: in front of TV cameras grandstanding about how "the opposition" is destroying the country and demanding that everyone kowtow to their every demand. But we're getting ahead of ourselves. Last night, the House of Representatives passed the bill that temporarily re-opened the government and avoided (or at least postponed) a voluntary national default. Any responsible leader who put the country's interests ahead of his or her own political career would obviously have voted to support this bill. After a needless 16-day shutdown and high-volume threats, the best deal possible had been cut, and it would have been the height of irresponsibility and selfishness to actually send the U.S. into default. And 285 members of the House did, in fact, vote to pass the bill ‚Äî which is why it passed. These "yea" voters included all of the Democrats in the House and some of the Republicans. Today, America should send a big "thank you" to all of these folks. They put the country's interests first, just the way any responsible leader should. But 144 members of the house did not vote to pass this bill. On the contrary ... they voted to reject it. In other words, as Dan Alpert of Westwood Capital observed this morning, 144 people elected to represent this country in Washington voted to keep the government closed and send the United States into default. All of these 144 people are Republicans. One of them, Paul Ryan, who was recently a candidate to be Vice President of the country, has a reputation for being fiscally responsible, on account of some budget ideas he has put forward in recent years. Ryan's vote to send the U.S. into default should delete this reputation for fiscal responsibility once and for all. Here are the members of the House who voted to send the U.S. into default. Click for a larger view and to also see all of the 285 responsible leaders who did the right thing. House Of Representatives
REUTERS/David GrayA stone craftsman drills a large rock before it is sculpted into a statue in what is called the 'sculpture zone' in the town of Dangcheng in Hebei Province, located around 150 km south of Beijing, January 16, 2008. China's credit rating agency Dagong has downgraded the U.S. rating from A to A-. "[T]he fundamental situation that the debt growth rate significantly¬† outpaces that of fiscal income and GDP remains unchanged," they warned after President Obama signed a deal to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. "For a long time the U.S. government maintains¬† its solvency by repaying its old debts through raising new debts, which constantly aggravates the¬† vulnerability of the federal government‚Äôs solvency. Hence the government is still approaching the verge of default crisis, a situation that cannot be substantially alleviated in the foreseeable future." Dagong is not recognized by the SEC, and it does not have the influence of the big three: S&amp;P, Moody's, and Fitch. Not many people outside of China really follow Dagong. Still, the downgrade appears to reflect China's deteriorating sentiment toward U.S. governance. Earlier this week, an China's Xinhua published an op-ed calling for a "De-Americanized" world. From Dagong's press release: On October 16, 2013 EST, the U.S. Congress approves the resolution to end the partial government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. By such means the U.S. Federal Government can avoid the default crisis for the moment. However the fundamental situation that the debt growth rate significantly outpaces that of fiscal income and GDP remains unchanged. For a long time the U.S. government maintains its solvency by repaying its old debts through raising new debts, which constantly aggravates the vulnerability of the federal government‚Äôs solvency. Hence the government is still approaching the verge of default crisis, a situation that cannot be substantially alleviated in the foreseeable future. In light of these facts, Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‚ÄúDagong‚Äù) decides to downgrade the local and foreign currency credit ratings of the U. S., which has already been on the negative watch list, to A- from A, maintaining a negative outlook. The rationale that supports the conclusion is as follows: ¬†1. The partial U.S. federal government shutdown apparently highlights the deterioration of the government‚Äôs solvency, pushing the sovereign debts into a crisis status. The U.S. federal government announced its shutdown on Oct. 1, 2013, a radical event that reflects the liquidity shortage aroused by depleting stock of debts without the increase of new debts, directly resulting in the federal government lack of the funds for its normal function. The partial U.S. government shutdown is an inevitable outcome of its long-term failure to pay its excessive debts. During the fiscal years from 2008 to 2012, the ratio of the federal government‚Äôs stock of debts to fiscal income increased from 4.0 to 6.6. Under such circumstances, the federal government that can hardly sustain its own expenses, not mentioning collecting reliable income to cover its huge amount of debts. Substantial decrease of the U.S. government‚Äôs solvency is proven by this shutdown incident, which pushes the federal government into a crisis position of debt cliff and default. ¬†2. Since the outbreak of the U.S. debt crisis in 2008, the deviation between the federal government's sources of debt repayments and the country‚Äôs real wealth creation capacity has been constantly broadened. The huge amount of government debts that lack the basis of repayment always stands on the brink of default, and this situation is difficult to change in the long term. The federal government debt stock increased by 60.7% between 2008 and 2012 when the nominal GDP increased by only 8.5% while the fiscal income decreased by 2.9%, which indicates that fiscal income is losing its means as the primary source of debt repayments. Because of the fact that the federal government now depends highly on¬† borrowing new debts to repay its old ones, vulnerability of its debt chain is accumulated so that technically debt default may occur at any time. For the fundamentals of government debt repayment condition will not be essentially improved, the federal government's debt cliff will persist in the long term.¬† 3. Liquidity has been continuously injected into international financial markets from the U.S., which indirectly plays a key role in combating against the risk of government default. This implicit debt default behavior infringes upon the benefits of creditors. In order to avoid the debt default caused by the lack of debt repayment sources such as fiscal incomes, the U.S. government has been taking advantage of the international currency dominance of the U.S. dollar to monetize its debts and has been taking quantitative easing monetary policy to maintain its government solvency since 2008. The devaluation of the stock of debts hereby directly damages the creditors‚Äô interests. Dagong estimates that the depreciation of the U.S. dollar caused a loss of USD628.5bn on foreign creditors over the years of 2008 to 2012. 4. The debt ceiling has been extended continually, increasing the total amount of the federal government debts. In order to avoid the sovereign debt default, it becomes an inevitable choice for the U.S. government to repay its old debts through raising new debts. The fact that the debts grow faster than the fiscal incomes will further impair the federal government‚Äôs solvency. Ever since Obama‚Äôs  inauguration in 2009, the U.S. Congress has extended the debt ceiling for five times, reaching a total volume of USD5.1tn. This further raise of the debt ceiling shows the government‚Äôs incapability of improving its solvency by improving the basic economic and fiscal elements. 5. The Democrats and the Republicans of U.S. do not have a consistent strategy target to solving the sovereign debt problem. As the issue of paying sovereign debts falls into a tool that the parties make use of to realize their own interests, the political environment is unfavorable for eliminating the risk of its sovereign debt default in the long term. The recurrence of the bi-partisan conflict over debt ceiling once again reveals the U.S. superstructure‚Äôs incapacity to solve national debt crisis. A debt crisis evolves into a political crisis, which in turn exacerbates the debt crisis. Such political  environment over debt repayment renders the dim and pale prospect of the U.S. federal government‚Äôs solvency.
One of the more irksome consequences of the government shutdown has been the dearth of economic data releases. Postponed during the shutdown, data like Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly job report will presumably become available once the government is up and running.¬† Reports where the data should have been collected during the shutdown might go unreported (or, if reported, they could be unreliable). "When an agreement is ultimately reached, market participants could get an avalanche of data releases," said Deutsche Bank's Brett Ryan during the shutdown. Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted that we could soon get the¬† "the mother of all data release days." As we wait to get some more clarity in terms of a schedule, here's a rundown of some of the economic data (with analyst commentary) that we missed. Hopefully we can expect it in the coming days and weeks:
Hard to believe, right? Obviously there is friction in shorting equities of certain countries and the "actual returns may vary". Nevertheless this is telling us that currencies drive equity returns for many nations. The explanation seems to be tied to exports. Exporters' shares and firms that support them, such as developers, raw materials firms, banks, etc.† perform better when a nation's currency is weak. The opposite holds true as well - strong currencies make exports more expensive, creating drag on revenue. This simple strategy therefore points to the rationale for "currency wars". Want a stronger stock market in the next few months, weaken your currency. You may end up with other problems, such as inflation, but the stock market should do well. Take India for example. After the rupee took a massive beating this summer (see post), inflation has picked up and the economy has slowed. †Econoday via Sober Look Yet SENSEX, the broadly watched stock market index, is now at a 3-year high.
Gold prices are up and the dollar is down. Currently, gold is trading at $1,304 per ounce, up $21 or 1.7% today.¬† Prices got as high as $1,320 earlier today. The move comes in the wake of Washington's deal to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. S&amp;P estimates that the shutdown took $24 billion out of the economy. With elevated uncertainty pressuring the economy, many economists expect the Federal Reserve to keep monetary policy easy via its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. Bloomberg.com
Twitter(Reuters) - Twitter Inc has hired an advertising executive from Google Inc to head its retail division, as the online messaging company ramps up hiring and works to expand its business ahead of an initial public offering, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday. J.J. Hirschle, who directed media and entertainment advertising at Google, will be responsible for the team selling advertising products to retail companies, the agency said, citing¬†Will Stickney, a spokesman for Twitter. Hirschle is to start on October 28, the same day Twitter is expected to kick off its investor roadshow where it will pitch its offering to Wall Street before shares start trading in mid-November. Since Twitter was spun out of a struggling¬†San Francisco¬†startup in 2006, it has grown to about 2,300 employees as of September. Twitter could not immediately be reached for comment by Reuters outside of regular U.S. business hours. (Reporting By Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane)
Brendan Smialowski/AFPChina on Thursday welcomed the resolution of the US debt ceiling deadlock, saying it will contribute to global economic stability. "The US is the largest economy in the world and the proper resolution of this issue serves not only its own interest but also world economic stability and development," foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in a regular press briefing. "We welcome the progress in resolving the issue." Her comments came after China's official news agency Xinhua said in a bylined commentary that US politicians had held the rest of the world hostage in the crisis. The bylined English-language commentary was released barely an hour after President Barack Obama signed the deal ending the federal government shutdown and raising the limit on Washington's borrowing. "The founding fathers of the United States of America created Congress for the sake of balance of power," it said. "They would turn in their graves if they saw their design being kidnapped for political brinkmanship. "Although they clearly knew the dire consequences of a default on the US economy and the rest of the world, the Democrats and Republicans played brinkmanship into the final moment for the sake of partisan interests." The government shutdown, the narrowly-averted threat of default and the horse-trading surrounding the situation showed that "Congress itself has become the problem", it said. China is a one-party state where the Communist authorities retain an iron grip on power, regularly ruling out any move towards Western-style democratic politics. "With the world economy struggling in crisis, politicians at Capitol Hill seem to be too much engaged in political wrangling to remember their country's responsibilities as the world's largest economy, and, as they say, the world leader in other fields," the Xinhua commentary said. "Brinkmanship of this kind means US domestic politics is holding the whole world hostage." China has the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, most of them held in dollars, and is the largest foreign holder of US Treasury bills, with $1.28 trillion according to the latest available figures from Washington. "The saga in Washington is teaching America's creditors a lesson: US politicians are ready to fight each other at the expense of debt-holders' interests," the commentary said. "US Treasury bonds may no longer be safe investment," it added, advising "domestic or foreign" investors "to make plan B". "At the same time, Uncle Sam is strongly advised to drop this dangerous game of political brinkmanship to win back confidence if it wants to maintain its role as the world leader," it said. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Lesson 1. There will be no default. Disgraceful, divisive Democrats and ridiculed, repugnant Republicans, who share blame equally for this horrendous example of poor governance, are aware that the country must not default. They agree on that. So, no default! Lesson 2. Government must operate. Defense, health care as in CDC flu shots and the control of tuberculosis and salmonella outbreaks are essential services, too. So are the disbursal of disabled veterans' benefits and the provision of public education and a million other things. Enough of this crap. The country has had it with failed governance. If our memories don‚Äôt get hijacked by the issues and diversions that intervene, we are going to be angry next year at the polls and throw out a few Democrats and a few Republicans and replace them. Will we remember? When people think back, will they recall this fall's political debacle ‚Äì or the baseball playoffs? We shall see. Lesson 3. Listening to the political rhetoric from the Senate is enough to make me puke. They made this mess. They haven‚Äôt passed a budget in five years. They set the stage for this debacle two years ago with the Budget Control Act. Now they are claiming credit for resolving a mess they created. Damn. Lesson 4. One Senator who filibustered for 21 hours succumbed to criticism. He also raised an enormous amount of money during his day of fame. He may have put his political party in the hole for next year‚Äôs elections. Time will tell. Senator Ted Cruz, the Tea Party candidate for president, has done a huge disservice to the country and his political party, while serving his own interests. Think about it. The party that sought Obama‚Äôs birth certificate now wants to amend the constitution so a Canadian-born citizen can be president. Do you smell an inconsistency there? Lesson 5. Markets are willing to look across the valley of the shadow of default and see that the fundamental fabric of our great America remains intact. We are still the best place to be on this planet ‚Äì although sometimes we are the least worst. This is our system. We own it. We also own our complacency, because more folks will watch the baseball playoffs than will focus on shenanigans in Washington. Can we get angry and stay angry enough to throw many of these bums out? Time will tell. At Cumberland Advisors, we are fully invested and expect the S&amp;P to cross 1800 before spring. We expect the Fed to put tapering on hold until they see recovery from this setback that Washington created. These are our assumptions. We also expect another round of reprehensible behavior from the miscreants in Congress in the coming months. So be it. That is our American way. Lastly, allow me to share my favorite fantasy with regard to the political madness we just endured. It was that the idiots on the Hill completely failed, and then Social Security payments didn't go out. Then millions of grey panthers stormed congressional offices and got up from their wheel chairs and beat the living ____ out of their congressmen and -women with their canes, in the same way that they beat Congressman Rostenkowski in 1979. I fantasize a 75 year-old‚Äôs breaking a cane over the head of a member of Congress while shouting, ‚ÄúYou are supposed to work for me and you failed me and I have had enough!‚Äù Somehow that is an image that warms the cockles of my heart.¬† We will not see that happen. But we can know that the fear of a backlash is something that motivates these characters we elect to our government. Dems and Repubs, thanks a lot for dragging our nation through this crisis. Shame on you. This time, our American societal and institutional fabric withstood the shock and now moves on. That is what we do.
Goldman Sachs will report earnings at 7:30 a.m. with a conference call to follow at 9:30 a.m. Analysts expect earnings per share to come in at $2.45 and a revenue of $7.2 billion. If the bank meets expectations, it will be its lowest revenue since Q2 2012 ($6.6 billion). If you remember what was †happened in Q2 2012, you'll remember that the Euro crisis had everyone thinking the world was falling apart. That $7.2 billion expected is also $1.2 billion lower than Q3 2012 ó so what gives? So far, with the exception of Bank of America, all the Wall Street banks that have reported earnings so far this season have gotten spanked ó JP Morgan, Citi, Wells Fargo, everyone. The two businesses that have shown the most weakness for all of them have been mortgage origination and fixed-income trading (if they have both, if not either/or). For Goldman analysts won't be worried about mortgage origination ó they'll be looking to see how the bank's trading desks hold up in the midst of this routing. Stay tuned.
TheeErin / FlickrAs expected, Congress passed and President Obama signed a deal to end the government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. While the deal is a relief, it appears largely priced into the markets, which are mostly down around the world. Britain's FTSE is down 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is is down 0.2%. Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. Italy's FTSE MIB is is down 0.4%% Spain's IBEX is is down 0.2%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.8%. Meanwhile U.S. futures are down slightly. It's worth noting that the deal only delayed problems rather than ending them. "In testimony to the efficiency of the US government, the Congress avoided a default with hours to spare (well, more than one hour to spare)," said UBS's Paul Donovan. "There was the dull clunk of the can hitting the road sometime in January (shutdown) or February (debt ceiling) but we must not expect too much."
C-SPANThe House vote on the bill. The budget battles of the fall of 2013 have come to an end.† President Barack Obama early Thursday morning signed a bill that opens the government and raises the nation's $16.7 trillion borrowing limit, putting an end to a 16-day federal government shutdown and ending the threat of a potential default on U.S. obligations. The House of Representatives voted late Wednesday night to pass the bill by a 285-144 vote. Eighty-seven Republicans joined 198 Democrats in voting for the bill in the House. All 144 "no" votes were from Republicans. Earlier, the Senate passed the bill by an overwhelming 81-18 margin. All 18 "no" votes came from Republicans, while 27 Republicans voted for the bill. Office of Management and Budget Director Sylvia Burwell said in a statement after the bill had passed both chambers that federal employees "should expect to return to work in the morning." "This has been a particularly challenging time for Federal employees, and I want to thank our nationís dedicated civil servants for their continued commitment to serving the American people," Burwell said. The bill was the result of an 11th-hour deal brokered by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell earlier Wednesday. It funds the government through Jan. 1 and suspends the nation's debt limit†through Feb. 7. (For the†full text of the bill, see here.) "Letís be honest: This was pain inflicted on our nation for no good reason, and we cannot make the same mistake again," Reid said after the Senate vote. It also includes a measure of income verification for those receiving subsidies under the Affordable Care Act. In short, the Secretary of Human Health Services will submit a report no later than Jan. 1 detailing the verification process. The department's inspector general will submit to Congress no later than July a report on the effectiveness of those procedures. House Speaker John Boehner let the bill come to the House floor and pass with mostly Democratic votes.† Obama delivered a statement from the White House Wednesday night after the Senate completed its vote, hailing leaders from both parties for reaching the agreement.† "Hopefully next time it won't be in the 11th hour," Obama said in very brief remarks from the White House briefing room. "We've got to stop governing by crisis." The bill's final passage ended months of back-and-forth squabbling between the two parties, which first focused on conservatives' wish to defund the Affordable Care Act through the continuing resolution to keep the government funded. In late September, Boehner went along with a plan backed by Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Mike Lee (R-Utah), and the House initially passed a continuing resolution that stripped funding for Obamacare. This led to legislative ping-ponging between the House and Senate ahead of the Sept. 30 deadline to keep the government funded. Ultimately, the two chambers couldn't agree on a deal, and the federal government entered into its first shutdown in 17 years.† It lasted 16 days. Ultimately, the fight over the debt ceiling worked its way into the shutdown battle. Late last week, the two sides began discussing a deal that would resolve the two issues, but they couldn't agree over the weekend.† House leadership decided on Tuesday to move its own bill. That plan ended in disaster, as leadership couldn't amass enough GOP votes for the measure to pass†after House conservatives revolted against the measure. That led to an immediate resumption of talks between Reid and McConnell, who announced the final deal at noon on the Senate floor Wednesday.†
