APRep. Alan GraysonRep. Alan Grayson (D-Fla.) lost $18 million in an investment fraud scheme that cheated him and other investors out of approximately $35 million, the Associated Press reports. A spokesperson for Grayson confirmed Grayson was a victim of the scheme late Monday night. William Dean Chapman, the Virginia man who was at the head of the scheme, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for the scheme.¬† The AP details how it worked (or was supposed to): The scheme worked like this: clients would turn over their stocks to Chapman as collateral for a loan, and Chapman would let customers borrow about 90 percent of the stocks' value. If the stocks did badly, borrowers could walk away and keep the money they were loaned. But if the borrowers' stocks did well, they would repay the loan with interest, and Chapman was supposed to return the stocks to the investor at their increased value. But, according to court papers, Chapman sold the stocks and had no way to fulfill his obligations if a client's stock portfolio did well. Grayson's spokesperson explained how he fell victim: "It's my understanding that the congressman's investment portfolio performed exceedingly well. But when it came time for the defendant to pay what the congressman had earned, he didn't. He had sold the Congressman's collateral without his permission, and then because he had sold it, it wasn't there to return to the congressman when his loans matured.The defendant's lawyers tried to claim that was the spectacular performance of Grayson's stocks that rendered him unable uphold his financial obligations to his clients, but prosecutors found that he was using the money to fund his own expenses." Court papers reviewed by Business Insider indicate no wrongdoing on Grayson's part, signaling that he was an unknowing victim of the scheme. This isn't the first time that Grayson has fallen victim to a fraud scheme. In 2009, he won¬†a $34 million judgment against a company called¬†Derivium Capital, which ran a version of a Ponzi scheme against him and other investors. Grayson is consistently among the Top 25 wealthiest members of Congress, ranking 21st on this year's list from Roll Call.¬†
CNBCThomas LeeInvestors won't be bothered by a Fed taper even if it starts this month, and they're optimistic about 2014 for stocks, JPMorgan's chief U.S. equity strategist told CNBC on Monday. Good news on November jobs turned out to be good news for stocks on Friday as the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&amp;P 500 Index powered higher and closed above their psychologically important levels of 16,000 and 1,800, respectively. But they still did have a losing week for the first time in nine weeks. (Read more: Now where do stocks go? Here's a hint: Ho ho ho) In a "Squawk Box" interview, JPM's Thomas Lee said Friday's jobs numbers increased the probability that the Federal Reserve could start tapering its $85 billion monthly quantitative easing bond purchases at its meeting next week. "I think a few weeks ago investors would have been pretty concerned about the idea of [a December] taper because the data didn't really give them comfort that the economy was at escape velocity," he said. But "with Friday's jobs report and some of the other ones we've had recently, you know I think investors are getting comfortable if it does happen in December." Still, he said January seems like a better bet for tapering because there will be several more economic reports released, including the December jobs report and numbers on how the holiday shopping season finishedóboth of which could give the Fed a better idea if the economy is ready. (Read more: Economists a bit more upbeat about 2014 forecast) As for which stocks look good, Lee said, "I think what's been working since May still kind of works into year-end and that means really wanting investors to be cyclical." He also continues to like large cap technology stocks as well as financials. Bullish since 2009, Lee increased his year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 to at least 1,805óa level exceed on Friday. For the year, the S&amp;P has risen by more than 26 percent as of Friday's close, while the Dow has gained more than 22 percent.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingIn mid-November, Warren Buffett met with 20 MBA students from eight universities. On his blog, University of Maryland business school professor David Kass has published notes from that meeting. One student asked Buffett about his investment in Goldman Sachs that he made during the pit of the financial crisis. In answering the question, Buffett vividly set the scene of the crisis, describing an economy that was truly teetering on the brink. ¬†And in setting that scene Buffett heaped gigantic praise on George W. Bush, which we've highlighted in red: Money market funds held a lot of Lehman paper. It happened overnight, 30+ million Americans who believed money markets were safe, and then Lehman fails. This caused a major money market fund to ‚Äúbreak the buck‚Äù and lose value. It became a great silent electronic run on money markets. There was $3 1/2 trillion in money market funds and $175 billion of funds flowed out in the first three days after Lehman failed. All money market funds held commercial paper. Companies like GE had a lot of commercial paper. After this, American industry literally stopped. George Bush said, ‚ÄúIf money doesn‚Äôt loosen up, this sucker will go down‚Äù ‚Äì I believe this was the greatest economic statement of all time. This is why he backed up Paulson and Bernanke. Companies were counting on the commercial paper market. In September 2008, we came right to the abyss. If Paulson and Bernanke had not intervened, in two more days it would have been all over. BRK always has $20 billion or more in cash. It sounds crazy, never need anything like it, but some day in the next 100 years when the world stops again, we will be ready. There will be some incident, it could be tomorrow. At that time, you need cash. Cash at that time is like oxygen. We can only surmise exactly why Buffett found Bush's words so powerful, but it's the combination of understanding that the answer to the crisis was looser money and the understanding of the stakes ‚Äî that it could have all totally collapsed. And incidentally, the insight embedded in Bush's statement isn't limited to times of crisis. Loosening the money supply is one of the most powerful ways to spur investment and make the economy thrive. Even in our current economy, the Fed's big frustration is that it hasn't been able to get money loose enough. Read the full notes here ¬ª (Via @davidschawel)
"Demand on resources will be great, as each person requires a huge supply of resources throughout his or her lifetime," notes commodities guru Frank Holmes. This is an important consideration for commodities investors, especially as China begins to loosen its one-child policy. "Consider that in the U.S., over the course of a lifetime, each person needs 72,556 gallons of petroleum, 6.63 million cubic feet of natural gas, 978 pounds of copper, and 27,416 pounds of iron ore, according to the Minerals Education Coalition. Even though China currently uses fewer resources per capita compared to developed countries, the nation is quickly catching up to developed world levels." Here's a cute diagram from US Funds listing all of the stuff that gets consumed to support each American born today. US Funds
One of the key characteristics of the recent slump has been the great "deleveraging" has households have drastically shed debt. Well that's over. The latest Flow Of Funds report from the Fed came out today. That report gives a quarterly update on what's happening with debt and asset flows in the economy. And what's clear is that the household sector is adding debt again. This chart (via Matt Busigin) shows the quarterly increase in household debt. It's exploding higher. Deleveraging over. FRED
Flickr/Lindsey TurnerPayrolls keep growing. Economic data stays positive. The stock market makes new highs. It‚Äôs been consistent for nearly five years. And so has the pessimism. In fact, the pouting pundits of pessimism get more determined each month, trying to prove that things are really bad out there. We really do tip our hats to those who dive deeply into the details of job reports ‚Äî even though they don‚Äôt really understand the data ‚Äî to find that one nugget of negative information that will boost hits on their webpages and get them retweeted. For example, the jobs report on Friday was one of the best of the last few years, with nonfarm payrolls up 203,000, while wages rose, total hours worked increased 0.5%, and the unemployment rate finally sank to 7%. Nonetheless, after digging through every line of the report, some pessimists found their talking point. Guess what? A whopping 41% of the job gains in November were from government. They didn‚Äôt exactly lie, but the data point is misleading and meaningless. The number came from the Household Survey‚Äôs civilian employment data ‚Äî a separate survey with a much smaller sample size than the payroll survey. This data said the U.S. gained 818,000 jobs in November and that 338,000 of them were government jobs ‚Äî voil√†, 41%. But, there was a partial government shutdown in October. That shutdown did not affect the payroll survey but did affect the household survey, which is timed differently. So, the data needs to be looked at over two months, not one. In October, overall civilian employment fell 735,000 with a 507,000 drop in government jobs. Looking at the two months together shows that total employment was up 83,000 while government jobs were¬†down¬†169,000. In other words, the trend in government jobs continues to be down, including a drop of 534,000 in the past year according to the household survey. Several months ago, these same pundits invented another Black Swan-style crisis when they claimed part-time jobs were dominating any job gains the U.S. was experiencing. Have you ever wondered why you don‚Äôt hear that theory anymore? Because part-time jobs have plummeted in the past four months and are now lower than they were last year even as total jobs are up. These politically motivated scare tactics are getting very annoying. We spend lots of time chasing down, and proving wrong, these erroneous claims. Worried investors should be spending more time finding opportunity. We are not saying the labor market is perfect. The U.S. should be gaining 350,000 jobs per month. But the monthly reports are relevant because they tell us about the direction of the economy, and that is clearly Plow Horse positive. Another recent gripe is that economic growth in Q3 was all due to inventories. It‚Äôs true the upward¬†revision¬†of real GDP growth to a 3.6% annual rate was due to inventories. But real GDP was still up at a 2% rate even without inventories, the same Plow Horse trend of the past few years. And, in spite of Keynesians fears that the partial government shutdown and Sequester were supposed to hurt the economy, the data once again prove that John Maynard had it wrong. On Friday, it was reported that real (inflation-adjusted) consumer spending grew at a 3.8% annual rate in October, the fastest pace for any month so far this year. And for November, look out above. Automakers reported they sold cars and light trucks at the fastest pace since 2007, so it looks like November is going to be another solid month for consumer spending, once again destroying the theory that the fiscal cliff deal, or the Sequester, or the shutdown was going to kill the consumer. We expect further solid job reports in the months ahead, showing continued improvement in the labor market. Rest assured, however, that after each report someone, somewhere, will find a way to twist the numbers until they scream. They won‚Äôt outright lie with the data, but they will send many investors off on a wild goose chase looking for a recession that doesn‚Äôt exist.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Barry Ritholtz Explains Why Hedge Funds Have Had Lousy Performance (Bloomberg)  The hedge fund industry looks set to have its worst annual performance since 2005, writes Barry Ritholtz in a Bloomberg column. In 2013, through November, hedge funds have returned 7.1%, compared with 29.1% for the S&amp;P 500 index. There are five key reasons hedge funds underperform, according to Ritholtz. 1. Industry size ‚Äî The hedge fund industry has ballooned and "there is just not enough All-Star quality talent to go around." Also, "there are not enough market inefficiencies to be identified and exploited," since the industry grew. 2. Fund size ‚Äî "Increased assets under management typically leads to weaker performance." 3. Hedge funds are unhedged ‚Äî "They are perhaps better described as highly leveraged active trading vehicles." 4. High fees ‚Äî "Studies of mutual funds have shown that even when all other things are not equal, investors are better off with the cheaper fee fund. High fees compounded over time degrade performance as well."¬† 5. There isn't a normal distribution of Alpha ‚Äî The data distributions aren't along a smooth bell curve, instead, "a handful of large outliers typically trounce the rest of the industry numbers." The Top 5 Fund Families Recommended By Advisors (FA Mag) Phoenix Marketing International asked 1,318 advisors for the brand of funds they would recommend over the next six months. Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs), picked Vanguard, while broker-dealer reps named American Funds their top picks, reports Michael S. Fischer and the ThinkAdvisor staff.¬† RIAs rounded off their top five with iShares, PIMCO, PowerShares, and BlackRock. In comparison, independent broker-dealers picked Franklin Templeton, BlackRock, PIMCO, and iShares to round off their top five. Some think the survey results reflect the fee structure for each advisor affiliation.¬†  Policy Divergence Will Play An Important Role In Asset Allocation In 2014 (Barclays)  There weren't too many asset-allocation opportunities for policy divergence in 2013, even if that theme got a lot of attention, writes Barclays' Jim McCormick and his team. "We see a reasonably strong case for policy divergence to play a more important role in asset allocation in 2014," McCormnick writes. "Over the course of the next year, we expect the Fed fully to withdraw from QE and markets to bring forward expectations for a first Fed rate hike to mid-2015. Markets appear broadly acclimated to this outlook as well. Against this, we expect further easing by the ECB via a VLTRO, with the possibility of another rate cut if inflation falls further. In Japan, we expect the BOJ to extend its QQE policy to the end of 2015, bringing its balance sheet to 70% of GDP, with risks tilted toward even more aggressive policy easing." With that in mind, McCormick recommends being underweight U.S. core fixed income, against core Europe. The dollar should strengthen against the yen and the euro, but a significant recovery probably won't materialize until later in the year. McCromick also favors stock markets outside the U.S. "The macro and valuation picture looks better for other equity markets, especially in Europe, EM and possibly Japan." We're About To See A Flood Of 'Pent-Up' Cash Hit The Stock Market (Deutsche Bank)  Short bets against the stock market have increased since the Fed began considering tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program in May. Flows into long-term investment funds stopped and cash began to accumulate in money market funds.¬† "Many equity investors are worried given the 27% rally YTD, but we estimate that an incremental $169 billion in pent-up cash and short interest due to taper fears is likely to make its way into equities in the next 3-4 months," writes Deutsche Bank strategist Keith Parker in a note to clients. "Indeed, the [first-half-of-the-year] pattern since 2009 has seen cash move out of money markets and into bonds and equities." Here Are Blackrock's Key Themes For 2014 (BlackRock)  BlackRock has identified 10 key themes for 2014. 1. Interest rates will tick higher but not go through the roof. 2. Inflation is expected to remain low for the next year and the risk is to the downside. 3. The economy will grow, but slowly. 4. There is job growth, but wages aren't growing. 5. More policy uncertainty will mean more volatility.¬† In light of this, they say investors should do five things. 1. Stick with stocks "for now." 2. Find growth opportunities outside of the U.S. 3. There aren't too many bargains in "traditional" bonds. 4. Consider the muni market for tax-exempt income. 5. Stocks aren't cheap and bonds and cash "don't offer compelling value." So investors should go beyond these two asset classes and consider diversifying into alternatives like physical real estate and infrastructure investments.
REUTERS/David RyderA protest sign is pictured during a rally to raise the hourly minimum wage to $15 for fast-food workers at City Hall in Seattle, Washington December 5, 2013.Democratic support is building to raise the minimum wage, but it faces strident opposition from Republicans arguing that requiring companies to pay their workers more will hurt employment. But there is a different way that the government could ensure workers receive fare wages without forcing companies to raise them: wage subsidies. The government would provide low-income borrowers with a supplement to their wages. For instance, we could ensure all workers receive a wage of $10/hour by providing workers with a $2.75 subsidy/hour.¬† This would have the same wage effect on workers as if Congress raised the minimum wage without the potential negative employment effects that worry Republicans. Company expenses won't change. The government would shoulder the cost. However, wage subsidies do not replace the minimum wage. On the contrary, they are a complement to each other since the biggest concern with wage subsidies is that businesses will cut employee wages and let the government pick up the slack. The minimum wage mitigates this risk, although it does not eliminate it entirely. In addition, like the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), wage subsidies promote work. The EITC is a refundable tax credit available to working families. Wage subsidies would work in a similar way as only workers would benefit from them. In fact, while many economists are big proponents of the EITC, economist Noah Smith argues that wage subsidies are actually better than the EITC. "For one, they are automatic - poor people don't have to take the time and initiative and mental energy to go claim them," he writes on his blog Noahpinion. "Second, they will probably make people feel more valuable, since people tend to view wages as money they "earn". From the worker's perspective, it will just look like wages went up." Smith even goes so far to suggest that wage subsidies could replace the EITC entirely, coupled with some other form of welfare (he suggests a guaranteed basic income) to help out the unemployed. The cost of such a program would vary depending on how comprehensive it is. If we gave all 240 million workers in the U.S. a $3/hour subsidy (U.S. workers work around 1790 hours a year), the program would cost north of a trillion dollars. But that can be means-tested as well so that benefits phase out and the reduce the costs considerably. The Census Bureau reports that there are 141 million working Americans with incomes less than $40,000. A $1.50 subsidy to each of them (combined with raising the minimum wage to $8.50 and indexing it to inflation, as Jim Pethokoukis suggests) would cost almost $400 billion a year. That's still a considerable amount.¬†In comparison, the EITC costs $60 billion a year. Noah Smith suggests a land tax for additional funding. A carbon tax could raise $100 billion as well. The higher incomes would also reduce the costs of other welfare programs as people move up the income ladder, but those effects are tougher to quantify. There's no doubt wage subsidies would increase the size of government, but they would provide millions of working Americans with a livable income without further distorting the labor market and without disincentivizing work. That's a powerful combination.
Josef Joffe, a professor at Stanford and editor of the German weekly magazine Die Zeit, turns this mindset on its head in his new book: The Myth of America's Decline." It's a cyclical phenomenon," Joffe says of the predictions of America's decline. But just as "declinists" were wrong about Russia in the 1950s and Japan in the 1980s, current forecasts about America playing second fiddle to China will also prove wrong, he says. Related: U.S. Economy Will Trump China's in 2014 "All the Asian dragons and tigers started out at double-digit speed, then came down like Japan to nothing, or South Korea to 4%" growth, Joffe notes. "The [export-driven] model runs out of steam" because it's based on investment at the cost of consumption, and features too much state interference leading to over-investment in certain sectors, leading to declining marginal returns, he explains. "That is already happening to China," he adds, noting that West Germany went through a similar experience after its initial post-war boom. In addition to overstating the power of its rivals, Joffe says America's naysayers also underestimate our attributes, most notably: Bring Us Your Tired and Poor: Immigration has been a hot-button issue throughout America's history, yet we continue to attract and absorb millions of people from around the world. The influx of immigrants helps keep America young -- certainly younger than rivals like Japan and Russia -- and provides "brute dynamism" to the U.S. economy that is unmatched globally, he says. "The Europeans, Chinese and Japanese cannot handle immigration [which] yields the most precious natural resource in the 21st century economy," he says. Johnny Can Read: Despite longstanding concerns about America's education system, the U.S. is home to 17 of the world's top 20 universities and 34 of the top 50, Joffe notes. This gives us a huge leg up in terms of attracting the world's best and brightest (see above). Joffe call the U.S. "the world's Ph.D. factory" -- as well as in R&amp;D spending. Related: America May Be #1 But Our Kids Are Below Average  In his book, Joffe says the biggest threat America faces is from within: If we were to "freeze up" and really limit immigration or severely restrict upward mobility, the America truly might be in decline. As for President Obama's recent claim that America is suffering from "a dangerous and growing inequality and lack of upward mobility," Joffe is dubious. "If it is true, then it's serious, that engine of self reinvention would slow down," he says. "But you you can parse [the numbers] either way. The president, of course, is playing politics." And there's nothing new about that, as with much of what Joffe says is happening in today's debate about America's outlook.
TD Ameritrade wanted to find a way to make ads for February's Sochi Winter Olympics that were more than just their brand's name next to a photo of one of their sponsored athletes. With San Francisco agency Goodby, Silverstein &amp; Partners, they decided to draw a parallel between long-term investing in both banking and athletic training. The "It Adds Up" slogan resulted in a look at how some of the world's greatest athletes started their careers almost as soon as they could walk. Here's a print ad featuring speed skater J.R. Celski, now and as a child: TD Ameritrade "We were getting these giant boxes of family albums, old Super 8 footage, videos, everything. So it didn't work the way it typically does, with storyboarding and then shooting, but instead it was almost like scrapbooking," Margaret Johnson, executive creative director at GSP told The New York Times. Here's the other print ad, featuring snowboarder Louie Vito: TD Ameritrade There will be a total of four commercials that show footage running backwards from the athletes' current success to their earliest days trying out sports. There is currently one for both Celski and Vito, as well as this one of skeleton slider Noelle Pikus Pace:  Digital agency HUGE is handling the social media component, promoting the campaign through the trending topic #itaddsup.¬†
theprospectgroup / YouTubeMarc Faber, author of "The Gloom Boom And Doom Report," maintains as bearish a tone as ever. He warns that increased risks means that equity investors may not benefit from high future returns. Still, he believes that U.S. stocks may go up another 10-20% in 2014. Though he warns it's too late to invest. Faber gave an interview to King World News: Concerning the share markets, the big question is this:¬† Since 2010, we had a massive outperformance of the US vis-a-vis emerging economies.¬† The US cyclically adjusted earnings P/E ratios are relatively high, which would indicate low returns for the next 7 to 10 years.¬† In other words, in the opinion of Jeremy Grantham returns of less than 2% are negative in real terms for each of the next 7 years. ¬†¬† Conversely, in emerging economies we had bear markets.¬† In some markets, adjusted for the depreciation for currencies like the Brazilian real, the Indian rupee, and so forth, we had declines of 30% to 50% from the highs.¬† So the question for the investor is, ‚ÄòDo I buy the US that is still currently momentum driven but it won‚Äôt be driven forever, or do I gradually move into emerging economies?‚Äô ¬† I think it‚Äôs too early to move into emerging economies, and I think it‚Äôs too late to buy US stocks.¬† They (US stocks) may go up another 10%, maybe even 20%, but the risks have increased significantly and I don‚Äôt think equity investors in the US, aside from a short-term trading opportunity, will reap very high returns in the future. Now, compared to equities in emerging economies and equities in the US, what is really incredibly depressed are mining companies.¬† My preference has always been to own physical gold, but I have to say that at this level the mining companies are relatively good values. Faber joins fellow bears like John Hussman, Bob Janjuah, Richard Russell, and Jeremy Grantham who all warn that stocks may book another double-digit's worth of gains before collapsing.
A new version of the Volcker Rule ‚Äî which is more of list of rules on Wall Street trading ‚Äî was just approved, and it's going to hit bankers where it hurts most: their wallets. Traditionally on Wall Street, if you make a big risky bet and come out on top, your employer (JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Bank of America) makes dollars rain all over you. For you, it's a good thing. But the caveat here, of course, is winning. You have to win or you could end up losing $6 billion on a single trade, or something like that.  This is not something Wall Streeters like to think about, though. Risk is a time-honored tradition in the business. As of just a few moments ago, though, The Volcker Rule is set to change all of that. Regulators have been meeting to finalize tougher post-financial crisis rules on how Wall Street banks can trade with their own money, and it looks like one of those rules will be that Wall Street banks cannot have compensation arrangements that reward it. Period. That goes for foreign banks operating in the U.S. too. This is a big victory for advocates of more regulation on Wall Street, and they're already crowing about it on Twitter. Check out this tweet from Oregon Senator Jeff Merkley: It's looking like we will have a real Volcker Rule. Looking forward to reviewing final text. But it looks kind of over.
The Washington Post has a fascinating visualization of inequality in America. Their map uses U.S. Census data to rank different Zip codes based on how elite their populations are. Percentile rankings for both income and educational attainment were calculated and averaged together, giving a score between 0 and 99. Zip codes with scores of 95 or higher were designated "Super Zips," the homes of the most affluent and elite Americans. We decided to break out the 20 most elite of the Super Zips. The map below shows Super Zips in yellow, with the top 20 most elite Zip codes in red: U.S. Census ACS 2011 5 Year Estimates Here are the top 20 Super Zips in America: 07078: Short Hills, N.J. 60043: Kenilworth, Ill. 02468: Waban, Mass. 10282: New York, N.Y. 20816: Bethesda, Md. 02457: Babson Park, Mass. 06870: Old Greenwich, Conn. 10069: New York, N.Y. 10162: New York, N.Y. 10514: Chappaqua, N.Y. 10597: Waccabuc, N.Y. 60022: Glencoe, Ill. 94027: Atherton, Calif. 02481: Wellesley Hills, Mass. 06883: Weston, Conn. 07046: Mountain Lakes, N.J. 10518: Cross River, N.Y. 20854: Potomac, Md. 21737: Glenelg, Md. 94028: Portola Valley, Calif. Check out the Washington Post's full dive into Super-Zips here ª 
The Treasury department said it had recovered $39 billion on its $49.5 billion financial package as it announced it had sold its last share. The $10.5 billion figure comes in above a $9.7 billion estimate from October.¬†A recent report from the Center for Automotive Research¬† showed¬†the plan saved 1.2 million jobs.¬† George W. Bush kicked off the government's rolling bailout of the automaker in December 2008. The company ultimately received a total of $49.5 billion in federal loans, with Treasury taking a $2.1 billion in preferred stock and a 60.8% equity stake in return. Since re-listing on the stock market in November 2010, GM shares have climbed more than 17%. The government also capitalized on the company's IPO, as well as a stock buyback¬†the open market. Taxpayers also took a $1.3 billion hit on the Chrysler bailout after that company exited bankruptcy in 2011. Last week, Bloomberg's Tim Higgins, Kelly Bit and Stephanie Ruhle reported that Kyle Bass' Hayman Capital Management¬†had purchased a large stake in the company, thought the exact size was not revealed. Recent sales have been strong, with Q3 revenues growing 13.7%, above consensus expectations.
Getty ImagesAn emerging budget deal between Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) is hitting some roadblocks Monday, in the form of conservative opposition to its proposed higher spending levels.¬† Heritage Action became the most significant conservative group to come out and bash the deal, which congressional aides have suggested for more than a week is close.¬† Some prominent conservative commentators have also been sounding similar notes: Paul Ryan seems perpetually to come up with deals where his starting point should be the ending point. if Paul Ryan puts his name in a deal that spends more than $1 trillion, his 2016 hopes are over. "Heritage Action cannot support a budget deal that would increase spending in the near-term for promises of woefully inadequate long-term reductions," the organization said in a statement. "While imperfect, the sequester has proven to be an effective tool in forcing Congress to reduce discretionary spending, and a gimmicky, spend-now-cut-later deal will take our nation in the wrong direction." Details of the deal remain murky, as both Ryan and Murray keep their cards close to their vests. But the latest reports suggest¬†that the mini-bargain would set discretionary spending levels a little above $1 trillion for the next two years, while repealing and replacing some cuts of sequestration.¬† The higher discretionary spending levels ‚Äî spending on programs that have to be reauthorized by Congress every year ‚Äî are the source of the emerging conservative opposition. Conservatives argue that while imperfect, sequestration has been the only effective check against the Obama administration's spending.¬† Last week, three conservative members of the House ‚Äî¬†Mick Mulvaney (S.C.), Jim Jordan (Ohio) and Steve Scalise (La.) sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor urging them to bring a "clean" continuing resolution to the floor that would fund the government at the $967 billion level under sequestration.¬† As of Thursday, according to Politico, the letter only had 19 signatures. And many Republican defense hawks oppose a "clean" CR, saying that the defense cuts under sequestration are harmful to national security. But the three conservative members spearheading the effort, plus groups like Heritage Action, are the types who wield considerable influence within the House Republican caucus. The Club for Growth, another influential conservative group, did not respond to a request for comment on the deal. The self-imposed deadline for a budget deal is Friday, though that's a "soft" marker. The government runs out of funding Jan. 15, after which the government would shut down again.¬†Still, the best option for Ryan and Murray is to fast-track the bill through the House before it leaves for holiday recess Friday, and through the Senate before it skips town next week.¬† The emerging deal also has its Democratic opponents, including those who think that an extension of benefits to the long-term unemployed should be extended.
The days of calling your rich relatives to raise $3 million to start a hedge fund a la Dan Loeb are over. Citi just released a 45-page report on the hedge fund industry in the United States¬† (where there are more hedge funds than Taco Bells), and it looks like barriers to entry are higher than ever before. Citi determined that, with costs as they are, it takes an emerging hedge fund manager at least $300 million AUM just to break even. Basically, if you have less than $1 billion, you shouldn't even get out of bed. The biggest cost of all the monster costs is compensation for the compliance personnel that keep you straight with the Feds. Size is a huge advantage there too. From Citi: For small hedge funds with only $100 million AUM, compensation accounted for 8.7 basis points ($87,000) out of total expenses of 17.7 basis points ($177,000)‚Äî49% of total compliance expense... Overall dollar-based costs of compliance rise only modestly, from $177,000 to $210,000 as hedge funds move from $100 million to $500 million AUM, but the composition of those costs is quite different. Expenditures on software and other third-party services shrinks from 51% to only 23% of compliance spend. This share continues to decline at every progressive AUM level within the institutional category, falling to only 6% for firms with $10.0 billion AUM. All that's not even the worst part. What really might get kids to go back to dreaming of being astronauts instead of hedge fund managers is that management fees are collapsing.  Unless you're a rock star hedge fund manager, clients will not pay you the infamous "2% and 20%" hedge fund compensation scheme. Here's what Citi has to say about compensation for hedge funds with $5 billion AUM or less: Average management fees continue well below the historical 2.0% level, ranging from 1.58% to highsof only 1.76% for the largest firms in this band. Management company expenses dip and stabilize,ranging from 63 to 68 basis points. No appreciable economies of scale are realized by firms in the institutional category, as this is a period of ongoing investment into upgrading the firms‚Äô capabilitiesand expanding their teams. During this phase of growth, headcount grows by ~2.0x for every ~3.0xincrease in AUM. So what's the solution if you still want to be an investor? Franchising. Big shops with hedge funds within them. Citi found that firms that fit this description have an average AUM of $36.4 billion, and that only about 53% of their business is focused on the hedge fund. Or you could just be David Tepper from day one. That's the other solution.
A new species of cockroach that is cool with the cold has arrived in New York City, and they are likely here to stay year-round. The species is called the Japanese Cockroach (its scientific name is Periplaneta japonica). It's native to Japan but has spread throughout Asia. This is the first time it has been seen in the U.S. It was found on the High Line in 2012 by an exterminator, and scientists have just published confirmation of its identity as the Japanese Cockroach by DNA sequencing. It probably made its way there in the ornamental plants used in the park.¬† We don't know how big of an impact these roaches will have, but the researchers, who published their DNA analysis in the Journal Of Economic Entomology, say they are similar enough to the roaches we have now they their impact shouldn't be huge. "To be truly invasive, a species has to move in and take over and out-compete a native species," Michael Scharf, a researcher at Purdue University, told The Associated Press. "There's no evidence of that, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be concerned about it." The already-established cockroach populations in New York should keep these newcomers at bay. Their physical differences make it unlikely they would be able to interbreed and create hybrid super-roaches, the researchers said. What sets it apart from local populations of cockroaches is its ability to withstand cold temperatures. "It is very conceivable that it could live outdoors during winter in New York," study researcher Jessica Ware, of Rutgers University, said in a press release. "I could imagine japonica being outside and walking around," Ware said. "Though I don't know how well it would do in dirty New York snow." Normal American and German cockroaches we see here in NYC prefer temperatures in the 80s and can't survive the below-freezing temperatures outside during winter (which is why you find them inside).¬† Here's what the cockroaches look like:Lyle Buss, Univ. of FloridaThis male (left) and female of the species Periplaneta japonica were found on New York City's High Line iin 2012.
REUTERS/Herve SerefioPeople displaced by fighting between rival militias take shelter under an old broken airplane at the airport in Bangui, Central African Republic, December 7, 2013. Stocks didn't do a whole lot today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Jack Daniel'sOne of the 78 barrel houses at the Jack Daniel Distillery in Lynchburg, Tennessee.Despite being†one of the most valuable alcohol brands in the world, Jack Daniel's is manufactured in a 147-year-old distillery in Lynchburg, Tenn. that is actually on the†U.S. Department of the Interiorís Register of Historic Places. It's so old that I was worried while standing in a hot and deafening room of whiskey stills on a recent tour that one of them might erupt. Nonetheless, the 1,700-acre operation has around 435 workers and†ships out 119 million bottles in a year. To meet rising global demand, in August†parent company†Brown-Forman Corp. announced a†major expansion for the distillery†costing more than†$100 million. The enlargement will provide 20 percent more†production and storage capacity while preserving the familiar landscape. Maintaining traditional methods, after all, is key both to the brand and the product. The distillery was founded almost 150 years ago when Jasper Newton "Jack" Daniel ran away from home and started making whiskey with a Lutheran Minister when he was only seven years old. "Church people started talking about how the minister was working for God on Sunday and then making liquor on Monday. In order to keep the church family happy the Minister sold the business to Jack for $25," distillery tour guide Jesse James told me. We took a tour to see how the whiskey is made.
Blackrock has dubbed its 10 best investing ideas for 2014 "The List" ó which just sounds definitive. The firm predicts moderately stronger growth in the coming year, slightly higher interest rates, and the Federal Reserve to taper.† "Many of the conditions of the last few yearsó slow growth, low interest rates, and very low inflationóare likely to persist," Blackrock writes. "Not an ideal environment, but one that should support further gains in stocks, and perhaps hints at a virtuous cycle of global growth that could†be possible if the stars align." Here are three key stories Blackrock highlights: "Modestly stronger growth should lead to slightly higher interest ratesóbut we do not expect a sharp or rapid acceleration," Blackrock writes. "As the Federal Reserve begins to slow its extraordinary bond-buying program, we believe the 10-year treasury yield will modestly climb around 0.5% by the end of 2014." 3. Stocks had a huge 2013, and the good times will roll "Stocks are no longer cheap, but are not in a bubble. there are some areas of the market that we believe are unjustifiably expensive (U.S. small caps are a chief example), but overall we think prices still can go higher," they write. "It is important to remember that stocks still represent a better value than cash and bonds. In short, we would remain overweight equities."
These are your unoriginal regurgitated New Yearís resolutions. And they are getting pretty tiresome, especially considering the vast majority of you never fulfill them, choosing instead to wallow in the banality of your own existence, and roll them over again next year. "Hey fat ass, I already know what your New Year's resolution is." So stop telling yourself that you are going to take the stairs, cut back on the $6 Starbucks lattes, or park as far away from the Whole Foods entrance as you can, and just follow my adviceÖ 1. Take a vow of silence. Join CrossFit. Do P90X. Detox in January. Become a vegan. Sell your TV. †Train for a marathon. Start the Paleo diet. Go for any or all of these, but please shut the f--k up about it. ìNo one would run a marathon if they had to sign a confidentiality agreement first." 2. Read more. Yes, thatís a permanent boring fixture on most peopleís lists, but this year, be more specific and realistic. Make a list of 10 books to read, a healthy mix of fiction and non-fiction. Throw in a couple of classics that youíre embarrassed you never read in college. Purchase the hardcover copies, and keep them as a small trophy of your accomplishment. The Economist puts together a great ìBooks of the Yearî list, but Iíll get you started with ìThe Private Life of Chairman Mao.î ìReading allows you to borrow someone elseís brain, and will†make you more interesting at a dinner party.î 3. Befriend a World War II veteran. Spend time with him. Talk to him. Because there arenít too many of them left. I certainly regret not helping the red-coated Chelsea Pensioners with their Tescoís bags down the Kingís Road. 4. Wash your hands more frequently. An actual study has shown that the average New Yorker indirectly touches 24 penises per day, and twice as many if they work at 1585 Broadway. 5. Take an online course. Why continue talking hollowly about self-improvement when leading colleges and graduate schools, including Duke, Wharton, and MIT, are investing significant resources into free education. Ironically, statistics have shown that it tends to be the better-educated and wealthier who take advantage of this. †But, who among us couldnít benefit from knowing more about accounting, marketing, child psychology, or real estate and contract law? 6. Watch "The Sopranos" from start to finish. Even if youíve already seen it. 7. Freshen up the starting lineup in your wardrobe. Go get 2 new suits, 10 dress shirts, 2 pairs of jeans, 2 pairs of shoes, and 50 pairs of socks. Maybe this guide will help. Why? For the same reason that Michael Jordan wore a brand-new pair of shoes every single game. 8. Avoid extreme and unrealistic health pledges. Eat right, exercise sensibly, and drink mostly in moderation; itís not rocket science. ìA guy came up to me at the gym and asked me what event I was training so hard for. Life, motherf--ker.î 9. Drink more green tea. Add manuka honey and some fresh ginger. 10. Skip the dramatic savings scheme.†Donít go crazy with unrealistic goals about how much youíre going to save this year. Keep it simple; spend less than you make, and save up for the big-ticket items until you can afford them. Thereís no need for an extreme savings plan, so be sensibleÖ but donít forget to enjoy your expendable income. ìThereís no point in a $50 million funeral or a $25 million divorce.î 11. Read my guide on ìHow To Be A Man.î†Over two million people already have. Ladies, let me know what you thinkÖ 12. Write down your goals.†Most people never fulfill their resolutions, but the people who write them down have a proven higher success rate. Take it a step further and make a list of what you want to accomplish each day, week, and month. Just write them down and check them off the old-fashioned way. And tell Mr. Thereís-an-App-for-that to go f--k himself. "I'm gonna open a gym that turns into a bar after January.î 13. Go get a comprehensive health exam. Make your partner get one too. 14. Put your phone away at dinner. † "Checking your phone after someone else pulls out†their phone is the yawn of our generation.î 15. Laugh more. That means: socialize more often, drink more, have long lazy brunches, throw parties, host drunken game nights. Be spontaneousÖ Upgrade your friends if necessary. ìMost people wouldn't even be the main character†in a movie about their own lives.î 16. Donít just rely on the gym. Remember that feeling of playing a competitive sport as a kid, when youíre on the field, and not thinking about anything else. Most of us have forgotten what that feels like. So join a team or find someone to play tennis with. 17. Drink more. Iím not contradicting myself from earlierÖ If youíre healthy, eating well, and exercising, then your body can handle a few more drinks every now and then. There is nothing wrong with the occasional black out, and youíre just going to lie to your doctor anyway. ìAt most, maybe 15 to 17 units per week, doc.î ìThe 1st bottle is for health, the 2nd for love, and the 3rd for sleep.î ñ Eubulus, 350 BC 18. Help a pet get adopted, if for no other reason than to prove that you can. Iíll get it started with Spirit and Peony currently residing at the North Shore Animal League shelter in Port Washington, New York. (Tweet me; Iíll pay for the adoption fees.) ìWASPs kiss their wives on the forehead and their dogs on the mouth.î 19. Get a regular foot massage. A dark room. No TV. No loud voices. Itís the most peaceful and productive 75 minutes I have every week. I go on Saturdays with the Weekend FT and The Economist. 20. Stay in on New Year's Eve. Itís amateur night and it rarely lives up to your expectations anyhow. Get dressed up, strap on the Patek, go out for some Per Se gnocchi and get drunk on Krug? That sounds like my Tuesdays. This year, stay inÖ And then start January 1st early and productively.
Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisSt. Louis Fed President James Bullard spoke to the CFA Society in St. Louis this afternoon. Everyone in the world is listening for clues on how the Fed is thinking about tapering its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of a bonds. As usual, Bullard warned of low inflation. "Inflation continues to surprise to the downside," he said. This is a concern that often gets lost amid other encouraging economic metrics like jobs. ìA small taper might recognize labor market improvement while still providing the Committee the opportunity to carefully monitor inflation during the first half of 2014,î Bullard said.† ìShould inflation not return toward target, the Committee could pause tapering at subsequent meetings.î Among other interesting comments he made, Bullard favored improving Fed communications via more press conferences. "Markets have suggested that meetings without press conferences are unlikely to be situations where the Committee can take important action,î Bullard noted. All of this was accompanied with a brief presentation titled "Some Issues in Current U.S. Monetary Policy."
Weather.govThe blue areas of the map are where snow will accumulate on Tuesday, Dec. 10.This weekend has seen crazy weather all over the U.S., but NYC is due its winter weather blast tomorrow. While some snow started to stick last night, we are expected to see the first significant snowfall of the year on Tuesday, after the slushy/foggy mess that was last night moves through the city. AccuWeather says the snow could be falling for up to 8 hours. It's tough to guess how much snow we will get, but most areas of New York seem to be expecting at least one inch of accumulation. The National Weather Service says that up to 3 inches of snow could fall in Central Park, though the Weather Channel says it could be less than an inch of accumulation in the city.  Even if we don't get much snow, temperatures are going to plunge later in the week. The cold front will move through on Tuesday night, and a sunny Wednesday will hover around freezing, though Thursday will have highs (yes, HIGHS) in the upper 20s. BRRRR.
Emerging markets saw money rush out over the summer of 2013 on the first chatter that the Fed was considering tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. This also caused emerging market currencies to take a hit earlier this year. There are still concerns that a Fed taper could hurt emerging markets going forward. But Barclays thinks "the threat of a broader exodus of flows out of EM seems exaggerated." "We expect a stabilisation of EM private sector capital flows in 2014, potentially with a shift in EM portfolio flows from fixed income into equity," they said. They identify three major global themes in 2014: 1. U.S. monetary policy 2. Economic recovery in the U.S. 3. China rebalancing. The direction that each of these takes will have significant impacts on emerging markets. Barclays
en.wikipedia.orgChaos.LONDON (Reuters) - Failure to thrash out a common supervision of the $640 trillion global financial derivatives industry will split markets and bump up costs for end users, a top regulator said on Monday. Banks who trade interest rate swaps, credit default swaps and other derivatives are looking to the†United Statesand the†European Union†to harmonize their approach to new rules aimed at making markets more transparent. Banks worry that rule clashes and overlaps will create legal uncertainties and extra compliance costs. David Wright, secretary general of the†International Organization†of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), an umbrella group for regulators from across the world, warned it was a "recipe for chaos" that could get messy and anti-competitive. "There†is a model here which is a free for all and I think your costs will go up in a free for all," Wright told a conference organized by ICI Global, an asset management industry body. Wright said slow progress in reaching transatlantic agreement on derivatives rules could see Asian countries such as†China†and†Indonesia†going their own way. "We can honestly say†there†is a growing frustration, particularly among our Asian Pacific friends about what's happening," Wright said. "They are fed up being caught between two elephants." Martin Wheatley, chief executive of†Britain's Financial Conduct Authority, told the ICI conference that regulators were committed to avoiding a patchwork quilt of unworkable national and regional rules. "There†are some significant detailed points to work through," Wheatley said. CURSE WORD The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission's chairman,†Gary Gensler, due to stand down shortly, has been accused by EU regulators of trying to impose U.S. rules on them. Daniel Gallagher, a Republican member of the†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said in†Frankfurt†on Monday that on his last visit to†Europe, Gensler's name was "like a curse word". "I've never seen anything like it where one person, one policymaker in Washington has been singled out by name by foreign regulators because of an aggressive approach," Gallagher said. After the 2007-09 financial crisis, in which derivatives played a core role in exacerbating uncertainty due to their opacity, regulators called for trade repositories to be set up to record transactions for regulators to spot risks. But Wright said 22 trade repositories have been opened but the system is not working as they are not connected up. He reiterated his call for a global enforcer that can resolve disputes between countries over market rules. IOSCO, although grouping all top regulators such as the†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,†Japan'sFinancial Services Agency†and†Germany's BaFin, does not have the power to impose the market guidance it draws up or resolve disputes. "At IOSCO we are beginning to think hard about what is required," Wright said, adding that the body will consult next year on how it could evolve. Few believe the†United States†would accept binding requirements from a global securities body. Wright, however, said it would be in the†United States' own commercial interests as markets worldwide move to the U.S. model of market-based financing while banks focus on building up their capital buffers. (Additional reporting by Eva Taylor in†Frankfurt, Editing by Susan Fenton and David Evans)
ktbryant via YouTubeThomas Jefferson School of LawStandard &amp; Poor's has released a¬†report showing that the sad state of the legal industry is crushing stand-alone law schools which aren't attached to larger universities. Four of the five stand-alones rated by S&amp;P have negative outlooks: New York Law School (A-), Brooklyn Law School (BBB+),¬†Thomas M. Cooley Law School (BBB),¬†and Thomas Jefferson School of Law (B+). Only Albany Law School (BBB) received a stable rating. Ratings in this category have already declined, with San Diego-based Thomas Jefferson notably dropping two spots to B+ or junk-bond status in October,¬†The Wall Street Journal reported. Thomas Jefferson has the distinction of being the American law school where 2012 graduates had the highest debt load and the lowest unemployment rate. The S&amp;P report predicted that enrollment would decline at Thomas Jefferson. "In our opinion, there is also an enrollment risk given the declining number of law students nationally and recent weakness in head count that will likely compress operating margins, particularly since the school has no track record of fundraising," the S&amp;P report said. Thomas Jefferson and most stand-alones often have negligible endowments and therefore must rely heavily on tuition to cover their operating expenses, law professor Paul Campos has previously told Business Insider. "If their tuition revenues decrease markedly they may become unsustainable operations very quickly," Campos has said. Here's more from S&amp;P on why stand-alones have worse credit than law schools that are part of universities: The five stand-alone law schools are among the least selective law schools we rate, and the respective ratings reflect this. Their management teams are generally more entrepreneurial and driven by the bottom line than leadership at component law schools. We believe this is partly due to the lack of program diversification at stand-alone institutions relative to comprehensive public and private institutions. We view it as a credit weakness. Stand-alones also typically lack the type of developed fundraising function that characterize many of the public and private higher education institutions we rate. On the other hand, law schools like Yale, Harvard, or Emory have access to resources of a large university and "substantial endowments," according to the S&amp;P report. "Even in the event that these schools experience operating pressures as a result of current demand and enrollment trends," the S&amp;P report said, "we believe many of these [non-stand-alone] schools will weather the challenges relatively well."

Back in September, Barclays' Barry Knapp slapped a 1,900 target for the S&amp;P 500 in 2014. Relative to other global markets the firm covers, Barclays sees U.S. markets offering the lowest near-term return opportunity. "The US market has been the unambiguous leader in this current equity cycle," noted Barclays in new research. "[W]ith the constraints elsewhere beginning to lift, we think performance will now favour non-US markets. Funds are certainly beginning to move in that direction and we think there is a large ìgapî to fill." The analysts included a chart showing how U.S. stocks have sharply outperformed foreign markets over the last two decades. "On the US side, the market is set to face a lessening in support from monetary policy," they added. "Our economists expect the Fed to begin reducing its rate of Treasury purchases in March 2014, while 10-year yields are forecast to rise to 3.5 % by end-2014. This forecast backup in US yields is expected to exceed those of the euro area, UK and Japan. We do not anticipate that this turn in the policy cycle will signal a major ìtopî for the market, but it will introduce more uncertainty and shift the focus to earnings growth as the route to higher stock prices." Barclays
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergAmerican household net worth rose $1.92 trillion in Q3, according to the latest data from the Federal Reserve's quarterly flow of funds report. Rising wealth was spurred by a 2.0% increase in the value of tangible assets (household real estate value rose 2.3% and the value of consumer durables rose 0.7%) and a 2.4% increase in the value of financial assets (deposits rose 1.2%, credit market instruments fell 1.8%, corporate equities rose 5.6%, mutual fund shares rose 4.7%, pension fund reserves advanced 1.9%, and equity in noncorporations rose 2.2%). On the other side of the balance sheet, household liabilities rose 0.9%, driven by a 0.1% rise in mortgages and a 2.4% expansion in consumer credit. Owners equity as a percentage of household real estate rose to 50.8% from 49.7% in Q3. The change in household net worth in Q2 was revised up to $1.36 trillion from $1.34 trillion.
The New York Times is out with its next report in a series¬†that has¬†exposed¬†the questionable hiring practices at J.P. Morgan. The firm has reportedly¬†brought on on the children of elite Chinese officials in the hopes of securing business deals. In the¬†new report, Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg find that federal authorities investigating the matter now have spreadsheets that "lists the bank's 'track record' for converting hires into business deals." In one example, JP Morgan "coveted" business with Fubon, "a financial services conglomerate in Taiwan that, according to the spreadsheet, produced 2009 revenue of $900,000 for JPMorgan." From the Times: In an August 2010 email reviewed by The Times, a JPMorgan banker in Hong Kong explained that the bank had ‚Äúpicked up a new mandate in Taiwan today,‚Äù but that holding onto the deal would depend on securing a job for someone related to a company executive. ‚ÄúAll we have to do,‚Äù the banker said, is secure the relative ‚Äúa full-time analyst job at JPM in N.Y.‚Äù The problem, another employee in Hong Kong acknowledged, was that the candidate‚Äôs ‚Äúnapping habit will be an eye-opening experience for our N.Y. colleagues.‚Äù Protess and Silver-Greenberg note that the Fubon deal is unlikely to raise red flags for authorities. Even if it's a cozy hire, Fubon is a private company and not state-owned. Still: By 2009, the ‚ÄúSons and Daughters‚Äù program was putting the job candidates on the fast track to employment. The documents show that applicants from prominent Chinese families faced less stringent hiring standards ‚Äî and fewer job interviews ‚Äî than the average junior-level hire. And in the report, the Times details how (according to JPM documents) hires were "directly attributable linkage to business opportunity." Whether JPM did anything illegal remains to be seen, but prosecutors are certainly looking. Read the full report at the New York Times ¬ª
REUTERS/China DailyA woman laughs as she pushes a trolley past artist Liu Bolin during his demonstration to blend in with the vegetables on the shelves at a supermarket in Beijing, November 10, 2011. For the past three years 40 research teams across China have been working on technology to make things invisible. Now the South China Morning Post reports that they're† getting close. From the SCMP: The main approaches are developing materials that guide light away from an object, creating electromagnetic fields to bend light away from what one is trying to hide and copying nature to make hi-tech camouflage materials. A team led by Professor Chen Hongsheng at Zhejiang University released a video last month demonstrating a device that made fish invisible. The same technology also apparently made a cat "disappear". The device was made of a hexagonal array of glass-like panels, which obscure the object from view by bending light around it. One professor, Ma Yungui, an optical engineering specialist at Zhejiang University, thinks there's a 40% chance they'll nail it. He also said that it isn't hard to get funding for this kind of project in China. He's running into other mainland scientists at conferences all over the world. Head to SCMP to find out more&gt;
Deutsche BankThe stock market has been rallying throughout 2013, and at current levels just a few points shy of all-time highs today, the S&amp;P 500 index is now up more than 28% in the year to date. Since an eventual tapering of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing became cemented as a major market theme in May, however, short bets against the stock market have been rising, and flows into long-term investment funds have stalled, resulting in a large amassing of cash in money market funds. Now, Deutsche Bank believes these trends will reverse, resulting in a flood of cash hitting the stock market to begin 2014. "Many equity investors are worried given the 27% rally YTD, but we estimate that an incremental $169 billion in pent-up cash and short interest due to taper fears is likely to make its way into equities in the next 3-4 months," writes Deutsche Bank strategist Keith Parker in a note to clients. "Indeed, the [first-half-of-the-year] pattern since 2009 has seen cash move out of money markets and into bonds and equities." Parker runs through a few reasons to believe this will be the case: Short interest rising since May pulled $30b from US equities. The rise in total short interest (stocks, ETFs, futures) suggests investors are hedging a taper. This ìoutflowî of $30b from shorting has negated nearly half of the $65b of US equity inflows since May. With short interest relative to market cap currently 0.4% above its bottom band, short covering will see that money flow back into US equities as catalysts pass such as the start of taper.  Taper fears halt inflows into long-term funds, pent-up cash of $139b. In a rare break of a 20y trend, inflows to long-term funds (equity, bonds, hybrid) stalled on taper fears, like the financial crisis and US downgrade. Since May, taper fears have caused bond outflows while equity inflows continued, but the net of the two is zero. With no LT inflows, $139b has piled up in money markets.  H1 pattern sees cash in money markets re-deployed. Each year for the last four years from December to April, investors have moved cash out of money markets into bond and equity funds. We see equities as the beneficiary of cash re-deployment in 2014 as equity inflows have been running at a steady $23b monthly pace since February. Although they have slowed recently, bond outflows are likely to resume on taper fears; but a reset and stabilization in rates higher could see bond inflows with cash rates at zero and curves steep.  Equity positioning not pricing in strong data with taper overhang. Aggregate equity positioning typically tracks the ISM but a large gap has opened up since August; equity beta has fallen toward neutral though data has strengthened, likely reflecting taper fears. Fridayís payroll rally also indicates that equities are not fully pricing in the pickup in growth.  Pension rebalancing likely weighed on equities this week. We estimate that each 1% change in pension allocation equates to $31b in rebalance flows. The S&amp;P 500 up 2.8% in Nov implied $43b in potential pension selling, though not all rebalance monthly. Equity inflows and buybacks running at $23b and $33b per month respectively is more than enough demand to offset rebalancing; but markets are a little choppy around the beginning of quarters/months. Parker says that assuming $120 billion of this "pent-up demand" goes into equities, the S&amp;P 500 could be up 10% to start 2014.
APIt only took a well-placed op-ed from an influential D.C. think tank to put the populist charge in Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). Last Tuesday, the president and senior vice president of Third Way, a centrist think tank, published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal†lambasting Warren's plan to expand Social Security as "Exhibit A" of "populist political and economic fantasy." Warren's response? On Wednesday, she wrote a suggestive letter to bank CEOs "encouraging" them to voluntarily disclose their donations to think tanks. "When you use corporate resources to support think tanks, there are only two possible outcomes from public disclosure ó those contributions†do not influence the work of the think tanks or those contributions†do†influence the think tanks' research and conclusions," Warren wrote. "Either way, shareholders have a right to know how corporate resources are spent, and, even more importantly, policymakers and the public should be aware of your contributions and evaluate the work of the think tanks accordingly." It doesn't yet have the panache and organization of the Republican Party's internal split, but some liberal groups think that the divisions among the Democratic Party ó its own "civil war" ó will embroil the party through the next two big election cycles in 2014 and 2016.† The divisions have sprung up over a period of several months, dating back to New York City Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio's wildly successful run here and the "Rise of the New New Left," as The Daily Beast's Peter Beinart put it in September.† In the Democratic Party, populism is on the rise. Warren's ideas and beliefs ó frustration with Wall Street, stagnating middle-class wages, and rising income inequality, among others ó are at the forefront of that ideology.† After Third Way's op-ed attacking Warren, groups like the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, saw an opportunity to respond.† "Third Way has always been a below-the-radar creep that gives really bad policy advice to Democrats," Adam Green, the PCCC's co-founder, told Business Insider. "In this case, they attacked the two most popular things in Democratic politics ó Elizabeth Warren and Social Security." Warren's call to expand Social Security ó a proposal she laid out near the end of last month†ó is a stark contrast from the policy Democrats have embraced on the entitlement during the Obama administration. President Barack Obama included "chained CPI" ó cutting benefits by changing the way cost-of-living adjustments are calculated ó as a main concession to Republicans in his 2014 budget proposal. Since Third Way's op-ed and the PCCC highlighted the issue, it has pushed some "centrist" Democrats to the more populist left.†Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-Pa.)†called the op-ed "outrageous" and "strongly disagreed."Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.) also said he "strongly disagrees" with the op-ed. And†Rep. Ron Kind (D-Wis.) said he "disagreed" with Third Way's assertion that "economic populism is a dead end."† Schwartz, for one, provides a barometer as to how the divide is already affecting 2014 elections. Her 2014 Pennsylvania gubernatorial Democratic opponent, John Hanger, called†on her to resign as Third Way's honorary co-chair. A spokesman said she would not resign, but her denouncement of the op-ed as "outrageous" shows a clear sense of urgency to appeal to the Democratic Party's more liberal wing. And though Warren said last week, flatly, that she is not running for president, Green expects the debate to continue through the 2016 campaign for president.† "The question is, will Third Way's ideas be repeated, or will Democrats follow the North Star that is Elizabeth Warren?" Green said. He added: "Every Democrat will face the questions, including Hillary Clinton."
Brett VAYou know all those office parks or towers you pass in certain cities on the way in from the suburbs? There is a pretty good chance they are now completely abandoned. In a recent feature called "Suburban Corporate Wasteland,"¬†NPR's Connecticut affiliate discusses how the state is now dotted with massive white elephants, the shells of a multi-decade boom in mega office parks.¬† Pfizer's sprawling, 160-acre research park in Groton, for instance,¬†is now in the process of being torn down. The town of Ridgefield had to purchase the former 40-acre Schlumberger-Doll research center after it sat vacant for five years; it's now being sold off piece by piece.¬†And officials in Simsbury¬†are now debating¬†what to do about a 173-acre site formerly owned by The Hartford. Connecticut is not the only site of this phenomenon.¬†Nationwide, the suburban office vacancy rate is 16.6%, compared with the downtown rate of 12.4%, according to CBRE. Elk Grove Village outside Chicago must now grapple with a 60-acre site formerly owned by United Airlines after the company moved its offices to Chicago. AT&amp;T and Motorola have likewise left nearby suburbs with similar dilemmas after they moved into city limits, according to the Chicago Sun-Times. ¬† Aaron Renn at the Urbanophile¬†identifies several reasons behind this phenomenon:¬† "Put it all together and it‚Äôs clear office space demand is weaker than it used to be," Renn writes. ¬†"Joel Kotkin recently surveyed the same trends and suggests that the US may have¬†hit 'peak office'." It wasn't even fun while it lasted.
ShutterstockBy my count, we now have a stock bubble, a bond bubble, a gold bubble, a (new) housing bubble, a Bitcoin bubble, a debt bubble, a profit bubble, a margin bubble, a Fed bubble, a dividend bubble, a social media bubble, a health care bubble, and an [insert thing you don't like] bubble. The word "bubble" didn't exist in economic textbooks 20 years ago, according to Yale economist Robert Shiller. How can something we didn't talk about before the mid-1990s suddenly infect every inch of the global economy? The fact that no one talked about bubbles just two decades ago is part of the problem. The concept of bubbles is so new that basic things like definitions aren't agreed upon. Since there's no objective definition of what a bubble is, anyone can personally anoint anything they want as a bubble and make a convincing argument that they're right. Shiller, who recently won the Nobel Prize for his research on bubbles, took this problem into his own hands. "It wasn't carefully defined, so I wrote my own definition in the second edition of my book,¬†Irrational Exuberance," he recently told NPR. A bubble is "like a mental illness," Shiller said. "The American Psychiatric Association's diagnostic and statistical manual, which defines mental illness, consists of a checklist of symptoms." For Shiller, the checklist symptoms of a financial bubble are: Seems simple enough. But just as people complain that mental illness is often overdiagnosed, many financial markets could fit this checklist without being a bubble. Take¬†Microsoft¬†stock in the early 1990s, when shares traded at a split-adjusted $0.89 per share. A time of rapidly increasing prices? Check. Shares increased eightfold from 1985 to 1990. Stories to justify the reason for the bubble? Check. "Superchips Herald a Revolution,"¬†The New York Times¬†wrote in 1984. Stories about how much they're making? Check.¬†Fortune¬†magazine¬†ran a story¬†in 1986 with the headline, "THE DEAL THAT MADE BILL GATES $350,000,000." Envy for not participating? Check. One in five Microsoft employees was a millionaire in 1992, "many under the age of 30," one news article pointed out. You can imagine how that made new employees feel. The media involved? Check. The personal computer was¬†TIME¬†magazine's Person of the Year in 1982. It fit all of Shiller's bubble criteria. But Microsoft stock in the early 1990s wasn't a bubble. It was, in hindsight, still an amazing bargain. Anyone who bought Microsoft stock in 1990 has since earned a 4,900% return, versus the S&amp;P 500's 730% gain.¬†What looked like a textbook bubble¬†was literally the opposite of a bubble. Think about¬†Amazon¬†in 1998,¬†Google¬†in 2004,¬†Netflix¬†in 2005,¬†Apple¬†in 2007, hybrid cars a decade ago, or the automobile 100 years ago. The list of things we once erroneously thought were bubbles dwarfs the list of actual bubbles. By tenfold, at least. Everyone knows bubbles exist. We know tech stocks in 2000 and housing in 2006 were utter swamps of irrationality. But that's hindsight. And hindsight can be a jerk. We dupe ourselves with stories about how everything was obvious. I promise you, nine out of 10 people who say the housing bubble was obvious would have given you a different answer in 2006. I'm one of them. The bubble seems so obvious to me today. But I remember telling a friend in 2006 that prices would probably just flatline for a few years, not crash. Eugene Fama, a University of Chicago economist who shared the Nobel Prize with Shiller, says he knows why this is.¬†He doesn't think bubbles can be predicted at all. And since they can't be predicted, he doesn't think we can say they exist. "The word 'bubble' drives me nuts, frankly," Fama told NPR last week. He thinks markets are efficient at pricing in all available information, even if in hindsight we know that information was wrong. Markets crash when people receive new information, like, say, housing sales coming in far below expectations. "If I can predict that housing prices will go down, if the market is working properly, then they should go down¬†now," Fama said. "Because what you're saying is, 'I have information that prices will go down,' and that information is not in the prices. But if the market is working properly, the information should be in prices." Sure. But do markets work properly? On a chalkboard, yes. In reality, of course not. In textbooks, the average consumer spends her day calmly calculating ways to maximize her odds of success. In reality we're tricked by marketing, terrible at math, fooled by randomness, plagued by bad policy, blind to history, and drunk on courage. Asked, "How many millions are in a trillion?" 79% of Americans either answered wrong or didn't know. Yet the majority of them will¬†calmly tell you¬†a $14 trillion national debt is a major threat to the economy. How can they possibly know if they don't know what a trillion¬†is? Even when they're logical, a lot of our economic decisions are driven by emotions rather than facts. And since emotions eat facts for breakfast, we have bubbles. NPR asked Fama, in a "come¬†onnn" tone, if he really believed bubbles can't exist. "You just used the keyword:¬†believe," he said. "I don't believe. I'm an empiricist." "I don't think there's anything in the statistical evidence that says anyone can reliably predict when prices go down," Fama said. "So if you interpret the world 'bubble' to mean, 'I can predict when prices are going to go down,' you can't do it." Shiller rebuts that calling something a bubble doesn't mean you know when it's going to burst, just that it will eventually. "You can have a fairly high degree of confidence," he said. "That's what I felt in the stock market in the late 1990s. And then again I felt that in the 2000s, with the housing bubble." Anyone familiar with Shiller's work knows he doesn't call timing. He'll be the first to admit predicting what markets will do next is impossible. Fama is still skeptical. "What happens each time [a bubble bursts] is the media goes in and finds someone who predicted it, and that person gets anointed," he said. "You don't go back and look at past predictions and see if it's just luck." But doesn't Shiller calling the last two bubbles prove they can be predicted? "Statistical reliability means more than two, really," Fama said, with a hint of sarcasm. "Predicting the next 10 would be really convincing. Then I'd be convinced." Shiller laughed. "Yeah, but I don't live that long." That's exactly the problem. Economics isn't like chemistry, where we can conduct controlled experiments all day in a lab, thousands of times if we need to, in order to prove something exists. So few actual bubbles have occurred that we don't have enough data to be 100% sure of much of anything. By the time we have enough data to prove a concept, the economist who came up with the original idea is often dead, misquoted, or forgotten.¬†We're left dealing with theories, often shaped by political and philosophical beliefs.¬† I see two problems with the bubble debate.¬† One is that even if a bubble is spotted, it's hard to know what to do about it. It's sort of like a dog chasing a deer, who then finally catches up to the deer and has no idea how to respond. Bite? Run? Bark? He didn't think he'd ever get this far. Most bubble spotters aren't content just avoiding them, and they try to bet against them. But that can be more dangerous than falling for them.¬†A lot of smart people lost fortunes shorting tech stocks in the 1990s. Even if someone is smart enough to spot an actual bubble,¬†their advice on what to do about it can be disastrous.¬† Two, real-time economic data is often substantially revised. Data might tell you something looks bubbly (or not) one day, but give you a completely different picture the next, once numbers are revised. This is also true for company financial reports and academic studies. Anyone following the economy has to have an open and flexible mind. But those who are sure something is (or isn't) a bubble tend to have the opposite. They make up their mind, dig in their heels, and treat arguments against their original diagnosis as a my-side-versus-yours battle.¬†As Andy Rooney put it, "People will generally accept facts as truth only if the facts agree with what they already believe."¬† If the history of bubbles teaches us anything, it's to be humble. Many gasped at Shiller and Fama sharing the Noble Prize, since the two hold what look like opposite beliefs. But the two economists have a common denominator:¬†They both advocate humility. Fama doesn't think we can predict bubbles. Shiller thinks we can, but doesn't think we can ever know when they'll collapse.¬†What we need, but I know we'll never get, is more of this type of thinking. I'm holding out for a humility bubble.
The Wolf of Wall Street/Paramount PicturesYes, you make a lot of money when you work on Wall Street, but you're going to have to spend a lot of money to stay there. To go to work every day you'll need to look the part ‚Äî the suit, the shoes, etc. To live every day with a banker's schedule, you'll need people to take care of you ‚Äî maid service, dry cleaners etc. And then there are the social obligations ‚Äî trips, schmoozing, memberships ... Wall Street is full of Joneses, and as the saying goes, they're hard to keep up with. Here's how much money it takes to try.
REUTERS/Aly Song Chinese air pollution has been in the headlines for some time now. Earlier this year Beijing announced a massive program that would need 1.7 trillion yuan in investment over the next five years to tackle its smog problem. While headlines about cancer villages and the other side effects of China's pollution debacle continue, and Beijing does seem to be taking the issue seriously, Chinese state media is searching hard for a silver lining. Citing a report from a nationalist newspaper, South China Morning Post¬†points to an article that tries desperately to put a positive spin on China's air pollution. The article argues that the smog strengthens Chinese military defense. From SCMP: ‚ÄúSmog may affect people‚Äôs health and daily lives ‚Ä¶ but on the battlefield, it can serve as a defensive advantage in military operations,‚Äù said an article on the website of Global Times, a nationalist newspaper affiliated to the Communist Party‚Äôs mouthpiece the People‚Äôs Daily. "Missile guidance that relies on human sight, infrared rays and lasers could be affected by smog in varying degrees, the article said. It explained that tiny particles in the air contributing to air pollution could hinder missile guidance systems. "The article said that during the Kosovo war, soldiers of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia used smoke from burning tires to hamper Nato air strikes. The smoke reduced visibility, hindering reconnaissance efforts, the article said. "...The article also said that during the first Gulf war, sand storms reduced the identification distances of thermal imaging equipment on US tanks from 2,500 metres to 800 metres, while optical detection of Iraqi tanks was reduced to almost nil." Over the weekend, 104 cities near China's two biggest "industrial clusters ‚Äî¬†the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and the Yangtze River Delta region," saw visibility reduced to less than 10 meters according to Xinhua. The latest smog attack has left six dead. Read the entire piece at South China Morning Post ¬ª
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergFriday, the S&amp;P 500 index snapped a five-day losing streak, and today, it's trading just five points shy of its all-time high at 1813. The index is now up more than 28% in the year to date, and many market strategists are sanguine on the prospects for stocks in the remaining few weeks of the year and beyond. In a note to clients this morning, Jonathan Krinsky, executive director and chief market technician at MKM Partners, poses the question: "What does the Bear say?" "Looking at the daily chart of the S&amp;P 500, one area the bears are pointing to is the broken trend-line from the October lows," says Krinsky. "The pattern since October could be considered a bearish rising wedge, with last week breaking this to the downside. Therefore, any strength [this] week will simply be a throwback to the broken trendline." The chart above shows the "bearish rising wedge" Krinsky is talking about.† "While that may be the case, there is room for the S&amp;P 500 to move up to the 1825 level before that becomes an issue," he says. "Further, patterns can, and often do morph into new patterns. Getting too focused on this short-term wedge when the longer-term trends remain intact will likely cause investors to miss out on further gains."
The financier once dubbed the "unacceptable face of banking", is attempting to raise $250m (¬£153m) by floating a fund on the London Stock Exchange within the next two weeks ‚Äì he plans to use the proceeds to buy a stake in an African bank with a presence in several countries across the continent. As part of the deal, Diamond is teaming up with an African entrepreneur called Ashish Thakkar, the 32-year-old chief executive of Mara Group, a conglomerate with "technology, manufacturing, real estate and agriculture" interests in 19 African countries. It is anticipated that both men will sit on the new public company's board. Diamond's choice of London to float his first major banking venture since leaving the City will surprise many, even though it is thought to reflect London's supposedly better ties with Africa, compared with Wall Street. One London-based banking source said: "It reflects the knowledge of Africa here, plus the time zone". However, returning to the City will not be without its inconveniences ‚Äì as even Diamond's friends admit his reputation is lower in Britain than almost anywhere else in the world. Diamond's name is still widely associated with some of the more emotive events of the financial crisis, as he was frequently criticised for the level of his pay and an aggressive attitude to business ‚Äì even before the scandal over the fixing of the benchmark interest rate, Libor, forced him out of Barclays. In 2010 he was memorably dubbed the "unacceptable face of banking" by Lord Mandelson after it emerged that he had received cash and share awards that could net him ¬£63m. However, his downfall came in July last year, in the face of relentless pressure from politicians and regulators for him to go following the interest rate manipulation scandal which resulted in Barclays being fined ¬£290m to settle claims that it used underhand tactics to try to rig financial markets. Marcus Agius, Barclays' then chairman, and Sir Michael Rake, the bank's most senior non-executive director, were summoned to see the then Bank of England governor Lord King, where they were told that "Bob Diamond no longer enjoyed the support of his regulators". That stain on the banker's reputation has been tricky to shift and it emerged last week that Diamond is to be called as a witness as part of Guardian Care Homes' ¬£70m suit alleging Barclays mis-sold it interest rate hedging products based on Libor. Quite how his return to banking will be viewed in Africa is unclear, as Barclays' own Africa business was forced to launch a charm offensive following the Libor fallout. However, sub-Saharan countries appear to be attractive investments for bankers, as only a quarter of the population is said to hold a bank account. The financier has also made no secret of wanting to invest in Africa, where his family foundation is active. He recently met senior officials in Nigeria, which helped fuel rumours he might be looking at one of the country's troubled banks. Diamond will be assisted in his latest project by the British-born Thakkar, who moved to Rwanda with his family when he was 12, before the family fled the Rwandan genocide to Uganda. He has said he started selling computer equipment to friends and his school in Kampala and built his business up into what became Mara Group. The new London-listed vehicle will be called Atlas Mara ‚Äì after Diamond set up a company called Atlas Merchant Capital in New York this year as an old-style merchant bank that is looking to sign deals with partners. The pair's plan to raise money via a publicly-quoted cash shell with the purpose of buying assets in emerging markets is a controversial one. It is not without successes, but the reputation of such structures has received a large knock-back over the past couple of years with the corporate governance woes of Bumi Plc, an Indonesian mining firm created from a shell launched by the financier Nathaniel Rothschild. Despite Diamond's reputation, the banker did leave the City with some supporters. He is widely credited with building Barclays' investment bank ‚Äì Barclays Capital ‚Äì which was an insignificant institution when he joined the firm in 1996. Within a year it had merged with the fund management and trading arms of Wells Fargo and Nikko Securities and its stellar growth meant it provided an increasing chunk of Barclays' overall profits, which had previously come from more traditional lending. Also, while Barclays was the first bank to be fined for Libor manipulation, Royal Bank of Scotland, Switzerland's UBS and Dutch lender Rabobank have subsequently been handed much larger fines. Neither Diamond or Thakkar would comment. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Nobel Prize / YouTubeRobert Shiller gives his lecture.Robert Shiller won the Nobel Prize in Economics for his theories about how we should think about asset prices.† The other two 2013 laureates, Eugene Fama and Lars Peter Hansen, ostensibly won for their work in the same field. These†two believe markets are efficient ó that is, rational investors take in all known information and price a given asset accordingly. Shiller, on the other hand, believes efficient markets are a myth, and that market moves very frequently do not correspond with investors' best interests.† And in his lecture†this weekend accepting the award, Shiller basically shredded Fama's and Hansen's ideas ó to their faces, no less, as he was the third and final presenter.† "I guess my attitude is, 'Why are we so interested in the efficient markets model?' We haven't seen any compelling evidence for it," he said, adding "I just don't see any inspiration for any of these models." He continued, "Gene doesn't agree with this at all...I'm going to present evidence, though," Shiller said to laughter and applause.† We've annotated his entire presentation here†
The Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University is out with a new study today on the state of the rental housing market in the United States. Rental rates have increased significantly in recent years and there are now 43 million renter households across the country. More than half of renters earn less than $30,000 per year, with 22% earning less than $15,000. The chart below compares the rentership rate of major America cities. Los Angeles has the highest rental rate at more than 50%. St. Louis and Minneapolis are last at nearly 30%. Check it out: Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University
You know you had a pair. Nick Graham, the founder of ubiquitous Joe Boxer underwear, has launched a new men's fashion line named after himself, Nick Graham. The new line, sold exclusively through its e-commerce site NickGraham.com, includes everything from tees and ties to scarves and dress shirts in bold prints. There are money clips and belt buckles and cuff links, all 3-D printed here in the U.S., and some still rocking the †Joe Boxer tagline, 'Because he can.' Graham described what he's trying to do as "post prep,"and has argued that it's time men to dress with considerably more style. Consider this a part of that larger revolution in men's wear. Now, even if you're comfortable in your khakis you should know about all this because since Graham founded Joe Boxer from his San Francisco apartment in 1985, the brand has made $7 billion world wide. He's an ideas guy. ìItís kind of like how Joe Boxer pushed men without knowing it," Graham told Business Insider. "When I started 80% of menís underwear was bought by women. Now thatís down to 20%." † It was Graham's idea to close Fashion Week in 1999 by flying 300 people to Iceland for a total blow out fashion show on an air plane hangar. It was also his idea to take over Times Square with Richard Branson in 1995. For that adventure, Graham was dressed as the Queen England, Branson was wearing a kilt, and with 14 bagpipers going strong a crane lifted them 200 feet in the air while they gave away free stuff. Graham sold Joe Boxer to Windsong Allegiance Group in 2001. Since then he's stayed on as a consultant, done some smaller projects, bought into a perfume plantation in Borneo... you know, the usual boring retirement. He's getting back in the game now because the game has changed. In a world of problem-solving startups and bypassing the man, Graham sees nothing but vast potential in e-commerce. "7th Avenue hasn't shown up," he said, adding later, "People say to me: 'You're going into the E-Commerce space? It's so saturated'... but to me, all I see is wide open space." When you sell your brand through a Macy's or Nordstrom the store decides everything ó what is sold, where and when. And as one would expect, "all they care about is profit margins," Graham explained. That's why he decided to join the ranks of the Warby Parkers and the Bonobos of the world. Those brands are killing it, and they're getting attention for their innovation from the huge retailers who've realized it's better to join them than try to beat them. Last year, Nordstrom lead a $16.4 million round of funding for Bonobos. Just as with Joe Boxer, Nick Graham the brand will come with a distinct spirit attached to it. A QR code on each item will take shoppers to a lifestyle page where they can win a $10,000 vacation to London, New York and another destination yet known. Anyone named Nick Graham will get 50% off everything on the site, and Graham's trying to figure out how to give away a trip to NYC to run NickGraham.com for two weeks. He's also decided to hire people named Nick Graham to work on the project alongside him... 'because he can.'
flickr/Adam SelwoodOppenheimer oil analyst Fadel Gheit believes oil prices are in a bubble. Gheit says 20-30% of the current oil price reflects a "supply risk premium" that will disappear when Iran's nuclear issue is finally resolved. "We believe the current oil price bubble will burst eventually and the question is not if, but when and to what level," writes Gheit in a note to clients. "Oil prices in the $75-$85 range would help spur global economic growth, keep inflation low, boost consumer confidence, and still fund many new oil projects. Settling the nuclear issue could open Iran's vast oil and gas resources to western oil companies, increase supplies, lower oil prices and squeeze speculation out of the picture." In the note, Gheit lays out his argument:
AP ImagesAbercrombie &amp; Fitch shares are falling after the company announced it was renewing the contract of controversial CEO Michael Jeffries.¬† Shares fell more than 2%. Investors reportedly wanted Jeffries out as sales have continued to fall and public perception of Abercrombie has soured.¬† "Given the Company‚Äôs history of operational missteps, taken together with Mr. Jeffries‚Äô age and his increasingly controversial reputation, the Board must not let this opportunity pass," investor and¬†Engaged Capital Managing Director Glenn W. Welling¬†wrote in a letter¬†last week.¬† Abercrombie's U.S. sales fell a whopping 18% in the third quarter. Shares have fallen 26% in the last year.¬† The contract includes some caveats. Jeffries' compensation will be more performance-based, and the company will begin a succession plan to replace the 69-year-old CEO in coming years.¬† Jeffries has also been criticized this year for his comments about only wanting "cool kids" to wear the brand's clothes. Business Insider was the first to report that the company didn't offer larger sizes for women.¬† After the backlash, the company announced it would start offering larger sizes.¬† Craig Stapleton, the director of Abercrombie's board, defended Jeffries in the company's release.¬† "Mike is a visionary in this industry and has been responsible for reinventing, creating and evolving today's Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Hollister brands. Under his direction, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has grown from just 36 domestic stores and $50 million in sales in 1992 to having a global presence and over $4 billion in sales today," Stapleton said.¬†
American Airlines American Airlines and US Airways have officially merged in the world's largest airline, and the stock is now open for trading on NASDAQ. In a ceremony held at Dallas-Fort Worth Airport in Texas, the hub of the airline, officials from NASDAQ and the airline celebrated the official opening. The ticker symbol is AAL. Doug Parker, who was chairman and CEO of US Airways and is now CEO of the new airline, said "we will restore AA to the greatest airline in the world," and that as the biggest airline, it should also be the most profitable. In November, the Department of Justice, which had sued to block the merger to preserve competition in the industry, allowed it to go forward. The new airline agreed to give up slots at seven airports around the country, which will likely go to low-cost airlines like Southwest and JetBlue. Federal bankruptcy judge Sean Lane gave American approval to exit bankruptcy in late November, allowing the merger to go ahead.
REUTERS/Sebastien NogierByron Wien, Vice Chairman of Blackstone Advisory Services, attends the GAIM International (Global Alternative Investment Management) hedge fund conference in Monaco, June 15, 2010.Blackstone Vice Chairman Byron Wien, a longtime market strategist, is underwhelmed by Wall Street's consensus for 2014. "We have reached that time in the year where everyone is speculating about the prospects for equities in the year ahead," Wien wrote in his latest monthly market commentary. "As usual the consensus is that the market will be up 10% in 2014." "I have been an observer of strategistsí estimates for half a century and I can tell you that as a group they always think the market will be up 10% in the following year whether stocks were up 20% or down 20% in the previous year," he added. Wien says that market watchers are neglecting the apparent risks and the possibility of a "fat tail." At the same time, Wien admits that 2014 could be a strong year. From his note: ...What nobody seems to be talking about is the possibility of a ìfat tail.î† With the uncertainties surrounding Obamaís Affordable Care Act, and the risks of the initiatives in Syria and Iran taking a turn for the worse, profit margins peaking and earnings falling short, the downside is certainly not out of the question.† As for the positives, the tone of economies around the world is improving, individuals are coming back into the equity market, share buy-backs continue, merger and acquisition activity is picking up, growth in Europe is getting better, the decline in oil prices increasing consumer purchasing power and interest rates are likely to stay low because of a reduction in bond offerings.† This could produce another year of strong stock market gains.† At this point I donít know which of the ìfat tailsî is more likely.† While investor optimism is approaching extreme levels on the positive side, which is a warning signal, stocks donít appear to be melting up yet.† I just have a feeling that 10% appreciation wonít be the number at year-end 2014. It's worth noting that Wien was way off on his 2013 call for the S&amp;P 500 to drop to 1300, but his summary is nonetheless interesting.
Last week, I noted that the S&amp;P 500‚Äôs profit margin rose to a record high of 9.7% during Q3. The NIPA data show that after-tax reported profits as a percentage of nominal GDP rose to 11.1% during Q3, also a new record high. The S&amp;P and NIPA profit margins are highly correlated. The former is only available since Q4-1993. The latter starts in 1947, and is currently well above all previous cyclical peaks. On a pre-tax basis, profits of nonfinancial industries rose 8.1% y/y to a record high of $1.24 trillion (saar) during Q3. Financial industry profits rose to a record high as well, but were up only 3.0% y/y. The FDIC‚Äôs latest Quarterly Banking Profile showed that banks continued to lower their provisions for loan losses and net charge-offs to the lowest readings since before the Great Recession. There may not be much more room for banks to boost their earnings in this manner. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Taper-Ready.¬†(1) A good trade. (2) Jobless rate falls to 7% ahead of Fed‚Äôs schedule. (3) Whistling a different tune at the Fed. (4) From ‚Äúshovel-ready‚Äù to ‚Äútaper-ready.‚Äù (5) From ‚ÄúGood Rotation‚Äù to ‚ÄúGreat Rotation.‚Äù (6) Record inflows into equity funds. (7) Nothing to fear but nothing to fear. (8) Lots of measures of profits and margins at record highs. (9) YRI Earned Income Proxy at record high. (10) Encouraging developments in the labor market. (More for subscribers.)
Huizenmarkt Zeepbel / YouTubeEconomist Robert Shiller was in Sweden this past weekend to attend the festivities surrounding the awarding of his 2013 economics Nobel Prize. While there, he interviewed with Sweden's Sveriges Television's svt1, and warned that Swedish home prices have disconnected from fair value. "I think there's been a change in public thinking that is driving a temporary increase in home prices," he said. "The change in thinking is of housing as an investment. And there's a perception that home prices have gone way up in lots of other countries so why not in Sweden as well." Last month, economist Nouriel Roubini warned that Sweden was among several countries showing "signs of frothiness, if not outright bubble." The svt1 reporter, who was carrying a piece of chalk, drew what appeared to be a chart of Swedish home prices on the sidewalk where the two were walking. "They think there's more value here than there really is," said Shiller gesturing to the drawing. Huizenmarkt Zeepbel / YouTube
Goldman Sachs expects the S&amp;P 500 to rally modestly to 1,900 by the end of 2014. That represents a 5% gain from today's levels. However, Goldman's clients are much more bullish. "Relative to Goldman Sachs forecasts, clients expect (a) slower GDP growth; (b) a similar level of profit growth; and (c) a higher S&amp;P 500 price target in the vicinity of 2000 (12% upside) compared with a 6% return to our target of 1900," wrote David Kostin, Goldman Sachs' top U.S. equity strategist. According to Bloomberg's survey, the median S&amp;P 500 target for 2014 is 1,913 and the average is 1,919.¬† Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus and Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker are on the bullish end of that survey, both issuing targets of 2,014 for the index. "Momentum is one reason that investors have a higher expected return for stocks than we forecast," added Kostin. "Stocks have soared 25% in 2013 after a strong 13% gain in 2012. S&amp;P 500 has climbed by 165% since it bottomed at 667 on March 9, 2009. Moreover, the YTD rise has been unusually smooth. Realized volatility is just 11% and the maximum drawdown in 2013 has been only 6%." Kostin believes the index currently trades at fair value.
REUTERSPeople surround a statue of Soviet state founder Vladimir Lenin, which was toppled by protesters during a rally organized by supporters of EU integration in Kiev, December 8, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese authorities have banned shark fin and bird's nest soup from official receptions and told lower level officials they cannot stay in suites on business trips in the latest step in a crackdown on extravagance and waste. The official Xinhua news agency said on Sunday that cigarettes and expensive alcoholic drinks were also banned from official receptions, citing a document issued by the Communist Party's Central Committee and the State Council. "Shark fins, bird nests and products of rare wild animals are popular materials in luxury dinners in China," Xinhua cited the document as saying. "Officials on business tours should arrange their own meals according to relevant expenditure standards." Chinese President Xi Jinping has sought to address growing public anger at the illegal or unethical behavior of party officials, especially those with flamboyant lifestyles, often seen as a sign they are corrupt. Since taking office in March, Xi has called corruption a threat to the party's survival and a number of government officials and executives of top companies have been detained over corruption allegations. Authorities have also issued directives aimed at curbing extravagance, including cutting personal use of government vehicles and banning the sending of new year cards at public expense. The latest document also said that officials below provincial level cannot stay in suites when on business trips, while their hosts are banned from giving them cash, souvenirs or local products as gifts, Xinhua said. Officials will also not get welcoming ceremonies at airports or stations, and conferences at tourist attractions will be banned. Oversight will be tightened to ensure the rules are followed, the Xinhua report said. (Reporting by Jonathan Standing; Editing by Angus MacSwan)
Wikimedia Commons Pretty much since 2009, analysts and economists have held out hope that next year could be the year that things return to normal. And each year has been something of a disappointment. Each year since the crisis has seen pretty weak growth, and some kind of roadblock to growth (Fiscal Cliff, sequester, debt ceiling, European disaster, etc.). Now two things seem to be happening. One is that Washington might actually get out of the way and not screw things up. Greg Valliere at Potomac Research explains: THE "NO MAS" BUDGET DEAL: Congress seems emotionally spent, willing to throw in the towel and take "small ball" deals; a long holiday break beckons. So we think there will be a budget deal within the next couple of days, along with short-term compromises on unemployment insurance, the "doc fix" and other pending bills. Much of the heavy lifting can wait until later this winter, as PRG's Suzanne Clark pointed out in her piece yesterday. WHY THE BUDGET DEAL IS IMPORTANT: As we wrote early last week, Washington will not contribute much of a headwind for the economy 2014 -- just a gentle breeze. The pending 21-month budget deal will soften the sequester (while coming up with offsetting savings), and will greatly reduce the uncertainty over fiscal issues. And, of course, the deficit continues to plunge. Meanwhile, the U.S. economy seems to be gathering a head of steam. Jobs numbers are firming up. Auto sales are growing like crazy. Gasoline prices are dropping. State and local governments are no longer shedding workers. Credit is expanding nicely to both businesses and households. So we have a semblance of real self-reinforcing momentum and a moment in politics where politicians might not press the self-destruct button. There's still always the Fed of course, though it would be beyond ironic if the start of the supposedly dovish Yellen tenure coincided with actions that actually held the economy back just as it was really getting going.
† Economist and Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman says that "in principle, you can have assets, which are considered valuable, even though there is nothing backing them," but he is skeptical about what drives the recent surge of the bitcoin.† Produced by Justin Gmoser
Bitcoin crashed on Friday and Saturday, falling from around $1100 to below $600 at one point, in part due to some headlines out of China. But the digital currency (or whatever it is) has made a big comeback, and is now back above $900. ClarkMoody
 REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA woman puts on a helmet as she stands next to a Lamborghini during the sport cars 2012 Super Show in Shanghai June 23, 2012. The event drew more than 450 high-end sports car owners who are members of various Chinese sport car clubs racing against each other during the three-day event, according to organizers. China, the world's largest automobile market, saw slowing sales growth last year, but analysts point to premium cars as a relatively new and still fast-growing sector in the country.(Reuters) - Beijing police have recommended state prosecutors bring charges against an anti-graft activist campaigning for Chinese officials to reveal their wealth, saying he broke the law by organizing demonstrations, lawyers said on Monday. Xu Zhiyong, who has also pushed for greater civil rights, was formally arrested in August in a case that has exposed shortcomings in the government's drive against deep-rooted corruption. Western governments have sparred repeatedly with Beijing over human rights and both the United States and European Union have expressed concern about Xu's case. Xu, the founder of the "New Citizens' Movement", advocates working within the system to press for change. He had called on officials online to disclose their assets and fellow activists have gone into the streets to urge citizens to combat corruption. In a letter of recommendation that Xu be prosecuted, a copy of which was obtained by Reuters, Beijing police said he organized activities where he hung banners in public calling for asset disclosure and equal access to education. Xu had also campaigned for the right of children from rural areas, who lack the correct residence paperwork, to be educated in cities where many live with their migrant worker parents. Police said that Xu's activities "created serious disturbances in public order in public places" and that he interfered with the work of public security officials, according to the document. Beijing police did not respond to a request for comment. "This represents the opinion of the public security authorities. Usually, the prosecutors will not make any changes, or just a few small ones," said Si Weijiang, a lawyer who was initially hired as counsel but then not allowed to represent Xu. Si said it could be at least another month or so before the official letter of indictment is issued, and only after that would there be a trial. Zhang Qingfang, a lawyer who has been allowed to represent Xu, said the trial could be six months away. "Right now it's difficult to say," he told Reuters. China¬†has detained at least 16 activists in the asset disclosure campaign, in what rights groups say is the new leadership's first crackdown targeting graft campaigners. Three of those activists went on trial last week in the poor southern province of Jiangxi. Xi Jinping's appointment as Communist Party chief in a once-in-a-decade leadership change last November had inspired many Chinese with hope for political reform, spurring citizens nationwide to push for the asset disclosures. But the detentions signal the Communist Party will not tolerate any open challenge to its rule, despite the claims of greater transparency. Xu has long been a thorn in the government's side. In 2009, he was briefly arrested on tax evasion charges his defenders said were trumped up in a bid to stifle his work. The charges were dropped after a public furor. (Reporting by Natalie Thomas and Megha Rajagopalan; Writing by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Nick Macfie)
Here's a great table tweeted by @pawelmorski: @pawelmorski What you see is the significance of credit to economic growth in each of these regions. In the US for example, credit expansion accounted for 9.1% of GDP. These days that's down to 3.5%. But that's much bigger than the UK, which is at 1.2%, and it's WAY bigger than the Euro area, where credit is still shrinking, and where the whole banking system is broken. Japan on the other hand is the only place where credit is now a larger share of GDP than it was pre-crisis, which is consistent with the country's new approach of stimulating via much easier money. These two lines explain a lot.
REUTERS/Henry RomeroHot air balloons float during a festival as part of the spring equinox at the Sun pyramid of Teotihuacan outside Mexico City, Mexico March 21, 2007. Markets staged a major rally on Friday after the US jobs report came in way better than expected. And that rally is continuing today. Playing catch-up, Japan gained 2.29%. Italy is up 0.5%. Germany is up 0.3%. And US futures are up modestly. This week is going to be much quieter than last week in terms of economic data, although there will be a Fed decision later this week where they might "taper." The NYT's Binyamin Appelbaum reported yesterday that the Fed was probably still leaning toward an early 2014 taper.
