REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA view of the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt; put four senior technology specialists on administrative leave after a trading glitch that led to a flood of erroneous options trades, the Financial Times reported, citing people familiar with the situation. Last Tuesday, an upgrade of an internal system affected options on stocks and some exchange-traded funds with listing symbols beginning with the letters H through L. The Financial Times said about 80 percent of the mistaken contracts sent to the New York Stock Exchange were cancelled, limiting losses for Goldman. But the glitch "provoked a strong reaction" within the bank, which takes pride in a reputation for risk management, the paper said.(http://link.Reuters.com/jeg62v) The system, called a "trading axis", monitors the Wall Street bank's inventory to determine whether it should be a more aggressive buyer or seller in the market. But a technical error misinterpreted non-binding indications of interest, or IOIs, as firm bids and offers, leading to some trades that were vastly out of line with where market prices were, Reuters reported previously, citing a source familiar with the matter. Goldman Sachs was not available for comment outside of regular business hours. (Reporting by Krithika Krishnamurthy in Bangalore; Editing by Chris Gallagher)
REUTERS/Toru HanaiEmployees of the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) react as they look at an electric stock quotation board at the bourse in Tokyo.SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian stocks rose and gold hit a near three-month high while the dollar nursed losses on Monday, extending a move started late last week when a steep drop in U.S. new home sales tempered expectations the Federal Reserve will soon reduce stimulus. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; edged up 0.3 percent, adding to Friday's 0.8 percent gain. Tokyo's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; climbed 0.3 percent. The MSCI index still suffered a hefty 2.9 percent drop last week, with much of the heat felt in the region's emerging markets as investors pulled out of these once high-yielding domain as they positioned for a post-stimulus world. Indonesia, Brazil and India have scrambled to stem the destabilizing outflows that have knocked their currencies sharply lower, with the rupee skidding to record lows recently. Indeed, global central bankers at the Fed's annual Jackson Hole policy conference in Wyoming warned on Saturday that global financial stability is at risk as ultra-easy policies that have flooded the world with cash are wound up. Data out on Friday showing sales of new U.S. single-family homes fell to their lowest in nine months raised doubts about whether the Fed afford to start to pull back next month and gave investors an excuse to buy back severely beaten-down assets. But Evan Lucas, market strategist at IG in Melbourne, warned of more volatility in equity and currency markets ahead. "We have been calling for the actual taper to start in October as we believe the September meeting will be the blueprint meeting; where the Fed will spell out exactly when, how, with what conditions and with a fluid timeline to completion," he said. "It's the bond market that will show how much of an impact the taper will have. If there is a spike in yields we will see panic trading over the coming months." While Friday's U.S. housing data is helping stocks and gold to recover for now, it weighed on the dollar. The dollar index &lt;.DXY&gt;, which tracks the performance of the greenback against a basket of major currencies, was flat at 81.365, having slipped 0.2 percent on Friday. Against the yen, the dollar traded at 98.80 off Friday's peak of 99.15, while the euro bought $1.2932, having climbed as high as $1.3410. Spot gold briefly popped above $1,400 an ounce for the first time since early June, extending Friday's 1.5 percent rally. It last stood at $1,395.79. U.S. crude was also bid at $107.05 a barrel, having gained 1.3 percent late last week, partly helped by a rise in gasoline futures following news of a unit shutdown at a Canadian East Coast refinery. There is not much in the way of market-moving data out of Asia on Monday, while UK markets will be shut for a public holiday. (Editing by Eric Meijer)
NEW YORK (AP) ó Muriel "Mickie" Siebert, the first woman to become a member of the New York Stock Exchange, has died of complications of cancer at age 80. Siebert died Saturday of complications from cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Her death was confirmed by Jane Macon, a director of Siebert Financial and a partner at the law firm Norton Rose Fulbright. Siebert was founder and president of brokerage firm that bears her name, Muriel Siebert &amp; Co. Inc. The company went public in 1996 as Siebert Financial Corp. Macon said Siebert was "a fabulous woman, a trailblazer and a pioneer" who set a high standard for those who entered the financial world after her. Siebert, who was born in Cleveland and moved to New York in 1954 at age 22, started her career as a trainee in research at Bache &amp; Co. earning a $65 a week. She went on to become an industry specialist in airlines and aerospace and later became a partner at brokerages including Brimberg &amp; Co. She bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange in December 1967 after months of struggling with the male-dominated business world that initially resisted her efforts to join. She established her investment firm the same year and transformed it into a discount brokerage house in 1975. Siebert took a leave of absence from the company in 1977 and placed it in a blind trust to be run by the employees when she was appointed the first woman superintendent of banking for the State of New York by Gov. Hugh Carey. She served five years. As interest rates climbed steeply and bank failures became common, Siebert launched protective measures to prevent banks from failing in New York. She reorganized troubled banks, forced bank mergers, and convinced the federal government to advance millions of dollars to make the new mergers viable. She persuaded stronger institutions to help weaker ones. In 1982, Siebert resigned from the job to run for the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate seat of Daniel Patrick Moynihan. She came in second to a state lawmaker, Florence Sullivan, who went on to lose to Moynihan in the November election. Siebert returned to running her company. To celebrate 30 years as member of the exchange, Siebert was invited to ring the closing bell on the NYSE. The ceremony was held on Jan. 5, 1998. The next year, while president of the New York Women's Agenda ó a coalition of over 100 women's organizations ó Siebert developed a personal finance program to improve the financial literacy of young people. The program became part of the New York City high schools economics curriculum for seniors. Siebert worked to expand the program nationally. An advocate for women in business, she served on several organizations including the Council on Foreign Relations, the International Women's Forum, Deloitte &amp; Touche's Council for the Advancement and Retention of Women, and the New York Women's Forum, for which she was a founder and president. "She always pushed the doors open and kept them open for other people to follow," Macon said in a telephone interview. "Mickie was a pioneer and recognized as a leader throughout the financial services industry and beyond," Siebert Financial Chief Operating Officer Joseph Ramos said in a prepared statement. "Those of us who worked with her will miss her spirit, leadership and great commitment to her clients and the securities markets." Siebert also is a former appointee to the New York State Commission on Judicial Nomination and the National Women's Business Council. Siebert, who lived in New York City, never married and did not have any children. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
ShutterstockYou've probably heard plenty of grumblings about the sky-high rent in New York City. Still, rich people continue to buy million dollar homes in Manhattan¬†‚Äî as rich people are wont to do. Now, they're spending more than the price of the average American home on storage (as rich people are wont to do, too). The New York Post looked at one luxury skyscraper due out in 2015, Tribeca‚Äôs 56 Leonard, and found one tenant paying $300,000 for a storage cage. The millionaires purchased a three-bedroom apartment on an upper floor for around $5 to $9.25 million. This is the new trend, apparently. From the Post: For the subterranean storage, people are shelling out as much as $1,800 a square foot. The building‚Äôs 76 basement cages start at $72,000 for 40 square feet and $214,200 for 119 square feet and can be combined to create larger underground closets. ¬†Better save up. Read the full report at The New York Post&gt;
APSynchronized anything is a rare sight.At this point, the market economists expect the Federal Reserve to announce on September 18 that it will begin tapering its monthly $85 billion purchases of mortgage and Treasury bonds. Of course, there will be plenty of economic data before the 18th that the Fed will consider before setting anything in stone. In particular, there will be a lot of updates on the state of U.S. jobs. "Between now and the August employment report (released September 6), market¬† participants will be keenly scrutinizing the economic data for clues as to how the labor market performed this month," said Deutsche Bank's Brett Ryan in his discussion about Fed tapering. "While we expect the August employment report to be the key determinate, other labor market indicators, such as the jobs plentiful/jobs hard-to-get component of the August consumer confidence report (Tuesday), jobless claims, and the employment component of the Chicago PMI (Friday) take on added significance." "The fact that the 4-week moving average on jobless claims is at its lowest level since November 2007 bodes well for a firming tone in other labor market indicators." It also bodes well that we may be witnessing synchronized global growth. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Everyone's been talking about the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio,the valuation metric that Yale economist Robert Shiller used to predict the dotcom bubble. Currently, the measure suggests the stock market is a bit expensive. But in a piece for the Financial Times, UPenn finance professor Jeremy Siegel speculated that the CAPE was biased in its current form. "Downward biased S&amp;P earnings send average 10-year earnings down and bias the Cape ratio upward," he wrote. "In fact, when [National Income and Product Accounts] profits are substituted for S&amp;P reported earnings in the Cape model, the current market shows no overvaluation."
REUTERS/Mike CarlsonNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has filed a lawsuit against Donald Trump and his eponymous "Trump University" for defrauding students looking to learn about the billionaire's brand of business acumen. The suit says that 5,000 students, many paying thousands of dollars, thought they would get to at least meet the Donald. Instead, they only got their picture taken with a cardboard cutout. Between 2005 and 2011, Trump University swindled consumers into paying for a spate of expensive courses that did not deliver on promises to teach real estate investing techniques, the suit alleges. "More than 5,000 people across the country who paid Donald Trump $40 million to teach them his hard sell tactics got a hard lesson in bait-and-switch," Schneiderman said in a statement. "Mr. Trump used his celebrity status and personally appeared in commercials making false promises to convince people to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn't afford for lessons they never got." Schneiderman argues that Trump promised free workshops taught by his own knowledgeable, hand-picked instructors who were, in fact, nothing of the sort. The free workshops were actually designed to get students to sign up for another three-day, $1,495 seminar where Trump would supposedly appear in person, the suit alleges. Those students were also pushed to sign up for a "Trump elite mentorship program" ranging from $10,000 to $35,000 a head. Trump's attorney Michael Cohen denied the charges, arguing they were purely political. "The attorney general has been angry because he felt that Mr. Trump and his various companies should have done much more for him in terms of fundraising," Cohen said. The writing was on the wall for Trump University years ago, when the New York Education Department said it was not licensed to call itself a university. It became "Trump Entrepreneur Institute" in 2011. Here's the full press release: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ A.G. SCHNEIDERMAN SUES DONALD TRUMP, TRUMP UNIVERSITY &amp; MICHAEL SEXTON FOR DEFRAUDING CONSUMERS OUT OF $40 MILLION WITH SHAM ìUNIVERSITYî Trump Appeared In Ads That Falsely Claimed Trump University Would Use His ìHandpicked Expertsî To Teach Get Rich Real Estate Techniques, Bilking Students Out Of Thousands Of Dollars  A.G. Schneiderman: ìNo Matter How Rich Or Popular You Are, No One Has Right To Scam Hard Working New Yorkers; Anyone Who Does Will Be Held Accountableî  NEW YORK -†Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman today announced that he has filed a lawsuit against Donald Trump, The Trump Entrepreneur Institute -- formerly named Trump University LLC (ìTrump Universityî), and Michael Sexton, former President of Trump University for engaging in persistent fraudulent, illegal and deceptive conduct in connection with the operation of Trump University. Between 2005 through 2011, Trump University operated as an unlicensed educational institute that promised to teach Donald Trumpís real estate investing techniques to consumers nationwide but instead misled consumers into paying for a series of expensive courses that did not deliver on their promises. "More than 5,000 people across the country who paid Donald Trump $40 million to teach them his hard sell tactics got a hard lesson in bait-and-switch," said Attorney General Schneiderman. "Mr. Trump used his celebrity status and personally appeared in commercials making false promises to convince people to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn't afford for lessons they never got. No one, no matter how rich or popular they are, has a right to scam hard working New Yorkers. Anyone who does should expect to be held accountable."The petition filed in New York Supreme Court in Manhattan by Attorney General Schneiderman details the advertisements run by Trump University in major newspapers across the country and the direct mail solicitations sent to entice consumers to attend a free workshop. These ads prominently displayed Donald Trumpís photograph and signature, or were styled as letters written†by Trump himself. The advertisements were replete with false claims, including claims that consumers would learn ìfrom Donald Trumpís handpicked instructor a systematic method for investing in real estate that anyone can use.î Other ads promised ìmy handpicked instructors will share my techniquesî or ìlearn from my hand-picked expertî and ìjust copy exactly what Iíve done and get rich.îAn investigation by Attorney General Schneiderman revealed that Donald Trump did not handpick even a single instructor at these seminars and had little or no role in developing any of the Trump University curricula, or seminar content. The investigation also revealed that officials used the name ìTrump Universityî even though they lacked the charter necessary under New York law to call themselves a University. They were also unlicensed under New York State Education Law, evading an array of legal protections designed to protect New Yorkers from fraud. Even though Trump University was notified by the†New York State Education Department (ìNYSEDî) as early as 2005 that these practices violated New York law, Trump University did not change its name until May 2010 and never received a license to operate in the state. As a result, many students believed they were attending a University, when they were not. This misconception was reinforced by Trump Universityís use of a University-like seal on much of its material and awarding diploma-like Certificates of Completion bearing Donald Trumpís signature.Despite Trump Universityís advertised claims, consumers attending free seminars did not learn Donald Trumpís real estate techniques. Instead, Trump Universityís instructors made multiple misrepresentations to convince consumers to sign up for a $1,495 three-day seminar. These misrepresentations included false claims about the three-day seminars such as: Instructors also insinuated Donald Trump himself would appear at the three-day seminar.In reality, many of the promises made at the free seminars went unfulfilled. Despite claims to the contrary, consumers who paid for and attended the three-day seminars were not taught everything they needed to know about real estate investing. For example, consumers did not receive substantive instruction†on how to raise money from hard money lenders or receive an extensive ìapprenticeship supportî program. Instead of providing the sustained support promised by Trump Universityís instructors, consumers were provided a list of lenders from a commercially available magazine. Instead of a personal appearance from Donald Trump as some consumers were led to expect, some participants got their photographs taken with a life-size photo of Mr. Trump. Instead of providing all of the promised services, instructors used the three-day seminars to pitch consumers an expensive Trump Elite mentorship programs costing $10,000 to $35,000. Trump University promised that the mentorships provided one-on-one training during which students would have personal assistance until they executed their first real estate deal and recouped the cost of the program. While consumers were encouraged to call their credit card companies during breaks, to increase their credit limits to have access to funds to do real estate deals, the real reason Trump University asked consumers to request higher credit limits was so they could use the credit to pay for the expensive Elite programs.Many consumers who made the costly investments did not receive the individual mentor attention promised. After an initial three-day†session, many mentors failed to return phone calls or emails and provided little to no follow-up assistance. Despite diligent efforts, many consumers were unable to conclude even a single real estate deal and were left worse off than they had been before enrolling in the Trump University programs. Some consumers faced thousands of dollars of debt due to the expensive cost of the Elite Programs. Many felt they had been victims of an elaborate scam.Trump University also committed violations of federal consumer protection law. Federal law provides a three business-day right of cancellation for the type of purchases at issue here, but Trump University repeatedly failed to honor consumersí timely requests to cancel. The lawsuit seeks full restitution for the more than 5,000 consumers nationwide who were defrauded of over $40 million in the scheme, disgorgement of profits, as well as costs and penalties and injunctive relief prohibiting these types of illegal practices going forward.  Consumers with complaints against Trump University should file a complaint with the OAG. Complaint forms are available here. The case is being handled by Assistant Attorneys General Tristan C. Snell and Melvin L. Goldberg, under the supervision of the Bureau of Consumer Frauds and Protectionís Deputy Bureau Chief, Laura J. Levine; Bureau Chief Jane M. Azia, and Executive Deputy Attorney General for Economic Justice Karla G. Sanchez.
Wikimedia CommonsGoldman Sachs recently released its new "Hedge Fund Trend Monitor," giving clients a glimpse into the investment moves and strategies by 708 of the world's biggest funds. In the report, Goldman lays out the 20 most "concentrated" stocks, meaning a large share of their market capitalization is owned in aggregate by hedge funds. In upward trending markets, buying these 20 stocks has been a successful strategy. Less so in a "choppy or flat" market. From the report: The ‚Äúmost concentrated‚Äù stocks lagged for most of 2007 and 2008, but significantly outperformed in 2009 (81.4% vs. 26.5%) and 2010 (15.9% vs. 15.1%). Our ‚Äúmost concentrated‚Äù basket underperformed the S&amp;P 500 by 391 bp in 2011 (-1.8% vs. 2.1%) but outperformed by 814 bp in 2012 (24.1% vs. 16.0%). We ranked the stocks based on the percentage of¬†equity cap owned by hedge funds and included the three funds with the largest stake.
APIt's enough to make a poor man cry and a wealthy investor sprint for the exit. From the back of a van in Delhi's chaotic Karol Bagh market, opposition politicians are selling discounted onions to disgruntled voters ahead of next year's general election. The humble red onion, heart of the vegetable curry most Indians depend on, has more than trebled in price in the last few weeks and opposition leaders hope the increase will take a large bite into the Congress-led government's remaining support. Peeling back its bashed, husky outer skin to its tear-jerking inner layers reveals not only the story of why its price has risen so sharply in the last month, but why the rupee has bombed in the foreign exchange markets and how India's all-action 'growth story' has become a real weepy. Last week, as the rupee tumbled below 63 to the US dollar and crashed through the 100 rupees to the pound barrier, onions were an unaffordable 80 rupees per kilo. The government may need to import them to increase supply and push back prices, but that option will become more expensive as rupee rates fall lower every day. The immediate cause of the increase was the heavy monsoon rains in Maharashtra which left the vegetables rotting in the ground, but the price may not have soared so high had the government been strong and decisive enough to reform its agricultural sector when it first planned to in 2009. It hoped foreign supermarkets like Tesco and Walmart would come in and revolutionise India's backward agricultural sector. Forty per cent of all Indian produce rots on clunky bullock carts and rough baked roads before reaching the market. When they arrive, farmers get a tiny fraction on the retail price as as they pass through at least five agents, each taking their cut. Of the eighty rupees per kilo they were selling for last week, the farmer's share was just eight. India needs new smooth roads, cold-chain storage and modern transport logistics to replace sweaty bullock carts, and direct sales from farmer to retailer to stabilise prices, increase farm incomes and reduce food inflation - one of the country's most politically sensitive issues. The Indian government came close to collapse when it first announced its plan to allow foreign supermarkets to set up shop in late 2011. But it backed down after a key coalition partner threatened to resign and bring down the government with it. By the time the government decided to push through the reform regardless last year, all the main supermarkets had been frightened off by the instability they had seen, and requirements to source 30pc of their goods from local suppliers. The speed of India's sudden decline has taken many, including hopeful 'partners' like Britain, by surprise. Barely three years ago, as Britain and the United States were staring at the worst recession in eight decades, India's economy was growing at 8.5pc, a pound could buy only 65 rupees and ministers casually talked of double digit growth by 2011. They planned to spend a trillion dollars on upgrading roads, building new airports, ports, and faster trains. The spoke of opening up their pension, banking, legal, defence and education sectors, and creating new low-tax special economic zones where firms could set up base without going through the dense undergrowth of Indian bureaucracy. Since then, very few of those trillion dollars have been spent, major power projects have been halted, and bills to lift other barriers to foreign investment are gathering dust as India's opposition regularly walks out of parliament in protest. Special Economic Zones have been abandoned and GDP has plunged to 5pc - not enough to maintain living standards when India's population becomes the world's largest within the next 15 years. So, like Tesco and other supermarket chains, potential investors are holding back and watching. Subodh Agarwal, co-founder of Mergers and Acquisition specialists Euromax Capital, made his fortune as an early champion of the Indian growth story. He began from Mumbai, India's financial capital, and eventually set up shop in London, Singapore and Dubai, playing a role in the great Indian take-away which saw some of its biggest firms buy British business icons like Corus Steel, Jaguar Land Rover and Whyte and Mackay distillers. Today, he thinks he may have to close his loss-making Mumbai office, and blames the government for frittering away a golden opportunity. "Even Indians are not investing in India. Indians have lost faith in their own economy because of non-governance," he said. It has failed to encourage longer term investment in essential infrastructure and instead made it easier for speculators to dip in and out. He believes the government should have introduced bonds for investors in infrastructure development but instead penalised major investors like the British mobile phone giant Vodafone, which was hit with an unexpected $2 billion tax bill after it acquired Indian rival Hutch in 2007. It was just one of a series of decisions which made investors fear their money may not be safe in India. That fear has frightened away investors when it has never needed them more to reduce a current account deficit which has "ballooned" to 4.8pc. Inflation is just under 9pc but will now rise steadily as the rupee continues to fall. Mr Agarwal believes the rupee will continue its slump to 77 to the dollar and beyond, pushing inflation to above 13pc within a few weeks. He believes India's hopes of recovery depend on a strong, decisive government emerging from the next election. "We need a stable government to develop a long term financial plan and policies to encourage long term money, say dollar infrastructure bonds," he said. Investors will wait until the market has bottomed out, and the country's leadership offers strong governance. The crisis is "entirely political" he said. Most political analysts however expect the next government to be another fragile coalition. G.P Hinduja, whose family group owns Ashok Leyland, one of India's largest truck and car manufacturers, said the fundamentals of the Indian economy remained sound, but negative perceptions of the government had thrown India into a negative cycle. It appears that the government failed to see the warning signs of problems ahead when investment by Indian firms started to slow and taken continued growth for granted. "Reforms got slowed down as a result, retrogressive steps such as retrospective application of tax laws were taken, large investment projects were held up for environmental and other reasons, with the government unable to take tough decisions because of coalition compulsions. Along with this, scams in various areas were exposed," he said. The government needs to breakout of the vicious circle it's now in by clearing a number if major infrastructure projects, reassure international firms it will not apply laws retroactively, and resist pressure to reject environmental clearances for mining and industrial projects. India's Current Account Deficit could be reduced by issuing sovereign bonds and a "voluntary disclosure scheme to incentivise money held abroad to return," he said. With the election expected early next year, however, few decision makers are thinking of the long term, and neither are the voters who crowded around the Bharatiya Janata Party's vegetable van in Karol Bagh last week to buy onions at a bargain 35 rupees a kilo. Like their political rulers, they're getting what they can while it's going. 
NEW YORK (AP) ó It's time for U.S. investors to revisit Europe. Last summer, much of the continent was mired in recession and the euro currency looked like a failed experiment. Now, Europe is healing. The 17 countries that use the euro posted economic growth of 0.3 percent from April to June compared with the previous quarter, the first expansion since late 2011. Industrial production is up, consumer spending is stable and stock markets are rising as people and businesses gain confidence. Fund managers and market strategists say the last several months of better economic news and higher stock prices could signal the start a long-term rally for the continent. "There are now clear signs that Europe is turning," says Jurrien Timmer, a portfolio manager at Fidelity Investments. Timmer recommends that investors move part of their U.S. investments into Europe. In France, the CAC 40 stock index has risen 12 percent this year. Germany's DAX index is up 11 percent. Even more troubled economies like Spain and Italy aren't discouraging investors: Italy's FTSE MIB has climbed 7 percent and Spain's IBEX is up 6 percent. European stocks appear to be less expensive than their U.S. counterparts, based on their price-earnings ratio, or P/E. Low P/Es signal that stocks are cheap relative to their earnings; high ones signal they are expensive. The Stoxx Euro 600, Europe's equivalent of the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index, is trading at 13.1 times earnings over the next 12 months. That is slightly cheaper than the 14.1 times for the S&amp;P 500. Europe's nascent recovery can be traced back to a year ago. On July 26, 2012, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged to do "whatever it takes" to save the currency union. Later, the ECB calmed fears of state bankruptcies in countries like Spain and Italy by promising to buy back government debt, if needed. The improving fortunes of the eurozone can be seen in the borrowing costs of governments. The yield on Spain's 10-year bond, for example, is now 4.44 percent, down from 6.83 percent at the end of last August. "Even this slight stabilization will help lead to renewed confidence in the eurozone," says Sean Lynch, global investment strategist for Wells Fargo Private Bank. Europe's recovery is still patchy, but enough encouraging trends have emerged. France exited its 18-month recession last quarter. Germany's economy, Europe's biggest, grew at a 0.7 percent annual rate, more than economists expected. Investor confidence there also hit a six-month high in August, according to the Centre for European Economic Research. And while Spain's unemployment rate is 26.3 percent and its economy contracted by 0.1 percent in the second quarter, unemployment is at a five-month low. Economists expect Spain to pull out of its recession by year-end. "The news out of Europe is encouraging," Lynch says. "It's too early to ring the 'all-clear' button, though." In a conference call with investors on Aug. 14, Cisco CEO John Chambers said that business across Europe, particularly Britain and Northern Europe, was showing "very positive progress." "We remain cautious, however, given the instability of the southern region," Chambers said. That compares with a more skeptical view last month from McDonald's CEO Donald Thomson, who said the European economy had not yet turned the corner. "I think the economists may be a bit ahead of themselves," Thomson said. "Some markets may have bottomed out. I would tell you some of the larger markets are still having some challenges." Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, says Europe looks attractive partly because the economy still has challenges. "The stock market is a leading indicator. It moves before the economic data catches up with it," Sonders says. March 2009, for example, was a good time to get into U.S. stocks, she says, even though things were "terrible economically." The market was at its recession low back then and stocks were cheap. The S&amp;P 500 has climbed 146 percent since then, helped by a recovery in the employment and housing markets, and the Federal Reserve's stimulus program. This year alone, the index is up 17 percent. While Sonders believes investors should continue to focus on the U.S. stock market, Schwab has an "outperform" rating on European stocks. Still, it's probably too early for risk-averse investors to put money into Europe, says Alberto Gallo, head of European macro credit research for the Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC. If people want to invest there, they should focus on corporate or high-yield bonds from the healthier eurozone countries such as Germany and France, Gallo says. "The large institutional investors are not coming back to the eurozone's (struggling) countries yet," Gallo says. "The interest has been mainly (from) hedge funds. The institutional investors still see parts of Europe as too risky." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderNew details have emerged in the case of Jason Lee, a Goldman Sachs banker arrested on alleged rape charges in the Hamptons last week. Now on leave from the bank, Lee is a managing director in Goldman's equity capital markets group. FINRA records show he has been with the firm since 1998. According to a report in the East Hampton Star, a grand jury will soon indict Lee on charges of first-degree rape. Here's how the Star says it went down: Lee and friend Rene Duncan went to a Hamptons restaurant to celebrate Lee's birthday where they met a group of foreign students, including the alleged victim. The party continued at Lee's rental home. At some point during the evening, Lee and the 20-year-old victim went into the house and the alleged rape occurred. After one of the other foreign students borrowed Duncan's car to drive another home and did not return, Duncan called the police to report the car as stolen (the car was found the next day). But the police still came to the East Hampton house. From the Star: With police now at the scene, the source said, the brother of the alleged victim drew a female officer aside and led her into the house, where the 20-year-old, who was crying, was interviewed. According to the source, Mr. Lee then went to the driveway, got into his late-model Range Rover ‚Äî which has dark, tinted windows ‚Äî and tried to hide; it was there that he was found by police. Detectives were called, and the distraught woman eventually agreed to press charges. The grand jury indictment has been fast-tracked because the victim had planned to return to her home country in the near future, according to the report.
Wait a second ... Geithner? Did someone say Geithner? We thought he retired from government to go home to New York. Well yes, but not exactly. A key insider source tells me that Geithner has been leading the search for Bernanke's replacement. My source, by the way, predicted a Larry Summers boomlet well before Summers' name became public. And now my source tells me that the only way to end the bloodletting between Fed-chair hopefuls Janet Yellen and Summers is to find a third option. And that third option includes Geithner, as well as former Fed veteran Donald Kohn. Kohn, however, is a 70-something old-timer. But Geithner is a huge favorite of President Barack Obama's. A recent article in The Hill talks about Geithner as Obama's right-hand man, and as someone who will be missed if he's left out of the crucial fiscal and economic battles ahead. And many people on Wall Street say Geithner knows more about financial markets than Summers and Yellen combined. Geithner, of course, was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the 2008 financial crisis. And he was an international advisor under Robert Rubin during the world currency crisis of the late 1990s. So Geithner has credentials. Meanwhile, the whole Yellen-Summers story has become a circuslike fiasco. It's the most political battle for the supposedly independent Federal Reserve chairmanship that anyone can remember in the hundred-year history of the central bank. Some analysts even believe the big jump in long-term interest rates is partly a function of the Fed losing control of rates in the midst of the Yellen-Summers swingout. (Incidentally, I believe markets, not the Fed, control most interest rates.) But surely, the Yellen-Summers battle has made Bernanke a lame duck well before his time. His term doesn't expire until January. But Bernanke didn't even show up at the big Fed confab in Jackson Hole, Wyo., this month. It's the first time that meeting has been chairmanless in 25 years. (Read More: Why Bernanke's absence from Jackson Hole matters) So will it be Geithner to the rescue? Fed policymakers are completely divided over the big question of slowing down, or tapering, the program of $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. Despite rosy Fed staff forecasts, the real economy has grown by less than 2 percent in recent quarters and nominal GDP has advanced only 2.9 percent over the past year. These figures would normally be associated with recession. And talk of a second-half rebound lacks credibility, with soft back-to-school consumer spending and virtually no business-capital investment. Jobs are rising, but under the threat of Obamacare these are temporary part-time job gains with fewer hours worked than the full-time jobs that would substantially increase incomes. A few weeks ago there was a tapering consensus for September. Now it looks to be pushed back to December, and maybe even later. And international currency blowups in places like India, Brazil, and Indonesia only complicate the Fed's thinking. So right now, the question is this: How long can we stomach a virtually leaderless and directionless Fed? The answer is not long. And perhaps the solution‚Äîand I say perhaps‚Äîis Geithner. Conservatives have never trusted Geithner because of a late-tax-payment problem that surfaced during his Treasury-confirmation period. But he has long apologized for that and has paid his liabilities. Bigger problems for him include his participation in the Wall Street bank bailout and his continued advocacy of the unpopular Dodd-Frank regulatory law. (Read more: Obama presses for action on bank rules) While I completely disagree with the former Treasury man on Too Big to Fail and tax hikes on the rich, he's a very bright guy who understands financial markets and who has always been accessible to conservatives like myself who may disagree with him. My biggest problem, however, is that I have never heard him talk about a rules-based monetary policy. Whether it's the Taylor rule, a gold-commodity value-of-the-dollar rule, or a nominal-GDP target, the Fed desperately needs discipline and clarity as it wiggles out of its bloated $3.5 trillion balance sheet and charts a long-term course of stable money. Geithner may have thoughts on these things, but so far as I know, he has never articulated them. What can be said is that today's Fed is in a very unstable position, which is not good for markets or the economy. The sooner the president can end this Fed-choice thing, the better. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's Larry Kudlow; Follow him on Twitter @larry_kudlow
Fisker AutomotiveHands up all those of you who'd forgotten that Fisker Automotive¬†still exists? The company might not have produced a car¬†in over a year, but the struggling firm is still yet to declare bankruptcy too, as it sits in some kind of automotive hibernation until an investor or buyer can be found. Fisker is worth a mere fraction of the $1.4 billion that originally went into the company, including its $192 million Department of Energy loan. As¬†AutoBild¬†reports (via our sister site¬†Motor Authority), a German group is said to be interested in acquiring the company, for a mere $25 million. The Frankfurt-based group, Fritz Nol, has already drawn up a restructuring plan for Fisker. One of the largest elements would involve moving Fisker production from independent Finnish manufacturer Valmet to a facility in the U.S.--likely the Wilmington, Delaware facility¬†bought by Fisker to build its stillborn second model, the Atlantic. Fritz Nol would be getting good value for money from such a deal--the ex-GM facility cost Fisker $20 million in the first place... The German firm would have to invest more than $25 million to get the electric automaker going again, but if the bid is successful Fritz Nol aims to build 2,500 more Karmas, before adding other planned models like the Surf shooting brake and Sunset convertible. Fritz Nol is just one of several investors who've shown an interest since the company laid off most of its staff back in April. Bob Lutz, whose VL Automotive concern previewed a V-8-powered Karma called the Destino,¬†put in a bid back in May. Fisker's namesake and original founder Henrik Fisker¬†also showed an interest in the company, with the backing of a Hong Kong-based investor group. Fisker¬†had left his company a few months earlier, in March. Since the bankruptcy of battery supplier A123 systems last year, Fisker Automotive has suffered a continual downward slide. Fires, flooding at a Hurricane Sandy-ravaged port and subsequent issues with insurance following the incident compounded with other issues, leaving the automaker struggling for survival. With investors still interested there may yet be hope for Fisker--but the company is worth the smallest fraction of what it once was. _______________________________________________________ Follow GreenCarReports on¬†Facebook,¬†Twitter,¬†Instagram¬†and¬†Google+
AP Photo/Christian LutzA steel worker from ArcelorMittal demonstrates in Strasbourg, France "The emotional side of me tends to imagine France, like the princess in the fairy stories or the Madonna in the frescoes, as dedicated to an exalted and exceptional destiny. Instinctively I have the feeling that Providence has created her either for complete successes or for exemplary misfortunes. Our country, as it is, surrounded by the others as they are, must aim high and hold itself straight, on pain of mortal danger. In short, to my mind, France cannot be France without greatness. ‚Äì Charles de Gaulle, from his memoirs Recently there have been a spate of horrific train wrecks in the news. Almost inevitably we find out there was human error involved. Almost four years ago I began writing about the coming train wreck that was Europe and specifically Greece. It was clear from the numbers that Greece would have to default, and I thought at the time that Portugal would not be too far behind. Spain and Italy clearly needed massive restructuring. Part of the problem I highlighted was the significant imbalance between exports and imports in all of the above countries. In the Eurozone there was no mechanism by which exchange rates could be used to balance the labor-cost differentials between the peripheral countries and those of the northern tier. And then there's France. I've been writing in this space for some time that France has the potential to become the next Greece. I've spent a good deal of time this past month reviewing the European situation, and I'm more convinced than ever that France is on its way to becoming the most significant economic train wreck in Europe within the next few years. We shifted focus at the beginning of the year to Japan because of the real crisis that is brewing there. Over the next few months I will begin to refocus on Europe as that train threatens to go off the track again. And true to form, this wreck will be entirely due to human error, coupled with a large dollop of hubris. This week we will take a brief look at the problems developing in Europe and then do a series of in-depth dives between now and the beginning of winter. The coming European crisis will not show up next week but will start playing in a movie theater near you sometime next year. Today's letter will close with a little speculation on how the developing conflict between France and Germany and the rest of its euro neighbors will play out. I think I need first to acknowledge that the market clearly doesn't agree with me. The market for French OATS (Obligations Assimilables du Tr√©sor), their longer-term bonds, sees no risk. The following chart is a comparison of interest rates for much of the developed world, which I reproduce for those who are interested in comparative details. Notice that French rates are lower than those of the US, Canada, and the UK. Now I understand that interest rates are a function of monetary policy, inflation expectations, and the demand for money, which are all related to economic growth, but still‚Ä¶. Mauldin France's neighbors, Italy and Spain, have rates that are roughly double France's. But as we will see, the underlying economics are not that much different for the three countries, and you can make a good case that France‚Äôs trajectory may be the worst. We will start with a remarkable example of both hubris and economic ignorance published earlier this year in¬†Le Monde.¬†Under the headline¬†"No: France Is Not Bankrupt," Bruno Moschetto, a professor of economics at the University of Paris I and HEC, made the following case. He apparently wrote this with a straight face. If you are not alone, please try not to giggle out loud and annoy people around you. (Hat tip to my good friend Mike Shedlock.) No, France is not bankrupt .... The claim is untrue economically and financially. France is not and will not bankrupt because it would then be in a state of insolvency. A state cannot be bankrupt, in its own currency, to foreigners and residents, since the latter would be invited to meet its debt by an immediate increase in taxation. In abstract, the state is its citizens, and the citizens are the guarantors of obligations of the state. In the final analysis, "The state is us." To be in a state of suspension of payments, a state would have to be indebted in a foreign currency, unable to deal with foreign currency liabilities in that currency‚Ä¶. Ultimately our leaders have all the financial and political means, through the levying of taxes, to be facing our deadlines in euros. And besides, our lenders regularly renew their confidence, and rates have never been lower. Four things leap to mind as I read this. First, Professor, saying a country is not bankrupt because it would then be insolvent is kind of like saying your daughter cannot be pregnant because she would then have a baby. Just because something is unthinkable doesn't mean it can't happen. Second, contrary to your apparent understanding and the understanding of your partners in the Eurozone, especially Germany, France does not have its own currency. The Greeks, Portuguese, Italians, and Spanish have all found out that they cannot print their own currencies, no matter how much they wish they could. You are all bound up in a misguided economic experiment called the euro. Deal with it. For all intents and purposes you are in fact indebted in a foreign currency. On your current path you will soon have to go to Germany and the rest of Europe asking for a special dispensation simply because you are France. If this development weren't so potentially tragic, with horrific economic implications for the entire world, it would be especially amusing theater. Third, I find the use of the term¬†invited¬†in the phrase "invited to meet its debt by an immediate increase in taxation" to be quite a wonderful French expression. Your tax rates are already among the highest in Europe. At a 75% top tax rate, your entrepreneurs and businesspeople are leaving the country in droves. That icon of economic enlightenment, tennis star Serena Williams, recently commented in¬†Rolling Stone¬†magazine that "75% doesn't seem legal." Gerard Depardieu and many others not quite so famous agree and have already left. You are going to collect less, not more, taxes from the rich with your remarkably ill-considered increase in the top tax rate. Just look across the channel to England and see how their raising their top rate merely to 50% worked out for them. Fourth and finally, you clearly haven't done your homework on economic crises. The fact that your interest rates are low and that your loans routinely get rolled over simply says that you have not yet come to your own¬†Bang!¬†moment. Every country that falls into crisis is able to get financing at low rates right up until the moment it can't. It is all about investor confidence, and I readily admit that right now you have it. But through its policies the current government is doing everything it possibly can to destroy the confidence of the bond market as rapidly as it can. And France is particularly dependent upon non-French sources for the financing of its debt. Let‚Äôs look at few facts, Prof. Moschetto: 1. Your country is in recession and has been for almost two years. Even the government is beginning to acknowledge that growth is and will be flat. Standard &amp; Poor's thinks your growth rate may be as low as -1.5%. Jean-Michel Six of Standard &amp; Poor's recently noted, "The current account deficit is growing month after month, and this means it is depending more and more on the rest of the world to finance its growth. In my view, France has got just one more year to sort itself out." One of the ways to deal with a debt crisis is to grow your way out of it. You are not doing that. The number of new industrial plants created by foreigners fell 25% last year, and new job creation fell 53%. Ernst &amp; Young said France's anti-market body language had become almost "repulsive" to outside investors, and a series of bitter labor disputes has not helped (source:¬†The Telegraph).¬†French industrial output is still falling, and both your manufacturing and service PMIs are among the worst in Europe‚Äîfar worse even than those of Italy and Spain, both of which are clearly in financial disarray. The following PMI chart is from March, but August was still in negative territory (chart courtesy of Josh Ayers of Paradarch Advisors). Mauldin 2. Your debt growth is unsustainable. France is currently enjoying the lowest effective borrowing rates it has had for 30 years, allowing the interest you pay to fall even as the total debt rises. Both interest payments and interest as a percentage of GDP are at all-time lows. Here is a summary analysis from just about the best research team around, at Bridgewater: France is approaching the point in its debt expansion phase in which debt service costs will rise faster than incomes causing a squeeze. The below charts convey that in brief. They show France's debts rising relative to incomes while interest rates fell so that debt service expenses fell relatively despite the greater debts. When debt service expenses fall relative to income, that leaves more money for spending which is stimulative for the economy. Both the risk-free rate and credit spreads have fallen just about as far as possible. As a result, the net relief in debt service payments that has come from the interest rate decline will be removed. If interest rates rise, particularly if both the risk-free rate and the credit spreads rise, the debt service bill will have to increase more. That means that either (a) debt service expenses will increase as a share of income, thus squeezing consumption and lowering economic growth (b) there will be an acceleration of indebtedness in order to pay for both the increased debt service requirements and increased consumption growth (which is a sure sign of an unsustainable bubble) or (c) incomes from some other sources have to rise. Since income growth is a function of productivity growth and competitiveness in global markets, and France is not doing much to improve productivity and competitiveness, we do not expect incomes to benefit from changes in these. That means that debt and debt service growth will either accelerate until the debt bubble pops or debt growth and economic growth will slow which will be painful. Since painful slower growth is not an option, it is more likely that debt and debt service growth will accelerate until the bubble pops. That will have important implications for the whole Eurozone. France is getting close to the end of its ability to play games with its debt. Though France moved a lot of its debt to off-balance-sheet accounts for its social programs, the total debt is growing so much that the rating agencies will have to start taking notice. 3. The level of French debt is at postwar highs and is beginning to approach that of the peripheral countries. Note in the chart below from Bridgewater that in Germany total nonfinancial debt has been decreasing the past few years, the debt of peripheral Europe in the aggregate has gone roughly flat, but France's debt is increasing dramatically. At the pace France is accumulating new debt, it will not be long before your financial situation looks quite similar to that of your peripheral neighbors. Mauldin 4. Your fiscal deficit this year is likely to be well north of 4%, far above the level specified in your commitments to the Eurozone. The budget watchdog of France, the Cour des Comptes, is calling for much deeper budget cuts than Mr. Hollande is proposing. The unions and government employees, as well as much of Mr. Hollande's party, are in very vocal rebellion. France deeply needs labor reforms to make itself more competitive, but there is simply no political will or ability to do so. Your social budget (entitlement spending) is currently 35% of your total GDP. From my friend and macro-maven Josh Ayers' colorful research letter, intriguingly called¬†Sex Drugs and Debt,¬†comes the following analysis: Established in 1945, the French pay-as-you-go social welfare system is completely unfunded. The scheme (their word, not mine) has grown to preposterous proportions. As seen in Chart 5, French welfare spending now outstrips the rest of the world by a considerable margin. Mauldin ¬† How big is this contingent liability? Well, governments are kind of funny about medical transparency. While they covet the murky details of your entire proctological history, they don't like disclosing their own information‚Äîespecially unfunded, off-balance sheet social obligations. In 2009, the ECB commissioned a report from the Research Center for Generational Contracts that sought to quantify the present value of both the government employer pension and social security schemes for each then-EU member. While their data terminates at YE2006, the report estimated that France had the largest total unfunded liability relative to GDP, at 362.2%, or EUR 6.5 trillion. As countless failed US defined benefit pension schemes have proved, pay-go is just another word for pyramid scheme. The scheme stays solvent so long as the payers comfortably outnumber the beneficiaries. But everything goes jackfu [note from John: That's a technical economics term] when the percentage of payers begins to contract. In France, the percentages of both payers and beneficiaries are now moving the wrong way. While the blue-haired beneficiary-intensive percentage of the total population has been consistently increasing over the last 25 years, the percentage of payers began declining. Is it any surprise then that the two major explosions in French fiscal deficits coincided with both the decline of the 30-49 year-old demographic in the mid-1990s and then later with the percentage acceleration of the 60+ demographic in the late 2000s? 5. France is in a profound economic funk, and this is not the stuff from which significant recoveries are made. Consumer confidence in your country, Professor, was at a 40-year low in June. A recent study by the Pew Foundation said French support for the European Project has crashed from 60% to 40% over the past year. Just 22% now think EU economic integration is positive. The French unemployment level is at a 15-year high of 11.2% and has risen for 26 consecutive months. French youth unemployment stands at 25.7%. The IMF recently issued a report which suggests that the proposed economic reforms of Mr. Hollande do not go deep enough and will not cut unemployment from double-digit levels by the end of the decade. France has seen a chronic erosion of labor competitiveness against Germany under monetary union due to higher wage deals. Pay has jumped 53pc in France and 35pc in Germany since 1999. French hourly wage costs are now 5pc higher at ‚Ç¨36.40, even though German productivity is better.¬† The IMF said the new twist is that France has begun to lose ground to Italy and Spain as they shake up their systems or cut wages. The chief worry is "a steady loss of market share, both globally and relative to peers."¬†(The Telegraph) 6. Foreign holdings of French debt are 50% higher than those for Italy and four times higher than those for Spain. As investors became concerned about Spanish and Italian debt, they rotated into over $1 trillion of French government debt on the assumption that the French debt was safer. The simple fact is that France can't print its own currency, so it is therefore dependent upon the kindness of strangers. Bridgewater estimates that if France were judged solely on its fundamentals, its spread to Germany should be about 3.5% rather than the current 50 basis points. If that kind of differential were realized by the marketplace, France would have no hope, under the current regime, of getting its deficit under 3%, let alone below nominal GDP growth, which is the more important number. 7. Like the peripheral Eurozone countries, France has started to run a significant trade deficit. Without going into the math, in very general terms, you cannot reduce your debt and run a trade deficit the same time. That has been one of the key problems in Greece, Portugal, Spain, and Italy. Restructuring a trade deficit is painful in that it requires either a downward currency adjustment or a reduction in labor costs (or an increase in labor productivity). When currency devaluations are not possible, the adjustment is typically borne on the shoulders of workers in the form of reduced wages and layoffs. That of course means lower tax revenues and larger deficits, coming at a time when they are the most difficult to handle. France has simply become uncompetitive. New businesses are not being created, and existing businesses are leaving. Admittedly, Brussels has not been helping, with the imposition of a slew of new mandates that are increasing costs relative to the rest of the world. Google "French chicken crisis" and "French egg protests" to see why exports are down. French poultry exports have fallen from ‚Ç¨1.2 billion to less than ‚Ç¨200 million in about 10 years. 8. French government spending is already at 56% of GDP, and debt-to-GDP is over 90%. At what point will the market begin to worry about a debt trap? How much more can you tax? And do you really want to raise taxes with the economy as weak as it is? You can't print money without the agreement of Germany and the rest of the European Union. Cutting spending by 4 to 5% over the next few years will result in a far more serious recession than what you've been experiencing. (Just ask Greece or Spain.) When I look at your options in France, Professor, I see nothing but bad choices. Perhaps you can talk Germany into writing a check to cover your deficits, but I for one wouldn't hold my breath. Ask Cyprus how that went. The only way you're going to get the rest of Europe to write checks is to agree to give up your budgetary sovereignty. (And they in turn will have to give up theirs in a massive fiscal experiment‚Äîmore on that below.) Given the mood of the French public as expressed in the polls, how likely is it that France will agree to such terms? But then, if you don't want to deal with enforced austerity, what choice do you have? Foreign creditors are not going to continue to extend loans to France simply because it is France. I say all this with a heavy heart, because I really do love France. I love the French countryside and the history and the art and Paris. My numerous experiences in France have always been pleasant and have created many enjoyable memories. But the reality is what it is. You've run up debts, and now payment is due. So why does France enjoy such low interest rates? The simplistic answer is that the market simply doesn't see the risk. But then again it didn't see the risk in Greece or Italy or Spain prior to their crises, either. I think the catalyst could come during the latter part of this year or in the first half of 2014. There are two events that might serve. First, something has to be done very soon about Portugal. The Portuguese are going to need another infusion of capital. Their economy is upside down; their debt relative to GDP is still growing faster than income; and the simple fact is that they need to default on part of their debt. Call it debt forgiveness or apply whatever euphemism you want, it will be default. Otherwise, Portugal will slowly suffocate under the massive interest payments required to service its debt. The problem is that any haircut on the debt would put Portuguese banks (which are the largest holder of Portuguese debt) into insolvency. The only guarantor of Portuguese banks under the current structure is the Portuguese government, which means that in order to take a haircut on the debt it already owes to creditors, the government would have to borrow more money to give to the banks. They would be taking two steps backward for every step forward. After Cyprus, it is now apparent that the EU and the ECB are perfectly willing to see large depositors and subordinated bondholders of banks take rather large haircuts rather than assume a mutual liability. If the same principles are applied to Portuguese banks as were applied to those of Cyprus, it would make a bad financial situation in Portugal even more desperate. And yet if the ECB bails out Portuguese banks under some legal fiction, Cyprus would have a real justification for possible lawsuits. There are simply no good or easy solutions for Portugal without someone incurring a great deal of pain. But a Portuguese banking crisis would mean a run on Italian and Spanish banks. It is really that simple. Everyone was told, and the market obviously believes, that Greece was "one-off" and that no other country would need to take a haircut on its debt. If Portugal does, then the contagion factor that Europe was worried about with Greece will really come into play. If Germany and the other core countries allow Portugal to default in some manner, what does that say about their willingness to fund even larger sums for Italy and Spain? What will France do? Will it support further austerity for Portugal, or will the French argue for generalized European taxpayer support of Portugal (thereby implying that France should be able to access the same funding at some point in the future)? Portugal has plunged itself into what can only be called severe austerity and is suffering economically for it. How much more can the Portuguese be asked to endure? The answer could be, quite a lot more, unless Germany and others want to write a rather large check. Italy, Spain, and France will be watching If private investors in Portuguese banks are forced to take losses, that will make Italian and Spanish bank depositors nervous. Anyone paying attention to French fundamentals will begin to question the current low interest-rate regime there as well. And then there are the European bank stress tests that are scheduled for early 2014. These have been postponed so that the ECB can do its own analysis, but the time for them is fast approaching. Regulators want to have a uniform methodology across the Eurozone for calculating bad loans, which will keep banks from using "local practices" to hide bad debts. Further, it is not yet clear how the new bank stress tests will treat sovereign debt. Heretofore, sovereign debt in Europe has been considered risk-free, and banks have levered up as much as 40 to 1 on sovereign debt. Portuguese banks, for instance, don't have to reserve against the purchase of Portuguese debt, and neither do Italian or Spanish banks when they purchase their own country's debt. Any modest restructuring of national debt will result in massive bank insolvencies, not just in the peripheral countries but throughout Europe. There is some talk of beginning to require reserves against sovereign debt, but this would mean that banks would have to raise significant amounts of capital in order to bring their required Tier 1 ratios into compliance. Good luck raising the tens of billions of euros that would be required in the present market environment. The bank stress tests that were administered a few years ago were a joke, and everybody knows it. It was all wink, wink and nod, nod and figure out how to finesse the obvious. In order to sustain any credibility, the next round of stress tests will have to be far more serious. How the new regulatory regime of the ECB deals with sovereign debt will to a great extent tell the world how serious they are about stress testing. After Greece, and after looking at the ongoing problems of Portugal and Spain (and especially Spanish banks), who can say with a straight face that there is absolutely no risk in sovereign debt? But if there is some risk, then there must be reserves against it. These two events‚Äîdealing with Portugal and undertaking the European bank stress tests‚Äîwill focus the attention of the markets back on the fundamentals of European debt and the euro. It is quite possible that the French fiscal deficit will be over 5% in 2014. In a speech last week, Hollande talked about how France will have full employment, a third industrial revolution, and affordable housing within 10 years. Social justice will be achieved, and climate change will be dealt with. There was a lot of happy talk about how wonderful the future will be but not many details on how to get there. At some point the market will no longer be content with happy talk: it will demand action. That action is going to be difficult to produce, given the internal politics of France. The decisions France makes, along with those of Germany, will determine the future of the euro experiment. And the situation is not as simple as asking whether France will get its fiscal house in order or whether Germany will write a check. Indulge me for a moment as I offer a very speculative but interesting scenario. German exporters would like to see a weaker euro, but Germany does not want to allow the European Central Bank to print money. However, German leaders recognize that at some point, if the Eurozone is to maintain a currency union, it must also have a fiscal union. A breakup of the Eurozone would be disastrously expensive for everyone but especially for Germany. There will be a live-or-die effort by all parties to maintain the euro. If Germany and the other fiscally sound members of the European Union can persuade the peripheral countries to adopt rules that require fiscal restraint in return for mutualization of debt, then that would allow the ECB to monetize deficits in the interim‚Äîand thus potentially weaken the euro. This scenario would require members of the Eurozone to give up a great deal of their fiscal autonomy to Brussels. This will become the central question with regard to the existence of the euro within a few years. In an odd sort of way, the Eurozone is going to enter into its own internal currency war as the peripheral nations continue to have debt problems. The situation will be exacerbated by the fiscal crisis that will soon engulf France. It will come precisely at the moment when Germany will be asked to allow the ECB to accommodate the French bond market, as it has done for Italy and Spain, and when France will in turn be asked to enter into a period of austerity, as both Italy and Spain have done (very painfully). It is at that moment that the ultimate survival of the euro will be decided. While I do think the euro will survive, I have to admit that I'm not strongly convinced of it. The euro has never been a truly economic currency; it was created as a political statement, and is a political currency. The problem for Europe is that a currency union ultimately requires a fiscal union. Just as the various states within the United States have to balance their budgets, that is what might be required of countries that are part of a European fiscal union. Given that most of Europe has entitlement-spending problems just as severe (or worse!) than those of the US, there will not be a European fiscal union without a great deal of political contention. Will Germany be willing to pick up the tab for the rest of Europe, given the serious fiscal constraint that will impose on its own budget? Will France be willing to give up control of its budget process to Brussels? These are the questions on which the future of the euro hinges. Charles de Gaulle said that "France cannot be France without greatness." The current path that France is on will not take it to renewed greatness but rather to insolvency and turmoil. Is France destined to be grouped with its Mediterranean peripheral cousins, or to be seen as part of the solid North Atlantic core? The world is far better off with a great France, but France can achieve greatness only by its own actions. Let me remind those of you near Dallas that the world premiere of the blockbuster documentary on the Federal Reserve,¬†Money for Nothing,¬†will be Friday, September 6, at 7:30 PM at the AMC theaters in Northpark Mall in Dallas. You really don't want to miss this. You can't buy tickets online until seven days before the event, but I think there is a reasonable chance they will sell out. You can see a trailer by¬†clicking here¬†and learn when the movie is coming to a city near you, or you can arrange for it to do so by going towww.MoneyForNothingTheMovie.org. I hope you can join me at the world premiere in Dallas. It will be a special evening. On Tuesday, September 10, in Chicago, I will be joining my longtime friend and partner Steve Blumenthal to present my most recent thoughts on the economy, the Fed, and the direction of interest rates and their impact on the economy and equity markets, at the Trinity Financial Advisors Investor Forum, hosted by John Wimbiscus. The Forum will be held at 6:30 PM at the Gleacher Center of the University of Chicago, located at 450 North Cityfront Plaza Drive, Chicago, IL 60611. Please contact Linda Cianci at¬†linda@cmgwealth.com¬†or call 610-989-9090 x140 to reserve a seat.¬†I hope to see you there. I will be traveling from there to Bismarck, North Dakota, to delve deeper into the Bakken shale oil boom and to speak for BNC Bank on September 12. My great friend Dr. Lacy Hunt will also be presenting. If you are in the area, you should plan to attend. Then I will be in Denver with my partners at Altegris Investments on September 19 for a presentation to clients and prospects before flying to Toronto to be with my good friend Louis Gave for a morning seminar on September 23. Please note that two weeks ago I said that seminar was in August, so I created some unnecessary confusion initially. If you would like to attend, you can register at¬†http://gavekal.com/seminar.cfm¬†or contact¬†Chris¬†Lightboundwith any questions. From Toronto I will fly on to New York City for a few days of media and meetings. It is my oldest son Henry's birthday next week, and the family will gather tomorrow to celebrate. Next weekend I'm off to San Antonio for WorldCon, the science fiction book convention, which will serve as my end-of-summer celebration. I'll enjoy a few days of exploring fantasy and the future with people whose words have entertained and inspired me over the decades. In the meantime there are a hundred items in my inbox that must be attended to. And I'm really trying to get into the gym more, so every day seems to be full. Have a great week and enjoy the rest of the summer. You're hoping I'm wrong about France analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com ¬† ¬† ¬† http://www.mauldineconomics.com/frontlinethoughts/france-on-the-edge-of-the-periphery/ 
Flickr/mer chauTHERE is a never-ending supply of business gurus telling us how we can, and must, do more. Sheryl Sandberg urges women to ‚ÄúLean In‚Äù if they want to get ahead. John Bernard offers breathless advice on conducting ‚ÄúBusiness at the Speed of Now‚Äù. Michael Port tells salesmen how to ‚ÄúBook Yourself Solid‚Äù. And in case you thought you might be able to grab a few moments to yourself, Keith Ferrazzi warns that you must ‚ÄúNever Eat Alone‚Äù. Yet the biggest problem in the business world is not too little but too much‚Äîtoo many distractions and interruptions, too many things done for the sake of form, and altogether too much busy-ness. The Dutch seem to believe that an excess of meetings is the biggest devourer of time: they talk of¬†vergaderziekte, ‚Äúmeeting sickness‚Äù. However, a study last year by the McKinsey Global Institute suggests that it is e-mails: it found that highly skilled office workers spend more than a quarter of each working day writing and responding to them. Which of these banes of modern business life is worse remains open to debate. But what is clear is that office workers are on a treadmill of pointless activity. Managers allow meetings to drag on for hours. Workers generate e-mails because it requires little effort and no thought. An entire management industry exists to spin the treadmill ever faster. All this ‚Äúleaning in‚Äù is producing an epidemic of overwork, particularly in the United States. Americans now toil for eight-and-a-half hours a week more than they did in 1979. A survey last year by the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that almost a third of working adults get six hours or less of sleep a night. Another survey last year by Good Technology, a provider of secure mobile systems for businesses, found that more than 80% of respondents continue to work after leaving the office, 69% cannot go to bed without checking their inbox and 38% routinely check their work e-mails at the dinner table. This activity is making it harder to focus on real work as opposed to make-work. Teresa Amabile of Harvard Business School, who has been conducting a huge study of work and creativity, reports that workers are generally more creative on low-pressure days than on high-pressure days when they are confronted with a flurry of unpredictable demands. In 2012 Gloria Mark of the University of California, Irvine, and two colleagues deprived 13 people in the IT business of e-mail for five days and studied them intensively. They found that people without it concentrated on tasks for longer and experienced less stress. It is high time that we tried a different strategy‚Äînot ‚Äúleaning in‚Äù but ‚Äúleaning back‚Äù. There is a distinguished history of leadership thinking in the lean-back tradition. Lord Melbourne, Queen Victoria‚Äôs favourite prime minister, extolled the virtues of ‚Äúmasterful inactivity‚Äù. Herbert Asquith embraced a policy of ‚Äúwait and see‚Äù when he had the job. Ronald Reagan also believed in not overdoing things: ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs true hard work never killed anybody,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúbut I figure, why take the chance?‚Äù. This tradition has been buried in a morass of meetings and messages. We need to revive it before we schedule ourselves to death. The most obvious beneficiaries of leaning back would be creative workers‚Äîthe very people who are supposed to be at the heart of the modern economy. In the early 1990s Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, a psychologist, asked 275 creative types if he could interview them for a book he was writing. A third did not bother to reply at all and another third refused to take part. Peter Drucker, a management guru, summed up the mood of the refuseniks: ‚ÄúOne of the secrets of productivity is to have a very big waste-paper basket to take care of all invitations such as yours.‚Äù Creative people‚Äôs most important resource is their time‚Äîparticularly big chunks of uninterrupted time‚Äîand their biggest enemies are those who try to nibble away at it with e-mails or meetings. Indeed, creative people may be at their most productive when, to the manager‚Äôs untutored eye, they appear to be doing nothing. Managers themselves could benefit. Those at the top are best employed thinking about strategy rather than operations‚Äîabout whether the company is doing the right thing rather than whether it is sticking to its plans. When he was boss of General Electric, Jack Welch used to spend an hour a day in what he called ‚Äúlooking out of the window time‚Äù. When he was in charge of Microsoft Bill Gates used to take two ‚Äúthink weeks‚Äù a year when he would lock himself in an isolated cottage. Jim Collins, of ‚ÄúGood to Great‚Äù fame, advises all bosses to keep a ‚Äústop doing list‚Äù. Is there a meeting you can cancel? Or a dinner you can avoid? Less is more‚Äîmore or less Junior managers would do well to follow the same advice. In ‚ÄúDo Nothing‚Äù, one of the few business books to grapple with the problem of over-management, Keith Murnighan of the Kellogg School of Management argues that the best managers focus their attention on establishing the right rules‚Äîrecruiting the right people and establishing the right incentives‚Äîand then get out of the way. He quotes a story about Eastman Kodak in its glory days. A corporate reorganisation left a small division out in the cold‚Äîwithout a leader or a reporting line to headquarters. The head office only rediscovered the division when it received a note from a customer congratulating the unit on its work. Doing nothing may be going too far. Managers play an important role in co-ordinating complicated activities and disciplining slackers. And some creative people would never finish anything if they were left to their own devices. But there is certainly a case for doing a lot less‚Äîfor rationing e-mail, cutting back on meetings and getting rid of a few overzealous bosses. Leaning in has been producing negative returns for some time now. It is time to try the far more radical strategy of leaning back.
via Youtube The question of whether or not robots will harm workers is being discussed with increasing urgency. On the one hand, you have optimists who argue that new technologies always raise the specter of harming workers, but that in the end, those workers find new work, and everyone's productivity is enhanced. Then there are those who say it might be different this time, and that there are actually periods where the advent of a new technology harms workers for a long time. Professors David H. Autor and David Dorn have an opinion piece in the New York Times arguing that technology is wrecking the middle class. It's not that robots are taking away jobs per se, but rather that they're exacerbating inequality by creating two classes of jobs: There are the upper class jobs, which use human creativity and knowledge to leverage the power of computers. Then there are the lower class jobs, which exist not because they are high-skilled, but because they can't easily be routinized (think: driving a delivery truck or cleaning a hotel room). So what kind of middle class jobs will survive the robotics revolution? Autor and Dorn argue that jobs requiring some modest combination of technical skill and flexibility: Following this logic, we predict that the middle-skill jobs that survive will combine routine technical tasks with abstract and manual tasks in which workers have a comparative advantage ‚Äî interpersonal interaction, adaptability and problem-solving. Along with medical paraprofessionals, this category includes numerous jobs for people in the skilled trades and repair: plumbers; builders; electricians; heating, ventilation and air-conditioning installers; automotive technicians; customer-service representatives; and even clerical workers who are required to do more than type and file. Indeed, even as formerly middle-skill occupations are being ‚Äúdeskilled,‚Äù or stripped of their routine technical tasks (brokering stocks, for example), other formerly high-end occupations are becoming accessible to workers with less esoteric technical mastery (for example, the work of the nurse practitioner, who increasingly diagnoses illness and prescribes drugs in lieu of a physician). Lawrence F. Katz, a labor economist at Harvard, memorably called those who fruitfully combine the foundational skills of a high school education with specific vocational skills the ‚Äúnew artisans.‚Äù The idea isn't that everyone should go into these fields. But as we think about general training for the "middle class jobs" of the future, they're likely to be along these lines.
Here's an impressive stat for Tesla, the red-hot electric car company. Per California's latest monthly auto sales report (via Slate's Will Oremus), the Tesla Model S now commands 12% of the luxury market in the state. Polk Outside of just the luxury category, you can see electrics and hybrids starting to move the needle. Pure electrics just passed 1% of California sales, and Hybrids continue to take market share. Polk
The next Jobs Report (which comes out September 6) is going to be one of the biggest ones in a long time. There are two reasons for that: Anyway, the good news is that you don't have to wait until September 6 to get some good data on what's happening to the US labor market. There's plenty of smaller labor datapoints coming up before then, including three number this week. Deutsche Bank explains: Between now and the August employment report (released September 6), market participants will be keenly scrutinizing the economic data for clues as to how the labor market performed this month. This of course is due to heightened anticipation of the Fed potentially tapering asset purchases in September. Last week‚Äôs release of the minutes from the July FOMC meeting indicated that policymakers remained broadly comfortable with the timetable laid out by Chairman Bernanke in June. While we expect the August employment report to be the key determinate, other labor market indicators, such as the jobs plentiful/jobs hard-to-get component of the August consumer confidence report (Tuesday), jobless claims, and the employment component of the Chicago PMI (Friday) take on added significance. The fact that the 4-week moving average on jobless claims is at its lowest level since November 2007 bodes well for a firming tone in other labor market indicators. Indeed. Here's that chart of the 4-week moving average of weekly jobless claims showing the index improving to its best level since the crisis. FRED
The really big story in global markets is the whoosh of cash away from the emerging world. For a long time, emerging markets seemingly could do no wrong. They were on a natural, upward growth glide. Their central bankers weren't "debasing" their currencies. They had commodities, and exports, and positive demographics, and all that. But the tides are turning. The developed world is easing less than it used to be. The commodity cycle seems to have peaked. And people are waking up to all kinds of structural problems that persist in these economies. So the cash is leaving these economies, and one place you can see it most plainly is in the funds (equity and fixed income) that are dedicated to emerging markets. Via SocGen, check out the "hemorrhaging" of these funds. SocGen SocGen
People don't tend to put a whole lot of stock in it, so far as we've seen, but polling company Gallup regularly publishes an array of economic data relating to employment, spending, and confidence. And lately it's been horrendous. Economic confidence has recently fallen to a reading of -15 from -8. Gallup Unemployment has surged to 8.8%, and is nearly a whole point higher than it was a few weeks ago. Gallup.com And Consumer Spending the last few days has been abysmal. Gallup.com So what's going on? The Bonddad Blog, which first made this observation, thinks it must have just been a bad, outlier sample. ...let's deal with the collapse in Gallup consumer spending. This isn't the only Gallup indicator which has collapsed over the last week or so. Gallup's unemployment rate survey increased a full percent over the last two weeks. Gallup consumer confidence also fell sharply. But the other measures of both consumer spending and employment reported above have held up nicely, or even improved. So we are left with explaining why there has been a sudden sharp downturn in all of Gallup's consumer metrics, but only in Gallup's consumer metrics. Either (1) there has been a sudden but hidden crash in the economy over the last several weeks, or (2) Gallup got an unrepresentative survey panel, as is going to happen from time to time in such surveys. Until I see evidence backing up the cliff-diving of Gallup's consumer metrics, I'm going with (2).
In a narrow Hong Kong street filled with the tang of dried sea creatures, shopkeepers are blaming China's recent corruption crackdown for falling sales of expensive banquet foods such as shark fin and abalone. Such items have fallen off the menu since China's new leadership came to power demanding austerity from Communist Party and military officials as a means of reigning in graft and dampening public anger over corruption. Suppliers, restaurants, and hotels in the trading hub of Hong Kong all say the loss of appetite from the mainland has thinned out sales in a market looking for a portion of China's estimated annual 300 billion yuan (US$49 billion) expenditure on state-funded banquets. On Hong Kong's "Dried Seafood Street", the centre of trade in dried delicacies, shopkeeper Leung Wing-chiu told AFP sales were down 20 percent at a time when increased ethical awareness over shark fin and rising rents are pressuring business. "Beijing's frugality campaign has driven money out of my pocket," said the 94-year-old, who is also the Dried Sea Food &amp; Grocery Merchants Association president. "Demand from mainland buyers, especially hotels and restaurants, has shrunk a lot. This is particularly true for high-end goods such as dried abalone, shark fins and bird's nest." Two catering companies listed on the southern Chinese city's stock exchange even cited the government's emphasis on frugality as they issued profit warnings to shareholders last month. Leung said China's state-funded banquet culture was a key source of revenue, and while the economic slowdown had affected business over the past few years, "the situation has got a lot worse since the new leadership ascended to power". Chinese officials have long held lavish liquor-drenched receptions as a way of building business relationships, greasing the wheels of power, and showing off wealth and status. The Jiu San Society, one of China's eight legally-recognised non-Communist political parties, last year called for a curb on government spending on such banquets, which it estimated at $300 billion a year. Other scholars put the figure even higher. And in June, President Xi Jinping launched a "thorough cleanup" of the ruling Communist Party, vowing to target extravagance and waste. The Central Military Commission had already banned lavish banquets for high-ranking officers at the end of last year, while party officials were handed similar new rules. Former high-flying Chinese politician Bo Xilai is currently on trial for corruption and revelations about private jet flights and rare animal meats have held Chinese readers spellbound. Zhu Jiangnan, China Studies coordinator at the University of Hong Kong, said banquets were in a "grey area" of corruption. "Actually, in China, the word 'corruption' (fubai) is linked not only with... graft, bribery, and embezzlement, but also unhealthy tendencies... such as extravagance and waste," she told AFP in an email. Wong Hiu-wan, a shopkeeper selling bird's nests, which have been used in Chinese cooking for centuries, blamed the directives from Beijing for a slowdown in business. "Now, we have to count more on local consumers, because orders from mainland hotels and restaurants have gone down dramatically," he said. And Yeung Wai-sing, the chairman of the Association of Hong Kong Catering Services Management Ltd, also had reason to regret China's newfound abstemiousness. "For years, this traditional business has been fuelled by orders from mainlanders, who consider dried seafood from Hong Kong to be premium in quality," said Yeung. "But things didn't turn out well this year." Two Hong Kong-listed catering giants, Tang Palace (China) Holdings and Xiao Nan Guo Restaurants Holdings Ltd, both issued profit warnings in July linked to the crackdown. Tang Palace largely blamed "the issuance of a set of regulations and restrictions to promote frugality and curb waste by the Chinese government, casting an impact on certain customer groups' expenditure". Xiao Nan Guo said its first-half profit was hit by "the prolonged austerity campaign launched by the Chinese government to curb lavish spending and entertainment". Others say traditional foods were already losing their attraction. "The Chinese are turning their eyes towards Western and environmentally-friendly food rather than traditional banquet favourites like abalone and shark fin," said Ren Guoqiang of consultancy Roland Berger &amp; Partner. Bruce Shou, a student and food enthusiast who routinely visits Hong Kong from Hangzhou to dine at high-end restaurants, agreed. "Sashimi, beefsteaks and foie gras look fancier to me, whereas abalones remind me of something old-fashioned and bureaucratic," he said. On top of environmental campaigning against products such as shark fin and Hong Kong's eye-watering rents, the graft crackdown is adding to the pressure on businesses along "Dried Seafood Street". "2013 is a tough year for us," Leung said. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
In a fashion similar to what became known as the "Asian Contagion" in the late 90s, the current stress in emerging economies has been spreading. One of the nations to experience financial stress recently has been Indonesia, Southeast Asia‚Äôs largest economy. The impact of capital outflows from emerging economies on Indonesia's financial markets has been swift and severe. Here are the key financial indicators: 1. Indonesia's equity markets are down 17% in the past 3 months (note that the market peaked in late May, corresponding to this event) - SoberLookJakarta Stock Exchange 2. The government bond market (sell-off also started around the same time) - investing.comIndonesia 10-year bond yield 3. Currency (the exchange rate went vertical last week) - Investing.comDollar rising against the rupiah 4. Sovereign CDS isn't very liquid but is still showing signs of financial stress. SoberLook The question some are asking is whether this is just a contagion-driven panic or are there fundamental flaws in the economy? Just as the case with India (see post), trade imbalance in Indonesia is behind some of this adjustment. In the past, foreign investment covered up the problem, but the party is now over. Investors - not surprisingly - have become uneasy with the chart below: SoberLook A massive structural problem like this is an invitation for a punishment from the markets. Indonesia (just as Brazil and others) is trying to plug the trade gap hole. With China being one of the large clients for Indonesia's natural resources, fixing the trade balance issue is going to be easier said than done. A few tax adjustments are simply not going to do the trick - at least not in the near-term. ¬†The nation remains vulnerable to further market pressure.
