AP ImagesWe frequently get questions about the difference between the onshore (CNY) and offshore (CNH) renminbi market. Remember, the offshore renminbi came about as China began trying to internationalize its currency. Here is the difference between the two. As China began to open up its economy, it wanted its currency to be used in the international market to settle trade and financial transactions, without, however, fully opening up its capital account. Hong Kong, which has served as an international hub for mainland China, naturally happened to be a great place for an offshore renminbi (CNH) market. Singapore, Taiwan, and London have since developed their own offshore renminbi markets. It began with the development of personal renminbi banking business in 2004 when renminbi deposits were allowed in Hong Kong, according to Vanessa Rossi and William Jackson at Chatham House. They go on to say, Bank of China (Hong Kong) was designated as the sole offshore renminbi clearing bank some time in 2004. Renminbi deposits continued to climb, especially once the bond market was established in 2007. Bonds issued in renminbi outside the mainland were dubbed dim sum bonds. In 2010, McDonald's became the first foreign (non-financial) company to issue a dim sum bond. Renminbi deposits continued to pick up with the launch of the trade settlement scheme in 2009‚Äì2010. The crucial thing about the offshore renminbi (referred to as CNH here on), is that it doesn't fluctuate within a tight band like the onshore renminbi (CNY) and is free of Beijing's control in that regard. In settling trade in renminbi, many companies accept CNY payments from Chinese importers and change that into dollars at the more attractive offshore rate. And borrowing costs are much cheaper in the CNH bond market than in mainland China. ¬†From the Financial Times: "Fervent demand for renminbi from international investors has driven down rates in Hong Kong and thereby created incentives for companies considering using the renminbi for trade or financing.¬† Foreign exporters have cottoned on to the fact that the renminbi-dollar exchange rate is at a premium in Hong Kong compared with the mainland. To arbitrage the two markets, these companies accept renminbi as payment from Chinese importers, then swap the cash into dollars at the more attractive offshore exchange rate." The expectation that the renminbi would appreciate has been a key factor driving demand for CNH. But Chinese state media has warned that a sharp renminbi appreciation is unlikely in 2013. Moreover, the gap between the CNH and CNY has narrowed. This is part of a broader feature on the renminbi that traced its evolution since the mid-'90s.
The country is in an uproar because people are saying that a senior White House official "threatened" legendary journalist Bob Woodward because of something he planned to publish. Now, I haven't seen the video of Bob Woodward talking about this incident, so I'm not sure whether Woodward actually said he was "threatened" or whether that's a media amplification. But people are saying he was threatened. So... If a very senior White House official did, in fact, "threaten" Woodward--if the official promised that a gang of thugs would drop by Woodward's house later, for example, or even if the official said no one in the White House would ever speak to Woodward again--then, fine, this might be worth talking about. But according to Ben Smith of BuzzFeed, here's what the senior White House official actually said to Bob Woodward (in an email): "You're focusing on a few specific trees that give a very wrong impression of the forest. But perhaps we will just not see eye to eye here. Ö I think you will regret staking out that claim." That's it? That's the "threat"? The official wasn't even saying that Woodward would "regret" publishing whatever he planned to publish because the official would get him back for it later. He was saying Woodward would regret it because Woodward would be proven wrong. I'm not sure what it is that non-journalists think that aggressive public relations folks do for a living, but this is exactly what they do: They do all this in the hope of influencing coverage in the way that they are paid to influence it. Among a particular breed of PR professional, that's all part of the job. If you're in the journalism business, meanwhile, growing a thick skin--and occasionally yelling right back--is also part of the job. I am sure that on many occasions, Whiite House officials have completely lost it at journalists, possibly even threatening them. But in the annals of PR professional-journalist communications, the "threatening" email that Woodward received is actually quite polite and respectful. "Perhaps we will not see eye to eye here?" The official didn't even tell Woodward he was an idiot! SEE ALSO: BOB WOODWARD: The White House Just Threatened Me
We have for some time now talked about China's extremely high pollution levels. A Chinese environmental watchdog refused to reveal the results of a study on pollution "on grounds of state secrecy", according to The Guardian. Bill Bishop, author of Sinocism, tweeted out two images of Beijing's central business district today. In one photo, the buildings disappear, shrouded in smog.¬† In the other photo, taken six weeks ago, the CBD looks like any other city. Bill Bishop Follow Bill Bishop on Twitter @niubi
Wikimedia/BektourBob Woodward said this evening on CNN that a "very senior person" at the White House warned him in an email that he would "regret doing this," the same day he has continued to slam President Barack Obama over the looming forced cuts known as the sequester. CNN host Wolf Blitzer said that the network invited a White House official to debate Woodward on-air, but the White House declined. "It makes me very uncomfortable to have the White House telling reporters, 'You're going to regret doing something that you believe in,'" Woodward said. "I think they're confused," Woodward said of the White House's pushback on his reporting. The White House aide who Woodward said threatened him was†Gene Sperling, the director of the White House Economic Council, BuzzFeed's Ben Smith reported. Earlier today on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," Woodward ripped into Obama in what has become an ongoing feud between the veteran Washington Post journalist and the White House. Woodward said Obama was showing a†"kind of madness I haven't seen in a long time" for a decision not to deploy an aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf because of budget concerns. The Defense Department said in early February†that it would not deploy the U.S.S. Harry Truman to the Persian Gulf, citing budget concerns relating to the looming cuts known as the sequester. "Can you imagine Ronald Reagan sitting there and saying, 'Oh, by the way, I can't do this because of some budget document?'" Woodward said on MSNBC.† "Or George W. Bush saying, 'You know, I'm not going to invade Iraq because I can't get the aircraft carriers I need?'" Or even Bill Clinton saying, 'You know, I'm not going to attack Saddam Hussein's intelligence headquarters,' ... because of some budget document?" Last weekend, Woodward called†out Obama for what he said was "moving the goal posts" on the sequester by requesting that revenue be part of a deal to avert it.
Magharebia/FlickrThere are just two days to go until automatic, across-the-board budget cuts kick in, and if they do, education is going to get hit hard. The cuts will roll back Education Department funding below what it was in 2004. But since 2004, the number of students enrolled in public pre-K-12 and all post secondary education programs have gone up by 5.8 million, and the cost of providing public K-12 schooling has gone up 36 percent,¬†according to a recent report from the National Education Association (NEA). In this report, the NEA analyzed data from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, and calculated exactly how much funding specific educational programs stand to lose, how many students will be affected, and how many jobs would potentially be lost as a result of these budget cuts.¬†Business Insider took this data and created a series of interactive maps that show you exactly how the sequester would affect the education system in each state. The report claims that, if the cuts kick in, 7.4 million students would be affected¬†‚Äî which means that either the quality of education they receive will go down or be eliminated entirely, The funding cuts could also lead to 49,365 potential job losses. But not all states will feel the hit equally. With more than $100 million cuts to their education budget, the states that will be most affected by the sequester are California, Texas, Illinois, New York and Florida.
kevin dooley / FlickrJapanese industrial output climbed by just 1.0 percent in month-over-month in January.¬† This was less than the 1.5 percent gain expected by economists. Output is down 5.1 percent year-over-year. Japan has been struggling to figure out ways stimulate its ailing economy.¬† Prime minister Shinzo Abe has promised to do this through aggressive monetary policy.¬† All of this talk has been causing Japan's stock market to surge as the yen tanks.
JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson addressed the rumors that have been circulating about mass layoffs at the retailer. Well, sort of. "There is a rumor a day about JCPenney about layoffs or something," acknowledged Johnson. It's true. Rumors are constantly circulating around JCPenney headquarters and its stores across America. They've essentially become part of the culture at JCPenney, according to executives we're talked to. Johnson didn't totally quash the rumors about job cuts. "This idea that we have massive headcount reductions on the way is really rumors," said Johnson. "This is much more rumor than it is fact." So, what's true and what's not? He didn't say anything about what to expect with layoffs going forward.
JCPenney burning through resources to pull off a turnaround.† With†same store sales†down 32 percent, its running out of time.† But even when completed, JCPenney's boutiques and low prices won't bring people back to its stores, consumer service expert and bestselling author Grant Cardone told us.† Because customers don't feel welcome in JCPenney stores, they aren't compelled to come back, Cardone said.† "What good do these shops do the customer if no one is there to greet you?" Cardone asked. "Their strategy uses gimmicks which have been used over and over."† The marketing, while "brilliant," is too similar to Target's, Cardone said.† Trying to draw customers in using price isn't effective either. The company did away with sales and did a marketing campaign advertising that it had the lowest prices, though it's since backpedaled.† "It's not sustainable and doesn't encourage loyalty in any way," Cardone said. "If the customer is chasing the lowest price, they're going to go away when they find a lower one." Johnson†has also said that†he'd like to get rid of the person working the cash register, and will move toward iPads and self checkout by the end of this year.† But JCPenney's only hope is improving customer service by investing in employee training, compensation, and culture, Cardone said. † "Right now, customers don't have confidence in the company to provide good service," Cardone said. "JCPenney is now merely reduced to advertising, marketing and branding and abandoned the customer service and sales experience."
Astrid Stawiarz/Getty ImagesJCPenney's Q4 earnings announcement is out, and the numbers are catastrophic. The company announced an adjusted loss per share of $1.95, far below expectations of a loss of $0.24 per share. Revenues came in at $3.88 billion. Analysts were looking for $4.08 billion. Q4 same-store sales were down 32 percent. JCPenney will be hosting its conference call with analysts at 5:00 PM EST. Updates below: They learned that "shops" &mdash; his in-store restructuring strategy &mdash; work, he says. "We invested $810 million in existing stores and infrastructure," he adds. "The key to our volume is getting the customer back in the store," he says. Two reasons: the internet is the most promotional field in retail and JCPenney's internet site is dominated by the home business.
commons.wikimedia.orgAustralia's central bank said their models and those used by the IMF showed in August estimates, that the Aussie dollar is four to 15 percent overvalued, according to Bloomberg. In a separate December 14 document, the RBA also said its preferred model showed it was 7 percent overvalued.† The information was released in response to a Bloomberg Freedom of Information request (FOIA).  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) also said equilibrium rate may fall 1 - 4 percent in two years. Here's a look at how the AUD responded to the news it is down to the 1.02 level.: Fin Viz  The AUD/USD has been trading in a 1.03 to 1.06 range since last November, and Societe Generale's Carole Laulhere and Kenneth Broux say in a February 5 note, that the AUD's valuation has been high compared to its 10-year average: Societe Generale But for those thinking this could add to the currency wars, there's reason to believe otherwise.† The RBA said the situation in "Australia [is] not considered comparable to circumstances which led Switzerland to intervene on foreign-exchange market," according to the document released to Bloomberg. It said the AUD doesn't post a near-term risk of deflation nor is it "contractionary" for the economy. Moreover, earlier this week, RBA Assistant Governor Guy Debelle spoke at the University of Adelaide, and said, the RBA could act to devalue its currency by buying foreign currency like the Swiss National Bank did, but it won't unless there is a huge change in the Australian economy or in the value of the Aussie dollar, according to the Brisbane Times. 
JC Penney shares instantly tanked in after-hours trading after the department store chain reported a horrific fourth quarter with sales missing expectations as same-store sales plunged by 32 percent. Management has been hosting a conference call with analysts since 5:00 PM ET.† And it isn't helping. Here's a look at the after-hours trading in JCP: MarketWatch
With less than 36 hours to go, automatic budget cuts look like they will hit every level of the federal government, and while politicians and labor leaders are predicting everything short of apocalypse, it's probably not going to be as bad as some predict for air traffic controllers. ‚ÄúFAA officials have told us that furloughs and tower closures are necessary to achieve the cuts mandated by the law,‚Äù Paul Rinaldi, President of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association,¬†recently told the Aero Club of Washington. ‚ÄúWe want the Congress and the public to understand that these furloughs and tower closures will potentially have extremely negative effects on our nation‚Äôs air traffic control system and economy.‚Äù According to the NATCA, the effects of a $627 million budget cut would include¬†losing over 100 air traffic controller towers at airports with minimal flight traffic, furloughing FAA employees for at least one, and possibly two days per pay period, and reducing some preventative maintenance. But there's actually a precedent for air traffic controller cuts that the U.S. has already seen, and it was way worse than anything sequestration would do. As Politico notes, President Ronald Reagan fired over 11,000 air traffic controllers on Aug. 5, 1981¬†for participating in an illegal strike and refusing to return to work.¬†Reagan steadfastly refused to rehire the strikers, instructing the Federal Aviation Administration to begin rebuilding the federal air-control staff from a core of about 5,000 nonstriking controllers, supplemented by supervisors and military personnel. While plenty of flights were canceled in the short term, the FAA contingency plans worked, with some¬†3,000 supervisors joining 2,000 nonstriking controllers and 900 military controllers in manning airport towers. Before long, about 80 percent of flights were operating normally, and air freight remained virtually unaffected, according to Politico. There are currently 27,000 air traffic controllers in the U.S.,¬†according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But sequestration doesn't even mean controllers are getting fired. They may get one or two unpaid days off per pay period as a result. Ironically, in 1981, one of the demands of the¬†Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization¬†was a four-day workweek (along with a pay increase), according to The Nation.
Shares of Groupon are tanking in after-hours trading after the company missed earnings estimates.¬† The stock was last trading down more than 25 percent in after-hours.¬† Groupon's stock is still up year-to-date. We noticed that during the fourth quarter of 2012 ended 12/31/2012, a bunch of hedge funds snapped up new stakes in the daily deal company.¬† Here's a rundown of the hedge funds with the biggest stake in Groupon, according to 13F data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† Again, this data is from the most recent quarterly hedge fund filings with the SEC. These funds could have sold or added to their stakes in the last couple months.¬†
JCPenney's business has gotten increasingly worse since new CEO Ron Johnson announced his turnaround plan a year ago.† Same store sales are down 32 percent, which is much worse than Wall Street had predicted.† Johnson's new strategy included doing away with sales and promotions (though the company has since backpedaled) and featuring designers in their own shops.† But the strategy that's supposed to be JCPenney's savior is actually its worst enemy, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions.† "Here we see a company that is being eaten alive by its turnaround story," Sozzi told us. "The company is burning through cash."† JCPenney is betting big on its shop-in-shops and investing tons of cash to build them in stores. Johnson has also said that the business won't totally turn around until they're completed. The company will probably be forced to tap into its newly expanded credit line to keep investing, Sozzi said.† And even then, it might not work.† Activist investor Bill Ackman identified JCPenney's problem on CNBC in January.† "The problem with the vision is it's a small percentage of the store, which is the so-called 'shop' strategy," said Ackman. "It's 10-11 percent of the square footage." Ackman says that such a small percentage of the store can't be sustainable.† "The negative is 90 percent of the store," said Ackman. "Very very difficult year. Sales results reported so far ó†mid 20s down comps. Those are numbers that no retailer likes to see."
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Market Could Be Presenting A Bear Trap (Advisor Perspectives) Some analysts have said the market is carving out a top. Dominic Cimino of Preferred Planing Concepts says these analysts could be right but they could also be wrong. He points to the S&amp;P 500 and its "major, minor, and minor-minor bullish trend channel". The S&amp;P 500 is above the support level i.e. the minor-minor trend line. The Russell 2000 and Dow Jones Transportation Average index charts are also above their support levels. "The analysts and commentators warning about a market peak could indeed be correct, and perhaps a major top is already in place. But they could be wrong as well, and the market could be presenting a bear trap for those shorting the market. If you watch the support levels I've mentioned, you may perhaps better gauge your sentiments on this issue. If support levels hold, or are only temporarily breached, it could be that the market moves higher and traps any bears that have shorted it. On the other hand, any true breaching of these support levels may indicate a significant correction is under way. My advice is you plug your ears and watch the charts." There Is A Huge Disconnect Between What The Financial Media Covers And What People Want (The Reformed Broker) Most financial media are focused on reporting about trading, stock moves, and analyst recommendations. Josh Brown says there are about 3 million investors that actively trade their own stocks, and need this kind of news. Millionaire households which total about 8.6 million want news on long-term planning instead. "The financial media is irrationally addicted to trading stories because they have urgency and they're entertaining, even if ultimately unsatisfying to the 90 million Americans who are trying to figure out what to do with their wealth. There is a relentless focus on analyst research calls, upgrades and downgrades, economic data releases, merger and acquisition buzz, hedge fund activity etc. This is all highly interesting and I personally enjoy both consuming and creating this type of content as well. But it should not be the only thing on the web / airwaves. It is disproportionately dominant when compared to its actual utility for the majority of the audience. There is a huge content arbitrage opportunity here." On The Irrational Exuberance Scale Of 1 - 10, We're At 6 (Pimco) In 1996, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan asked, "But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values?" Pimco's Bill Gross has begun his latest investment letter with that quote in discussing expensive assets. He says on a scale of 1 - 10 in "measuring asset price irrationality, we're probably at six and moving upward". He says returns on junk bonds will be low.¬† Given that junk bond spreads correlate with stock prices, he argues that we're not seeing a bubble but that the stock market is nevertheless expensive. He says with the returns on both stocks and junk bonds being influenced by the Fed's easy money policy, investors should "temper their enthusiasm" when that support weakens or goes away. David Rosenberg's Recession Indicator Flipped Positive Today (Business Insider) David Rosenberg considers the three-month moving average of non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft to be a key insight into what businesses are doing with their cash. He said when this went negative it signaled a recession. Today, Rosenberg's recession indicator finally moved into positive territory. Bloomberg, Business Insider Traditional Financial Advisors Are Threatened By Online Rivals (The Wall Street Journal)Traditional financial advisors are feeling threatened by online competitors. But Adam Kuettel of NWA Financial Partners told The Wall Street Journal, that they needn't be threatened just by the presence of online advisors. Instead he says the real threat to traditional advisors comes from firms that are willing to add on these services along with traditional advisor practices. This includes firms like Edelman Online the online presence of Edelman Financial Services and Merrill Edge, the online arm of Merrill Lynch. 
With hedge fund bets commanding a lot of attention on Wall Street these days (think: Herbalife and Bill Ackman) the term "shorting" or "short selling" is getting a lot of attention. Problem is, it's not always clear exactly what that means. Watch the video below, get the lowdown, and join in the game. Produced by Daniel Goodman
flickr / Ias - initiallyJ.C. Penney's fourth-quarter earnings announcement is out. The company announced an adjusted loss per share of $1.95, way below the per-share loss of $0.24 predicted by analysts. Sales came in at $3.88 billion. Analysts were looking for $4.08 billion. Same-store sales were down 32 percent in the fourth quarter. Shares are down 8 percent in after-hours trading. Veteran retail analyst Brian Sozzi perhaps put it best in an email following the announcement: "Where is the rest of J.C. Penney's quarter?" Below is the full text from the release: PLANO, Texas, Feb. 27, 2013†-- J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (JCP) today announced financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and full year ended February 2, 2013. †For the quarter, jcpenney reported a net loss of $552 million or $2.51 per share. †Excluding restructuring and management transition charges and non-cash primary pension plan expense, the Company`s adjusted net loss for the quarter was $427 million or $1.95 per share. † For the year, jcpenney reported a net loss of $985 million or $4.49 per share. †Excluding markdowns related to the alignment of inventory with the Company`s new strategy, restructuring and management transition charges, non-cash primary pension plan expense and the net gain on the sale or redemption of non-operating assets, the Company`s adjusted net loss for the year was $766 million or $3.49 per share. †A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures is included in the schedules accompanying the consolidated financial statements included with this release. Ron Johnson, chief executive officer of jcpenney said, "Sales and customer traffic were below our expectations in 2012, but as we execute our ambitious transformation plan, we are pleased with the great strides we made to improve jcpenney`s cost structure, technology platforms and the overall customer experience. †We have accomplished so much in the last twelve months. †We believe the bold actions taken in 2012 will materially improve the Company`s long-term growth and profitability." † Johnson continued, "Looking ahead, we are energized by our shop roll out plans for 2013 and the exciting work our teams are undertaking to transform the store. † Combining a new marketing campaign focused on style and value, incredible new brands and updated merchandise, with continued enhancements to the customer experience both in our stores and on jcp.com, we are working towards reconnecting with our core customer while attracting new customers to jcpenney." Fourth Quarter Results: Total sales for the fourth quarter, which included $163 million of sales in the 53rd week, decreased 28.4 percent to $3.884 billion. †Comparable store sales, which exclude the 53rd†week, declined 31.7 percent. †Internet sales through jcp.com were $315 million in the fourth quarter, decreasing 34.4 percent from last year. Gross margin was 23.8 percent of sales, compared to 30.2 percent in the same period last year. †Gross margin was impacted by lower than expected sales and a higher level of clearance merchandise sales related to inventory reductions in 2012. The Company`s SG&amp;A expenses decreased $134 million compared to last year`s fourth quarter. The Company incurred a charge of $148 million, or $0.41 per share, in the fourth quarter related to lump-sum settlements from its primary pension plan, elected by participants who have separated from the Company. Additionally during the quarter, the Company recognized charges totaling approximately $86 million, or $0.24 per share, related to the impairment and write-off of certain store and store-related assets. For the fourth quarter, the Company incurred $29 million, or $0.08 per share, in restructuring and management transition charges. These charges comprised the following: Operating cash flow in the fourth quarter was $645 million compared to $953 million in last year`s fourth quarter. †Investing cash flow was a use of $229 million compared to a use of $455 million in the same quarter last year. Fiscal 2012 Results: Total sales for the fiscal year, which included $163 million of sales in the 53rd†week, decreased 24.8 percent to $12.985 billion. †Comparable store sales, which exclude the 53rd†week, declined 25.2 percent. †Internet sales through jcp.com were $1.020 billion, decreasing 33.0 percent from last year. Gross margin was 31.3 percent of sales, compared to 36.0 percent last year. †Gross margin was impacted by lower than expected sales, a higher level of clearance merchandise sales and markdowns taken during the year to clear discontinued inventory in preparation for new product and brands being introduced as part of the transformation. The Company`s SG&amp;A expenses decreased $603 million compared to last year. As noted above, the Company incurred a charge of $148 million, or $0.41 per share, related to lump-sum settlements from its primary pension plan, elected by participants who have separated from the Company. Additionally, the Company realized net gains on the sale or redemption of non-operating assets of $397 million and recognized charges totaling approximately $86 million, or $0.24 per share, related to the impairment and write-off of certain store and store-related assets. For the year, the Company incurred $298 million, or $0.83 per share, in restructuring and management transition charges. These charges comprised the following: Despite the impacts of reduced sales and gross margin and restructuring charges associated with the Company`s transformation throughout 2012, full year operating cash flow was a use of $10 million. †This takes into account the non-cash nature of a number of restructuring charges, the positive impacts of reduced expenses, reduction in inventory levels, specific steps taken to improve overall working capital, including the realignment of vendor payment schedules of $129 million and a one-time deferral of select vendor payments in the fourth quarter of $85 million. †Investing cash flow for the year was a use of $293 million as capital investments of $810 million were partially offset by cash from the sale and redemption of non-operating assets. †The Company reduced its debt by $250 million in 2012 and ended the year with $930 million in cash and cash equivalents. † Spring 2013 Shops Outlook: During spring 2013, the Company anticipates opening close to 20 shops designated for home products in 505 stores with brand partners such as Michael Graves, Jonathan Adler and Sir Terence Conran, among others. †In addition to transforming the home area, the Company will open nearly 700 Joe FreshTM†apparel shops on March 15, 2013 as it transforms nearly 11 million square feet of retail space in the spring. During the year, the Company anticipates opening 60 Sephora inside jcpenney stores, bringing the total to 446. Earnings Event Today/Webcast Details: At 5:00 p.m. ET today, the Company will host a live conference call and streaming video webcast conducted by Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson and Chief Financial Officer Ken Hannah. †The event will include a formal slide presentation followed by a live question-and-answer session. †The webcast will be available live on the Company`s investor relations website at†http://ir.jcpenney.com. †Replays of the webcast will be available for up to 90 days after the event. †To access the conference call, please dial (866) 202-4683, or (617) 213-8846 for international callers, and reference 59362622 participant code. † Telephone playback will be available for seven days beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the meeting by dialing (888) 286-8010, or (617) 801-6888 for international callers, and referencing 81990309 participant code. Click here for the full release &gt;
Andrew_N / FlickrWow! What a huge day for stocks. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,075, +175.2 pts, +1.2 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,515, +19.0 pts, +1.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,162, +32.6 pts, +1.0 percent And now the top stories:
Wikimedia CommonsIn this year's State of The Union, one of President Obama's proposals was to immediately build a public private partnership to fix the nearly 70,000 structurally deficient bridges in the United States. He claimed companies like Siemens America were willing to bring more jobs here if we upgraded and repaired our infrastructure.¬† Our roads and bridges really have decayed. As of last year,¬†11.5 percent of US bridges, crossed by an average of¬†282,672,680 vehicles daily, were graded as "structurally deficient"¬†by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). Many other bridges are rated "functionally obsolete," which means that they are "no longer by design functionally adequate for their task," according to the FHWA. Transportation for America released a report detailing the most trafficked structurally deficient and functionally obsolete bridges in America, and we've picked out¬†the busiest in 17 different states, and ordered them by condition, from best to worst. This should not be interpreted as a list of bridges that are near collapse. But all of them need work, and many hold up traffic on some of America's busiest roadways. With 7.9 percent unemployment and low interest rates, business, government, and drivers can agree that we could make some upgrades. ¬†
Franco Origlia / GettyPope Benedict leaves the Vatican behind in resignation on Thursday, but his farewell speech gave no hints of who might succeed him, although he did warn that privacy will not come with the job.¬† ‚ÄúHe who assumes the ministry of Peter no longer has any privacy,‚Äù he said to over 150,000 onlookers gathered in St. Peter's Square,¬†according to The New York Times. ‚ÄúHe belongs forever and totally to all people, to all the church. The private dimension is totally, so to speak, removed from his life.‚Äù His announcement of resignation on Feb. 11 came as quite a shock to the faithful, with only three Popes ever resigning ‚Äî all under extraordinary circumstances, and never for health concerns.¬†In 1045, Pope Benedict IX was pressured to resign but was eventually re-installed on the Papal throne because his resignation appeared to be ‚Äúselling‚Äù his office. Pope Celestine V, a reclusive monk, resigned in 1294. He had months earlier declared it permissible for a Pope to resign, establishing the tiny legal precedent that Benedict appears to be exercising now. Finally, Pope Gregory XII abdicated the papal throne in 1415 to end the great Western Schism. But in churches and beyond, now the million-dollar question is: Who will be the next leader of the Catholic Church? Whoever is chosen by the College of Cardinals at the forthcoming conclave will have the delicate task of governing the Church while his predecessor still lives.  There are plenty of contenders for the top spot, so we've worked up their potential odds using online prediction markets¬†Paddy Power and InTrade, and assessed the pros and cons of each.
Even in Greece, investors were coddled. Even Proton Bank that had siphoned off $1 billion in a scheme of fraud, embezzlement, and money laundering was bailed [European Bailout Fund For Greek Money Laundering And¬†Fraud]. By contrast, private-sector holders of Greek government debt got ugly haircuts of over 70%. Public-sector holders, like the ECB, got off scot-free. It wasn't fair. But fairness had nothing to do with it. These were bailouts! That‚Äôs how it was¬†done.¬†Until now. SNS Reaal, fourth largest bank and insurance group in the Netherlands, cratering under a huge load of rotting real-estate loans, was bailed out on February 1, after already having been bailed out in 2008, and nationalized with a ‚Ç¨10-billion package. A collapse and bankruptcy ‚Äúwould have unacceptably large and undesirable consequences,‚Äù explained Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, confirming that bank bailouts would be the norm in the Eurozone. Only question: to what extent would taxpayers be sacrificed? In the SNS bailout, all depositors were made whole. But stockholders were wiped out. And so were holders of junior debt! Tremors went through the system. Stories surfaced of individual holders, such as artists, who‚Äôd lost their savings because they‚Äôd bought these crappy bank bonds that had been touted as safe. That junior debt would have been worthless anyway in a bankruptcy, retorted Dijsselbloem and stuck to his semi-hard line‚Äîsemi-hard because holders of senior debt and covered bonds were still bailed out by taxpayers. On Monday, the Dutch Council of State blessed that procedure and thus set an example for the rest of the Eurozone: when a bank is bailed out and nationalized, owners of its debt can lose their entire capital. The unwritten government guarantee on bank debt is off. A government finally drew the line on one of its big banks, instead of flailing about to justify why taxpayers had to bail out bondholders who‚Äôd benefitted from the yields that had compensated them for the risks. Why tolerate a situation where the capital ‚Äúat risk‚Äù wasn‚Äôt at risk? That exotic theory is already spreading. Dijsselbloem is President of the Eurogroup that approves country bailouts. And the German government has been toying with the idea of going after bank investors for months. At issue: the bailout of the banks in Cyprus. But there, it‚Äôs more ... delicate. These banks didn‚Äôt issue a lot of debt. They didn‚Äôt have to; they were flooded with deposits from rich Russians, Russian companies with mailbox subsidiaries in Cyprus, and even Oligarchs [Cyprus, ‚ÄòA Money Laundering Machine For Russian criminals‚Äô]. As more stories about the Russian connection surfaced, the unwritten government guarantee of uninsured bank deposits has been fraying around the edges. The Cypriot government, unlike the Dutch government, cannot bail out its own banks. It‚Äôs bankrupt too and needs a bailout. So, which bank stakeholders get bailed out and which get sacrificed will have to be negotiated with the Troika. Even deposit accounts aren‚Äôt sacrosanct anymore, and their owners, the ‚Äúrich Russians,‚Äù are being prepped for a haircut, a mild one presumably, not a crew cut. Nevertheless, it would break another barrier. Next? Senior bank debt. Its unwritten government guarantee has not yet been broken, and any attempts to do so would be met with determined opposition by the banks themselves. Once investors in senior debt realize that they could lose their capital, they would, in theory, demand higher yields to compensate them for the risk‚Äîthus raise the cost of funds for banks and squeeze their margins. So far in the Eurozone, it has just been one major bank, but not a TBTF bank, where junior debt holders lost their shirts. More such bank bailouts would have to take place before investors accept them as reality and price that risk into the equation. Then, they might actually try to look at the crap these banks have hidden in their basements. In theory. In practice, central banks rule. Their money-printing operations and asset-purchase programs have distorted the markets. Risk has been wrung out of the equation. If a bank is TBTF, it wouldn‚Äôt be the taxpayer to bail it out directly, but the central bank, as the Fed had done, beyond the reach of democratic processes or controls, with amounts that dwarf what the taxpayer could do, generating huge profits for bailed out investors and those betting on these bailouts, and in the process devaluing the currency for everyone else. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm sitting on cash,‚Äù Felix Zulauf said when he was asked in an interview where he was putting his money. With decades of asset management experience under his belt, he‚Äôd founded Zulauf Asset Management in Switzerland in 1990. But now he was worried‚Äîand has turned negative on just about everything. Read.... By Midyear, Europe 'Can No Longer Live With This¬†Euro'
Google FinanceStocks are staging a big rally . The big news of the morning was the January durable goods report.¬† The headline orders number plunged by 5.2 percent, which was worse than expectations. But the headline number tends to be noisy due to volatile aircraft orders. Core capex, which is nondefense order excluding aircraft, surged 6.3 percent.¬† Economist were looking for no growth here. "The standout within the report is rising demand for capital goods seen as a proxy for future business investment in the economy," wrote Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson in a note following the release. "The report confirms the improving health of the manufacturing sector, which we continue to feel is helping fuel demand across the remainder of the economy as rising business confidence translates into growth in investment activity."
Perhaps Elizabeth Warren's sickness over 'too big to fail' (TBTF) is catching. Today, Ben Bernanke was testifying before the House Financial Services Committee. The hearing lacked some fireworks without retired Congressman Barney Frank, but his fellow Massachusetts Democrat Representative Michael Capuano did his part to make things interesting. Following Senator Warren's lead from yesterday, Capuano questioned hard Bernanke about TBTF and the "subsidy" big banks get in the form of lower borrowing costs. "I want to read your words as recorded...you say 'the subsidy is coming because of market expectations that the government will bail big banks out if they fail. Those expectations incorrect.'... So am I reading this correctly, at least through legislative purposes, TBTF is non-existent... not through the market, but through the law?" Bernanke responded saying that we now have the orderly liquidation authority which would wipe out all the shareholders of the company being liquidated. He said that if a big bank failed tomorrow, we'd still have problems, but the Fed is working on that. Capuano seemed a little happy with that response saying,† "...I... agree with you that regardless of what the law says, some people in the marketplace, especially some of my friends on the other side of the aisle, like to believe that it's still in existence. And I accept that not as a legal point but as a fact of reality. Some people think that the moon is made of cheese, and that's fine, to them that's real. So for some people TBTF is still there though there's no scientific or legal proof that it is. I guess what I'm asking is what do you think we should do to address that misconception of the market..." Bernanke said there were steps being taken to move in that direction and mentioned some provisions in Dodd-Frank, but Capuano kept on him. He eventually asked Bernanke to quantify the subsidy banks were getting from the belief in TBTF. Lucky for our Fed Chairman, Capuano's time then ran out. Watch the video from CNBC:  
In October, Gluskin Sheff economist David Rosenberg warned of a big red flag signaling a recession in the United States. The year-over-year change in the three-month moving average of nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft and parts (also referred to as "core capex") had turned negative. Rosenberg considers this chart the purest look at what businesses are doing with their cash. Today's durable goods report revealed a surge in core capex in January. Nondefense orders ex-aircraft and parts jumped 6.3 percent, way above economists' estimates of a flat reading. Perhaps fiscal cliff fears have been allayed for now. Now ñ lo and behold ñ Rosenberg's recession indicator has finally moved into positive territory, albeit only slightly. Bloomberg, Business Insider Is the U.S. economy out of the woods? Of course not ñ but at least at the moment, it looks like businesses are spending again. That seems better than the alternative.
Deloitte.comThe US economy has been slowly but steadily recovering for years, and there are increasing signs of optimism, particularly among consumers, who are increasingly confident in the economy, and in housing, where prices continue to rise.¬† Despite that, hiring's been extremely sluggish. The overall trend is positive, but unemployment is stubbornly high at 7.9 percent. Many companies and executives aren't willing to commit to big hiring pushes when there are so many unknowns about the economy and government policy. There are some parts of the economy that are actually contracting, J.P. Morgan announced that it will cut 17,000 jobs over the next two years, and retailers like J.C. Penney and Best Buy have recently let people go.¬† But some companies are beginning to believe in the recovery. This morning, Deloitte CEO Joseph¬†Echevarria told Bloomberg's Tom Keene that that the professional services giant plans to hire "about 18,000 people this year." He said that despite continuing uncertainty over things like coming automatic cuts to the federal budget and the deficit in general, it's time to look forward. "You make some decisions based on investing in the future and your value proposition," Echevarria said. "As long as you bring value to corporate America and certainty, you can hire and create jobs."¬† Pretty much every company has to hire auditors and accountants to look over their books, so this is a sign that even though times are tough in some industries, there's big potential in the economy as a whole.¬† Most of those jobs are in two specific areas. "We're always looking for the high end auditors who really have skills, and we're looking for STEM, scientists, technologists, engineers and math. That is a shortage, and we're looking for them every day," Echevarria said. The problem, of course, is that those people are notoriously hard to find. He said that about half of the people seeking advanced degrees in STEM in US universities are foreign nationals and that we "don't hang on to them." Deloitte is betting on the recovery and its future, but there's more that could be done to step on the gas and promote hiring.¬†
According to the most recent data from the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the largest producer of horse meat in the world is China, which produced 170,848 tonnes of horse meat in 2010. Check out this interactive map of horse meat production around the world.† Mouse over countries to see how much horse meat they produced in 2010.† A darker color indicates more production.   Even though Congress pulled federal funding to inspect horse meat destined for consumption in the U.S. in 2007, 68,444 tonnes of horse meat were produced in the country in 2010, according to the FAO. In 2011, Congress lifted the ban on funding horse meat inspections. According to the U.S. Government Accountability Office: Since fiscal year 2006, Congress has annually prohibited the use of federal funds to inspect horses destined for food, effectively prohibiting domestic slaughter. Since domestic horse slaughter ceased in 2007, the slaughter horse market has shifted to Canada and Mexico. From 2006 through 2010, U.S. horse exports for slaughter increased by 148 and 660 percent to Canada and Mexico, respectively. Here's the data we used for the map in a table: Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
Fed Chairman Bernanke faced his second round of Capitol Hill questioning today on monetary policy, this time from the House of Representatives. Rep. Michele Bachmann used her time to question the logic of the Fed's huge balance sheet by comparing the government's debt situation to her daughter's spending habits. Here's the transcript: BACHMANN:¬†So the Fed wouldn't need to be buying all these treasuries then. We could find other buyers of our debt. Is that true? BERNANKE: Yes. BACHMANN:¬†So then why are we doing it? BERNANKE: To keep rates a little bit lower, to help support housing, automobiles, and other parts of the economy that need support. BACHMANN: But if there are other buyers, why the FED? BERNANKE: To get rates a little bit lower. BACHMANN: So if my 18-year-old daughter was spending 40 percent more than what my husband and I were giving her, and she didn't just do it this month but she did it the next month and the next month and the next month ‚Äî and finally my husband and I said, 'We're just not going to bail you out anymore, we're not going to continue to finance that overspending that¬†you're doing,' and she said to me, 'Mother, we need to align our solution with the problem,' ‚Äî in other words, you need to keep giving me that money because it's really not a problem yet ‚Äî¬†I would say, I think you have a problem today. And the reason why I would say that is because the analogy with the federal government, in January of 2007, our debt was 8.67 trillion. That debt today is closer to 16.5 trillion with the intra-government debt, according to your calculation. Do you think that's a problem, that in six years, we've gone from 8.67 trillion to 16.5 trillion?¬† BERNANKE:¬†Certainly I think it's a problem, and I think it's important we have measures to bring down it down over time.¬† BACHMANN: But you said we need to align the solution with the problem. It seems to me we have a big problem. and I'll tell you why. When I was home this last week and talking to a lot of women, they were telling me, 'I don't get this ‚Äî gasoline at Christmastime was $2.99 a gallon, now it's $4 a gallon.'¬†They say, 'I can't keep up with the price increases at the grocery store. And we just got our health insurance premium and its going to be $300-a-month more than what it was.' And so all I want to say Mr. Chairman is that what I'm hearing from people is that they are having to deal with the inflationary pressure.¬† Bachmann's question about the debt implies that she thinks Ben Bernanke controls how much the government taxes and spends, when, in fact, Congress controls it. Her statement about inflation, meanwhile, may be the first time we've heard someone blame the spiraling cost of health care on loose monetary policy. 

It takes some serious stones to tell the world you think a company's stock is going to zero. That's probably why Vanity Fair has an awesome piece coming out next month about Bill Ackman and, more importantly, his confidence. The story is called "The Big Short War" (by William Cohan) and it opens with an anecdote about Ackman's first big bet. He was in high school and he bet his father all his Bar Mitzvah money (kudos to him for still having it) that he could get a perfect score on the verbal. From Vanity Fair: In 1984, when he was a junior at Horace Greeley High School, in affluent Chappaqua, New York, he wagered his father $2,000 that he would score a perfect 800 on the verbal section of the S.A.T. The gamble was everything Ackman had saved up from his Bar Mitzvah gift money and his allowance for doing household chores. ‚ÄúI was a little bit of a cocky kid,‚Äù he admits, with uncharacteristic understatement. Tall, athletic, handsome with cerulean eyes, he was the kind of hyper-ambitious kid other kids loved to hate and just the type to make a big wager with no margin for error. But on the night before the S.A.T., his father took pity on him and canceled the bet. ‚ÄúI would‚Äôve lost it,‚Äù Ackman concedes. He got a 780 on the verbal and a 750 on the math. ‚ÄúOne wrong on the verbal, three wrong on the math,‚Äù he muses. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm still convinced some of the questions were wrong.‚Äù We've already forgotten our SAT scores. Willingly.
As stock markets rally, metals are selling off. Gold is down 1.3 percent, silver is off 1.4 percent, platinum is down 1.3 percent, and copper is down 0.5 percent. Palladium is however up 0.40 percent. Gold had its "biggest one day rally in three months" yesterday, according to Reuters, after Fed chairman Ben Bernanke said the Fed was committed to easy monetary policy during his testimony. But gold prices are down today as investors are concerned about the precious metals outlook in the long-term and after ETF holdings saw outflows, according to Reuters. Here's a look at today's gold sell-off: Fin Viz
Business InsiderWith just two days until the forced spending cuts known as the sequester begin to kick in, Congress appears no closer to an immediate solution to avert the cuts. In total, the U.S. stands to lose hundreds of thousands of jobs and millions of dollars of income, but some states are going to be hit much harder than others. Business Insider looked at data analyzed and compiled by¬†George Mason University, combined it with data from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, and created these interactive maps and charts that show exactly where the sequester will potentially hit the hardest.
BloombergFinancial TV journalists are live before millions every day ‚Äî millions of investors, business professionals, and other serious people. That means that they need to walk a fine line. They need to look great, but they also need to look serious. This isn't easy. Everything has to come together ‚Äî hair, makeup, clothes ‚Äî to present a complete package. We've seen more than our share of financial TV fashion fails, but we won't talk about those today. Today, we'll celebrate the victories. This is a list of people that consistently look smashing on camera. We don't know who styles them ‚Äî maybe they style themselves. Whatever the case, they need to keep doing what their doing. And everyone else should take note. 
First Solar was down as much as 16 percent today. The Arizona-based company said¬†it now expects sales of $650 million to $750 million for the first quarter, which is below the $822 million consensus forecast, according to Marketwatch. Management also put their cash flow from operations forecast range at breakeven to up to $100 million, compared with analysts' expectations of ¬†$214 million. ¬† Meanwhile, Changzhou-based Trina Solar posted a¬†fourth-quarter loss of¬†$1.23, nearly $0.50 worse than analysts' expectations, Marketwatch said.¬†The company also had gross margins of just ¬†4.4% in 2012 compared with 16.2% in 2011, which it attributed to¬†oversupply and aggressive pricing.
(Corrects year of district court ruling in ninth paragraph) NEW YORK, Feb 27 (Reuters) - Argentina will seek on Wednesday to persuade a U.S. appeals court to reverse an order that it pay $1.3 billion to a group of dissident bondholders stemming from the country's 2001 default, a showdown that could have wide impact on global debt markets. The arguments at the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York are being closely watched amid fears of a new Argentina debt crisis if the country must pay the so-called "holdout" investors. For years, the holdouts have demanded full payment after spurning two debt exchanges. Led by Elliott Management affiliate NML Capital Ltd and Aurelius Capital Management, they say they are simply attempting to hold Argentina to its obligations and that the country has plenty of reserves to pay them. (For details, click here: ) Argentina, though, calls these investors vultures and has vowed not to pay them. A victory by the holdouts, Argentina argues, would harm investors who agreed to the debt restructurings as well as banks that handle its payments. The country also says such a ruling could make future debt crises "unresolvable" and spur further investor litigation. A decision against Argentina would deal a major blow to President Cristina Fernandez. As a sign of the importance of the court hearing, Argentina's Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino is planning to attend the hearing, his spokeswoman said Tuesday. A three-judge panel is set to hear arguments from lawyers for Argentina and for the holdouts, as well as several other parties. Argentina defaulted 12 years ago on about $100 billion in sovereign debt. About 92 percent of its bonds were restructured in 2005 and 2010, giving holders 25 cents to 29 cents on the dollar. If ordered to pay the small group of holdout creditors, there are fears that Argentina could default again on $24 billion in previously restructured debt. U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York ruled in February 2012 that Argentina violated a key provision of its bond contracts. That provision required the country to treat all of its creditors equally by paying the holdouts if it also paid investors who had agreed to the two debt swap deals, the judge found. In October, the 2nd Circuit largely upheld that ruling. It is now reviewing Griesa's plan for how the payments would work. Griesa has said the next time Argentina made an interest payment to the exchange bondholders, it would have to pay $1.33 billion owed to the holdouts into a court escrow account. The appeals court is also examining treatment of Bank of New York Mellon, which acts as trustee to the exchange bondholders, and the impact from the ruling's injunction on other third parties. In their appeal, Argentina's lawyers have contended U.S. courts do not have the authority to order a sovereign government to turn over assets to bondholders. But Henry Weisburg, a lawyer at Shearman &amp; Sterling who has followed the case, said Argentina made similar arguments during its last hearing before the appeals court. And he also noted the appeal will be heard by the same panel that issued the October ruling backing Griesa. "You have to wonder what traction they'll have the second time around," he said of Argentina. In court papers, lawyers for Argentina have said the country would be willing to reopen its restructuring offer. Such a move, though, would require legislative permission and likely be rejected by the holdouts. Argentina is separately awaiting a decision on whether the court will grant a rehearing of the October decision that required equal treatment of the holdout investors. The U.S. government has backed that appeal, saying if the ruling is upheld, it could undermine the ability of other governments to negotiate future debt restructurings. The appeals court's ultimate decision after Wednesday's hearing could be the final word on the matter. Although the court could end up rehearing the case or the Supreme Court could ultimately take up the case, such reviews are rare. The case is NML Capital Ltd et al v. Argentina, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 12-105. (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Additional reporting by Hilary Burke in Buenos Aires; Editing by Martha Graybow and Jackie Frank) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
APEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi is giving a speech in Munich. A notable quote from the speech just crossed the wires and instantly sent the euro a bit lower against the U.S. dollar. According to Bloomberg, Draghi said the ECB is "far" from having an exit in mind for its monetary stimulus measures, in contrast to recent arguments from a number of analysts who assert that the ECB is beginning to tighten monetary policy passively. In January, euro-area banks were allowed to start repaying ultra-cheap loans made to them by the ECB during the height of the euro zone's banking crisis. As banks have repaid these "LTRO" (Long Term Refinancing Operations) loans to the ECB in recent weeks, some excess liquidity has been drained from the euro-area financial system. As he has done before, Draghi sought to reassure markets that the ECB's balance sheet would only shrink when confidence returns to the euro area. However, Draghi's language today ñ "far" from considering an exit ñ is arguably the most forceful on record with regard to the issue.
flickr / Medill DCDay two of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's semi-annual Congressional testimony on monetary policy is now over. Today, Bernanke went before the House Financial Services Committee. Yesterday, in a testimony before the Senate banking committee, Bernanke sought to downplay concerns over the size of the Fed's balance sheet, largely as expected. He told senators that the benefits of quantitative easing outweigh the costs and that stocks don't appear overvalued at these levels. During the Q&amp;A session with the House Committee today, Rep. Maxine Waters asked Bernanke about the effects of sequestration. Bernanke replied, "My suggestion for your consideration is to align the timing better with the problem." Here, he was referring to short-term fiscal spending cuts to deal with long-term debt sustainability issues. "I would be supportive of a less front-loaded set of measures," he said. When asked about the effect of negative deposit rates, Bernanke said that cutting the interest rate on excess reserves held by banks at the Fed to a level below zero would have a positive effect on the economy, but only a very small one. Furthermore, it could have negative effects on the functioning of money markets. Bernanke also stated that 2016 was a reasonable estimate for how long it would take to reach a 6 percent unemployment rate. Little else of note came out of today's testimony before the House Committee. Stocks drifted higher throughout Bernanke's speech, although there weren't any market-moving headlines.
Getty Images / Alexandra BeierIt is February, the winter is going on for ever, the economy is rubbish, and guess what? We are drinking too much. But it seems we are also seriously underestimating how much we drink. Researchers at University College London have calculated that the amount of alcohol that we say we consume only accounts for 60% of what is sold. So unless we are pouring four in every 10 units of alcohol that we buy down the sink, there is a serious gap between the volume purchased and the amount we admit to drinking. As a GP, I tend to take self-reported intake of alcohol, food and drugs with a pinch of salt. It is not that I don't believe what patients say, but I recognise that it is hard to be accurate. We are encouraged to ask people routinely about alcohol intake and there are some objective signs that a person may be drinking too much, such as raised blood pressure, indigestion and abnormal blood-test results. I have never heard of the idea of doubling the amount that a patient says they are drinking, as lead author of the study, Sadie Boniface, has suggested. Our relationship with patients relies on each believing that the other is telling the truth as they see it. If you are drinking much more than the NHS recommends ‚Äì three to four units for men or two to three for women a day ‚Äì it is worth seeing your GP to talk through your approach to alcohol. If he or she seems to disbelieve your estimates, don't take it personally. Chances are your GP is just projecting. Overdrinking and underestimating intake affect most of us. Doctors are no different.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
sfnvideo via YouTubeThe recent string of housing data shows that housing supply is tight, new home sales are surging, and pending home sales are up.¬† And this, analysts say, bodes well for home prices. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, however, Robert Shiller says he is more "worried" than most about the rise in home prices, because he isn't certain that the recovery in prices will be sustained. Here is an excerpt from the interview: WSJ: Did we finally hit a floor in home prices last year? Mr. Shiller: The trend in home prices seems to be up now. It has been going up. That‚Äôs upward momentum, which by my general rule of forecasting has been good for the future. I‚Äôve been tentative about that. It may well be the turning point. But I‚Äôm not sure about that. I‚Äôm more worried than most people that it could be a short-lived turnaround. It could be like the 2009-10 upturn where we saw home prices rising right after President Obama took office and right after the home-buyer tax credit was instituted. In that upturn there were some cities that did quite spectacularly. And then that fizzled. I‚Äôm not too sure that this one will extrapolate either.WSJ: Why are you more worried than most people? Mr. Shiller: Part of the reason the indexes have gone up is because the foreclosure boom has receded. Foreclosed homes sell at a lower price, and the share of those sales has been falling. People might be deceived by this by looking at the indexes. The question is whether the gains will be sustained. There isn‚Äôt any sign of the real enthusiasm we saw during the last bubble. The question is whether this could be the very vague beginning of a new boom? I guess it could. I just don‚Äôt know. Then there are issues with what the government does to support housing. They‚Äôre doing everything they can. They say they‚Äôre going to stop some day. When will people start worrying about that? Of course Shiller isn't the only one, Quinn W. Eddins has said housing optimists are getting two key things wrong, namely that home prices are increasing off a weaker base and the composition of sales have changed. He also says a true recovery isn't possible without job growth and improved consumer confidence.  Read the entire interview at The Wall Street Journal &gt;
Infamous Ponzi schemer Bernard MadoffWASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî The Supreme Court says the federal government doesn't get more time to sue for securities fraud. Justices on Wednesday said the Securities and Exchange Commission must file suit within five years of an alleged fraudulent security action, but that the SEC can't start the clock running whenever it discovers a bad practice. Writing the court's unanimous opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts said this was the law's "most natural" reading. The case involved Gabelli Funds LLC executive Bruce Alpert and former executive Marc J. Gabelli, who said the SEC missed its chance to sue them for allegedly committing securities fraud by allowing a hedge fund to rapidly trade shares of a mutual fund. In a second opinion, the court also voted 6-3 to make it easier to file security fraud class action lawsuits. ¬† 
Morgan Stanley's Praveen K. Choudhary just got back from Macau, and he likes what he sees, especially in "mass" revenue growth (as opposed to higher-roller, VIP-type revenue). ...mass revenue has been growing at around 30 percent consistently for the last several months and we expect this to be sustained based on improving infrastructure (driving visitations higher) and continued higher minimum bets on the table... And Macau is building out aggressively to address all of this new traffic. ...We also expect that 2013 will get benefit of another 250 tables (200 tables will be mass) since Chinese New Year to help it grow at this rate... Next phase of construction at Cotai is in full swing and should bring more tables/hotels over the next 4-5 years. Here's the chart. Choudhary also checked out Manila, which he said faces slower growth due to travel bottlenecks.
Markets around the world are rallying. Europe just closed at 11:30 AM ET. And the big winner in Europe was Italy. The FTSE MIB index closed up 1.7 percent. Earlier today, the Italy successfully went into the bond markets and sold 10-year debt at a borrowing cost that was lower than what most feared. Here's an intraday chart of Italy's stock market via Bloomberg. Bloomberg
Just in case you‚Äôre not freaked out enough by political dysfunction, take a gander at¬†this little gem¬†cooked up by R‚Äôs on the Hill to avoid‚Äîwell, not avoid, but rejigger‚Äîthe sequester. Under the Republican plan, Obama would be required to offer a sequester alternative by March 8. Congress would have until March 22 to pass a resolution of disapproval, which would done by a simple majority vote. If that resolution is signed by the president, the original sequestration order would be restored. But the process is subject to a veto, requiring two-thirds to prevail and overrule whatever plan the president comes up with. The President‚Äôs proposal must have the same level of cuts as the sequester, and no more than half can come from defense (in the actual sequester, half the cuts are from defense). So, lemme get this straight.¬† President Obama gets to own the sequester by himself, unless a majority in the Congress¬†doesn‚Äôt¬†like what he comes up with.¬† In that case, they can formally disapprove.¬† If he then agrees that he doesn‚Äôt like his plan either‚Äîeven though he just came up with it‚Äîthen we default back to the original sequester.¬† ¬†But if he does still like it, he gets to implement it unless two-thirds of the Congress doesn‚Äôt like it either.¬† In which case‚Ä¶you guessed it‚Ä¶back to the original. You can‚Äôt make this stuff up, folks. I was on the Rachel Maddow Show¬†tonight¬†and I¬†found Rachel‚Äôs intro to be an extremely effective critique of not just the horrible economics of the sequester (and check out that amazing legislator from Alaska!), but the opportunity costs of dickering around with madness like the above when we‚Äôve got real problems to deal with. I get that they‚Äôre not going to do anything useful. ¬†I‚Äôm starting to get that neither will they take the¬†Hippocratic oath to at least do no harm.¬†¬†But how they can come up with ideas like the above with a straight face is still beyond me.
Wonder Bread, the iconic bread brand that has been left in limbo since Hostess declared bankruptcy, will strive on. Flowers Foods is set to buy Hostess' bread brands, including Wonder, for $360 million, Martinne Geller at Reuters reports. There was supposed to be an auction for the brands on Thursday, but it has been canceled since there were no other competing bids, according to Reuters. Flowers had become a "stalking horse" bidder back in January. The deal is waiting on approval from a bankruptcy court.¬†¬†
AP ImagesJPMorgan Chase revealed in its Investor Day presentation yesterday that its going to axe 17,000 jobs in the next two years. Four-thousand of those cuts are expected to go down this year and the other 13,000 are expected to come from the bank's mortgage unit. †† CEO Jamie Dimon totally downplayed the forthcoming layoffs in his remarks yesterday.† Here's what we've transcribed from the audio (emphasis ours):† "Headcount, there was a little bit of a misunderstanding that came out. That number's down 4,000 in 2013 another 13 in 2014. Obviously, that's a rough estimate in 2014. The world changes. Those are just are just net negatives, remember the pluses and minuses. I'm just going to focus on two negatives. OK. "Ryan McInerney†talked about retail branches being down 6,000. That's over two years, I think over two years, Ryan, is that accurate? Over two years. Hundred percent by attrition. That, just think of that as one person per branch as the new technology goes in. It's not very complicated and obviously he's adding people in other areas ó liquid, cards, products, services, etc. †There are other pluses and minuses... "The other one Kevin Ward has mentioned is mortgage down 15. We're going to do as much as we can ó redeployment, attrition as possible. That is basically as defaulted loans come down, the people who handle defaulted loans come down. You could make the chart yourself. And then we're putting in some new technologies. So, there we do this thing called redeployment where we actually try, and have been unbelievably successful, take plants, factories, etc, etc. and try to get them employed in other functions inside the company and a couple cases other companies. We took the whole thing and moved on to some other service company. So hopefully we'll get that done... "The last thing I'll mention is really about people because Mike Mayo you mentioned a very important thing. OK. No one at JPMorgan ever, ever worries about losing their job because they made a mistake. I think if you run a business and the first time you make a mistake you lose your job, why would you want to work there? I've been on Wall Street my whole life I've seen the hang 'em high shoot 'em you lose money. It also leaves a bad attitude make as much as you can while you can before you get shot in the back of the head." He makes it so it doesn't sound all that bad. † SEE ALSO: JAMIE DIMON TELLS ANALYST: Here's Why I'm Richer Than You &gt;
The conservative Club For Growth, a major grassroots anti-tax organization that has spent lots of money on Republican primaries, launched a new website Wednesday announcing their first targets for the 2014 election cycle. The site, PrimaryMyCongressman.com, is tied to the Club For Growth scorecard released this week, and names nine members of the House of Representatives who scored below 70 percent, while representing districts in which Mitt Romney won at least 60 percent of the vote in 2012. Here are the targets: In addition to raising awareness about their voting records, the site asks its conservative visitors to suggest names for potential primary challengers. ìBig government liberals inhabit the Democratic Party, but they are far too common within the Republican Party as well,î Club for Growth President Chris Chocola said in a statement. ìThe Republicans helped pass billions of dollars in tax increases and they have repeatedly voted against efforts by fiscal conservatives to limit government." The new Club for Growth site comes amid a bubbling conservative feud over the Conservative Victory Project, a new Karl Rove-backed super-PAC that aims to influence Republican primaries by opposing candidates it deems unelectable. Although PrimaryMyCongressman does not appear to be tied to Club for Growth's opposition to Rove's project, it represents what is likely to be a long, internecine battle over the GOP primary elections in 2014.
William Cohan, the author of "Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World",¬†has a fantastic anecdote in his piece in the April issue of Vanity Fair ¬†about an ill-fated Hamptons bike ride Bill Ackman took with Daniel Loeb last summer. Cohan writes:¬† ...The plan was for Loeb, who is extremely serious about fitness and has done sprint triathlons, a half-Ironman, and a New York City Marathon, to pick up Ackman at Ackman‚Äôs $22 million mansion, in Bridgehampton. (Ackman also owns an estate in upstate New York and lives in the Beresford, a historic co-op on Manhattan‚Äôs Central Park West.) The two would cycle the 20 or so miles to Montauk, where they would meet up with the rest of the group and ride out the additional 6 miles to the lighthouse, at the tip of the island. ‚ÄúI had done no biking all summer,‚Äù Ackman now admits. Still, he went out at a very fast clip, his hypercompetitive instincts kicking in. As he and Loeb approached Montauk, Loeb texted his friends, who rode out to meet them from the opposite direction. The etiquette would have been for Ackman and Loeb to slow down and greet the other riders, but Ackman just blew by at top speed. The others fell in behind, at first struggling to keep up with the alpha leader. But soon enough Ackman faltered‚Äîat Mile 32, Ackman recalls‚Äîand fell way behind the others. He was clearly ‚Äúbonking,‚Äù as they say in the cycling world, which is what happens when a rider is dehydrated and his energy stores are depleted. While everyone else rode back to Loeb‚Äôs East Hampton mansion, one of Loeb‚Äôs friends, David ‚ÄúTiger‚Äù Williams, a respected cyclist and trader, painstakingly guided Ackman, who by then could barely pedal and was letting out primal screams of pain from the cramps in his legs, back to Bridgehampton... Read the rest at Vanity Fair &gt; Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife. ¬†He believes the mutli-level marketing firm that sells nutrition products is a "pyramid scheme."¬† After Ackman shared his short case, Loeb, the CEO of Third Point LLC, disclosed a big stake in Herbalife and said Ackman's thesis "lacks merit" and his pyramid scheme claim is "preposterous".
Best Buy founder Richard Schulze has been working hard to buy back the company over the past few months, but now it looks like his takeover attempt in bad shape, Olivia Oran and Jessica Toonkel at Reuters spoke with five sources "familiar with the matter"†who all say that Schulze's bid is in trouble. Schulze originally tried a full takeover bid but that failed, so he went to a backup plan. Over the past few weeks, Schulze has been trying to get private equity firms on board to buy a non-controlling stake in Best Buy. But that might not pan out either. The potential investors are "unconvinced" that Best Buy can compete with online retailers like Amazon, according to Reuters' sources. Schulze has until Thursday to submit a bid to the Best Buy board. The company has postponed its fiscal Q4 earnings release by one day to wait for Schulze's bid.
Getty Images/Jason KempinWhen many people think of nonprofit institutions with large endowments, they think of well-financed pillars of higher education such as Harvard University. But financier John Paulson‚Äôs $100 million donation last October to the Central Park Conservancy was a powerful reminder that academia does not have a monopoly on multimillion-dollar donations.¬† In the U.S., museums, orchestras and other cultural institutions also depend on generous patrons for financial stability. The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, for example, boasts one of the finest collections in the world, and the museum‚Äôs $2.7 billion endowment is the largest among cultural institutions in the U.S., according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy. This generous nest egg, as measured by its 2011 value, grew 14 percent from 2010. Last year, the museum also received millions of dollars in donations from David H. Koch, of Koch Industries, and the estate of socialite Brooke Astor. While the museum‚Äôs wealth dwarfs that of other arts organizations, the total value of the 10 institutions with the largest endowments was $8 billion in 2011, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy.¬† The numbers, while substantial, hardly compare to top-ranked American universities. Harvard University‚Äôs $32 billion endowment in the 2011 fiscal year was the highest of any American university, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report, but more than 60 universities in the U.S. have endowments worth more than $1 billion. Still, only three of the 10 best-endowed cultural institutions saw the value of their endowments slip from 2010 to 2011, while others registered double-digit gains. ¬†The growth has been impressive during a time of market uncertainty. Here are the 10 largest endowments held by cultural institutions, as reported by The Chronicle of Philanthropy.
GettyAmericans wholeheartedly disapprove of how Congressional Republicans are handling federal spending, according to a new poll result from ABC and The Washington Post that undercuts one of the party's major messages. The poll found that a whopping 67 percent of respondents disapproved of how Republicans are handling federal spending. That includes 64 percent of Democrats and an astounding 51 percent of Republicans that buck their own party. Only 26 percent of respondents approved. By comparison, President Barack Obama is viewed better ó albeit not in a highly favorable light. By a 52-43 split, Americans disapproved of how Obama is handling federal spending.† Still, as other polls have shown, Obama has an edge over Congressional Republicans as the across-the-board cuts known as the sequester are set to begin kicking in on Friday. The ABC/WaPo survey dismantles one of Republicans' main arguments of Obama's presidency ó that they are the party that is best equipped to spend the government's money. † Here's a look, in chart form, of the difference in approval on federal spending: Langer Research
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke¬†blew two big holes in the political argument about the $85 billion in¬†automatic across-the-board spending cuts¬†slated to begin this Friday. Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee Tuesday morning, Bernanke made a simple argument: The sequestration cuts are ill-timed in the middle of a sluggish recovery and changing the composition of those cuts does little to mute their overall drag on the economy. ‚ÄúIt was done to be ‚ÄòDr. Strangelove,‚Äô‚Äù said Bernanke, referring to the Stanley Kubrick film about mutually assured nuclear destruction. All of this matters because the political debate has largely been about cuts to the programs, not the timing of those cuts.¬†President Obama¬†has warned of teachers and civilian Pentagon employees being fired‚Äîa danger he‚Äôll repeat in a speech this afternoon at a shipyard in Newport News, Va. Obama has suggested that revenue increases from eliminating tax breaks on wealthier Americans and closing loopholes on companies should replace some of the cuts. GOP congressmen say the tax hikes would choke off growth. Either way, it‚Äôs just shuffling numbers across the federal ledger, Bernanke essentially said. The economy would still suffer a projected 0.6 percent hit to Gross Domestic Product. ‚ÄúThe near-term effect on growth would probably not be substantially different,‚Äù Bernanke said. ‚ÄúIt would be about the same.‚Äù On Tuesday, Bernanke said it‚Äôs the difference between a tottering 2 percent economic uptick and a more robust 2.6 percent increase that would in theory ramp up hiring. In an era of staggering gridlock, the Fed chairman‚Äôs framework for explaining the policies outside his realm‚Äîthose set by Congress and Obama‚Äîhave been remarkably prescient. For the better part of the past two years, Bernanke has warned Congress about how their policies have injured growth. The Fed chairman popularized the¬†term ‚Äúfiscal cliff‚Äù¬†in testimony last year, the metaphor that defined the political struggle over tax rates at the end of last year by the White House and Capitol Hill. The Fed Chairman‚Äôs testimony also dwelled on financial regulation, the Fed‚Äôs huge balance sheet, inflation risks, and a 30,000-foot perspective on the global economy. Yet those issues pale, for the moment, in comparison to the economic difficulties caused by the recent political stalemate. Bernanke can‚Äôt and doesn‚Äôt tell Congress what fiscal policies to adopt, but he has noted how the gridlock has undermined the Fed‚Äôs low interest rates and attempts at monetary stimulus. His line of thinking is that stronger economic growth produces more jobs and income‚Äîwhich in turn lead to more revenues and less demand on government social programs. Our fiscal and monetary policy should be working in concert. All told, government policies to reduce the deficit this year are forecast to hurt growth by 1.5 percent. This includes spending reductions besides the sequester, the end of the¬†two-year payroll tax holiday,¬†the 3.8 percent investment tax on high income earners, and to a lesser extent the fiscal cliff compromise that charges higher tax rates on household incomes above $450,000. The Fed cannot offset that hit to the economy, Bernanke said this morning. The flaw in the urgency to cut the deficit is that it stifles growth and the real deficit problems mount exponentially after 2022, when the Baby Boomer generation segues onto Medicare and Social Security, causing entitlement expenses to surge. ‚ÄúTo some extent, the fiscal policy decisions being made are mismatched with the timing of the problem,‚Äù Bernanke said. More from The Fiscal Times:
Wikimedia CommonsJanuary pending home sales were up 4.5 percent month-over-month (MoM), above expectations for a 1.9 percent rise. Pending home sales were up 10.4 percent on a year-over-year basis, beating expectations for an 8.2 percent rise. Click here to refresh &gt; Last month's number was also revised up to reflect a 1.9 percent decline, from the initial reading of a 4.3 percent decline. A regional breakdown shows that in the Northeast the pending home sales index (PHSI) were up 8.2 percent on the month, in the Midwest it was up 4.5 percent on the month, in the South it was up 5.9 percent, and in the West it was up a marginal 0.1 percent, and down 1.5 percent from a year ago. "Favorable affordability conditions and job growth have unleashed a pent-up demand," said NAR's chief economist, Lawrence Yun in a press release. "Most areas are drawing down housing inventory, which has shifted the supply/demand balance to sellers in much of the country. It's also why we're experiencing the strongest price growth in more than seven years." We saw some strong housing data yesterday, with new home sales surging 15.6 percent in January and analysts have pointed out the tight supply of homes. Today's release showed that existing home supply is tight, especially in the West which is why home price increases in the region are increasing the most, according to Yun. He said he now expects 5 million home sales in 2013, down from 5.1 million. NAR The S&amp;P Case-Shiller home prices were up 6.84 percent in December, the biggest gain since July 2006. Tight supply of homes is expected to add upward pressure on home prices this year.
Yesterday, investment manager, and media personality, Doug Kass tweeted a rumor that Apple was going to announce a stock split today. Right around the time he fired off his tweet, Apple's stock was taking off, erasing a loss on the day. Was it because of his tweet? It's hard to say. Stocks move in mysterious ways. We really don't know what was driving the gain. But, the simplest explanation would be that Kass's tweet could have driven the stock. Doug KassAfter he set the rumor in motion, and the stock took off, he followed up by saying he was selling his Apple shares, notes Philip Elmer DeWitt. He was selling his shares because, upon closer inspection, he decided the rumor made no sense. Kudos to Kass for being transparent, but boy does it look fishy. He was getting hammered on Twitter and defended himself by saying the stock split rumor has been floating around for days, and just picked up steam because we're closer to the shareholder meeting. He also called people who said he was breaking the law "dumbie" on Twitter. So, there's that. Whatever the case may be, it's one of those sketchy areas that's a good reminder not to treat everything you hear on Twitter as the gospel truth. But, you already knew that.
Using code words to talk about deals isn't new, investment bankers have using them to talk about sensitive business since investment banking was created. Code makes it possible to talk about a deal any time, anywhere. The thing is, as is intended, the code names don't always come out. Recently though, there have been a few names floating around here and there, getting leaked to the press at random. If you blink, you might miss them, though, since they tend to be mere passing mentions in some paragraph in the thick of a story. Take this Reuters story on the Heinz deal for instance. Eleven paragraphs down there's a quick mention of the code names that dealmakers from Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway and Jorge Lemann's 3G used to talk about the $23 billion dollar deal. From Reuters: In order to keep the deal silent, code names were used, according to two sources. 3G was called "goose," Heinz was referred to as "penguin" and Berkshire was known as "owl." The news release also refers to the buyer as "Hawk Acquisition Holding Corp". Adorable. Bloomberg buries the code names in their reporting too. You get one ten paragraphs down in this story about the American Airlines - U.S. Airways deal. From Bloomberg: US Airways‚Äô designation of its AMR plan as ‚ÄúTetris‚Äù referred to the video game in which blocks of different shapes have to be positioned to make a solid wall, a person familiar with the matter said. One more thing about deal making and code words. WSJ noticed that there may be a code word trend among bankers ‚Äî kind of like popular baby names. The publication's bankruptcy blog notes a few examples of Greek words used to refer to deals. From WSJ: At a recent bankruptcy-court hearing for School Specialty Inc. SCHSQ -2.78%, it came out that the investment banker hired to explore the struggling company‚Äôs options used the code name ‚ÄúSocrates‚Äù to keep the project under wraps. One investment banker found inspiration in Greek poet Homer‚Äôs ‚ÄúThe Odyssey.‚Äù ...one client...had been urged to sell for many years but demurred. When the client finally agreed to a deal, Manning and his colleagues... settled on ‚ÄúPenelope‚Äù in honor of Odysseus‚Äôs wife, ‚Äúwho ignored the advances of many suitors during his long journey home.‚Äù ¬†Sneaky.
For instance, on the planet Earth, man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved so much‚Äîthe wheel, New York, wars and so on‚Äîwhilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time. But conversely, the dolphins had always believed that they were far more intelligent than man‚Äîfor precisely the same reasons. ¬†- Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Time can be divided, approximately, into time spent eating, sleeping, caring for others, playing, relaxing, making love - all the things that make up "leisure" - and time spent in activities that generate things to consume, or earnings to buy things to consume. An individual faces a trade-off between leisure and consumption, as shown in the diagram below the fold: Frances Woolley/Worthwhile Canadian InitiativeThe diagram shows a person who is endowed with 16 waking hours per day. She can choose to spend them in leisure, or she can choose to convert those hours into consumption by working. Her wage rate determines how much additional consumption she gets for each hour that she works. As drawn, our person's wage rate is 10 units of consumption per hour - for each hour she works, she gets 10 units of consumption. For example, if she has no leisure, and works 16 hours per day, she achieves 160 units of consumption. Frances WoolleyHow much a person works depends upon her preferences, which I have represented here by an indifference curve. Indifference curves map a person's wants, needs and desires. Each point on an indifference curve is just as good as any other point, but higher indifference curves are better than lower ones. As drawn, our person's optimal choice - the one that gets her on the highest possible indifference curve - is working 12 hours per day, achieving 120 units of consumption, and having four hours left over for leisure. However if her wage rate changed, her budget constraint would change too, and so would her optimal choice. In the second figure below, our person's wage rate has increased to 18 units of consumption per hour, rotating the budget line outwards. Frances Woolley/Worthwhile Canadian InitiativeIn theory, the impact of an increase in the wage rate is ambiguous. Work pays better, so taking time away from work, or enjoying leisure, costs more. This means that people tend work more hours, substituting consumption for leisure - the "substitution effect". At the same time, when work pays well, one doesn't have to work so hard to get enough to eat, and instead can afford to take time off - the "income effect". Whether an increase in the wage rate increases or decreases hours of work depends upon which dominates, the income effect or the substitution effect. In the diagram above, the income effect dominates. When a person's wage increases, she works fewer hours - she has what is called a "backwards bending labour supply curve."¬† The phrase "backwards ending supply curve" describes what you get when you take the wage rate/hours worked combinations from the diagrams above and plot them on a graph, like this: ¬† Frances Woolley/Worthwhile Canadian Initiative In my experience, students are often skeptical about the existence of backwards bending labour supply curves, and regard them as just another one of those weird things profs put on exams to trip people up. Yet a number of studies have found that male labour supply curves bend backwards, especially those of married men already in the labour market (see, for example, recent and comprehensive surveys by¬†Keane¬†and by¬†Evers, de Mooij and van Vuuren). Frances WoolleyIn fact, backwards bending supply curves are only natural.¬†Pigeons¬†pecking for grains have labour supply curves that are upwards sloping at low wage rates, but then bend backwards at higher wages, as pigeons become less inclined to substitute pecking for other pigeon pursuits. The labour supply curves of rats and mice are also¬†backwards bending. Frances Woolley Indeed, one of the things that is striking about observing animals in the wild, particularly predators like lions, is what slackers they are. Your average lion snoozes his or her day away. Those pictures of a lion staring down a wildebeast or an impala or a tsessebe? All the lion is doing is staring. She's won't try to run down an antelope in broad daylight - that's far too much like hard work After all, consuming stuff is good, but there are other things worth doing in life, like mucking around in the waterhole, having a mud bath, caring for family, fighting over women, or making love. Other than having an excuse to post pictures of elephants, what's the point? Read the rest at Worthwhile Canadian Initiative &gt; ¬†
Apple should not sign up for hedge fund manager David Einhorn's preferred stock plan, says Jefferies analyst Peter Misek. He thinks Apple is going to need its cash to ride out a "potentially very rough two-year period." He prefers dividends and buybacks because they provide flexibility. Einhorn wants Apple to issued preferred stock that has a perpetual dividend. He has scolded Apple for having a "depression-era mentality" when it comes to cash. He thinks Apple needs to stop hoarding its $137 billion in cash, and start distributing it to shareholders. Misek sees some big issues confronting Apple in the near term that will require lots of cash on hand: Basically, Misek agrees with Apple's position on cash. He sees a turbulent period in the near term and doesn't think Apple should sign up for anything that gives away cash forever. He thinks Apple either doubles its current plan to $90 billion in dividends and buy backs over the next three years, or keeps its current $45 billion in dividends and buybacks, but does it over the next year and a half.
APBill Gross opens his latest monthly letter to PIMCO clients with a classic 1996 quote from then Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan: "But how do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values?" Yale economist Robert Shiller later wrote a book titled "Irrational Exuberance" to describe the run-up in tech stocks right before the dotcom bubble burst. So, with asset prices at multi-year highs, Gross tackles the issue of overpriced assets. He references the recent work of economist Jeremy Stein who used "irrational exuberance" to question the run-up in the high yield, aka junk bond, market.† Without getting into details, Stein ultimate concludes that he sees a ìfairly significant pattern of reaching-for-yield behavior emerging in corporate credit."† In other words, the valuations may be a bit stretched. Now, Gross doesn't declare that the junk bond market is in a bubble.† After all, the title of his letter is "Rational Temperance."† From his letter: On a scale of 1-10 measuring asset price ìirrationalityî, we are probably at a 6 and moving in an upward direction. ...Corporate credit and high yield bonds are somewhat exuberantly and irrationally priced. Spreads are tight, corporate profit margins are at record peaks with room to fall, and the economy is still fragile. Still that doesnít mean you should vacate your portfolio of them. But having said that, he warns the returns are going to be low.† On stocks, Gross notes that junk bond spreads tend to correlate well with stock prices.† He offers this chart: PIMCO His conclusion is that we're not in a bubble.† But as his headline would suggest, we as investors should employ "rational temperance." From his letter (emphasis ours): The conclusion would be that where high yield prices go, stock markets follow, or vice versa. Narrow yield spreads in high yield credit markets appear to be accompanied by ìnarrowî equity risk premiums in the market for stocks, which is another way of saying that the course of future equity returns may not resemble its recent exuberant past. 3-4% high yield returns over the next few years? Why shouldnít that logically lead to a generalized 5-6% return forecast for stocks? Admittedly, returns for both high yield and equity markets have been unduly influenced in the past few years by Quantitative Easing, the writing of trillions of dollars of Federal Reserve checks and the exuberant migration of institutions and households alike to the grassier plains of risk assets dependent on favorable economic outcomes. It is what central banks encourage and to date it has been successful. If and when that support dissipates or if the economy remains anemic, investors should be cautious and temper their enthusiasm. Read the whole letter at PIMCO.com.
BoeingDurable goods orders data for January are out. Orders decreased 5.2 percent, worse than expectations of a 4.8 percent decline. The drop was led by orders for defense aircraft and parts. However, nondefense orders excluding aircraft (core capex) rose 6.3 percent, way above expectations of no growth. Durable goods orders excluding all transportation equipment rose 1.9 percent, exceeding expectations of a 0.2 percent gain. Shipments of nondefense orders excluding aircraft and parts fell 1 percent. Economists predicted a 1.3 percent decline. December data were revised down across the board, but the revisions don't even begin to offset the gains observed today. "The standout within the report is rising demand for capital goods seen as a proxy for future business investment in the economy," wrote Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson in a note following the release. "The report confirms the improving health of the manufacturing sector, which we continue to feel is helping fuel demand across the remainder of the economy as rising business confidence translates into growth in investment activity." The chart below, courtesy of Wilkinson, illustrates the surge in core capex: Miller Tabak Below is the full text from the release: New Orders New orders for manufactured durable goods in January decreased $11.8 billion or 5.2 percent to $217.0 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau announced today. This decrease, down following four consecutive monthly increases, followed a 3.7 percent December increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 1.9 percent. Excluding defense, new orders decreased 0.4 percent. Transportation equipment, down three of the last four months, drove the decrease, $14.7 billion or 19.8 percent to $59.7 billion. This was led by defense aircraft and parts, which decreased $5.1 billion. Shipments Shipments of manufactured durable goods in January, down following four consecutive monthly increases, decreased $2.7 billion or 1.2 percent to $226.1 billion. This followed a 0.5 percent December increase. Transportation equipment, down following two consecutive monthly increases, had the largest decrease, $1.6 billion or 2.3 percent to $64.7 billion. This followed a 0.8 percent December increase. Unfilled Orders Unfilled ordersfor manufactured durable goods in January, down following four consecutive monthly increases, decreased $2.1 billion or 0.2 percent to $989.2 billion. This decrease followed a 0.8 percent December increase. Transportation equipment, also down following four consecutive monthly increases, drove the decrease, $5.0 billion or 0.9 percent to $582.8 billion. Inventories Inventories of manufactured durable goods in January, up fifteen of the last sixteen months, increased $0.7¬†billion or 0.2 percent to $374.8 billion. This increase followed a 0.1 percent December decrease. Transportation equipment, up thirty consecutive months, drove the increase, $1.1 billion or 0.9 percent to $115.8 billion. Capital Goods Nondefense new orders for capital goods in January decreased $0.1 billion or 0.1 percent to $72.2 billion. Shipments decreased $1.2 billion or 1.7 percent to $70.5 billion. Unfilled orders increased $1.6 billion or 0.3 percent to $586.2 billion. Inventories increased $1.5 billion or 0.9 percent to $174.1 billion. Defense new orders for capital goods in January decreased $11.3 billion or 69.5 percent to $4.9 billion. Shipments decreased $1.0 billion or 11.6 percent to $8.0 billion. Unfilled orders decreased $3.1 billion or 1.8 percent to $168.1 billion. Inventories increased $0.1 billion or 0.2 percent to $21.5 billion. Revised December Data Revised seasonally adjusted December figures for all manufacturing industries were: new orders, $483.4 billion (revised from $484.8 billion); shipments, $483.4 billion (revised from $484.9 billion); unfilled orders, $991.3 billion (revised from $991.7 billion); and total inventories, $614.9 billion (revised from $615.5 billion). Click here for the full release &gt;
GoogleI love them! But now I have a brain tumor.Google‚Äôs first attempt at face-based computing, Project Glass, isn‚Äôt very useful unless it‚Äôs connected to a wireless network. Without a connection to the internet, it can‚Äôt deliver search results, provide turn-by-turn directions, instantly share pictures with friends, or accomplish any of the other feats promised in Google‚Äôs video demonstration of Glass. And yet Google Glass lacks the ability to connect to a cellular network on its own. It can only access one through a wireless Bluetooth connection to the wearer‚Äôs cell phone. The question is: why? The answer to that question is almost certainly that cellular radios simply draw too much power. Getting decent battery life out of a cell-connected Google Glass would probably require that it become Google Safety Goggles, with a battery pack attached to the strap running around the back of the wearer‚Äôs head. But there‚Äôs a second reason that Google and every other maker of forthcoming face-based systems probably shouldn‚Äôt even attempt to turn smart glasses into cell phones: They could become the definitive test of whether or not cell phones cause cancer, and not in a good way. Public health professionals will tell you two things about this issue: First, whether or not cell phone use elevates levels of cancer is controversial‚Äîthere have been multiple conflicting studies on the issue. So, second, we simply don‚Äôt know if the radio frequency radiation pouring out of our phones has any measurable effect on us. The World Health Organization classifies radio-frequency fields as ‚Äúpossibly carcinogenic to humans.‚Äù But the US Federal Communications Commission certainly has opinions on the matter. It has guidelines for phone makers that describe the limits to how much radio frequency energy the human body should be allowed to absorb. As Quartz reader and software developer Brian Topping pointed out in response to our recent piece on the Neptune smartphone watch, any object that attaches a cell phone radio to a specific place on the wearer‚Äôs body, day after day, is going to deliver point levels of radio frequency radiation that could run afoul of the FCC‚Äôs rules. (We‚Äôve reached out to Google about whether or not this came up as it worked on Google Glass, and will update with what we hear back.) The FCC‚Äôs rules could be one reason why the data on cancer and cell phones is so mixed‚Äîregulators stepped in to keep our phones from becoming lethal. But attaching a cell radio to a specific point on your skull or your wrist and wearing it all day, every day? Probably not a good idea.
Google FinanceStocks are near all-time highs. And there are plenty of reasons to be terrified...After coming within points of an all-time high, stocks have begun to stumble, and volatility appears to be returning to the markets. This has led some market pros to declare that an amazing four-year rally in stocks is over and that we're on the precipice of a new crash. And there is certainly no shortage of logic to support that view.¬† Massive U.S. federal budget cuts are looming, political instability in Europe is returning, and currency values around the world are falling. And by many measures, U.S. stocks look due for a comeuppance. Valuations are elevated, profit margins are at all-time highs, and there are signs of investor complacency everywhere. Of course, not everyone thinks stocks are headed for a crash. In fact, some experts think we're at the beginning of a new long-term bull market and that investors should go "all-in." But we'll focus on those folks later. For now...
Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Deutsche BankOne of the more tragic outcomes of the euro crisis has been the gut-wrenchingly high youth unemployment rates.† More than half of the young people in Greece and Spain are looking for work. "Europe is facing an often-cited ìlost generationî which experiences long periods of unemployment or unstable jobs during their first working years, with serious long-term consequences," says Deutsche Bank's Stefan Vetter. Indeed, Europe's more recent economic problems have caused these unemployment rates to surge. But Vetter notes that to youth unemployment has been a long-term, structural problem that has been around even during the good times long before the crisis. Youth unemployment is currently especially pressing, but it is not a new phenomenon specific to this crisis. The relative youth unemployment rate, i.e. the unemployment rate of those aged 16-24 divided by the total unemployment rate, illustrates that it is a structural problem. For many years the unemployment rate of young adults between 16 and 24 has been roughly twice as high as for the general population. The relative rate is remarkably stable for most countries and does not change significantly even in booms and recessions... Vetter thinks the solution to this problem becomes apparent when you understand why the relative unemployment rate is so low in Germany. Reasons for high unemployment among the young include ineffective education systems (the share of early school dropouts is 20% in Italy and 30% in Spain) and dual labour markets with highly protected jobs for older employees. The good performance of Germany is not least a result of the German apprenticeship system, which facilitates labour market access for school leavers by lowering the companyís costs for employing them. The OECDís latest ìGoing for Growthî report recommends reforms to strengthen the vocational training systems as one of the most effective ways to fight structural youth unemployment. This would also be a reasonable starting point for the EUís youth employment programme. Efforts to address Europe's youth unemployment crisis can't come soon enough.
Library of Congress, Prints & Photographs Division, FSA-OWI Collection One inconvenient truth facing those who still favor the "austerity" approach to our current economic predicament (slow growth, high unemployment) is that the austerity approach makes the problem worse. When we cut government spending, we reduce economic growth and we put more people out of work. When we reduce economic growth and put more people out of work, we reduce consumer spending, which, in turn, further reduces economic growth. When we reduce economic growth and put more people out of work, we also reduce tax revenue, which increases our budget deficit. So, then, to do what we were trying to do by enacting "austerity" in the first place--reduce the budget deficit--we have to cut even more government spending. And so on. This is what's happening in Greece, where the economy has shrunk 18% over the last several years, and the budget deficit is miles from being closed. (The Greek economy has shrunk 18%. Imagine that. Peak to trough, in 2008 and 2009, the worst recession since the Great Depression, the U.S. economy shrank about 7%. And it felt like our civilization was about to collapse.) It's also what's happening in the UK, where economic growth has been even worse than ours and they may be headed for a triple-dip recession. It's what's happening across the Eurozone. And it's what's happening here, where we have shrunk government spending, and, in so doing, slowed our rate of economic growth and kept more people out of work. But that hasn't stopped one of our political parties from insisting that we enact more austerity. And that's why, tomorrow, we will be cutting more government spending, thus making our economy worse. (True, both political parties voted for the sequester. But be honest: One of those parties would happily eliminate it. And also be honest: Although our debt and deficit is a concern, it is not yet so big a crisis that we need to shoot ourselves in the foot to address it.) The New York Times has posted a couple of simple graphics that show what austerity is doing to our economy. The first shows that government spending has already shrunk 5% in the past two years, which has acted as a big drag on both GDP growth and employment. And the second shows that, in this recovery, unlike every other post-war recovery, government employment has decreased in the last few years, thus compounding the unemployment problem (normally, the government hires people in the wake of recessions, thus helping to boost the economy and reduce unemployment. Not this time.) Yes, we have a debt and deficit problem. No, this problem is not so extreme and out of control that we need to intentionally hurt ourselves now, when we're already weak, to fix it. Yes, the sequester and austerity approach will hurt the economy. No, there's no good reason to do it other than adherence to an outmoded and demonstrably incorrect ideology. But the political party that is insisting on austerity has unfortunately long since abandoned any pretense about being the party that is smart about the economy. So once more unto the breech...
INETeconomics / YouTubeJapan's yen has been sinking, and its stock market has been surging ever since late last year when Japan established its intentions to pursue easy monetary policy to stimulate its economy. However, it's interesting to note that these massive market moves are occuring even though Japan has yet to implement a single new policy. On January 21, the Bank of Japan announced it would pursue a massive asset purchase plan in its efforts to stimulate the economy.¬† But those programs aren't expected to start until 2014. This has everyone asking: Is all of the news priced into the markets? Nomura's Richard Koo notes that this was the case in the past for Japan.¬† But this time could be different.¬† From his latest note (emphasis ours): An old market adage advises investors to ‚Äúbuy on the rumor and sell on the fact.‚Äù That exchange rates and stocks have moved this far without a single policy being implemented suggests this was a case of ‚Äúbuy on the rumor.‚Äù The question now is whether investors will sell on the fact. I suspect they are wondering about the advisability of betting on the BOJ‚Äôs reflationary policies at a time of zero private demand for funds. Investors have often bought stocks and sold the yen on BOJ easing, but these were almost always cases of buying on the rumor and did not last for long. This time, however, the government is preparing two more initiatives to strike at the heart of the problems facing Japan‚Äôs economy. If they constitute a meaningful policy response, I think it is conceivable that investors would buy on the fact as well. It is therefore critical for the future of Japan and its economy that the government unveil the second and third pillars of its plan as soon as possible, and that they contain truly substantive measures. Buy on rumor, buy on fact?¬† We'll find out soon enough.
LeWeb After several days of intense international discussion about its new policy against working remotely, Yahoo is trying to distance itself from the controversy. The company issued a statement to the New York Times in which it drew a line between the situation at Yahoo and flexible work policies in the rest of the economy: ‚ÄúThis isn‚Äôt a broad industry view on working from home," the statement said. "This is about what is right for Yahoo right now.‚Äù Yahoo issued its new ban on remote work last week. The company's goal, which many insiders support, was to foster more camaraderie, intensity, and creativity from physical interaction while also eliminating some workers who had effectively retired on the job. The ban understandably caused some grumbling from Yahoos who had joined the company precisely because they were allowed to work remotely. And then it spawned a world-wide debate in which everyone from Richard Branson to mommy bloggers weighed in. Outside Yahoo, most observers felt that CEO Marissa Mayer's decision had set back the cause of flexible work policies and work-life balance, especially for women. Inside Yahoo, meanwhile, many applauded the move. If Yahoo is to get its mojo back, these folks argued, it needs a renewed sense of commitment from everyone on the team. In any event, now, several days later, Yahoo has weighed in on the remote-work ban again, presumably seeking to dampen the criticism it has received. But, to her credit, Yahoo's new CEO, Marissa Mayer, is not backing down. If nothing else, the controversy once again demonstrates Mayer's leadership abilities. For the past decade, Yahoo has been in desperate need of a CEO who is willing to set a high bar and make the tough, unpopular decisions necessary to whip the company back into shape. In her short tenure at Yahoo, Mayer has demonstrated that she is more than capable of doing that. SEE ALSO: Yahoos Actually Support Marissa Mayer's Ban On Remote Work Disclosure: I work for Yahoo, as a part-time host of a Yahoo Finance show called Daily Ticker. I like working for Yahoo, and I would prefer to keep working for Yahoo, so if I felt like grumbling about a decision Yahoo made, I probably wouldn't do it here. I am also a Yahoo shareholder (a relic of my Internet exuberance in the late 1990s). 
toffehoff/FlickrU.S. futures are pointing to a flat open this morning.¬† But all of that could change based on the outcomes of three crucial economic reports. Also, all eyes will be in Washington. Here are the big events via Calculated Risk's Bill McBride:
pedro_qtc / FlickrMarkets are up early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.1 percent. France's CAC 40 is up 0.4 percent. Germany's DAX is up 0.1 percent. Spain's IBEX is up 0.3 percent. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.4 percent. Earlier this morning, Italy sold 4.0 billion euros worth of 10-year bonds at a yield of 4.83 percent.¬† The borrowing cost is up from 4.17 percent at a similar auction last month. Despite the higher borrowing cost, markets seem to be relieve that the auction went as smoothly as it did, especially given the ongoing political turmoil in Italy.¬† There was some concern that the yield could go as high as 5 percent. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Cyprus is a tax haven, and deposits in the banks there come to some 70 billion euros, more than 3 1/2 times the tiny country's 18 billion euro gross domestic product. One proposal under consideration would be to hold all deposits over 100,000 euros in escrow -- for up to 30 years! Another proposal, says Reuters, would "impose a retroactive tax on all deposits over 100,000 euros..." If either of these options looks like it is close to being approved, it is likely to cause a run on banks in Cyprus. As Field argues, if one of these plans is established, depositors will likely wonder if it could be applied to other debtor countries like Spain or Italy, causing even more turmoil. (Note: 100,000 euros is the maximum that can be covered by deposit insurance programs similar to the FDIC in the U.S.) While European leaders seem to want to blunder into a new way of creating a euro crisis, the evidence continues that their preferred austerity policies are failing. The European Commission has announced that the eurozone will remain in recession throughout 2013, according to a separate report by Reuters. Previously, the Commission had predicted that the recession would end this year. As Paul Krugman shows, the countries that have had the severest austerity have had the largest contractions in their economy. Based on International Monetary Fund estimates of the policy change in a number of European countries, he plots this against the change in their real gross domestic product from 2008 to 2012: Paul KrugmanKey: AUT-Austria; BEL-Belgium; DEU-Germany; ESP-Spain; FIN-Finland; GRC-Greece; IRL-Ireland; ITA-Italy; NLD-Netherlands; PRT-Portugal So, for example, Greece has imposed austerity equal to about 15% of potential GDP, and seen its actual GDP shrink by about 18%. Despite the clear failure of austerity policies in the eurozone and Great Britain (where 9 months of recession were followed by one quarter of growth but a renewed slump in the last quarter of 2012, and Moody's just downgraded the country's debt), Republicans are still trying to impose budget cuts on the country that we voted against in November. As I discussed then, the sequester's discretionary budget cuts will be unambiguously bad for the middle class. Now, Republicans are trying to convert the defense cuts of the sequester into further slashing into middle class programs, while President Obama has offered to convert Social Security's inflation adjustment to so-called "chained CPI," which will slowly but relentlessly cut into benefits year after year through the magic of compounding. According to Dean Baker at the link above, the reduction would be about 0.3% per year, so benefits will be 3% lower after 10 years, 6% after 20 years, etc. Considering how bad middle class retirement prospects are already looking, the President's offer would be disastrous for millions if implemented. The right course of action is simple: cancel the sequester, forget about cutting Social Security (which is not part of the so-called debt problem anyway), and focus on jobs and growth. As Paul Krugman says, "End this Depression Now!" Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ª
www.thecollaredsheep.comGoldman Sachs' annual layoffs will reportedly be worse than usual, JP Morgan announced that it's cutting 4,000 jobs, and already Morgan Stanley has let go 1,600 employees. Barclays, Deutsche Bank, UBS ... people are still leaving Wall Street jobs in a line that seems never ending, and anyone that hoped the bleeding would stop in 2013 is sure to be disappointed. The financial crisis hit five years ago, and while the U.S. has gotten to the point where it's adding jobs at a slow and steady pace, the global financial sector continues to add and shed jobs in fits and starts. According to the New York Office of the Comptroller, New York's securities industry lost 28,300 jobs during the financial crisis, and has only gained back around 8,000. It's important to understand why. Wall Street's problem is a business model problem. The changes the industry was forced to undergo due to the financial crisis have done away with the revenue streams that it depended on before. Regulations are tougher and the market is rougher. Think of these years of transition period. Wall Street is figuring out what it will be and how its business will work. Bureau of Labor StatisticsWall Street Employment since 2007 For one thing, proprietary trading ó in which a firm trades for its own direct gain ó has been banned by the Volcker Rule. This was Washington's reaction to lurid stories of banks creating toxic investment vehicles designed to take money from their clients. What it means for the business, is that firms are not only missing prop trading revenue, but they're also letting go of the traders and support staff that used to execute those trades. Then there are cash requirements. Both domestic and international regulations require banks to hold more capital in the event of a doomsday scenario. Firms haven't been shy about raising cash to meet these standards, and that means selling off assets and cutting costs like compensation. Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said there were "too many overpaid bankers" anyhow. Plus, Wall Street is still putting away money for lawsuits stemming from the financial crisis. "This is going to be an endless beatdown for the banks in terms of legal claims," said famed bank analyst Meredith Whitney last year. Meanwhile, the parts of Wall Street's business that new rules have left untouched are still struggling to generate the revenue they once did. In terms of stocks, it was only last month that the S&amp;P 500 reached 1500 for the first time since 2007. Bonds aren't the money-makers they once were either. The Federal Reserve's policy of keeping interest rates low means that yields are lower across the board. As a result, banks are cutting their fixed income teams. In an effort to refocus their business model, UBS got rid of its team all-together,†causing a loss of 10,000 jobs. Add to all of that the fact that the market has been incredibly choppy over the last few years. The year can start off well, and then take a dramatic turn. When things in Europe seem to stabilize, another crisis hits. Just when you think Washington has figured worked out a deal, a new (fiscal) cliff looms. That's why, according to the New York Comptroller's Office, Wall Street had about 1,000 more jobs in December 2011 than it did in December 2012. The doomsayers have not changed their tune. In July, Whitney said that Wall Street could lose as many as 50,000 jobs before all is said and done. By her estimation, even this new skeleton of what the Street once was is not a profitable business. "You can make great money in a utility type of business by borrowing cheaply and lending sensibly but that's not what's being done. The basic bank model has, is, and will be attractive. It's just you're combining everything and undercutting pricing in one place and trying to make up for it, effectively having loss leading businesses... it's not a business that works." Every year intern and analyst class sizes are rethought and mostly shrunk ó the perks and expense write-offs are on the outs, but these are small things. They don't do what really has to be done. They don't change the entire way Wall Street does business. Until that's done, this long anxious period will continue.
