ReutersThe HSBC China manufacturing PMI climbed to 50.1 in August in line with expectations. The Flash PMI had jumped to a four-month high of 50.1 in August. This was up from an 11-month low of 47.7 in July. But a look at the sub-indices showed that external demand remains weak. New export orders fell for the fifth straight month, and at a slightly quicker pace than that in July. And the sub-index on employment wasn't much better, with employment levels decreasing for the fifth straight month but at a slower pace. "This implies that growth in China's manufacturing sector has started to stabilize on the back of a modest rebound of new orders and output,"¬† said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist, China, in a press release. "This was mainly driven by the initial filtering through of recent stimulus measures and companies‚Äô restocking activities. We expect some upside surprises to China's growth in the coming months." Meanwhile, official manufacturing PMI climbed to 16-month high of 51 in August. A reading below 50 signals contraction. While the official series is still performing better than the HSBC series, both show an improvement in China's manufacturing sector. China has said that is has suspended industry-specific data from its official PMI report because they couldn't "ensure all industry-specific data can reach accuracy requirements," according to a statistics agency official. "The official PMI report painted a picture of a domestic demand-led recovery," Societe Generale's Wei Yao said in a note after the official PMI release. "Although we remain cautious of the sustainability of this recovery, given such a momentum, data in the next two months will probably continue on a positive trend." With China's Q2 GDP slowing to 7.5% and rising concerns about the health of the Chinese economy, Premier Li Keqiang said 7.5% would be the growth floor for 2013. Here's a look at the trajectory of HSBC PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC
Google ImagesMarkets are pretty much convinced that the Federal Reserve¬†will begin curbing its bond-buying program this month. In a new interview with Euromoney Magazine's Sid Verma, Harvard econ professor Carmen Reinhart says that pulling the trigger on a "Sept-taper" is not a good idea, because too much of the global economy remains in limbo: We still have a great degree of deleveraging to endure in the US, and the issues around the world, particularly in Europe, are far from resolved. She also slaps the Fed for muffing its taper roll-out, inadvertently roiling markets: The Fed probably signaled more to the markets than it intended [in recent meetings]...The communication was problematic. We all know how Reinhart feels about debt-to-GDP ratios (high ones should be avoided at all costs). But she's actually been pretty neutral on the current spate of central bank dovishness. In an interview with Der Spiegel in April, for instance, she said the banks' new role as defacto fiscal policy makers was probably a necessary evil: I am not opposing this change, I am just stating it. You have to deal with the debt overhang one way or the other because the high debt levels are an impediment to growth, they paralyze the financial system and the credit process. These new comments seem to push the needle beyond "acceptance" of easing into outright advocacy. Read the full interview on Euromoney.com ¬ª
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoA man looks at share prices displayed outside a brokerage in Tokyo June 6, 2006. The Nikkei opened up 0.34% in Monday trading to kick off a big week in markets. Australia's ASX 200 is up 0.46%. Korea saw an ugly PMI report to start its day, but its Kospi index is shrugging it off and is basically flat. We've got a bunch of manufacturing data coming up Tuesday, and of course non-farm payrolls Friday. Happy Labor Day.
On Saturday night, China reported a decent official manufacturing PMI report. But this evening is not so hot for Asian data so far. Korea's Manufacturing PMI for August looks weak. The number rose from 47.2 to 47.5, but the internals undermine any semblance of improvement. From Markit, here are the key parts of the report. Markit Markit
As much as we write about "Saudi America," we also try to keep its benefits to the broader economy in perspective. For instance, more abundant oil and natural gas has helped lower the cost of manufacturing ó but there's some evidence suggesting the scale is limited.† And it's definitely created jobs, but not enough tip the economy into permanent bullish mode.† In his latest post, Econbrowser blogger and UCSD professor James Hamilton offers up another data point that provides some much-needed context for the shale boom. You may have heard that oil production is about to surpass imports.† But Hamilton says import data alone is incomplete. Instead, he charts the value of expenditures on oil imports as a percentage of GDP: BEA/FRED/Hamilton/Econbrowser He writes: The economic burden of imported oil is represented not by the number of barrels, but instead by the real value of the resources we must surrender in order to obtain the oil. The dollar value of petroleum imports as a share of GDP has come down a little as a result of recent gains in production and conservation, but still remains significantly elevated relative to the levels of a decade ago. This is also more evidence that "American energy independence" is kind of a canard. Bottom line: the arrow's pointing in the right direction, but we need to keep it going.
How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.I love thee to the depth and breadth and heightMy soul can reach, when feeling out of sightFor the ends of Being and ideal Grace.Ö I love thee with the breath,Smiles, tears, of all my life! ó and, if God choose,I shall but love thee better after death. ñ Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) When I was growing up, Labor Day always marked the official end of summer, since we started school the next day. These days everyone seems to start school sometime in August, but for those of us of a certain age, the natural annual rhythm is still to see the last few days of August as the end of a carefree summer. So with a nod to your need for a little more summer relaxation, I will try to keep this letter shorter than usual. And with apologies to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, I will list a number of reasons why I hate this market and then suggest a few reasons why that should get you excited. We will look at some charts, and I'll briefly comment on them. No deep dives this week, just a survey of the general landscape. How Do I Hate Thee? Let Me Count the WaysÖ The market is down about 3Ω% since early August, with trading rooms short-staffed the last few weeks. Will the senior traders come back from vacation rested and looking for value? Or will they survey the gains they have banked so far this year and decide to lock them in to assure their year-end bonuses? Finding value these days is tough. It won't be hard for them to find reasons to head for the sidelines. 1. There is a reason tapering is on everybody's radar screen. When the Fed ended its last two rounds of quantitative easing, the resulting sell-off was not pretty. Some think that happened because the Fed was not really providing "juice" to the market. There is an element of truth to that analysis, but I think a more fundamental reason has to do with sentiment. Fighting the Fed is very difficult. Or it might be more apt to say, fighting the narrative of the Fed that produces positive sentiment is very difficult. I remember more than a few commentators coming on CNBC in January of 2001, when Greenspan lowered interest rates by 1% in the span of 30 days, and telling us "Don't fight the Fed! You have to go long the stock market today!" I was writing at the time that there was a recession coming, so I was saying pretty much the opposite. Perhaps the more appropriate lesson is to not fight the Fed unless there is a recession coming. Here is a graph from a webinar (see below) that I will be doing in a few days. The last two times the Fed has ended a period of quantitative easing, the air has come out of the market balloon. Has this coming move been so telegraphed that the reaction will be different than in the past, or will we see the same result? Want to bet your bonus on it? Or your retirement? Mauldin 2. Global growth is in a funk (that's a technical economic term), and this market just doesn't seem to care. One of the first market aphorisms I learned was that copper is the metal with a PhD in economics. While you can get into a great deal of trouble regarding that as a short-term trading axiom, it is definitely a longer-term truth. Copper is a metal that is closely associated with construction, industrial development and production, and consumer spending. One can argue that the price of copper is falling today because of a fundamental increase in supply, but for those of us of a certain age, the following chart is nervous-making. Unless the long-term correlation has disappeared, the data would indicate that either the price of copper needs to rise or the market is likely to fall. Mauldin 3. There is a full-blown crisis developing in the emerging markets that has more than one serious commentator thinking of 1998.†On Thursday, the lead article in the business section of†USA Today†asked "Are we poised for a repeat of 1998 ó or worse?" Yet as I highlighted in last week's†Outside the Box,†the US Federal Reserve has very clearly said that problems in the emerging markets are not the concern of US policy. One of my favorite thinkers, Ambrose Evans-Pritchard over at the London†Telegraph,†wrote†this†on Wednesday: This has the makings of a grave policy error: a repeat of the dramatic events in the autumn of 1998 at best; a full-blown debacle and a slide into a second leg of the Long Slump at worst. Emerging markets are now big enough to drag down the global economy. As Indonesia, India, Ukraine, Brazil, Turkey, Venezuela, South Africa, Russia, Thailand and Kazakhstan try to shore up their currencies, the effect is ricocheting back into the advanced world in higher borrowing costs. Even China felt compelled to sell $20bn of US Treasuries in July. Back in 1998 the developed†world was twice as big as the developing†world. Today that ratio is about even. We all know what a crisis for the markets 1998 was. And now, more than a few emerging markets have clear debt problems denominated in currencies other than their own. Evans-Pritchard goes on to say: Yet all we heard from Jackson Hole this time were dismissive comments that the emerging market rout is not the Fed's problem. "Other countries simply have to take that as a reality and adjust to us," said Dennis Lockhart, the Atlanta Fed chief. Terrence Checki from the New York Fed said "there is no master stroke that will insulate countries from financial spillovers". The price of oil in Indian rupees has gone from 1100 to 7800 in the space of 10 years. Think about what a move like that would do to the US economy. (Chart courtesy of Dennis Gartman) Mauldin The next chart shows the recent price spike in the Chinese SHIBOR (their short-term interbank rate, more or less equivalent to LIBOR). It is difficult to trust any of the economic data (positive or negative) coming out of China, so we really do not know whether China's growth story is simply moderating or whether we are seeing a hard landing in progress; but the sudden shock in interbank lending rates is an important sign that all is not well in the Middle Kingdom. The big question: is the recent SHIBOR spike a harbinger of a banking crisis, or does it presage an RMB devaluation? Interbank rates do not spike from 3% to 13% (in about 2.5 weeks) in a healthy economy, and a big event along these lines in China would have enormous implications for global growth. Mauldin Robert S. Donovan via www.flickr.com creative commons And while we are on the subject of emerging markets, I have to give you the lead paragraph of the latest note from my good friend and uber-bear Albert Edwards of Societe Generale. It is just too delicious. The emerging markets "story" has once again been exposed as a pyramid of piffle. The EM edifice has come crashing down as their underlying balance of payments weaknesses have been exposed first by the yen's slide and then by the threat of Fed tightening. China has flip-flopped from berating Bernanke for too much QE in 2010 to warning about the negative impact of tapering on emerging markets! It is a mystery to me why anyone, apart from the activists that seem to inhabit Western central banks, thinks QE could be the solution to the problems of the global economy. But in temporarily papering over the cracks, they have allowed those cracks to become immeasurably deep crevasses. At the risk of being called a crackpot again, I repeat my forecast of 450 for the S&amp;P, sub-1% US 10 year yields and gold above 10,000. 4. I have highlighted at length in recent letters (here†and†here), the significant rise in valuations in this latest stock market rally, which explains a significant portion of the run-up. Here is another chart, which shows that the rise in prices is not being accompanied by a rise in corporate earnings. This situation just screams for a correction. Either corporate earnings have to rise above their already rather significant margins (at least in terms of overall profits to GDP), or the market needs to reflect the lack of earnings growth. That can happen by the marketís either going sideways for a long period of time or dropping in price. Choose your frustration wisely. Mauldin 5. The Fed is telling us they're going to begin to reduce their purchases of bonds and mortgages. Three academic papers at Jackson Hole, plus†the paper†that I showed you a couple weeks ago from the San Francisco Federal Reserve, all suggest that QE has not been as helpful as was originally hoped. However, many other respected academics and the market itself disagree. If you are in the latter camp (and believe that QE has given a significant boost to the economy and not just the stock market), you should be very nervous. † The table below shows the revision of second-quarter GDP released†Thursday. We should all be happy that growth was revised upward by 85 basis points ó 2.5% annualized growth is about as good as we could expect. In fact, this result would argue that tapering should begin sooner rather than later and should proceed faster than most market observers expect. If the economy has recovered that much, it is time to take the foot off the gas pedal. † The problem I want to point out is highlighted in bold, and that is the implicit inflation deflator used by the Fed. Notice that it did not move at all with the revision, even though the economy was seen to grow almost 50% faster. That's a tad unusual though certainly within the realm of possibility. But if after the massive quantitative easing we have seen, all you can get is 0.7% inflation, that simply illustrates one of my main contentions: we are in an overall deflationary environment. What happens if you then suck the juice from the markets? Will we see a further fall in inflation? † ††††††† Q2† Advance (7/31)†††††††††††††Q2 Revision (8/29) † Real GDP††† †††††††††††††† 1.67%††††††††††††††††††††††††† 2.52% † Nominal GDP†††††††† ††† 2.39%††††††††††††††††††††††††† 3.25% † Deflator†††††††††† †††††††††† 0.71% ††††††††††††††††††††††† 0.71% † Just for fun, the next table gives us the numbers on CPI inflation for the last eight years. Notice that the number moves around a lot. † Date US Inflation Rate Jul 1, 2013 1.96% Jan 1, 2013 1.59% Jan 1, 2012 2.93% Jan 1, 2011 1.63% Jan 1, 2010 2.63% Jan 1, 2009 0.03% Jan 1, 2008 4.28% Jan 1, 2007 2.08% Jan 1, 2006 3.99% Jan 1, 2005 2.97% † The Fed prefers to use Personal Consumer Expenditures (PCE) as its measure of inflation. For the last 12 months, inflation has been only 1.2% as measured by PCE. Even if you use core CPI, inflation is still rather tame. Mauldin † Couple tame inflation with the velocity of moneyís continuing to fall and you get a deflationary environment. What will happen when the Fed removes QE? Mauldin 6. Given the rise in interest rates of 30-year bonds, real interest rates (interest rates minus inflation) have increased to 2.6% if we use CPE. The long-term average for real interest rates is 2%, which suggests that rates need to come back down, or inflation should rise. You make the call as to which will happen when the Fed begins to reduce QE. This development suggests a rotation back into bonds, which is again another reason not to be thrilled with the equity markets. 7. And this is not something I can talk about in specifics, but I follow a number of money managers who use various systems to manage risk. The number of managers who have raised the cash portion of their portfolios to very high levels is significant. These are managers with long-term systematic models designed to keep their emotions out of investment decision-making. Talking with them, they all wish they could raise even more cash. The Silver Lining Yesterday after the markets closed I was invited to a local watering hole here in Dallas to meet with some younger but generally successful hedge fund managers (although younger for me is becoming a relative term). They were all interested in the macro environment, and they were all nervous. What interested me most, though, was not what they wanted to sell; it was what they wanted to buy. They were starting to find value in Saudi Arabia and Turkey and India and Indonesia ó stocks of serious companies in those countries had fallen to very low levels. Some were getting on planes to go check things out. And here and there some of the longer-term investors were teasing out opportunities in the US market. For these young Turks, market corrections were not a problem but simply an opportunity to find value. And I picked up one other key thought from them. You would think, given their view of the world (which I generally share), that they were short a great deal of their book. That is not the case. Today's environment is a very, very difficult short, because the carry costs are so high. (Definition: Costs incurred as a result of an investment position. These costs can include financial costs, such as the interest costs on bonds, interest expenses on margin accounts, interest on loans used to purchase a security, and economic costs, such as the opportunity costs associated with taking the initial position.) The Fed has distorted the interest-rate environments both in the US and internationally, and it is simply too costly to put on a short position for very long and be wrong. If you short something, you need to be right fairly quickly, or you will watch your portfolio begin to bleed. For young managers, their track record is critical, so they become quite sensitive to making longer-term macro calls that can go against them for a period of time. They have even more ways to hate the market than I do. Investing in a Market to Hate In my August 3rd newsletter ("Can It Get Any Better Than This?") I shared research supporting our forward-looking prospects for the markets.†There was no way to sugar-coat our conclusions:† if history is any indication, we are looking at the potential for a significant peak-to-trough drawdown and negative annual returns in equity markets for an extended period of time. We pointed out that where there is danger, there is also opportunity.†Investors have a lot to gain from diversifying as broadly as possible and reducing their reliance on equity risk.†It therefore makes sense to embrace alternative strategies that are either less correlated or negatively correlated. Which brings me to a timely webinar, "How Long Can the Bull Run? A Discussion on Long Short/Equity," that I am hosting on†Tuesday, September 10, at†12:00 PM ET†/†9:00 AM PTwith members of the investment team at Altegris.†We will be having a robust discussion on the markets and providing a perspective on the role that a long/short equity strategy can play in a well-diversified portfolio.†Altegris has an interesting approach to long/short equity that I'd like you to hear more about.†And while the bull market could certainly run longer, we strongly believe that now is a terrific time to diversify away from growth-oriented risk factors that dominate most investors' portfolios. This webinar is for US-based investors and financial professionals interested in learning more about long/short equity.†To receive an invitation, just click on this link and provide some basic information:†www.altegris.com/mauldinelsaxreg.†After confirmation, you will receive a webinar invitation email from Altegris within the week.†Space is limited. A recorded replay will be available to all registrants. Money For Nothing†World Premiere in Dallas,†September 6 Let me remind those of you near Dallas that the world premiere of†Money for Nothing,†the blockbuster documentary on the Federal Reserve, will be†Friday, September 6, at†7:30 PMat the AMC theaters in NorthPark Mall in Dallas. You really don't want to miss this. You can now buy tickets online at the AMC website, and I suggest you do, as I think there is a reasonable chance they will sell out. You can see a trailer by†clicking here†(select the 8.16.13 entry), or you can arrange for the movie to come to a city near you by going tohttp://www.moneyfornothingthemovie.org/. I hope you can join me at the world premiere in Dallas. It will be a special evening. Chicago, Bismarck, Denver, Toronto, and New York I am in San Antonio as I finish writing this letter, attending the geekfest otherwise known as WorldCon, the science fiction and fantasy book convention. I've been reading science fiction for over 50 years, since reading my very first sci-fi thriller in the second grade(Danny Dunn and the Antigravity Paint).†Those of us who are sufficiently advanced can remember the Weekly Reader Book Club, which introduced me to all manner of books and opened the world to this country boy. I fell in love with the written word and have remained smitten ever since. This weekend I will have the privilege of getting to meet and on occasion have dinner with authors who've been opening up the universe to me for decades. My good friend and Science Fiction Hall of Fame writer David Brin has been kind enough to introduce me to some of my favorite writers. I've been reading L. E. Modesitt for decades. How can Jack McDevitt be 78 years old? The leading science fiction magazines†(Clarke's World, Analog,and†Asimov's)†will be hosting events and meetings in my suite with some well-known names, but even more importantly, with up-and-coming writers that I'm really looking forward to meeting. It is a long list of excellent authors who will be in attendance, and I get to play groupie. I know 99% of you are rolling your eyes by now, and the rest of you are consumed by a frenzy of jealousy. I'm sure the talk will focus on how our planet will evolve, and I'm really looking forward to it. On†Tuesday, September 10, in Chicago, I will be joining my longtime friend Steve Blumenthal to present my most recent thoughts on the economy, the Fed, and the direction of interest rates and their impact on the economy and equity markets, at the Trinity Financial Advisors Investor Forum, hosted by John Wimbiscus. The Forum will be held at6:30 PM†at the Gleacher Center of the University of Chicago, located at 450 North Cityfront Plaza Drive, Chicago, IL 60611. Please contact Linda Cianci at†linda@cmgwealth.com†or call†610-989-9090 x140†to reserve a seat.†I hope to see you there. I will be traveling from there to Bismarck, North Dakota, to delve deeper into the Bakken shale oil boom and to speak for BNC Bank on†September 12. My great friend Dr. Lacy Hunt will also be presenting. If you are in the area, you should plan to attend. Then I will be in Denver with my partners at Altegris Investments on†September 19†for a presentation to clients and prospects, before flying to Toronto to be with my good friend Louis Gave for a morning seminar on†September 23. If you would like to attend, you can register at†http://gavekal.com/seminar.cfm†or contact†Chris†Lightbound†with any questions. From Toronto I will fly on to New York City for a few days of media and meetings. I fly back†Monday†afternoon to spend the rest of the Labor Day weekend with family and friends. But right now I see a little Mexican food on the River Walk in my future. And that may be the most accurate prediction in this letter. Have a great week. Your getting ready to turn loose his inner geek analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. † Thoughts From the Frontline†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting†http://www.mauldineconomics.com. † To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe †† Thoughts From the Frontline†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member†FINRA†and†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Intr oducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. † Note: Joining the Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at†www.MauldinCircle.com†or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as wel l as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauld in receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. † PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have t otal trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. † All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at†800-829-7273. †
Evening trading has opened for some commodities, and oil and gold prices are both collapsing. Brent is off -0.87 percent (and counting) to $113.05. NYMEX-traded WTI is down -1.39% to $106.16. Here's the chart for Brent: Investing.com Gold is also way down, declining -1.33% to $1,376.40 Investing.com President Obama said he would now ask Congress to authorize¬†a¬†U.S. strike on Syria in response to evidence of a chemical attack, and markets are probably responding to the threat of imminent action now passing.
kokotalola via YouTubeChina accounted for 70% of all counterfeit goods between 2008 and 2010, according to a report released by the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime earlier this year. But China doesn't just have a thriving counterfeit industry with fake luxury goods. The country has gone on to make life-size replicas of European towns. In fact, Shanghai rolled out a "One city, Nine Towns" scheme with small towns built in a different international style. We compiled 26 things that China ripped off, some of which landed the companies involved in hot water.
@bellwak on TwitterLast week, tens of thousands of fast food workers went on strike to protest their current wages, bringing the debate over raising the minimum wage back into relief. Opponents of doing so argue that it would by definition increase unemployment. But Berkeley's David Card and Princeton's Alan Krueger, who also recently stepped down as chair of the White House Council on Economic Advisers, have twice shown that that is not necessarily the case. In their 1994 study Minimum Wages and Employment: A Case Study of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania,¬†the pair surveyed whether an increase in New Jersey's minimum wage reduced employment at fast food restaurants by comparing it with seven border counties in Pennsylvania. The evidence showed New Jersey's new $5.05 ¬†wage floor, enacted in April of 1992, was actually correlated with an increase in employment, and at a minimum did not negatively affect it. In 1998, they came back to the question in another study, this time using BLS data, as well as findings from a study that refuted that initial data. A total of 687 restaurants were examined. They basically found the same thing again, writing: The increase in New Jersey's minimum wage probably had no effect on total employment in New Jersey's fast-food industry, and possibly had a small positive effect. Their initial telephone-based survey showed that between February and November of 1992, a rise of 2.4 workers per restaurant in New Jersey relative to Pennsylvania. The newer BLS data showed a 1.1 worker-per-restaurant gain. The researchers who refuted the initial study, they said, used data from a single Pennsylvania Burger King franchisee, which distorted their findings. They also failed to smooth out the data for the frequency with which it was reported. Card and Kreuger admit that there are likely to be "some specifications and data definitions" that show an adverse impact from an increase in the minimum wage. But they conclude that ¬†at least within the NJ/PA data set, the overall impact is negligible, if that:¬† A comparison of fast-food employment growth in New Jersey and Pennsylvania over the period of our original study confirms the main findings in our 1994 paper, and calls into question the representativeness of the sample assembled by Berman, Neumark and Wascher. Consistent with our original sample, the BLS fast-food data set indicates slightly faster employment growth in New Jersey than in the Pennsylvania border counties over the time period that we initially examined, although in most specifications the differences between New Jersey and Pennsylvania is small and statistically insignificant. Time to revisit?
Google ImagesThe classic Motown song "Money (That's What I Want)" has generated millions of dollars in royalties since it was first recorded in 1959. It's appeared in countless movies, and been covered by John Lennon, Iggy Pop and Waylon Jennings among many others. But a quirk of American copyright law may have cheated songwriter Barrett Strong out of most of it, The New York Times' Larry Rohter reports. Mr. Strong‚Äôs predicament illustrates a little-known oddity in the American copyright system, one that record and music publishing companies have not hesitated to exploit. The United States Copyright Office, a division of the Library of Congress, does not notify authors of changes in registrations, and until recently the only way to check on any alterations was to go to Washington and visit the archives personally. Strong got the original credit for the song in 1959, but was removed by Motown Records executives three years later. He was restored in 1987 when the copyright was renewed, but his name was literally scratched out the following year, Rohter says. Motown chief Berry Gordy argues the statute of limitations for Strong to pursue his copyright claim has passed. But the U.S. Copyright Office does not notify authors of changes to royalty registrations, and Strong says he's been duped: ‚ÄúFor 50 years, I had no idea about any of this,‚Äù Mr. Strong, 72, said in an interview here, in which he acknowledged his lack of business acumen. ‚ÄúIt was hidden from me. So how do they expect me to have acted to protect myself? It‚Äôs crazy and unfair.‚Äù Read Rohter's full report on NYTimes.com ¬ª¬† (Story spotted by Don Van Natta Jr.)
Corporate investment in technology is now farther below trend growth than it has been at any point in the last 50 years, despite the fact that American non-financial corporations are sitting on an enormous cash pile of nearly $1.5 trillion. In fact, as a percentage of GDP, corporate spending on technology peaked at 4.6 percent in 2000, but by last year, it had declined to 1995 levels at about 3.4 percent of GDP. But all that is about to change. Credit Suisse‚Äôs technology analysts are forecasting a boom in technology spending over the next four years as corporations finally open their wallets again to buy new software, servers and even the endangered species of the technology world ‚Äì PCs. And it‚Äôs not just Credit Suisse: According to data from Gartner, a technology industry research firm, growth in enterprise technology spending in 2014 will be more than double that of 2013‚Äî3.6 percent compared to this year‚Äôs 1.7 percent. And it will keep heading up, increasing 4.1 and 4.2 percent in 2015 and 2016, respectively. The forecasts come in the context of a steadily improving economic bacdrop. U.S. economic growth has been steady, if not exactly impressive, and the EU announced its first positive GDP growth in six quarters this month. Corporations are certainly feeling more optimistic. A portion of the Philadelphia Federal Reserve‚Äôs Business Outlook Survey that tracks firms‚Äô capital expenditure expectations over the next six months has been climbing since late last year. The Conference Board‚Äôs CEO confidence survey jumped 15 percent in the second quarter, and 60 percent of chief executives said they thought economic conditions would improve in the next six months. Credit Suisse expects the healthier global macroeconomic backdrop to encourage corporations to start spending in general ‚Äì and not just on IT. So what‚Äôs to say that corporations will spend on technology, rather than M&amp;A or share buybacks or anything else? For one thing, they‚Äôve said so. Periodically, the Credit Suisse Executive Panel polls 100 corporate executives about their spending plans for the next six months. Between last November, when the previous survey was taken, and July, the category that experienced the fastest growth in executives planning to increase spending was IT, beating out employee wages, machinery, travel and advertising. There‚Äôs an urgent need to upgrade technologies, too, that will only serve to enhance that rebound. Credit Suisse has been saying for more than a year that new technologies are proliferating so quickly that corporations simply cannot afford to keep postponing investments. In an in-depth report last year called ‚ÄúThe Apps Manifesto,‚Äù Credit Suisse Global Head of Software Philip Winslow wrote that the average lifespan of an application package is about 10 to 15 years. Existing corporate tech infrastructure is running up on the end of that cycle ‚Äì and starting to show its age. ‚ÄúThe underlying need for corporates to adapt to the newer trends in technology has been very high,‚Äù said Manish Nigam, Credit Suisse‚Äôs Head of Technology Research for Non-Japan Asia. ‚ÄúThe last real investment cycle in tech happened in the run-up to the tech bubble in 2000. Since then, the technology world has changed substantially with smartphones, tablets, social networks and widespread mobile data connectivity changing the way businesses interact with consumers and their employees.‚Äù Image from Credit Suisse report ‚ÄúData Points Starting to Support the Corporate Spending Recovery Theme.‚Äù Specifically, Nigam said, corporations need to invest in hardware to stay on top of the continuing move to cloud computing, which involves using shared servers, as well as centralized computing, in which the technology in all of a company‚Äôs offices are run from the same datacenter. Corporations also need to upgrade both hardware and software to adjust to a new reality in which employees are increasingly working from multiple devices, particularly mobile ones. ‚ÄúA vast amount of corporate infrastructure is still wire-based, whereas the demand for wireless access has increased significantly,‚Äù Nigam and his team wrote in a note at the beginning of this year called ‚ÄúAsia Technology Strategy: Another Year of Outperformance.‚Äù All of the above changes also point to increases in demand for both storage and enhanced digital security, Nigam said. In a recent report entitled ‚ÄúData Points Starting to Support the Corporate Spending Recovery Theme,‚Äù Nigam and his team said they expect the restart in spending growth to begin with software and IT services, which make up 59 percent of enterprise spending. Indeed, revenue growth has already been revived at the top five Indian IT companies ‚Äì Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services, Cognizant, HCT Technology and Wipro ‚Äì prompting earnings upgrades in the last quarter. Sales of computers, printers, servers and additional storage capacity will lag software and services, but they will pick up in time, possibly even boosting the fortunes of the beleaguered PC market. In fact, the precipitous decline in corporate PC sales is already showing signs of moderating. After declining 10 percent year-over-year in the first quarter of 2013, total commercial PC sales stayed flat on a quarter-over-quarter basis in the second quarter, implying that sales could be stabilizing. And PC companies are expecting even better performance in the remainder of this year. That‚Äôs not nearly enough hard data for investors to run out and invest in PC companies, Nigam said, but things are at least moving in the right direction. And then there‚Äôs the technology cycle that used to captivate the markets more than any other, and which might have one last hurrah: the Windows upgrade. Nearly 35 percent of existing corporate PCs are still running on Windows XP, a 12-year-old operating system that Microsoft plans to stop supporting next April. Running an operating system that is no longer supported ‚Äúmay expose users and companies to several potential risks, including security and compliance risks,‚Äù Nigam and his team wrote in their note at the beginning of the year. The analysts said the expiring support for Windows XP could prompt a slow upgrade cycle possibly starting in late 2013, but more in 2014. Image from Credit Suisse report ‚ÄúData Points Starting to Support the Corporate Spending Recovery Theme.‚Äù The beneficiaries of an uptick in tech spending won‚Äôt just be in India. Lenovo, a Chinese firm that is now the world‚Äôs top PC vendor, is another Asian tech company that should see a boost in sales if corporations start replacing hardware. Credit Suisse analysts noted that Lenovo already has a compelling story, given its strength in the global PC market and a fast-growing mobile phone business. Lenovo acquired IBM‚Äôs PC business in 2005, and the Credit Suisse analysts noted that the company could pick up even more exposure to the enterprise technology sector if it buys IBM‚Äôs server business, a deal many market-watchers have speculated about over the last few months. With so much exposure to the PCs that most companies still rely on, and the potential for a large server business acquisition, Lenovo is particularly well positioned to capitalize on any pickup in enterprise spending, Credit Suisse analysts said. American firms such as Oracle, NetSuite and SAP are also poised to gain from corporate investments in technologies that addresses the advent of cloud computing, the need for better analysis of big data and the proliferation of mobile devices. The way large corporations have been spending on technology over the last decade, you‚Äôd never know that a huge burst of innovation and change had been taking place. But of course, it was. Now that the smoke of the last several years of crises has cleared, technology watchers are increasingly confident that corporate IT budgets will get back on track‚Äîand on trend‚Äîand at least for some tech companies, it‚Äôs going to be just like the old times again.
REUTERS/Jason ReedU.S. President Barack Obama (L) and Vice President Joe Biden appear at an event in Biden's home town of Scranton, Pennsylvania, August 23, 2013. Obama wrapped up the second day of a two-day bus tour to promote his administration's plan to help manage education costs. The White House is high-fiving America and itself for the U.S. oil boom. In a new blog post , White House Council of Economic Advisers Chair Jason Furman and National Economic Council Director Gene Sperling celebrate Thursday's upward GDP revision coming in large part thanks to the petroleum imports falling to a record low in June. They write: This is yet another reminder that the President‚Äôs focus on increasing America‚Äôs energy independence¬†is not just a critical national security strategy, it is also part of an economic plan to create jobs, expand growth and cut the trade deficit. And they go on to explain why the government was instrumental to fueling the boom: Government funded research supplemented private industry‚Äôs work to develop the technology that sparked the boom in oil and gas production. Crude oil production has grown each year the President has been in office to its highest level in 17 years in 2012 (see chart above). In fact, over the past four years, domestic oil supply growth has accounted for over one-third of global oil production growth. One thing we know is that "energy independence" is mostly a political fluff term that most analysts say will not and/or should not ever happen. And while it's true that government research helped lead to advances in hydraulic fracturing, the real contribution the administration has made to the boom is allowing the drilling to continue largely unchecked, leaving most regulation to states. But the raw economic gains they cite are definitely real. Here's their chart, showing where we stand against the President's goal: White House They also cite the 35,000 direct and countless knock-on jobs the boom has created, and the fact that the unemployment rate in North Dakota ‚Äî ground zero for the shale oil boom ‚Äî is effectively non-existent. True enough. (via E&amp;E/Greenwire's¬†Elana Shor b/w UpstreamOnline's Noah Brenner.)
AP imagesNouriel RoubiniSeptember promises to be one hell of a month for the global economy. Congress comes back from vacation this month to a full plate of fiscal time bombs that will need to be defused in a very short period of time. This is a fight that Americans have gotten used to in recent years. But economist Nouriel Roubini warns that investors are becoming too complacent. In a new piece for Project Syndicate, he offers an interesting metaphor to describe the Republican party's stance on the budget: ... yet another partisan struggle over Americaís debt ceiling could increase the risk of a government shutdown if the Republican-controlled House of Representatives and President Barack Obama and his Democratic allies cannot agree on a budget. ...So far, investors have been complacent about the risks posed by the looming budget fight. They believe that ñ as in the past ñ the fiscal showdown will end with a midnight compromise that avoids both default and a government shutdown. But investors seem to underestimate how dysfunctional US national politics has become. With a majority of the Republican Party on a jihad against government spending, fiscal explosions this autumn cannot be ruled out. Read Roubini's whole piece at Project-Syndicate.
Syria isn't the only hot flashpoint in the Middle East right now. The situation in Iraq is deteriorating. Per data from the U.N., deaths in the country have risen sharply over the course of the year. The red line shows the number of monthly civilian injuries. Blue line is killed. Both are up sharply since last year, and the beginning of the year. UN The increased level of violence has caused oil production to plummet, and fears to rise about the country's overall political stability. Nomura geopolitical guru Alistair Newton identified Iraq as one of the main things keeping him up at night, in a new production. Nomura Bottom line. It's not just Syria.
 2011 gave us one of the best martial arts movies in the last decade. "The Raid: Redemption" has a fairly simple premise: A SWAT team is sent to an apartment complex in Jakarta's slums to oust the crime lord that has it in its grip. Previous attempts by both the police and rival gangs have failed. The 101-minute movie, which is violent pretty much from start to finish, plays out in the apartment complex. "The Raid" sees Welsh director Gareth Evans reunite with Indonesian actor Iko Uwais. The two had previously worked together on a 2009 film called "Merantu," which is credited with bringing Indonesian martial arts, specifically silat, back to the forefront. "The Raid" has been criticized for having a threadbare plot and minimal character development. Roger Ebert gave the move 1 star out of 4, writing, "Have you noticed how cats and dogs will look at a TV screen on which there are things jumping around? It is to that level of the brain's reptilian complex that the film appeals." We have to disagree. Not with the argument that there isn't much of a plot. But more to the point that it's just "things jumping around" which is well, downright derisive. "The Raid," again puts silat and Iko Uwais on display. Silat is an aggressive, joint-breaking fighting style and often involves the use of knives and we see some truly creative fight sequences through the movie. And much of the choreography for the fight scenes was done by Iko Uwais who plays good cop "Rama," and Yayan Ruhian who plays "Mad Dog," one of the crime lords top henchmen. There were clearly some great contenders from "The Raid: Redemption." For instance, the machete fight scene, the drug lab scene, or¬† the fight between Jaka and Mad Dog that incorporates both Silat and judo. But we picked the final fight, which draws on a common trope in martial arts movies i.e. two good guys take on one bad guy, though it's arguable if Andi, played by Donny Alamsyah, is good. Some whine about the fight being too long and lacking the flourish of some of the other scenes, but that's part of the reason it's great. Mad Dog doesn't like using weapons. He lives for hand-to-hand combat. At one point in the movie, he¬† puts down a gun and says, "I've never really liked using these. They take away the rush. Squeezing a trigger, it's like ordering take-out. This is the thing. This is the pulse. This is what I do." He clearly enjoys both fighting and killing people.¬† Watching him and Rama go against each other in a nearly six-minute fast-paced, brutal fight is pretty epic. Below we break down the fight, and explain why it's so epic. WARNING: It's very violent, so if violent martial arts on the screen isn't your thing, then you should probably click away. MrShizzle253 via YouTube/Business Insider Unlike many of the other fight scenes in the movie that include chases in and out of corridors and rooms, this fight is contained to this one grungy, bare room.  Some great blocks from Mad Dog as Rama and Andi try to corner him with kicks. MrShizzle253 via YouTube And as many have noted, what's great is that the director didn't resort to the shaky-camera effect (that, for instance, became wearisome in the Bourne movies) and a bunch of wire tricks, though those can be great when used sparingly. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider Love the capoeira-like choreography for these kicks. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider Extremely painful to watch. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider We're not sure what to call this but you can watch it over and over again.  This is probably one of the best sequences in the fight scene. Rama delivers a joint snapping blow to each of Mad Dog's arms (the sound effects are pretty intense), he follows it up with a quick succession of jabs to the chest, a painful looking choke-hold, a spin, only to then snap his back. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider And he finishes it by using the light bulb fragment lodged in Mad Dog's throat to slice through his jugular. (The gurgling sound is pretty awful.) MrShizzle253 via YouTube Bonus: A brutal scene from the machete fight in which Rama kills one of the gang members. PT. Merantau Films/XYZ Films/Business Insider
People love to snark on Chinese economic data as being hopelessly manipulated and unreliable, though for the most part those concerns are overblown. Chinese numbers tend to be directionally correct, even if they may be imprecise. However, if you're looking for suspect data, check out the situation in Russia. Now Russia is going through the same economic turmoil as its fellow BRICs (and more broadly, all emerging markets). Russia's massive growth before and right after the global economic crisis allowed the country to ignore structural issues that are now proving to be problematic. But economists are alarmed at the unreliability of the data. On Aug. 22, Nomura strategists Olgay Buyukkayali and Dmitri Petrov kicked off a multi-volume report on Russia's weakening economy by noting how poor the official data quality is. They wrote: The errors puzzle in the breakdown Russian growth contains some puzzles. The first is in the expenditures contribution. Q1 growth was 1.6% y-o-y, and statistical discrepancy contributed up to 1.8% on the upside. At this stage the official breakdown of Q2 GDP contributions is not yet available. However, this is not an issue as last quarter‚Äôs Rosstat GDP data asked more questions than it answered. If one adds up the contributions of the expenditure components to Q1 GDP, the resulting figure of 0.6% is noticeably lower than 1.6% headline growth. For statistical reasons, the discrepancy is not unusual, but in this particular case it seems that Rosstat cannot figure out where the growth is coming from. First, the statistical discrepancy is at its historically highest level. Second, despite overall stagnation, household consumption accelerated from 5.8% in Q4 to 6.1% in Q1, although this time with weaker retail sales growth, which intuitively as well as statistically is quite unusual. This creates uncertainty around the¬†official composition of Q1 growth which will hopefully be revised when the Q2 breakdown is released. This could lead to the Q1 and Q2 consumption picture being reassessed (in our view, lower). Here's the chart showing a massive statistical discrepancy in Q1. Nomura
ÔªøAP Photo/Louis LanzanoE. Stanley O'Neal, the first black executive at Merrill, has that white clients might make it harder to be a black broker at Merrill.The news Wednesday that brokerage giant Merrill Lynch is paying $160 million to settle a lawsuit claiming it discriminates against black brokers is a huge deal. Merrill has been fighting the class action for eight years and even unsuccessfully asked the Supreme Court to hear the case. The settlement is much higher than the sums other Wall Street firms have paid to make similar suits go away, The New York Times points out. (Morgan Stanley paid $18 million to settle a racial bias suit in 2008.) George McReynolds, a 68-year-old broker who still works for Merrill, initially filed the lawsuit in 2005 and later got other brokers on board. Here are the worst allegations in the most recently amended complaint: 1) When McReynolds first sued Merrill in 2005, there were zero African-American brokers in 552 of Merrill's 639 offices. PACER The red parts of a map in the complaint [below] show the states where Merrill employed no African-American brokers. 2.) Black brokers at Merrill allegedly had an extremely high attrition rate. In the years prior to the lawsuit, 75% of African-American "trainee" brokers left before the training period was over, the suit said. 3) While Merrill publicized "diversity" initiatives, the firm allegedly didn't take those efforts seriously. One manager allegedly called the firm's diversity program a "public relations thing." If he were running the program, he said, he'd "hire a smart white guy and have a black guy for the face," according to the complaint. 4) Black brokers at Merrill said they were excluded from company-related golf outings because they were happening at clubs that didn't allow African-Americans. 5) African-American brokers were seen talking in a group in a New York office of Merrill and were asked, "Are you planning an uprising?" according to the complaint. 6) Merrill employees allegedly called some black brokers "niggers" and were never punished. One manager said to a non-black broker, "Are you going to let a nigger beat you?" according to the complaint. 7) Not only did Merrill's few black employees have to put up with racist language, they also got paid less, according to the complaint. The firm ranked its employees by putting them in five "quintiles" based on the amount of money they earned from commissions. Seventy percent of the firm's African-American brokers with at least 10 years of experience were in the bottom two quintiles, while white brokers were more evenly distributed. Chicago lawyer Linda Friedman, who represents the brokers, provided The New York Times with details of the settlement. Merrill is refusing to confirm the terms of the deal, though. In court documents, Merrill has made this statement on its non-discrimination policies: "Merrill Lynch has a company-wide policy prohibiting racial discrimination. It partners with African-American organizations in recruiting diverse brokers; provides diversity training to local managers; and ties local manager compensation to the hiring, retention, and success of diverse brokers." Merrill has still acknowledged that black brokers haven't always fared well there. "We are working toward a very positive resolution of a lawsuit that was filed in 2005 and enhancing opportunities for African-American financial advisers," Merrill spokesman Bill Halldin told the Times on Tuesday.
The operator of Japan's stricken Fukushima nuclear plant said Sunday it had found highly radioactive water dripping from a pipe connecting two coolant tanks at one of four radiation hotspots. The discovery came hours after Tokyo Electric Power Co (TEPCO) said late Saturday that radioactivity at one of the other four sites measured 1,800 millisieverts per hour -- a dose that would kill a human left exposed to it in four hours. The reading was 18 times higher than a recording at the same place taken on August 22, though the company said the first measurement was done with equipment that could only reach up to 100 millisieverts. A TEPCO spokesman said the radiation of 1,800 millisieverts was largely beta ray with weak penetration force, which workers can easily block by wearing protection jackets. TEPCO has long struggled to deal with the huge amounts of water used to cool reactors that went into meltdown after being struck by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011. The government has promised to get more involved in the plant's clean-up after TEPCO's efforts came in for fierce criticism. The leaking pipe was found to be dripping one drop about every 90 seconds, the company said. Workers tightened 12 bolts to stop the leak and bolstered the repair using special material and plastic tape. Water with a radioactivity of 230 millisieverts per hour was found below it, the operator said, while at two other hotspots near tanks workers also measured radioactivity of 70 and 220 millisieverts per hour. The fourth hotspot measured 1,800. Two of the sites, including where the pipe was dripping, were completely new discoveries, while at the other two sites the readings were considerably higher than previously measured. "We have to suspect that the high radiation levels were detected due to the toxic water oozing out of the flange connections," the spokesman said, adding the company has not yet come to a conclusion. Last week the plant operator admitted that 300 tonnes of toxic water had leaked from one large tank -- one of around 1,000 on the site -- before anyone had noticed. The spill sparked fears the toxic water may have seeped into the ocean. It was categorised as a Level 3 event, the most serious category since the meltdown itself. In response to growing domestic and international criticism of TEPCO's handling of the crisis, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday promised the world his government would play a greater role in stopping leaks of highly radioactive water. "The accident in Fukushima cannot be left entirely to Tokyo Electric Power. There is a need for the government to play a role with a sense of urgency, including taking measures to deal with the waste water," he said. Abe's pledge came as the world's nuclear watchdog urged Japan to explain more clearly what was happening at Fukushima and avoid sending "confusing messages" about the disaster. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
The key report this week¬†is the August employment report on Friday.¬†  Other key reports include the ISM manufacturing report on Tuesday, the trade deficit on Wednesday, and August auto sales also on Wednesday.  All US markets will be closed in observance of the Labor Day holiday.  Early: The LPS July Mortgage Monitor report. This is a monthly report of mortgage delinquencies and other mortgage data. 9:00 AM: The Markit US PMI Manufacturing Index for August. The consensus is for the index to increase to 53.9 from 53.7 in July. 10:00 AM ET: ISM Manufacturing Index for August. The consensus is for an decrease to¬†53.8 from¬†55.4 in July.¬† Based on the regional surveys, a decrease in¬†August seems likely. The ISM manufacturing index indicated expansion in 55.4% in July. The employment index was at 54.4%,¬†and the new orders index was at 58.3%. 10:00 AM: Construction Spending for July. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in construction spending.  7:00 AM: The Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) will release the results for the mortgage purchase applications index. All day: Light vehicle sales for August. The consensus is for light vehicle sales to increase to 15.8¬†million SAAR in¬†August (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate)¬†from¬†15.7million¬†SAAR in July.
 REUTERS/Carlos BarriaChina is going after another official over corruption. From the BBC: Chinese authorities have announced a corruption investigation into Jiang Jiemin, the head of the commission that oversees state-owned companies. The supervision ministry said Mr Jiang was suspected of a "serious violation of discipline". He has not publicly commented on the allegations. Nomura economist Zhiwei Zhang has sent out a note explaining the implications: We believe the macro implications are slightly negative for the next 6-12 months, but positive beyond. Anti-corruption cases will probably lead to a reshuffling of senior officials, which may delay some government activity. However, we believe it is a long-term positive because it shows the new leadership is on track to establishing its authority, which is a necessary condition for implementing tough structural reforms. The Chinese government went through a similar experience in the 1990s when Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji fought corruption fiercely and pushed major structural reforms in their administration, which laid the foundation for rapid growth in the past decade. It is too early to judge the reform outlook at this stage, but this announcement suggests the new leadership is moving in the right direction. In addition to another well-known trial (the Bo Xilai trial), current Chinese leadership has† been cracking down on state-sector opulence, which has famously been hurting the bottom lines of fast restaurants and caterers in the country.
