Wikimedia CommonsHyperinflationary episodes have appeared several times over the past century ‚Äì 55, to be exact ‚Äì as the world's nations have experimented with fiat currencies backed by the full faith and credit of the governments that issue them. At times, that full faith and credit has been misplaced ‚Äì and holders of unstable currencies have been caught empty-handed in countries all over the world. Often, this is can be a recurring theme among developing nations like those in Latin America during the debt crisis that struck the region in the 1980s. Even some of the largest economies in the world today, though ‚Äì like China, Germany, and France ‚Äì have suffered devastating hyperinflationary episodes. A major historical precursor of hyperinflation is war that destroys the capital stock of an economy and dramatically reduces output ‚Äì but the misplaced monetary and fiscal policies that ensue are almost always part of the story. Economists Steve Hanke and Nicholas Krus compiled data on all 56 recorded hyperinflations in a 2012 study. We summarize 9 of the worst episodes here.
Flick/David FalconerForty years ago this month, Middle Eastern countries shook the West.¬† Israel had successfully pushed back incursions from Syria and Egypt during the Yom Kippur War, with the help of U.S. reinforcements. In response, The Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries or the OAPEC (consisting of the Arab members of OPEC, plus Egypt, Syria and Tunisia) said it would halt all oil exports to America (as well as the Netherlands, Portugal, and South Africa, which had also supported Israel), while cutting overall production. At the time, OPEC accounted for an average of two-thirds of American oil imports in the '70s.¬† What followed was a massive nationwide gas shortage and panic. Gas stations served by appointment only to regular customers, or closed altogether.¬† Businesses and towns were shutting off electricity to save energy.¬† Some towns even banned Christmas lights to cope with the crisis. By January 1974, world oil prices were four times higher than they had been at the start of the crisis. The situation was further complicated by expansionary fiscal policy implemented by President Nixon that predated the embargo, which resulted in inflation.¬† Forty years later, only 40% of American imports are from OPEC countries. Canada and Mexico are now our largest crude import bases.¬† Yet many remain obsessed with the idea of¬†"weaning America from Mideast oil." Two years before the crisis, the EPA had begun its "Documerica" project, dispatching photographers to chronicle environmental situations, and everyday life, in the '70s. Freelance photographer David Falconer was tasked with shooting the oil crisis, and chose Oregon and Washington as his setting. We reproduce the best of his photos here.
By all accounts, America is not thrilled with its elected officials right now. Congressional approval ratings are at all-time lows. And this week, amid a government shutdown that sent hundreds of thousands of federal workers home without pay, Americans' confidence in the economy collapsed. According to a CBS News poll released earlier this week, 44% of voters blame Republicans in Congress, while 35% blame President Obama and congressional Democrats. 17% blame both parties equally. Independent voters alone, however, are more likely (24%) to cast equal blame on both parties, with 40% blaming Republicans and 30% blaming Democrats. And while politicians remain in gridlock over how to end the government shutdown and raise the statutory debt limit, which the Treasury will hit Oct. 17, UBS¬†senior lobbyist and managing director John Savercool says there is only one way that American opinion will give them a sense of urgency. "The key thing to watch over the next week or two is how independent voters react to developments," writes Savercool in a note to clients. "Only if independents swing heavily in favor of one side or the other will polling impact lawmaker thinking and positioning." Savercool expects the current episode of fiscal crisis in D.C. to be resolved by late October, but says it will only be a stop-gap solution. "The fights will continue in the future as long as policymakers are unable to agree to a long-term deficit reduction deal, and it won't be long before the parties wrestle again over fiscal policy issues," he says. "Any solution [to the current crisis] is likely to be more modest than ambitious. It is likely to allow¬†Washington to simply move past the current crises as a primary objective and¬†not much more."
Thanks to the U.S. government shutdown, most of the high frequency economic data published by the government has been delayed. Last week, we didn't get scheduled releases on construction spending, factory orders, or¬†employment. Next week, we may not get releases on trade, job openings, wholesale inventories, import prices, inflation (PPI), retail sales, and business inventories. The data produced by the private sector offers decent proxies for the government's data. But it's not perfect. "[A]s the month progresses, secondary data that is key to calculating GDP (trade and inventories) will be sorely missed by economists attempting to track growth," wrote UBS' economics team led by Maury Harris and Drew Matus. Eventually (we think), the government will reopen. "When an agreement is ultimately reached, market participants could get an avalanche of data releases‚Äîincluding those that were delayed last week," said Deutsche Bank's Brett Ryan. "We may have the mother of all data release days once this shutdown ends if it continues for long," tweeted Bloomberg Chief Economist Michael McDonough. And the market participants will be in a mad scramble to price it all in. Fortunately, all of that data is unlikely to come in one fell swoop. "The timing of the releases will depend on when the government reopens," added Ryan. "In January 1996, payrolls were delayed two weeks. However, the 1995/1996 shutdown encompassed the survey period. The current government shutdown began well beyond the survey period, so the BLS just needs to finish compiling the data, which should take only a few days." If the shutdown, however, overlaps with a particular report's survey period, then we could have a bigger short-term inconvenience. "[B]oth the compilers at the head office and the workers in the field are classified as non-essential," said Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. "This means that data already collected will be released late and data that was scheduled to be collected now is corrupted." The shutdown also risks having significant monetary-policy implications. "Should the shutdown continue for too much longer it will jeopardize data collection for next month‚Äôs payroll report and possibly create data quality issues across the spectrum of government releases," said UBS. "As a consequence, all government data is likely to be suspect for at least the month following the end of the shutdown, complicating the FOMC‚Äôs tapering decision (which we still expect to be announced at the January of 2014)." Ultimately, it would be nicer for everyone if the government would reopen sooner than later.
REUTERS/Remo Casilli ROME (Reuters) - Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi will ask to serve a tax fraud sentence in community service, rather than under house arrest, his lawyer told newswire AGI on Saturday. The center-right leader, 77, was found guilty of falsely recording the price paid for television rights by his Mediaset television empire to pay less tax. He was given a four-year sentence in August, commuted to one year, to be served under house arrest or in community service due to his age. Lawyer Franco Coppi told the newswire he would present the request to work for social services to a Milan court within a week, and that the details would be agreed afterwards. Coppi did not immediately respond to a request to confirm the comments. Community service can embrace a vast range of activities from looking after elderly people and disabled people to helping with housing projects or environmental work. It was not, however, clear how this might work out for billionaire Berlusconi whom few Italians could imagine cleaning up a park, for instance, or sweeping a pavement. The legal troubles of Berlusconi, who is appealing separate convictions for paying for sex with an underage girl and for the publishing of a leaked wiretap, threaten to derail a man who has dominated Italian politics for two decades. Berlusconi maintains the trials are driven by left-leaning judges to destroy him politically. On Friday a Senate committee recommended the billionaire be expelled from parliament due to the tax fraud verdict, his first definitive conviction in 20 years of trials. The vote will need to be ratified later this month by the full Senate for him to lose his seat. (Reporting by Naomi O'Leary; editing by Ralph Boulton)
Screenshot Via YouTubeIt can be just as tough to get into some of the nation's most elite boarding schools as some top colleges‚Äîand cost just as much money.¬† We've rounded up the 50 most expensive boarding schools in the U.S., looking at total costs including tuition, room and board, and mandatory fees (including one-time fees where applicable) for the 2013-2014 school year. Special needs schools and daytime-only schools were not taken into consideration for this list. Every school on this list charges more than $50,000 a year to attend‚Äîmoney that goes towards living facilities, dining halls, and some fairly unbelievable perks. The majority of these are located in the northeast, with many in Massachusetts. California also makes the list several times with a handful of expensive progressive academies. If you think we missed a school, tell us in the comments and we'll check it out.
diaspora¬†(di¬∑as¬∑po¬∑ra) noun¬†\dƒ´-Ààas-p(…ô-)r…ô, dƒì-\the movement, migration, or scattering of a people away from an established or ancestral homeland It's almost over. It's ending with a whimper, not a bang. One by one, the last of the cold-calling retail brokerage firms are fading away. The game that Jordan Belfort invented twenty years ago had managed to adapt since Stratton Oakmont's shuttering, but even adaptation has it's limits. These firms are going away.¬† Starting a cold-calling brokerage firm used to be easy - all you needed was the Lehman telemarketing script, a b-d license and a room full of testosterone-poisoned young men from Long Island or the outer boroughs of New York City that you could manipulate into thinking that they had any ability to make "clients" money. The hard part was keeping the shop open once the arbitration awards and investigations began piling up. Given the horrifically conflicted business model and abominable standard of care, I'm actually surprised any of these firms have lasted even this long. But there are still a few alive and kicking, and those brokers who are still playing continue to find each other in these last refuges. They all know each other from in and around "the business." They can trace their lineages back to the same "senior brokers" for whom they once cold-called or "popped new accounts." The few brokers who haven't racked up too many regulatory disclosures are somehow able to keep finding midwesterners or southerners who still answer a landline telephone and are too polite to hang up. Somehow, these brokers are still persuading people to send them money to churn. But it's getting harder. ¬†The Internet has made it so everything being said during a stock pitch can be verified in seconds. The cost of trading is now zero, which makes it difficult to justify 3% commissions and outrageous "handling" fees on trade confirmations. And besides, people just don't pick up the phone anymore. Hard to "pound" a prospect or "take him to the mat" over text or email. Telemarketing of stocks requires the kind of emotional give-and-take that requires a phone conversation - and who has time for that these days?" The Wall Street Journal just did a massive analysis of all the broker-dealers that have been shutdown over the last seven years using publicly-available disciplinary records. The reporters were able to quantify this diaspora of brokers leaving and then finding each other again as the industry spread and then shrank back down. It's truly fascinating... The Journal's analysis reveals some of the nationwide migratory patterns of brokers associated with firms having troubled regulatory records. These brokers often remain in the industry after working at firms expelled by regulators, in some cases after the brokers accrued numerous arbitration claims or declared multiple bankruptcies. To identify firms Finra has expelled, the Journal reviewed 105 monthly disciplinary reports the regulator published since 2005. Through the end of 2012, it said it had expelled 173 firms for problems ranging from a firm's failure to pay regulatory fines to fraud involving individual brokers. At least 5,054 brokers who worked at these defunct firms were still licensed to sell securities earlier this year, the Journal analysis shows. Of those, 610 had worked at more than one firm Finra had expelled. "Migratory patterns" is a polite way of putting it. I'd phrase it differently. I'd call it the Last Stand. They're on the run now with very little reason for the business itself to even exist. The last bastions of brokering, even if they could hire whoever's left, will be under more scrutiny than ever before and will likely not be able to withstand it. Susan Axelrod, Finra's executive vice president of regulatory operations, told the Wall Street Journal that "We are watching broker migration with a laser focus." When your business, at it's most basic, is harmful to your customers and practically guarantees their eventual dissatisfaction, a "laser focus" is the very last thing you need. Source: More Than 5,000 Stockbrokers From Expelled Firms Still Selling Securities (Wall Street Journal) Read Also: Land of the Lost (TRB) ¬† *** For more about the rise and fall of the retail broker, please read my book¬†Backstage Wall Street. ¬†If a young family member (son, nephew, etc) or someone you know has found himself "training" at one of these predatory cold-calling hellholes, please pass the book on to them. I've been told by at least a dozen young men that it's the thing that saved them from going down the wrong career path. This is perhaps the biggest compliment I could ever ask for and I'm always glad to hear that I've made a difference by telling the truth. Backstage Wall Street (Amazon)
A trend is, by definition, a passing thing. Often it's passing because in some small way, deep down we know it's wrong ó take the the Macarena for example. I think we all really knew that was a mistake. The same thing can happen in fashion. Creatives on high don't always have the everyday lives of the people that wear clothing in mind when they dream up their lines every season, and the styles that they create aren't necessarily meant for everyone. Yet, some of that fantasy does make it to retailers for the rest of us and, as such, become wider trends. That doesn't mean, however, that they're a good idea for you. Or anyone. Below we've compiled a short list of men's fall fashion trends that we've seen popping up in magazines, on blogs, and in stores that will hopefully be forgotten by next year. Just because it's on the rack, doesn't mean it should be on your back. Now for the list: @cjzero The Color Orange: It's safe to say that we all can't dress like Dwyane Wade. It's even safer to say that orange is a dangerous color for many, many people. Even the most tasteful dressers make mistakes with this delicate hue. Tread with caution, or even better, don't tread at all. † flickr, buyalex Sweatpants: If you want to pay $98 dollars for a pair of trendy sweatpants, that's your affair, but please do not wear them outside your house. The price tag doesn't make them any less unattractive and sloppy looking. † Nordstrom Pleated trousers: We don't want to nix these completely, because we've seen a few cool ones. But listen, you didn't like wearing them in third grade because they were bunchy and uncomfortable. Remember that feeling, keep your eyes open, and be very, very cautious with your pleated pants (if you insist on buying them). † Vincent Samaco Fedoras: We've talked about the dangers of fedoras before. If you're not one of the precious, precious few people that can pull these off, you will look like you're either playing dress up, or are about to grab a cane and start tap dancing. Vimeo Turtlenecks: This is a photo of famed billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones. It's a screenshot from a PBS documentary about him made back in the 1980s called 'Trader.' After it aired, PTJ bought up all the copies of the documentary and made sure it was never shown on TV again. This turtleneck may be one reason why. Alright sirs, be careful out there.
The Federal Reserve stunned markets when it decided to not taper¬†its $85 billion a month asset purchasing program known as quantitative easing. The economic data simply did not support the decision to pull back the Fed's accommodative monetary policy, Chairman Ben Bernanke said.  The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) saw improvement since a year ago, but "the Committee decided to await more evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchase." In terms of monetary policy, 2013 will look a whole lot like 2012. But it was supposed to be a different kind of year. Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius said we'd be "over the hump" in 2013. Morgan Stanley's¬†Vincent Reinhart called 2013 an "inflection point." Granted, their projections could still come true, but people generally seemed to feel 2013 would be more monumental economic year than it has been. And the Fed clearly hasn't seen enough change to alter its monetary policy course. In fact, the committee has been steadily lowering its GDP projections for this year since December, when the central tendency call was for 2.3-3% growth in 2013. In March, the FOMC projected 2.3-2.8% growth; in June, 2.3-2.6%; and in September, 2.0-2.3%. In June, the committee¬†summed up some¬†economic concerns: From the Fed minutes: Among the downside risks for economic activity were the uncertain effects and future course of fiscal policy, the possibility of adverse developments in foreign economies, and concerns about the ability of the U.S. economy to weather potential future adverse shocks. The "fiscal drag" the Fed referred to there has been a hot button issue all year. Many thought that the sequester would cause a major negative shock on the economy. And to a certain extent it has, with some estimating the sequester removed 1.75% from the economy this year. That means for the U.S. to have grown even in the range the Fed is currently projecting, "One must conclude that the underlying growth has accelerated sharply and may be running between 3.5%-4%," wrote SocGen's¬†Aneta Markowsa in July. So it could be that the Fed wasn't expecting the fiscal drag to be quite as pronounced, and has been forced to lower its GDP projections accordingly. Or,¬†as the debt ceiling fast approaches, the Fed is worried about whether lawmakers will muck things up again. But recent data has also suggested 2013 wasn't the big year some were expecting. The latest consumer confidence figure missed. According to the Conference Board's Lynn Franco, "Concerns¬†about the short-term outlook for both jobs and earnings resurfaced, while expectations for future business conditions were little changed." It's hard to read a whole lot into one report, but its not the only economic report to come in as decidedly "meh." The U.S. added a paltry 169K jobs in August, July's figure was revised down sharply from 162K to 104K, and the participation rate fell again (now at a 35-year low). Unemployment dropped to 7.3%, largely thanks to people leaving the work force. And economists agree that the ongoing government shutdown is only making things worse. "We estimate the current shutdown would reduce growth by 0.2pp in Q4 on an annualized basis if it lasted a week, and 0.4pp if it lasted two weeks," said Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips. 2013 was supposed to be the year, but as the Fed continues to pump the monetary policy gas pedal thanks to lukewarm economic metrics, maybe we'll have better luck next year.
REUTERS/Desmond BoylanA U.S.-made car, used as a private collective taxi is driven beside a billboard in Havana, September 30, 2013. One time Havana was a hugely popular tourist destination for Americans. One time the Atlanta and Boston Federal Reserve banks opened their own offices there. And one time they had to bail out Cuba. The Atlanta Fed recently alerted us to this quirky chapter in the Fed's history. Though the U.S. had ceded sovereignty of the island to Cubans in 1902, the greenback was still the island's official currency. Several major U.S. and Canadian banks had substantial presences there, and the Atlanta Fed was overseeing $40 million circulating in the Cuban economy. Around 1920, Atlanta decided it wanted to open an official Havana office. After some heated negotiations, it was agreed that the Boston and Atlanta Feds would both open branches, with Atlanta overseeing physical circulation and Boston in charge of cables (Boston had argued that it was home to more banks operating in Cuba than in Atlanta). The two branches remained rivals throughout their stay there. Fast forward to the first week of April, 1926. Rumors about a Canadian bank failing began to circulate, and eventually escalated into a bank run throughout the country. By Friday, the Atlanta Fed's $10 million reserve fund had been drained. "Without more currency by Monday, the banking system in Cuba faced collapse," the Atlanta Fed recounts. So the Atlanta Fed's branch manager called in for an emergency shipment of $26.5 million in cash. Atlanta FedForty-two pouches of registered mail were packed into the gunboat "Cuba," which took off at 5 pm on April 11 from Key West.¬† The photo you see above shows the Cuban navy unloading the shipment, which arrived in Havana nine hours later. The run was successfully stanched when banks opened Monday. But the drama ended up jumping back stateside, when Atlanta Fed officials learned Washington was investigating them for having taken a "joyride." "...there were charges that 'on the way over from Key West to Havana the entire party from Atlanta became intoxicated' and that its men arrived 'in a disgraceful condition' that discredited the Bank," the Atlanta Fed writes. An initial investigation led from Washington said the charges were true: "...the demeanor of rescue had gone awry and that four members of the Atlanta party, including Deputy Governor [J.L.] Campbell, did become drunk on the boat. Campbell should 'be eliminated from the Federal Reserve System,' the report concluded. It also noted ‚Äúa feeling of jealousy and mutual distrust between the two Federal Reserve Agencies in Havana.‚Äù But Atlanta Fed members denounced the findings and demanded a chance to conduct their own investigation, and accusing¬†the Boston Fed's Havana manager of having maliciously initiated the charges. During a subsequent hearing, Campbell, the Atlanta Fed deputy governor "conceded that he had taken two drinks before dinner, but a parade of witnesses testified that he never appeared to be drunk," the Atlanta Fed says.¬† But it was not enough to save Campbell's job, and the Atlanta Fed eventually relieved him under protest. In fact, the entire Havana adventure continued downhill from that point. The Boston branch ended up folding the first day of 1927. And as financial activity became increasingly volatile as Cuba entered its revolutionary phase, the Atlanta Fed's office became increasingly unprofitable. On Sept. 30, 1938, it closed its doors for good.
APRead into this what you will, but President Barack Obama did not specifically rule out working around Congress to raise the nation's borrowing limit if Congress does not permit a hike before an Oct. 17 deadline. In an interview with The Associated Press that was published on Saturday, Obama ducked the question of whether he is "willing to take other action" to prevent default. He only said that he expected Congress would pass a bill to raise it. Here's the key exchange: Q: But if they don't, if they get up to this deadline and they are not willing to pass this clean debt ceiling that you're asking them to do, would you be willing to take other action to prevent default? THE PRESIDENT: I don't expect to get there. There were at least some quotes yesterday that Speaker Boehner is willing to make sure that we don't default. And just as is true with the government shutdown, there are enough votes in the House of Representatives to make sure that the government reopens today. And I'm pretty willing to bet that there are enough votes in the House of Representatives right now to make sure that the United States doesn't end up being a deadbeat. The only thing that's preventing that from happening is Speaker Boehner calling the vote. The possibility that Obama will have to work around Congress to raise the debt has been increasingly discussed by analysts over the past week. Some ‚Äî including President Bill Clinton ‚Äî have said he can do that by invoking the 14th Amendment, a Reconstruction-era amendment that says that "the¬†validity of the public debt of the United States ... shall not be questioned." But usually, he and members of his administration make a point of noting that it is not a legally-tenable option. Just this past week, on a conference call previewing a report warning of the economic catastrophe of breaching the debt ceiling, a Treasury Department official said the administration doesn't believe anyone except Congress can raise the debt ceiling. And here's what Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters in the daily press briefing on Thursday: "This administration does not believe that the¬†14th¬†Amendment¬†gives the power to the President to ignore the debt ceiling. So we do not believe that the¬†14th¬†Amendment¬†provides that authority to the President. Moreover, even if the President could ignore the debt ceiling, the fact that there is significant controversy around the President‚Äôs authority to act unilaterally means that it would not be a credible alternative to Congress raising the debt ceiling and would not be taken seriously by the global economy or the markets."
The US dollar has been generally weaker since the shutdown.†† †The Australian dollar was the strongest currency against the US dollar over the past week. †It rose by about 1.2%, yet it is often understood as the opposite of a safe haven, a risk asset. †The yen has been the second strongest currency, appreciating by almost 0.85% against the dollar and is it usually perceived as a safe haven currency. † Sterling and the Swiss franc† were the only majors to decline against the dollar last week. †† The former has had a stellar run and its 6.5% advance makes it the best major performer over the past three months.† Profit-taking, arguably encouraged by three softer PMIs surveys, seemed to be the main culprit.††† Unwinding of the risk-off positions ahead of the week was behind the franc's net loss on the week.† The euro had been putting in higher highs against the franc since the start of the week, but franc weakness at the end of the week was more the driver than euro strength.† Although the closure of the Federal government and the approaching debt ceiling injects needless uncertainty and volatility (the VIX hit a 3-month high), investors seem to be looking beyond what is understood to be a short-run disruption.† Of the four days that the government was shut last week, the S&amp;P 500 rose in two of the sessions, including Friday's.†† Surveys and the price action suggests few are really taking very seriously the risk that the US actually defaults, even if the risk of such has increased; not of course because it has been locked out of the capital markets, but due to its political dysfunction. ††Pressure has been seen in the four week T-bills, which rose from about 2 bp at the end of last week to 13 bp ahead of the weekend.† In comparison the 3-month bill yield rose to almost 3 bp from 1.†† Previously we suggested the euro has potential toward $1.37.†† The euro's high on October 3 was just shy of $1.3650.† While we do not want to read too much into the pullback ahead of the weekend, daily technical indicators such as the RSI and MACDs, are looking a bit stretched. †It appears to be warning of the risk of a deeper near-term pullback.† Initial support is seen near $1.3500.† It may take a break of the post-FOMC low near $1.3460 to boost confidence that a high is indeed in place.†† We peg initial support for sterling near $1.60, where the 20-day moving average is found. † The post-FOMC low was set near $.1.5955 and this needs to be convincingly violated to support ideas that a top is being carved out.†† Bearish divergences are appearing in the daily RSI as the last week's high in spot was not confirmed by the technical indicator.† MACDs are crossing to the downside. † The yen's technical outlook seem less clear.† The dollar was sold to five week lows against the yen and the RSI and MACDs are trending lower.† However, the 10-year interest rate differential has begun moving back in the US favor after falling about 30 bp in the aftermath of the FOMC.††† The close of the North American session above the 5-day moving average (~97.60 now) would strengthen our more positive dollar bias.†† The technical outlook for the Canadian dollar is also not very clear.† The RSI has turned down for the greenback, while the MACDs are turning up.† The 5-day average has crossed above the 20-day average for the first time in nearly a month, but the US dollar appeared to run out of steam near CAD1.0355 at midweek and finished the week near the lows.††† Initial support is seen near CAD1.0250-70. † The CAD1.0350-60 area looks like a reasonable cap.†† We had anticipated a weaker Australian dollar, but the Reserve Bank surprised with its neutral statement.† Several Australian banks have pushed out their rate cut forecasts into 2014.† Technically, the Aussie looks poised to retest the post-FOMC high near $0.9530, which corresponded to the 38.2% retracement of the sharp decline that began in mid-April. †† The double bottom traced out in August suggests potential to push through $0.9600, while the next retracement objective is just above $0.9700.†† The Mexican peso slipped marginally against the dollar since the US government shutdown.† It managed to recover from the sharp drop on Thursday, which seemed to be more a function of a knock-on effect from the US, which reported a softer than expected service sector ISM and dramatic losses in US equities. † At the week's high, the dollar had risen 6% off the post-FOMC low.† Disappointing US auto sales earlier in the week (weakest since April) also did the peso no favors.† Initial support for the dollar is seen near MXN13.00-05..† We prefer to be patient and sell into a dollar spike toward MXN13.35-MXN13.40 † At the week's high, the dollar had risen 6% off the post-FOMC low.† The Federal government shutdown means the Commitment of Traders report from the CFTC is not available.† Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
For the first time in five years, Bloomberg has redesigned its mobile app, and millions of Bloomberg mobile users will be upgrading today. When the iPhone first launched in 2007, there was no app store. That came a year later in July 2008 and with it, Bloomberg's mobile app, which was available on day one.†Bloomberg immediately became one of the most popular apps in the market, revered for its clean design and seamless integration with Apple's OS software. It took advantage of the accelerometer, allowing the user to toggle between landscape and portrait setting, and updated content alongside a feed that would allow you to check stock portfolios and market data.† It created excitement in the financial industry, and is relied on by millions of users each week. With the new iOS 7 update, Bloomberg saw the opportunity to improve an already good thing. Oke Okaro, General Manager and General Head of Mobile and Connected Devices at Bloomberg, realized that a redesign would help continue to push Bloomberg ahead of its competitors in the mobile space.† According to Okaro, there were several changes he wanted to implicate within the redesign.†Besides creating a more modern and integrated experience, the Bloomberg team wanted to make sure the app featured video; a medium that has increased massively across Bloomberg's respective platforms. They also wanted to update in real time. Okaro also wanted to create an efficient way for users to track stocks and data that matters to them, so that users could customize and curate a feed of information that would carry over to any platform Bloomberg was accessed from, whether it be from a smartphone, tablet or desktop computer. In an interview with Business Insider, Okaro told us about the design overhaul. In Bloomberg's new app, all of the verticals of news people can access are now exposed, available to be added to a "watchlist". If you add Google, Apple, and Yahoo! to your personal watchlist, you can see them in one spot, updating live.  "You weren't able to do that before," Okaro said. "You'd have to go search each security and then come back home to select the next. In the new Bloomberg app, it's not as though you're going down one street and you're coming back up to go down another. We now give you the ability to travel in whichever way you want, from wherever you are within the app. Even if you force quit [the app], wherever you left from is where we bring you back when you reopen it." Here is what the new Bloomberg app looks like: Screenshot/Bloomberg You are able to compare securities to one another over a specific time period. This is a feature that sets Bloomberg apart from other financial apps in the mobile space: Screenshot/Bloomberg "Our number one goal is to give people exactly what they need and want with the least amount of effort, and this accomplishes that. You have to go to less places to find what you're looking for." The app is now available for download or update in the App Store.
Reuters - Chris WattieIn the dystopian future imagined by Canadian journalist Diane Francis, Russia owns all of Canada's oil and the Chinese own all its ports. Canada is rendered a colony of the two non-Western superpowers, while the U.S. is left out in the cold, surrounded by its enemies and unable to access that sweet, sweet oil.¬† Calling current trade relations between these superpowers a "new cold war," Francis believes that the U.S. and Canada need to do what any two businesses would do in the face of an external threat: consolidate.¬†In her controversial new book, "Merger of the Century: Why Canada and America Should Become One Country," Francis lays out her thesis for uniting the two North American countries into one. She writes, "Without dramatic change, Canada will remain ‚Ä¶ somewhat sleepy and vulnerable. The United States will continue to go broke buying foreign oil and cheap goods from Asia, then guarding countries that could and should pay for their own protection and, while they are at it, 'buy American.'" In an interview with Foreign Policy, Francis calls Canada, the "back-door entry" for the emerging superpowers to enter the U.S. markets, which they are currently somewhat excluded from. She says,¬† China has been investing heavily in Canadian energy. Last year, the Chinese state-run company¬†China National Offshore Oil Corporation purchased Nexen, a Canadian oil and gas company, for $15 billion. However, she believes that while the U.S. and Canada are already merging through investment and immigration, she wants them to go "all the way." She believes consolidation will happen through trade relations and a loosening of regulations, and will be less formal than an outright merger of the two countries. She tells Foreign Policy,¬†"We're dating heavily - let's think about common law, maybe marriage."
This morning, Milan awoke to find something a little strange. Just off of Via dei Mercanti, near the heart of the old city, a submarine has apparently pushed its way through the paving stones and damaged a nearby car. A photograph of the bizarre scene made the front page of Reddit's WTF subreddit, as confused Milanese began surveying the scene:  Per scoprire tutto sul sottomarino in centro a Milano, vai su http://t.co/CNzmdAegqf #L1F3 @EA_Italia @Genertel pic.twitter.com/zxcxVWWqiV Un sottomarino a pochi passi da piazza Duomo a #Milano, ma Ë solo una trovata pubblicitaria http://t.co/XpdenbrlY3 pic.twitter.com/KMaHOzULhZ A #milano emerge un sottomarino @turismomilano @ComuneMI #milanosorprende pic.twitter.com/E1zhrlI53E Europ Assistance IT, an insurance group based in Italy, had come to the street early in the morning to construct the fake submarine as part the marketing for their "Protect Your Life" campaign ó which has its own website here. The company even went so far as to hire some fake submariners who give interviews:  See more photos of the sunte over at the La Repubblica website.
This morning, Milan awoke to find something a little strange. Just off of Via dei Mercanti, near the heart of the old city, a submarine has apparently pushed its way through the paving stones and damaged a nearby car. A photograph of the bizarre scene made the front page of Reddit's WTF subreddit, as confused Milanese began surveying the scene:  Per scoprire tutto sul sottomarino in centro a Milano, vai su http://t.co/CNzmdAegqf #L1F3 @EA_Italia @Genertel pic.twitter.com/zxcxVWWqiV Un sottomarino a pochi passi da piazza Duomo a #Milano, ma Ë solo una trovata pubblicitaria http://t.co/XpdenbrlY3 pic.twitter.com/KMaHOzULhZ A #milano emerge un sottomarino @turismomilano @ComuneMI #milanosorprende pic.twitter.com/E1zhrlI53E Europ Assistance IT, an insurance group based in Italy, had come to the street early in the morning to construct the fake submarine as part the marketing for their "Protect Your Life" campaign ó which has its own website here. The company even went so far as to hire some fake submariners who give interviews:  See more photos of the sunte over at the La Repubblica website.
ìIf the Treasury is unwilling to stretch the definition of extraordinary measures, on the day that the Federal Reserve predicts that the Treasury will run out of cash in its account and the Treasury is bound by the debt ceiling, it suspends all payments and awaits instructions from the Treasury. As a result, the governmentís principal economic officials will face the prospect of violating one of these three laws: 1. The Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917 that establishes the debt ceiling; 2. The Federal Reserve Act that prohibits the Fed from lending directly to the Treasury; or, 3. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution that holds that the debt of the United States government, lawfully issued, will not be questioned. They have to break a law. ì Basically, someone has to break the law here if the debt ceiling isnít raised.† I donít know precisely how this would all play out, but my guess is thereíd be strength in numbers by having Jack Lew ring up Ben Bernanke and exercise the ìexigent circumstancesî clause in the Fed act.† The Fed would buy new bonds directly from the Treasury which would keep the government from defaulting and would keep the Treasury from breaking the 14th Amendment.† The Federal Reserve would come under fire for breaking the Federal Reserve Act, but the exigent circumstances clause would likely give Ben some wiggle room there. The bottom line is, no matter what happens someone has to break a law so if someoneís going to be an adult and avoid breaking the law PLUS crashing the global financial system I am pretty sure that the obvious choice is to break the law and NOT crash the global financial system. In other words, by failing to raise the debt ceiling the US Congress puts the US Treasury in an impossible position where someone is forced to act like an adult just because Congress canít.† And that means this inane debate is really an unrealistic and useless waste of time because once push comes to shove the Treasury has to act or get someone else to act because they break the law by not acting.† And they will act.† Because thereís no realistic alternative. NB ñ Oh, and even if Ben Bernanke was found liable of breaking the law here I am pretty sure thereíd be a nice phone call before all of this goes down that goes a little bit like this: Tsy Sec Jack Lew:† îBen, Iím about to break the law here if we donít do something.† Oh, and weíre about to crash the global financial system.† How about you enact the exigent circumstances clause and just fund our account?î Fed Chief Ben Bernanke: ìSure, but I want some guarantees that I am not going to be the only one on the hook here for this.î Lew:† îSure thing.î† [Dials in President Obama] President Obama: ìHey dudes, how can I help?î Bernanke: ìIf I am going to save the world AGAIN, I need some guarantees I wonít go to jail this time around.† Can you guarantee that?î Obama: ìOf course.† Your stock market rally saved my skin on more than one occasion.† Iíll put you at the top of the pardon list.î Bernanke: ìSwell.† Oh, and I want lifetime beard groomings also.† This thing doesnít keep itself looking this good all by itself.î Obama:† îDone.î Lew: ìGreat, now someone phone down to those clowns on the floor of Congress and inform them that their little games are pointless.î Edit: this post previously stated that Vincent Reinhart had published the Carmen Reinhart paper of the issue of government debt. Sorry for the error. Hereís an important point on the debt ceiling debate by Vincent Reinhart who points out that, if we actually fail to raise the debt ceiling then SOMEONE has to break the law in the USA because the laws that are currently on the books make it impossible not to. †He explains: ìIf the Treasury is unwilling to stretch the definition of extraordinary measures, on the day that the Federal Reserve predicts that the Treasury will run out of cash in its account and the Treasury is bound by the debt ceiling, it suspends all payments and awaits instructions from the Treasury. As a result, the governmentís principal economic officials will face the prospect of violating one of these three laws: 1. The Second Liberty Bond Act of 1917 that establishes the debt ceiling; 2. The Federal Reserve Act that prohibits the Fed from lending directly to the Treasury; or, 3. The 14th Amendment of the Constitution that holds that the debt of the United States government, lawfully issued, will not be questioned. They have to break a law. ì Basically, someone has to break the law here if the debt ceiling isnít raised. †I donít know precisely how this would all play out, but my guess is thereíd be strength in numbers by having Jack Lew ring up Ben Bernanke and exercise the ìexigent circumstancesî clause in the Fed act. †The Fed would buy new bonds directly from the Treasury which would keep the government from defaulting and would keep the Treasury from breaking the 14th Amendment. †The Federal Reserve would come under fire for breaking the Federal Reserve Act, but the exigent circumstances clause would likely give Ben some wiggle room there. The bottom line is, no matter what happens someone has to break a law so if someoneís going to be an adult and avoid breaking the law PLUS crashing the global financial system I am pretty sure that the obvious choice is to break the law and NOT crash the global financial system. In other words, by failing to raise the debt ceiling the US Congress puts the US Treasury in an impossible position where someone is forced to act like an adult just because Congress canít. †And that means this inane debate is really an unrealistic and useless waste of time because once push comes to shove the Treasury has to act or get someone else to act because they break the law by not acting. †And they will act. †Because thereís no realistic alternative. NB ñ Oh, and even if Ben Bernanke was found liable of breaking the law here I am pretty sure thereíd be a nice phone call before all of this goes down that goes a little bit like this: Tsy Sec Jack Lew: †îBen, Iím about to break the law here if we donít do something. †Oh, and weíre about to crash the global financial system. †How about you enact the exigent circumstances clause and just fund our account?î Fed Chief Ben Bernanke: ìSure, but I want some guarantees that I am not going to be the only one on the hook here for this.î Lew: †îSure thing.î †[Dials in President Obama] President Obama: ìHey dudes, how can I help?î Bernanke: ìIf I am going to save the world AGAIN, I need some guarantees I wonít go to jail this time around. †Can you guarantee that?î Obama: ìOf course. †Your stock market rally saved my skin on more than one occasion. †Iíll put you at the top of the pardon list.î Bernanke: ìSwell. †Oh, and I want lifetime beard groomings also. †This thing doesnít keep itself looking this good all by itself.î Obama: †îDone.î Lew: ìGreat, now someone phone down to those clowns on the floor of Congress and inform them that their little games are pointless.î Edit: this post previously stated that Vincent Reinhart had published the Carmen Reinhart paper of the issue of government debt. Sorry for the error.
Levo LeagueBerkshire Hathaway (NYSE:BRKA)(NYSE:BRKB) Chairman and CEO Warren Buffett has logged a lot of wins in the wake of the late-2000s crisis. During the crisis itself, the firm served as a white knight investor to major companies with a need for a huge amount of cash, and fast. With credit conditions tight, Buffett was able to loan billions to financial institutions like Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) at high interest rates or in return for preferred stock that paid handsome dividends. One of the companies that Berkshire lent money to was Mars Inc., which in 2008 needed to finance the $23 billion purchase of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. Buffett loaned Mars $4.4 billion and purchased a minority interest in Wrigley for $2.1 billion at a discount to the buyout price. At the time, Buffett said: ‚ÄúThose of you who know me, know that I have been a big fan of Wrigley‚Äôs business model for many years, and I love their products. When you think of a business that‚Äôs easy to understand, with favorable long-term economics, and able and trustworthy management ‚Äî you think of Wrigley. Bringing together these iconic, world-class companies combines Wrigley‚Äôs strengths with the deep resources and proven brand-building savvy of Mars and will result in a powerful force for innovation and growth in the global confectionery marketplace.‚Äù The Wall Street Journal reports that Berkshire is set to bank a profit of at least $680 million from the deal. Berkshire sold the notes back to Mars at about 115 percent of face value plus interest. The sale comes shortly after news that Berkshire exercised warrants for approximately 13.2 million shares of Goldman Sachs common stock worth about $2 billion ‚Äî part of Buffett‚Äôs payment for loaning the bank $5 billion during the financial crisis. The deal came in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, once the fourth-largest investment bank in the United States, and was just one of several deals that Buffett made with top Wall Street banks. All told, Berkshire Hathaway extended a lifeline worth about $24 billion spread throughout the financial industry, establishing what has been one of the boldest and most successful bets on the U.S. financial sector. Buffett‚Äôs deal with Goldman was similar to the one he struck with Bank of America. The basic structure was that Berkshire Hathaway would make a loan in exchange for preferred stock ‚Äî which paid out a handsome dividend ‚Äî and warrants to buy additional stock at a fixed price until some future date. Goldman Sachs redeemed the $5 billion in preferred shares at a 10 percent premium in 2011. Buffett‚Äôs bets on the financial industry have largely paid off, and he has pocketed billions from his bullish position in the banks in the wake of the crisis. Just two years after Buffett extended a hand to Bank of America, for example, he was able to report to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders that he had booked a paper profit of $5.27 billion from the deal. Don‚Äôt Miss: Citigroup‚Äôs Premature Research Release Results in $30M Fine. Read the original article from Wall St. Cheat Sheet
REUTERS/Sebastien NogierByron Wien.Blackstone vice chairman Byron Wien said in August that he was worried about the second half of 2013. The veteran investment strategist is one of the most prominent proponents on Wall Street of the view that corporate profit margins are peaking, a phenomenon he believes will begin eating into earnings growth and become a negative catalyst for stock prices. In January, Wien predicted that "a profit margin squeeze and limited revenue growth cause 2013 earnings for the Standard &amp; Poorís 500 to decline below $100, disappointing investors" and causing the index to trade below 1300. That obviously hasn't happened yet, but Wien thinks it could begin next week when the third-quarter earnings reporting season gets underway. In his October market commentary, Wien writes: The absence of bad news has caused investors to become optimistic. Looking at the sentiment data and reports of institutional investor polls in the United States and Europe, it is clear there is a widespread view that the world economy is improving and stocks are headed higher. This makes the market vulnerable to a shock of some kind. I have reflected on where that could come from and continue to believe earnings in the U.S. will be disappointing. Profit margins are at a high and rising interest rates and other cost pressures should begin to show up in the third quarter reports. More than three-quarters of the companies providing guidance to analysts are encouraging them to adjust their estimates lower. Revenues so far this year have been disappointing, and that should provide a clue to possible earnings weakness as the year develops. Whether this will be enough to send the market lower remains unclear. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note hit a multi-year high of 3.0% in early September, marking a 1.37% percentage-point rise in long-term interest rates since early May. The 10-year yield has since backed down to current levels around 2.65%, but remains significantly elevated from levels in the first half of 2013. Wien and other adherents to the view that profit margins have peaked will finally get to test their thesis next week.
Here they are: the 8 best charts of the week. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg READ MORE:¬†The 'Smart Money' In The Stock Market Has Been Headed For The Exits Since May ¬ª BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg READ MORE:¬†Here's The Debt Ceiling Warning Chart That Everyone On Wall Street Is Passing Around ¬ª Goldman Sachs READ MORE:¬†Watch The Government Shutdown Eat Away At GDP Growth ¬ª Citi READ MORE: In 5 Charts, Here's Why Nuclear Energy Is Going Nowhere ¬ª Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Gallup READ MORE:¬†American Economic Confidence Has Collapsed In The Past Three Days ¬ª JP Morgan Funds READ MORE:¬†JP MORGAN'S ULTIMATE GUIDE TO THE MARKETS AND THE ECONOMY ¬ª Redfin READ MORE:¬†It'll Cost You Hundreds Of Thousands Of Dollars Extra To Buy A Home Near A Good School ¬ª Credit Suisse READ MORE: Stimulus Alone Can't Save Japan ¬ª
