Some market skeptics have attributed the stock market's gains to the stimulative forces of the Federal Reserve's ultra-easy monetary policy. Many of those same people have blamed the Fed for rising commodity prices too. However, this latter argument seems to be losing its strength. Cullen Roche of the Pragmatic Capitalism blog points us to this interesting chart from Societe Generale's global research team led by Patrick Legland. Societe Generale Here's SocGen's commentary: The effect of QE on commodities (if any) vanished earlier than for equity markets. During each of the first two quantitative easing phases carried out by the Fed, commodities appreciated by over 25%. However, following the announcement of QE3 in Sept. 2012, commodity prices declined (-7% for the CRB index), a reminder that they remain largely driven by economic cycles rather than central bank actions (Gold being the notable exception). In fact, equity markets now seem to be the only asset which benefits from abundant central bank liquidity. Conclusion: The all-time high reached by US equity markets last week can be attributed to the fact that the only major asset class which benefits from the current ìrisk-onî mood of investors is equities in developed market. "Could it simply be that there are other real fundamental drivers of stock prices at present (like corporate profits being driven in part by huge government deficits?) and that the QE ìwealth effectî is all in our heads?" asks Roche.
Flickr / halfrainAfter a Monday sell-off to start the week, markets are bouncing back early in Asia's Tuesday trading session. Japan's Nikkei is up 1.9 percent. Korea's Kospi is up 0.5 percent. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.6 percent. Over the weekend, a controversial plan to bail out Cyprus' banks included a surprise levy on depositors. There was some concern that this could be an idea that would catch on in other countries, which could trigger massive bank runs as depositors flee. For now, those fears seem to be receding.
Bloomberg TelevisionStocks are within a few points of their all-time highs.† However there are a few signs that the market's bull run could soon hit a few bumps. In his latest research note, JP Morgan's Tom Lee says he is remaining cautious on stocks due to higher taxes, rising gas prices and the sequestration budget cuts. Lee has put together 15 stocks that could leave investors insulated to any oncoming volatility. Here's what makes them unique. "Interestingly, in the last 11 5%- pullbacks since 2009, this group of 15 stocks outperformed the S&amp;P 500 8 of the 11," wrote Lee.† "In other words, these names provide exposure to a portfolio of US stocks that could be seen as relatively safe, even in the anticipation of a pullback." The screening criteria: less than 15 months of both a) negative monthly absolute performance, and b) relative monthly underperformance (vs SPX) of more than 150bps. And, the largest monthly relative underperformance (since 2009) is no greater than 8 percent.

In spite of ongoing stream of positive economic news out of China, a number of economists have been ringing alarm bells with respect to the nation's economic trajectory. China clearly faces some major challenges, but the question remains if the country is still at risk of a "hard landing". Here are some of the issues that keep China-focused economists and portfolio managers awake at night. 1. After a slowdown, China's property prices resumed their climb. The ISI Price Diffusion Index has risen sharply over the past year, indicating that liquidity continues to flood these markets. This trend can persist for quite some time (as we've seen in the US), but it certainly introduces the risk of further inflating China's property bubble. Economists at the ISI Group are definitely concerned. Sober Look 2. Related to the issue above, economists from Nomura are pointing to the dependence of local governments on land sales. Severe problems with local governments could also easily spill into the banking system. WSJ: - Local governments, which rely on land sales as their main source of revenue, could be hit as hard as property developers by a real estate crash. The problems would quickly find their way into the banking system ‚Äì 14.1% of outstanding bank loans are to local government financing vehicles, and 6.2% are to property developers, Nomura‚Äôs economists say. Moody's analysts are just as concerned about China's local government indebtedness. According to them, escalating debt levels and rising default risks at the local government levels - particularly pertaining to local government financing vehicles (LGFVs) - represent a major risk to China's growth. Bloomberg: - Moody‚Äôs Investor Services said China‚Äôs local-government financing vehicles face greater risk of default, as regulators warn 20 percent of their loans are risky. 3. The risk of China's "shadow banking" keeps resurfacing. It's been a topic widely discussed in the media and the blogosphere, and even chastised by high-level Chinese officials. Nevertheless the issue remains unresolved. MoneyNews: - The World Bank warned recently that the Chinese economy could overheat from an influx of capital, resulting in excessive credit growth. The International Business Times reported that the shadow banking system in China is "growing at an alarming rate.‚Äù In fact, nearly half of all new credit is supplied by non-banks or through off-balance-sheet vehicles of regular banks, International Business Times said, up from 10 percent a decade ago. Of particular concern to some regulators are so-called wealth management plans (WMPs), which are yield-bearing instruments sold by banks that do not have guaranteed principal. Xiao Gang, chairman of the board of Bank of China, wrote an op-ed in the English language China Daily in which he said the quality and transparency of WMPs are ‚Äúworrisome.‚Äù "To some extent, this is fundamentally a Ponzi scheme,‚Äù Xiao said, according to the International Business Times. One would expect that after a statement such as this by Xiao, WMPs sales would decline sharply. Apparently they haven't. 4. As the saying goes, "a rising tide lifts all boats". And rapid economic growth solves or masks a great number of structural issues. However, China is facing a slowdown simply due to its demographics (see post), which could over time expose these structural problems. Furthermore, limited growth will restrict how much stimulus could be deployed without sparking inflation. And if the authorities don't play this slowdown correctly, it could even spark widespread political unrest. WSJ: - ... adding to the likelihood of a crisis is China‚Äôs declining potential growth rate. It is not easy to calculate this number, which represents the maximum speed the economy can grow without generating excess inflation, but even analysts more optimistic than Nomura‚Äôs agree that it‚Äôs falling, driven by factors such as a shrinking working-age population. That gives China‚Äôs policymakers a lot less leeway to stimulate the economy than they have enjoyed in the past.
Assuming that Cyprus parliament approves some version of the tax on depositors--which the newly elected president seems to have favored the tax on small depositors--and a complete catastrophe is avoided, Cyprus will have the second largest aid program at 56% of GDP, just below Indonesia's 57% package in 1997 and Argentina's 56% package in 1980. As ironic as it may seem, granting our assumption, Cyprus will be getting more assistance than the other euro area countries.† Cyprus participated in the aid programs of Greece, Ireland and Portugal.† At their peak, Cyprus banking assets were roughly eight times GDP, making them too big for the government to save.† They made a big bet on Greek sovereign bonds and lost their proverbial shirt (~4.5 bln euros).† The failure to reach an agreement will see the ECB no longer allow the Cypriot central bank to lend to the insolvent local banks under the Emergency Lending Assistance (ELA) program.† This would trigger a complete collapse of the Cyprus financial system and would produce a disorderly default, crushing small depositors and small and a medium enterprises.† Read more posts on Marc to Market ª
Lululemon has a problem with some of its yoga pants. They're a little too... revealing. "Thatís a problem for a yoga pants company in a land where nude yoga has yet to take off," quipped Tom Gara at The Wall Street Journal. What's wrong with the pants? "The ingredients, weight and longevity qualities of the womenís black luon bottoms remain the same but the coverage does not, resulting in a level of sheerness in some of our womenís black luon bottoms that fall short of our very high standards," the company stated. Lululemon has pulled all of the affected black luon bottoms and is now working with the supplier to replace the fabric. The problem apparently originated in the factory and it includes about 17 percent of all women's bottoms at Lululemon, according to the company. It expects a shortage of the luon pants and there will be a "significant" impact on the apparel retailer's financial results because of it. The company realized what had happened after store managers brought up the issue during a weekly meeting with corporate.
Zenon Taverna/FacebookThere's a lot of anger and confusion coming out of Cyprus.† Over the weekend, European leaders announced a surprise bailout package for the country, which would include a tax on cash deposits. We now know that banks will be closed until Thursday, which has the potential to create a slew of other problems. We reached out to Elena and†Theodora Papageorgiou, who run the Cypriot restaurant Zenon Taverna in Astoria, Queens, to learn what their relatives in the Cyprus cities of Larnaca and Agia Napa are experiencing. They claim their relatives were already being told they couldn't withdraw funds before the bailout announcement. While their family has enough to make it through the week, they fear what will happen once banks reopen. Most of all, they are outraged by the indiscriminate way rich and poor alike will suffer under the terms of the bailout. Here's a transcript of our Q&amp;A, edited for clarity:† BUSINESS INSIDER: What's the current situation like in Cyprus? PAPAGEORGIOU FAMILY:†When my mother spoke to [her relatives] a few days ago, they told them that they weren't able to withdraw any money from the banks. I think everyone knows the banks being closed is temporary, and although they use credit cards down there, a lot of people, especially the old generation still use mainly cash, and maybe visit the banks 1 time every 1-2 weeks. I think the panic is more from outrage that their money is going to be taken, than the fact that they need money right now for their day to day expenses. BI: How will your family in Cyprus be affected? PF: Certain people in my family will be affected more than others. My grandparents are well into their 80s and are refugees (IDPs) from (Turkish-) occupied territory †since the invasion of 1974. Their accounts are on the smaller side and unfortunately, their financial situation is not being considered in this, as well as other refugees and the older generation. Their only income is their pension, which is not much to begin with and has already been reduced. As for my cousins, aunts/uncles, they are already suffering. The job market has taken a drastic hit and many are already without a job. By taking away from their savings, and no additional income coming in, they are going to fall into an even worse situation. BI: Do you think the bailout will improve the country's economic situation? PF: If done properly, the bailout may help. Unfortunately, the chances of a debt being paid back are very slim, and the recent closing of the banks have brought people's movements and spending to a standstill. Once the banks reopen, I am pretty sure everyone is going to race to try and remove as much money as possible. The way the bailout has been proposed, it seems it will lead to the destruction of the people because it will make it impossible for the country to ever come out on top. BI: What do you think needs to be done long-term to fix the country's finances?  PF:†There is no easy answer to this question because any and all solutions will have consequences. Having discussed this issue with Cypriots here in the states, many people have said they would voluntarily give some money if it would help the country. Although it is difficult to say how much money can be raised this way, it would be voluntary and people wouldn't feel like their hand was forced and their government was trying to steal their money. This may be†impractical†though, I'm nowhere near an economist so I can only really say based on what I heard and what I've been discussing with fellow Cypriots. If a loan can be taken that wouldn't cripple the country or make them vulnerable and in debt for the rest of the†foreseeable†future, this is would be ideal. Also, it would be nice if we aren't hearing that our president was forced into agreeing to terms that are in no way agreeable. I'm sure there is a lot we don't know, and we will never find out about, but it would be good if for the first time in Cyprus' history, the EU, our government, and any other governments involved thought about their population and the well being of the older generation, in addition to the rest of the citizens. Note: I also think its important in this not to forget the the political problems of the island. When talking about finances, the occupation of the island is quickly forgotten, but this is the reason so many people are struggling. Many people were unable to recover after the invasion and make back the fortune they had pre-invasion. † The decades of hard work from our ancestors was all lost in the invasion, and now they are left with the little they were able to acquire while rebuilding their lives from absolutely nothing, while trying to survive with their families. Adding this to the current economic problems, and people are devastated all over again.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Stock Valuations Are At Their Lowest Since 1980 (Bloomberg) S&amp;P 500 stocks are at their lowest valuation since 1980, according to Bloomberg. Individual investors added $20 billion to stock funds in 2013 but this only accounts for 3.5 percent of the money pulled out since 2007. "The index trades at 15.4 times reported profit, below the average 19.9 reached in bull markets since 1962, according to data compiled by Bloomberg." PIMCO's Mark Keisel Explains How To Find The Investment Sweet Spot (Advisor Perspectives) "At PIMCO, portfolio managers and credit analysts are focused on finding the sweet spot ‚Äì the most attractive bottom-up investments given today‚Äôs opportunities and risks that are also consistent with our top-down outlook.¬† "In our global credit portfolios, we continue to focus on regions and sectors that we feel can deliver strong growth and where bondholders may benefit from solid free cash flow to deleverage balance sheets. Regionally, our largest credit over-weights remain in the U.S. and in emerging markets given our more positive economic outlook in these areas. From a sector perspective, we favor industries and areas that have the ability to grow faster than the economies in which they operate. We remain positive on U.S. housing-related sectors, building materials, MLPs/pipelines, energy, gaming, Asia gas distribution and hospitals." The Shiller PE Ratio Shows That Stocks Are Expensive But Investors Can Still Get Positive Returns (Credit Suisse)  The Shiller PE Ratio also known as the Cyclically Adjusted PE Ratio (CAPE) is at 22.6. A ratio of above 15 suggests that stocks are expensive, but this doesn't mean there aren't opportunities for investors.¬† "Equities have typically only suffered negative real returns over a given five-year period when the Shiller P/E at the beginning of the period was above 26x (and clearly good real returns when the Shiller P/E had fallen below 13x)," according to¬† Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite. "In fact, when markets were trading on current Shiller P/Es in the past, the subsequent average annualized five-year real return was slightly below 5%, compared to a current real bond yield in the US of minus 0.5%." Credit Suisse 4 Banks Just Raised Their S&amp;P 500 Targets (Business Insider) Despite the uncertainty over Cyprus, everywhere you look, strategists are upwardly revising their S&amp;P 500 targets.¬† Goldman Sachs is raising its target to 1625, from 1575. Deutsche Bank raised its target to 1625, from 1600. Credit Suisse raised its target to 1640 from 1550, and, Morgan Stanley raised its target to 1600, from 1634. The revisions were driven by improving economic outlook, loose global monetary policy, and better earnings. Putnam Investments Launches Six New Funds (Investment News) Putnam Investments, which manages $135 billion in assets, launched six new mutual funds today. 12 of 26 funds created since Robert Reynolds took over as CEO in 2008 are focused on alternative investments.¬†¬† "Given all that investors and advisers have experienced over the past five years, and the multitude of directions that markets could travel over the next generation, we see a critical need for the investment industry to think anew about ways to capture opportunity and mitigate risk,‚Äù Reynolds told Investment News. This brings the total to 69 open-end mutual funds.
Flickr / RogiroMorgan Stanley has recently called for the return of the U.S. dollar. In his new report to clients, Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson updates the firm's global commodities projections with this in mind. As you'll see, it's not quite as simple as gold taking a hit. Almost all commodities are expected to get more expensive as long as the global recovery picks up steam. But every commodity will also be impacted by its own supply and demand dynamics.

Lam Yik Fel/Getty ImagesNew measures to cool Chinaís housing market have triggered fresh volatility and stock declines across Asia. But we think the latest government moves wonít derail the long-term drivers of Chinese real estate growth. How quickly things change in China. After house prices rose at close to 1% a month in 2011, investors worried that the market was overheating. Then, last year, fears that the government would clamp down on the market prompted a slump in real estate stocks, which later bounced back when the market didnít collapse. Now, as new fears of a bubble prompted†more mortgage restrictions, stocks across Asia dropped and Chinese property developers tumbled sharply again. So what should equity investors do? In our view, the key to navigating the turbulence is to understand the underlying dynamics of the capricious housing market in the worldís most populous nation. Itís widely believed that rapid urbanization is the fuel for Chinese real estate growth. Just over 50% of Chinaís population lives in urban areas, compared with about 75% in industrialized countries. Li Keqiang, the next premier who is driving the urbanization move, has stated his commitment to promoting more movement from rural areas to cities. While urbanization is important, itís only part of the story. In fact, we think housing upgrades account for a much bigger component of real estate demand, based on our view of various market trends. Chinaís housing stock is dominated by poor quality communist-built blocks. Large-scale residential housing projects only began to take off in the late 1990s, and modern units were only introduced in 2004. With more wealth, people naturally want housing that meets developed-market standards. This distinction is important. Since upgrades and replacements are the engine of the marketís growth, changes in government policies canít really impede the long-term trends. Tighter mortgage restrictions might cause some Chinese buyers to temporarily defer a housing upgrade, but people with more money will still want better houses next yearóand developers are eager to build them. Having a clearly defined long-term outlook can allow investors to take advantage of market turmoil. Indeed, as home purchase restrictions (HPR) were tightened in 2011, shares of Chinese real estate companies tumbled (Display). Investors who bought these shares on the decline were rewarded in 2012, as restrictions eased and shares surged. Similarly, the latest blow may prove to be a buying opportunity for select Chinese real estate stocks that are best positioned to benefit from the next wave of replacement and upgrade construction.  In a†blog post†last October, we said that Chinese house prices and home sales were more resilient than widely perceived and that the real estate sector was attractively valued. Itís no different today. Even before the abrupt declines of the last few days, Chinese real estate stocks traded at a valuation of about 8.6 times earnings for the next 12 monthsóa† discount of about 12% to the MSCI China Index. Now, we think property stocks are likely to become even more attractive, especially given the likelihood that the fundamentals of demand in the property market should eventually reassert themselves. Thereís a broader lesson here for investors. Chinaís government loves to micromanage everything from power tariffs to oil prices to infrastructure investment. With this in mind, itís much easier to separate the noise that often moves stocks from the sound of Chinaís incredible economic growth rumbling ahead. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams.
The Shiller P/E ratio, or the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio, is one of the most popular measures of stock market value. It's calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 15, the stock market is considered expensive. Today, the Shiller P/E is at 22.6. But that's not to say you can't generate a positive return if the Shiller P/E is above 15. "We believe the concern for many investors is that equities are expensive in absolute terms: this is true ‚Äì but has not necessarily led to negative returns," wrote Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite in a new note to clients. "Equities have typically only suffered negative real returns over a given five-year period when the Shiller P/E at the beginning of the period was above 26x (and clearly good real returns when the Shiller P/E had fallen below 13x). In fact, when markets were trading on current Shiller P/Es in the past, the subsequent average annualised five- year real return was slightly below 5%, compared to a current real bond yield in the US of minus 0.5%." Garthwaite charted the historical annualized 5-year returns based on certain levels of the Shiller P/E. Thomson Reuters, Credit Suisse research
New York City mayor Mike Bloomberg may have had his sugary drink ban get shot down by a state judge, but he's not done yet with his health initiatives. Now, he wants to hide all the cigarettes. Bloomberg has proposed a new "Tobacco Product Display Restriction" bill, which would force all stores to keep tobacco products out of "public view." Tobacco products would have to be kept in "in cabinets, drawers, under the counter, behind a curtain or in any other concealed location," according to the press release. Stores may continue to advertise product and price, though.¬† "New York City has dramatically lowered our smoking rate, but even one new smoker is one too many ‚Äì especially when it‚Äôs a young person,‚Äù Bloomberg said in a statement. ‚ÄúYoung people are targets of marketing and the availability of cigarettes and this legislation will help prevent another generation from the ill health and shorter life expectancy that comes with smoking." He'll be proposing the plan to the City Council on Wednesday.
Marcus Noland and Stephen Haggard of the Peterson Institute for International Economics have been studying North Korea's economy for a book tentatively titled "Hard Target: Sanctions, Inducements, and the North Korea Problem". Their research appears to have revealed something unusual ó North Korea, despite being an economic basket-case, may be running a trade surplus. If that's true, sanctions may well a losing tactic for the international community. The chart below, posted by Noland to the Institute's blog earlier today, shows some of their findings on the rogue state's balance of payments: Peterson Institute For International Economics As you can see, this data (which includes estimates of illicit activity) shows that for much the last 20 years North Korea has likely run current account deficits ó consuming more than it was producing, and using foreign finance to make up the shortfall. However, in the last couple of years this appears to have changed, and the country seems to be running a trade surplus. Crucially, a lot of the trade from the past few years appears to be above board, despite North Korea reputation for illicit industries (we've heard reports of fraudulent money abroad, which are believed to include widespread counterfeiting of US dollars and even reports of gold smuggling and drug trafficking). Another chart from the Institute's research appears to show North Korea's illicit trade is less important to the country in recent years. Peterson Institute For International Economics Instead, it appears that commercial trade estimates have dramatically increased. A lot of this legitimate trade appears to be with China, despite signs of political tension between the two countries. Other sources seem to confirm this ó China's Ministry of Commerce reported that trade between the two countries reached an all-time high of $1.37 billion in the first quarter of last year. As Noland argues in his blog post today, this is a bad sign for pretty much everyone involved.  "It is bad news for North Korea because as a relatively poor country, they should be running a current account deficit," Noland writes, "importing capital,†and expanding productive†capacity for future growth. Instead, our calculation suggests that they are exporting†capital." So where is the money going? Unfortunately, rather than being spent internally on North Korean citizens, it appears to be going overseas to be spent by elites. Last week some reports in the South Korean press suggested Kim Jong-un could have as much as $5 billion stashed in overseas accounts. This money is believed to be used to buy luxury goods for Kim himself or others in the Pyongyang elite. This is a problem for the international community, as it means that punishing North Korea economically ó such as through sanctions ó will be less effective. The country has excess money, and it's economic links with China are only strengthening.
"Would you put new money to work in this market right here?" Bartiromo asked her. "Yes, absolutely," said Whitney. "I have not been this constructive and bullish on US equities in my career." Whitney discussed two specific financial stocks that she really liked. First she mentioned Bank of America saying that it came out of last week's Fed stress tests looking better than any other bank on the Street. This is partly because the bank started cutting costs back in 2010 before any other Wall Street bank, said Whitney. The stock has "value, catalyst, and momentum" and she expects it to shoot up another 15% in the coming months. "This is not sexy stuff... it's all cost cutting it's all operational," she said. What is sexy in Whitney's opinion is Discover. She called it a "true growth stock." The credit card company is picking up business that Wall Street banks have had to leave behind because of regulation, Whitney said. So there you have it, the analyst known best for her bearish calls on Citi and municipal bonds is now a bull for Uncle Sam.
Instagram/adalbertolampBusiness Insider is hiring a¬†video producer¬†to shoot and edit videos for the fastest-growing business news site.¬† The ideal candidate should have superb post-production video editing skills and know the ins and outs of Final Cut. This producer should know how to bring in proper graphics and other media, when to make the right transitions, where to adjust audio¬†levels and lighting, etc.¬† The candidate should be able to tackle all types of videos produced at Business Insider: This produce should have an eye for composition and detail. The ideal candidate is a pro at producing visually compelling content that is perfectly lit and framed. Bonus points go to someone who is knowledgeable about YouTube and the web video space. Photoshop skills preferred. If interested, send your resume, cover letter, and samples of your work to Jessica at jliebman@businessinsider.com. Note: This position requires that you work full time in our Manhattan office.
Facebook/Limassol MarinaThe tiny island country of Cyprus is in the spotlight this week for a surprise bailout plan that was specifically designed to tax deposits held by Russian gangsters and oligarchs. You see, wealthy Russians love the country's¬†lax citizenship requirements, which provides an easy way to get black money into the European Union. But that can't be all that Russians love about Cyprus, right?¬† The Mediterranean nation is home to more than 10,000 Russians, notably in the coastal city of Limassol, which¬†is home to several Russian schools, Russian-language newspapers, and boutiques that sell some of the world's best mink coats.
Reuters' Eric Platt reports that the EU already wants to get rid of the most controversial part of the Cyprus bank bailout announced this weekend ‚Äì the levy on uninsured depositors (those with account balances under 100,000 euros). Breaking: Eurogroup To Say That Cyprus Should Safeguard Protection OfDepositors Below 100,000 Euros - Greek Finmin Source According to earlier reports, it was Cyprus that wanted to include small depositors in the first place.¬†Now, it seems as if the EU is set to take a more forceful line on this detail of the bailout. If Cyprus decides to roll back that provision, it could soften the blow domestically and reverse some of the fears that depositors in other peripheral countries could be subjected to the same treatment in the future.
Courtesy of CalPERSFormer head of CalPERS¬†Fred Buenrostro has been indicted in a criminal bribery case, according Sacramento Bee's Dale Kasler. According to the report, Buenrostro was charged with conspiracy to commit fraud, conspiracy to obstruct justice and making false statements to the feds. Former CalPERS board member Alfred Villalobos was also charged, the report said. According to Bloomberg News, U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag in San Francisco alleges that Villalobos, the founder of Arvco Capital Research, acted as a placement agent to help private equity firm Apollo get investments from CalPERS. The pair are accused of allegedly sending falsified investor disclosure letters¬†to Apollo in 2008 and 2009 so the private equity firm would pay fees for securing the investments, the report said.¬† Buenrostro was the CEO of the¬†California Public Employees' Retirement System from 2002 to 2008, according to Bloomberg.
JCPenney has sunk deep down into a bog, and there's only one way for the company to climb out. The retailer needs to get its old customers back ó the ones it abandoned when CEO Ron Johnson took over and began to transform the company to appeal to a younger demographic. They're the customers who want coupons, who want sales, and who yearn for the old Penneys. And they must return. JCPenney's senior management team knows that reconnecting with core customers is the company's only hope. "First and foremost, we have to connect with our customer ó with all of them," JCPenney CFO Ken Hannah†said at the Bank of America Retail &amp; Consumer conference last week. "We have done a number of things inside the store that have allowed us to attract a new customer and in some cases, that has been at the expense of our core and we cannot allow that to happen." That core customer has "lost confidence in us," he added. Analysts and pundits agree. "It is clear to me JCPenney lost its core customer during the transformation," wrote veteran retail analyst Walter Loeb at Forbes. "The core customer has now found a new place to shop, and the reintroduction of comparison pricing is not convincing and is not reaching the customers management is seeking." "The middle income shoppers who went to JCPenney no longer feel comfortable there," wrote Abram Brown at Forbes. "Nor will they recognize the place soon." The retailer needs to keep its new customers, while reclaiming the old. It won't be easy.  The customers who enjoyed the former bazaar of discounted clothing did not approve of what Johnson did to their beloved brand.†They've spoken out, both to the media and with their wallets. After JCPenney killed sales, coupon-loving shoppers felt betrayed by the brand and ran for mid-tier competitors like Macy's,†Kohl's, and Nordstrom†which have sales regularly.  And customers who embraced the old JCPenney style thought they'd been forgotten. "[Johnson's] working hard to 'de-frump' the store without considering that many if not most of its customers might have shopped there precisely because they like the more conservative frumpy look," Donna Jones, a 46-year-old JCPenney customer, told The Huffington Post. "Am I frumpy? Probably. Does that bother me? No, not at all." But here's the issue with customers like Jones.†JCPenney will never go back to being the Penneys those shoppers loved. The new shops, brands, logo ó everything aligned with Johnson's vision are here to stay. This has created a new problem. You see the Joe Fresh shops juxtaposed with Liz Claiborne and realize they're geared at totally different segments. "Let's say you have a Joe Fresh in the front of the store with sizes under 10 and then a Liz shop focused on baby boomers," Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions, told us.†"The latter may make the former seem uncool to the consumer with more disposable income." "That is the pickle JC Penney has now created," continued Sozzi. "Who is the core customer?"
Flickr / TimOveThe tiny island nation of Cyprus is rattling the global financial markets. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,452, -62.0 pts, -0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,552, -8.6 pts, -0.6 percentNASDAQ: 3,237, -11.4 pts, -0.3 percent And now the top stories:
It isn't every day that we get to see bank regulators let their hair down. Luckily, Reuters' Pedro da Costa managed to sneak a video of a rare moment of bliss and carefree joy on the dance floor experienced by none other than CFTC chair Gary Gensler. Gensler was breaking it down at conference in Boca Raton, and seems to be enjoying Bruno Mars' 'Locked Out Of Heaven' very much. The video's a bit dark, but you can see his moves aren't too bad either (right?). From YouTube via Pedro da Costa: 
flickr / Steven WongIronically, after an exciting weekend of speculating how bad the fallout from the Cyprus bailout deal could be, we got updates from four big banks on their year-end S&amp;P 500 targets this morning. Everyone is raising them. What's the reason for the wave of optimism? For the most part, strategists cite an improving economic outlook, better earnings fundamentals, and yes, more aggressive central bank easing around the world. Goldman Sachs is upping its target to 1625 from 1575. Goldman's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist, David Kostin, writes: We lift our year-end 2013 index target to 1625 (from 1575) reflecting a modest 4% rise from the current level.¬†US equities currently trade near fair value based on various metrics as well as our macroeconomic regression model, our dividend discount model (DDM), and the relationship between return on equity (ROE) and price/book value. S&amp;P 500 trades at 13.9x bottom-up consensus forward EPS, near the average of the past decade, but well above the 12.9x average forward P/E since 1976. Fed model suggests 14% upside by year-end 2013 while the cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio points to 7% downside. We recommend cyclical exposure rather than defensive tilt.¬†Financials, along with Industrials and Materials, should outperform. The thesis behind our bullish view on Financials involves accelerating economic growth, rising 10-year interest rates, improving ROE, and rising dividends and buybacks. We lower Information Technology to Neutral. Deutsche Bank is raising its target to 1625 as well (from 1600). Deutsche's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist, David Bianco, writes: We expect the S&amp;P 500 to make secular bull market advances this spring and boldly go where it has never gone before. DB economists raised 2013E US GDP to 2.3% from 1.7% on a string of better than expected macro reports that suggest the economy is overcoming its fiscal drags. Stronger US growth and particularly the upturn in business spending underlies the boost to our 2013E S&amp;P EPS to $109 from $108. We consider the risks of a US credit rating downgrade or jump in long-term interest rates greatly diminished given sequestration‚Äôs commencement. Benign inflation should keep the Fed committed to its current policies and Congress is almost certain to pass a budget that averts a government shutdown and yet continues to proceed with significant 2013 spending cuts. Credit Suisse is hiking its target to 1640 from 1550. Credit Suisse's top equity strategist, Andrew Garthwaite, writes: Valuation: Our model suggests a warranted equity risk premium should now be 4.7% (down from 5.4%) ‚Äì against an actual equity risk premium of 6%; The tail risks have diminished further: The private sector in the US looks strong enough to withstand fiscal tightening of around 2.5% of GDP this year.¬†The possibility of OMT activation has allowed Spanish 3-year note yields to¬†fall to 2.5%. Japanese policymakers finally look determined to end deflation¬†(via the BoJ activism and fiscal policy). Commodity prices (oil, food, copper)¬†remain well-behaved, unlike in previous years. Global GDP growth (YoY) is¬†set to pick up for the first time in 11 quarters; More aggressive central banks: Since December, central bank balance¬†sheets have declined by the largest amount since 2009. This is set to¬†reverse. We think the BoJ and BoE will become more aggressive (the ECB‚Äôs¬†balance sheet has contracted by 14% from peak). Central bank balance¬†sheet expansion is likely to lead to rising inflation expectations and rising¬†excess liquidity; both typically lead to a re-rating of equities. The ideal time¬†for equities is rising inflation expectations without the actuality of rising¬†inflation ‚Äì an environment we believe persists until 2015. Morgan Stanley is upping its target to 1600 from 1434. Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist, Adam Parker, writes: Based on moderately improved fundamentals, we are revising our 2013 S&amp;P 500 EPS estimate up to $103.20 from $98.71 (Exhibit 1). We remain well below the bottom-up consensus, which expects $112 of EPS in 2013. Our 2014 estimate is unchanged at $110.21, below the consensus estimate of $125. The reason for our increase to 2013 is that the starting point of 2012 EPS came in higher than we forecast. We set our 2012 earnings forecast of $100 when the bottom-up estimates were $114 over 18 months ago. While our forecast bore fruit, the Q4 2012 numbers, in particular, came in modestly above our expectations, fueled in part by a weakening dollar. Consistent with the Morgan Stanley Economics Team, we see improving fundamentals in the second half of the year and into next year. The bad news is that the consensus bottom-up forecasts most likely need to be materially lowered, particularly for 2014.¬† Justified? We'll see.
YoutubeThe connections between Cyprus and Russian oligarchs are by now well established.† But the press revolving a new†megamarina being constructed on the Mediterranean's island's southwest tip suggest it's not just Russian titans who do business there.  The Limassol Marina is billed†as "an exclusive waterfront development designed by a world-renowned team of architects and engineers," it would †"combine elegant residences and a state-of-the-art marina with exclusive restaurants and shops, to create a lifestyle uniquely shaped by 'living on the sea'." While the marina's UK sales reps did not respond to our email, we did notice that the website is available in Russian and Chinese translations. And one account from the website SigmaLive also claims interest from "Russia, Israel, Arab Countries and Scandinavia and various countries of Central Europe." The prices also suggest a unique clientele. Apartments range from†Ä370,000 to Ä2,090,000, while a villa will set you back between†Ä1,650,000 - Ä6,400,000.† Boat berths ó which can accommodate vessels up to 1,000 meters ó can†cost†north of†Ä150,000 a year. The project is actually still under construction ó 90 percent of†the projectís marine works and 50 percent of the residential development and infrastructure have been completed as of Jan. 1, the site says. They've done at†Ä86 million so far. But when it is completed, it seems like it'll look amazing. Here are some renderings from the site's website: Limassol Marina"Nereids Residences"Limassol Marina"Ione - Peninsula Villas"Limassol Marina"Peninsula Villas" It's only three minutes long. We highly recommend watching it in light of today's events. 
The EU bailout of Cyprus banks negotiated this weekend, which contains a controversial haircut on depositors, has just been pushed back again. Originally, it was scheduled for today, but this morning, it was postponed until tomorrow. Now, Peter Spiegel at the FT reports that tomorrow's vote has been cancelled as well. Word from Nicosia that they've canceled the bailout vote for tomorrow. #Cyprus According to a report from Antenna TV (via Bloomberg), Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades will tell the Eurogroup that he doesn't have the backing in parliament to pass the bill. JPMorgan's Alex White discussed the possibility of this scenario in a note to clients over the weekend, writing: A ënoí vote, or a failure to bring the package before parliament in the immediate term could have significant regional implications. Germany has made clear that it wonít bring any measure which does not include depositor haircuts before the Bundestag. The extent to which the region has played hard-ball with Cyprus was indicated in Anastasiades' claim that he was threatened with an immediate withdrawal of ELA support if he did not commit to the deal as it stands. In the event of a need to renegotiate, the path of least resistance in our view would probably see an amendment of the existing deal, such that the pain is redistributed to impact uninsured depositors (we think there is a chance of the Cypriot Government seeking to amend the terms in this direction before bringing measures to parliament if it faces the prospect of failure). In effect however, the damage would already have been done if Cyprus sees significant deposit flight, absent a deal.†In the context of the Troikaís current disagreement with Greece on further disbursements, and the likelihood of political dead-lock in Italy, a return to a more stressful episode of the European crisis cannot be discounted, in our view. Should these hurdles be passed, longer-term we think there is a possibility of legal challenge to the package, under both Article 23 of the Cypriot Constitution, and under the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) given the requirements of both in respect of property rights. Not getting the deal through parliament this week ñ which could happen, given how intense the debate will probably be ñ is the biggest near-term risk for markets, according to Wall Street strategists.
The FBI announced today that it had determined the identities of the thieves behind¬†a 23-year-old art heist that's billed as the biggest art theft in history. It was a major development in the case, which is back in the spotlight in a renewed effort to recover the 13 works that were stolen from Boston's Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 1990. The agency also said it had determined where the works were transported after the theft. They are valued today at $500 million. Authorities did not identify the thieves by name, but Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the FBI‚Äôs Boston office, said in a press release that they were believed to be "members of a criminal organization with a base in the mid-Atlantic states and New England.‚Äù They likely took the stolen works to Connecticut and the Philadelphia area, where they tried to sell them, according to the FBI. The agency said it did not know the whereabouts of the works since the attempted sale, which took place around a decade ago. Information is still being sought about the location of the art, which was stolen 23 years ago today in a brazen St. Patrick's Day theft. The museum is offering a $5 million reward for the safe return of the works, which include pieces by Degas, Vermeer, and Rembrandt. In addition to today's news about the identity of the thieves, the FBI launched a new website about the crime in an effort to drum up publicity for the case. Investigators have said in the past that they hope to crack the case by using tactics like those used to capture notorious gangster James "Whitey" Bulger, who was eventually caught after authorities publicized the case on billboards, TV commercials, and other ads, according to the Associated Press.
King Kong The former head of Apple's products division, Jean-Louis GassÈe, shreds the company in his column on Monday Note this week, focusing specifically on Apple's PR strategy. Apple has made the same mistake that many companies whose businesses have gone from feisty underdog to incumbent market leader have made,†GassÈe says: Apple has failed to adapt its PR strategy to its new reality as the market leader. As evidence of this,†GassÈe first points to the embarrassing attack on Samsung and Google that marketing chief Phil Schiller delivered last week. This gaffe, in which an unprovoked Schiller trashed Apple's competitors in the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg, was seen by most observers as a classless mistake--one that left Apple looking defensive and desperate. The move was so startling that Apple guru John Gruber, who is normally the company's fiercest defender, called it an "unforced error." Then,†GassÈe points to the language Apple uses in its conference calls to pat itself on the back for its products and performance. Instead of letting the products and performance speak for themselves,†GassÈe observes, Apple hyperbolizes them with strenuous repetitions of meaningless adjectives like "great," "incredible," and "fantastic." In the years when Apple's products and performance truly deserved these adjectives--which, for several years there, they did--this language was justified. But now,†GassÈe says, such frequent use of these words just makes the company sound desperately promotional and detached from reality. To support this assessment,†GassÈe analyzed the language in Apple's last 5 earnings call transcripts by plugging it into his (Apple) word processor and searching for key terms. He found that the following words appeared the following number of times: Now, most companies present an enthusiastic and self-promotional front on their conference calls, in part because they know their employees will be listening and they want the employees to feel good about their work. But there's enthusiastic and self-promotional, and then there's Apple. Meanwhile, despite enduring many (unofficial) disappointments and missteps over the past year, Apple did not take the opportunity to bolster its own credibility. The following negative words, for example, appeared the following number of times: Now, again, you might say that it's Apple's job to toot its own horn, and there certainly aren't a shortage of folks out there ready to call the company on any mistake. But here's the problem with Apple's approach, according to GassÈe: [W]hatís wrong with being positive? Nothing, but this isnít about optimism, itís about hyperbole and the abuse of language. Saying ìincredibleî too many times leads to incredulity. Saying ìmaniacally focusedî at all is out of place and gauche in an earnings call. One doesnít brag about oneís performance in the boudoir; let happy partners sing your praise. When words become empty, the listener loses faith in the speaker. Apple has lost control of the narrative; the company has let others define its story. This is a war of words and Apple is proving to be inept at verbal warfare. GassÈe's basic argument--that Apple's role has changed and therefore it's PR strategy must change--is one we've made before. This is a rough transition for most companies (Microsoft, for instance, struggled with it for years), but eventually, one hopes, Apple will get there. Read GassÈe's whole article here &gt; 
Bloomberg via YouTubeUncertainty over the Cyprus bailout deal continues as the government delayed the bailout vote till Tuesday.¬† The biggest point of contention is the tax on depositors. The first version of the plan was to tax depositors in Cypriot banks 10 percent on deposits of over ‚Ç¨100,000, and 6.75 percent for deposits lower than that. But the outcry over the levy prompted Cyprus' government to renegotiate the plan. Under the new plan, depositors with under ‚Ç¨100K would be taxed 3 percent, those between ‚Ç¨100 - ‚Ç¨500K will be taxed 10 percent, and those with over ‚Ç¨500K will be taxed 15 percent. Following this, news emerged of the losses to Russian depositors. And there have been some reports suggesting that Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin is happy to see those depositing their money offshore punished. But in his latest note, Dennis Gartman discusses the presence of Russian money: "There is no question but upon whom the decision by the Cypriot government noted at length above is going to fall most heavily: Russian oligarchs; Russian government officials and Russian criminals. "Cyprus has been their own private Switzerland for many years. Legal and non-legal Russian cash has swamped the banking system in Cyprus since the early 90‚Äôs. The beauty of the island; the ease of admission too and exit from the island via boat or plane; the secrecy of the banking laws; the warm Mediterranean climate and the ease of which Cypriot authorities could be bribed and bought all worked to make Cyprus the center of Russian capital flight. ... "The Russians... legal and illegal... loved Cyprus for the reasons noted above, not the least of which was the tiny 4% corporate tax rate there. Who would not like that rate? It attracted money relentlessly, with the Russians leading the way. Criminal money especially was attracted to the secrecy laws, sending money to the island to have it ‚Äúwashed‚Äù and then either left there on deposit, or returned to other banking centers for ‚Äúinvestment‚Äù abroad, but ‚Äúwashed‚Äù thoroughly and made nearly impossible to be followed and tracked. It was an enterprise that worked to the benefit of the Cypriot government and to the Russians, despite the comment by the new President, Mr. Anastasiades, that Cyprus was and is ‚Äúnot complacent about money laundering." Gartman refers to the levy as a "theft." He also says Cyprus has now "angered the people in the world you'd least wish to anger." "One could only laugh as such a comment; of course Cyprus was complacent about laundering. To think otherwise was and is naiÃàve. Ah, but now you‚Äôve stolen Russia money... or soon shall depending upon the vote in the Cypriot parliament... and that is dangerous... very. One does not steal Russian mafia money and get away with it. There are fewer statements of fact that are more certain, more factual, more unyielding than this statement. Russian Mafia figures do not take well to being stolen from, and they take even less well to be made fools of. We see no reason to mince words at this point: People will be hurt over this decision; some shall be killed." It'll be interesting to see how this all unfolds.
via FBI.govThe FBI is once again ramping up its efforts to solve the largest art theft in history, a 23-year-old case in which $500 million worth of paintings and other works were stolen from a Boston art museum. The agency announced today that it had identified the two people who had committed the crime. It also launched a publicity campaign aimed at uncovering the 13 missing works, for which the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is offering a $5 million reward. Investigators have said in the past that they hope to crack the case by using tactics like those used to capture notorious gangster James "Whitey" Bulger, who was eventually caught after authorities publicized the case on billboards, TV commercials, and other ads, according to the Associated Press. As art thefts go, the 1990 heist at Boston's Gardner Museum was one of the most brazen in history. Click through to see the missing works and read how it went down.
Unreal. In wake of the Cyprus bailout, the Dow has just edged into positive territory. Yahoo Finance
Business Insider is looking for several paid interns to join our editorial team this summer! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time if their schedule allows. We require 3 days a week minimum. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three journalism clips to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Please describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. (Don't know what our sections are? Check out the nav bar on the home page.) And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed.†
Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev is the largest shareholder in the Bank of Cyprus, with a 9.9% stake in the company. He may have slept better this weekend when European officials announced that Cypriot banks would get a much-needed bailout, but on the condition that they accept a one-time tax on all deposits. A lot of those deposits are held by Russian citizens, or Russians who've become Cypriot citizens. But of course, very few of them are as fabulously wealthy with as much at stake as Rybolovlev, who caught Wall Street's attention last year when he bought ex-Citi CEO Sandy Weill's $88 million penthouse apartment for his 23 year-old daughter, Ekaterina. According to Forbes, Rybolovlev is the 119th richest man in the world. He started out his career as a doctor, but abandoned that in 1990 to start Uralkali, a fertilizer company. In 1996 he was accused (and acquitted) of plotting to kill a business partner and spent 11 months in jail ó a slight rough patch. He sold his stake Uralkali in 2010 for $6.5 billion, but still has an investment fund comprised mostly of industrial holdings. Rybolovlev is also holding a $300 million for a Monaco penthouse called La Belle Epoque, a Hawaiian villa he bought from Will Smith for $20 million, and Donald Trump's Palm Beach mansion, Maison de L'Amitie, which he bought for $95 million in 2008. superyachts.comMy Anna J, Rybolovlev's smaller boatIn 2011 he and other investors bought two-thirds of the Monaco football club, AS Moncao. He also owns a yacht called 'My Anna' worth $111 million. Of course, with more money, as we know, there can also be more problems. In 2008 Rybolovlev's wife filed for one of the most expensive divorces in history. Elena Rybolovleva also sued her husband in a New York Court and when he bought Weill's apartment, according to Bloomberg. She alleged that her husband fraudulently transferred property he got during their marriage to buy the $88 billion penthouse in violation of a Swiss divorce Court order. She is also suing him for the Trump mansion in Florida. asm-fc.comAt the same time, there have been conflicting reports for months about whether or not Cyprus and Russia have been working on a way for Rybolovleva, and other shareholders in the Bank of Cyprus, to increase their holdings and secure a $6 billion Russian loan for Cyprus in the process. Rybolovleva would have to get special permission from the Cypriot Central Bank to increase his stake above 9.9%. The Russian Finance Ministry at first denied these reports (which started getting attention in July of last year). However, by the end of January 2013, Archbishop Chrysostomos II, the head of the Orthodox Church in Cyprus, was openly asking his Russian counterpart to convince Vladimir Putin to give Cyprus another loan ó this one for $3.4 billion, says Bloomberg. Maybe now Rybolovleva will get on board with the message, if he hasn't already. At Davos Russian president Dmitry Medvedev said that the country would be on board to help out† ìwhen our European partners also give something.î Looks like the Europeans figured out how to take something instead.
Reuters/Sergio PerezEurope's sovereign debt crisis has for some time now roused euroskepticism in the U.K. In his much anticipated January 23, EU speech U.K. prime minister David Cameron reiterated that he wants to work with the EU.  From the speech:  "First, the problems in the eurozone are driving fundamental change in Europe. "Second, there is a crisis of European competitiveness, as other nations across the world soar ahead. And third, there is a gap between the EU and its citizens which has grown dramatically in recent years. And which represents a lack of democratic accountability and consent that is ñ yes ñ felt particularly acutely in Britain. "If we don't address these challenges, the danger is that Europe will fail and the British people will drift towards the exit." He also said the next parliament would give the British people an "in-out referendum" in 2017, if the Conservative Party wins the 2015 election. But in his latest "Issues Which Keep Me Awake At Night" note, Nomura's Alastair Newton writes that a British exit from the EU, or 'Brixit,' continues to be a cause for concern. He points out two big risks to Cameron's strategy: Of course at this point there is real concern that Cameron could see a defeat at the 2015 election. Newton writes that there is a 50-50 chance of a 'Brixit' in the next five years. With the U.K. having lost its AAA rating, and widely regarded to be on the edge of a triple dip recession, this week's budget is crucial to restoring the government's credibility ahead of the election and the U.K.'s position†vis-‡-vis the EU.†
GettyHouse Budget Committee chairman Rep. Paul Ryan's budget could not achieve its intended goal of not adding to the nation's deficit unless it enacted tax hikes on incomes of less than $200,000, according to a new study from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. The CBBP followed up on a study released Friday by the Tax Policy Center, which concluded that Ryan's budget would add $5.7 trillion to the deficit. The Tax Policy Center also suggested that Ryan's budget presented the same problem as Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney's tax plan during the campaign. It found that the Ryan plan could not both trim the deficit and enact sweeping tax cuts on all income groups. The CBBP's report, meanwhile, goes further on the TPC's implication and flatly states that Ryan's plan budget could not close the $5.7 trillion gap without a massive tax hike for middle-income earners. The CBBP estimated that Ryan's budget is even more challenging than Romney's tax plan ‚Äî whereas Romney wanted to cut the top tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent, the Ryan budget would cut it to 25 percent from 39.6 percent.¬† Here are the CBBP's three conclusions, with the third spelling out what it could mean for incomes of less than $200,000 (emphasis added): Read the full report here &gt;
BloombergCiti chief economist Willem Buiter has been one of the skeptics towards official policy over the course of the Eurozone crisis. Ever since ECB President Mario Draghi put markets to bed for an extended rest in July with his "whatever it takes to save the euro" speech, Buiter has been pointing out the shortcomings that still remain in the euro area, explaining why it's not really been fixed. Interestingly, though, the Cyprus bailout deal that has seemingly out of nowhere created a political firestorm in Europe this weekend is actually "qualified good news," according to Buiter. In a note today titled "The euro area recovery starts with Cyprus," Buiter explains why. Despite all of the criticism of European politicians' choice to force depositors to take a haircut as part of the bank bailout ñ an unprecedented move in the euro area, where deposits were formerly viewed as sacrosanct ñ Buiter thinks this is a good sign. While the idea of the government seizing part of your bank account without asking to bail out poorly-regulated banks is rather appalling, that's really missing the bigger point. Buiter clarifies that he would have preferred the "tax" on deposits to be more progressive ñ shouldered less by those with smaller bank accounts and more by those with bigger ones. "We think it would have been desirable: i) for insured depositors (below Ä100k) to be spared, ii) for haircuts on larger deposits to be made bigger to satisfy the entire recapitalization need of the banks, and iii) for losses to reflect recapitalization needs of each bank," he writes. And the Cyprus bailout deal may be tweaked to align more closely with those wishes by the end of the week anyway, as it makes its way through a parliamentary vote. However, the bigger point here is that European officials are finally moving toward more private-sector involvement in these bank bailouts. That means, instead of fighting more debt with debt, Europe is finally getting serious about restructuring. In other words, taxpayers are being asked to foot less and less of the bill with each bailout, and this is a good thing, because there's really no way the euro member states with struggling banking systems can continue to bail them out on the back of the taxpayers. There's just too much debt on governments' balance sheets already, and it keeps piling up. "In particular, this episode highlights that†creditors are likely to make a major contribution to the deleveraging of excessively†indebted banks and sovereigns (as well as non-financial businesses and†households in some cases) in the euro area," says Buiter. While a lot of the worries surrounding the Cyprus deal focus on the involvement of depositors, there really is a good reason to believe that Cyprus is unique in that regard. Namely, the Cypriot banking system is largely funded by deposits ñ owing mostly to its reputation as an offshore tax-haven for moneyed Russian interests ñ as opposed to bank debt. So, in this case, there really wasn't going to be any money raised from forcing bank creditors to take a haircut. (A haircut on what?) The decision to include depositors in the Cyprus deal sends the message, regardless of what European politicians say, that the involvement of creditors in other banking systems, like Spain, which are funded more by debt than deposits, is on the table now. In his note, Buiter writes: The Cypriot bank creditor bail-in is a net positive for the euro area, first, because it paves the way for more extensive debt restructuring of excessively indebted banks as well as other private sector entities and sovereigns. Such accelerated debt restructuring is necessary for the euro area to return to sustainable growth soon ñ without risking a lost decade to follow the lost half decade since 2008. Second, the Cyprus depositors bail-in is also good news politically, as it will limit additional bail-out fatigue in EA creditor countries and avoids putting the burden of bailing out investors†to an even more unbearable extent on taxpayers and beneficiaries of public spending†in debtor countries. Third, the bank creditor bail-in improves the creditworthiness of†the Cypriot sovereign compared to the alternative where an additional Ä5.8bn worth of†bank recapitalisation demands were to land on the public sector balance sheet. Other†sovereigns in Europe will find their creditworthiness improved (at the same time that†banksí creditworthiness is further impaired) if markets perceive a greater likelihood of†unsecured bank creditor bail-ins rather than taxpayer rescues of unsecured bank†creditors. That's not to say that there won't be a market correction. After all, Europe has staged a considerable rally, and it may be pretty stretched at this point. Buiter acknowledges that there could be contagion in other peripheral euro zone countries from depositors who now think their savings accounts may be at risk, but he says it's way overstated at this point (referring to it in his note as "the contagion myth"). Nonetheless, if it happens, it can be dealt with, writes Buiter: The right policy response to any threat of contagion is clear. If contagion is fundamentally warranted, that is, if the banks affected by a deposit run would be at high risk of insolvency even if they were able to fund themselves on terms that did not reflect a material risk of insolvency, the optimal policy response is to restructure the banks in question as soon as possible. This would require wiping out the existing equity and recapitalizing the banks through the bailing in of unsecured creditors, starting with the most junior ones and progressing up the seniority scale up to the point that the banks are adequately capitalised. If contagion is not fundamentally warranted, but instead merely represents the self-fulfilling ëbad equilibriumí outcome, in which high default risk premia trigger default even though there also exists a good equilibrium outcome where low default risk premia support the absence of any material default risk, then again the right policy response is obvious: let the ECB/Eurosystem act as lender of last resort to the banks in question, supporting them until those expecting their demise, or their risk officers, run out of patience and ammunition. The ECB has the resources to play this role, as no-one can defeat a determined ECB when euro-denominated funding capacity is the issue. The bottom line still stands, though: this is ostensibly the right direction for cleaning up the mess that is the euro zone banking system. "Recognising that a view of the world and a strategy based on it have become untenable is the beginning of wisdom," says Buiter. "The euro area political leadership is at last ready to put senior unsecured bank debt on the table, as a candidate for debt†restructuring. This is an important step, long overdue, in the direction of a comprehensive deleveraging through debt restructuring of banks, sovereigns and, in some countries, households."
Mrshutterbug.comIt must be pointed out that today is a cruel hoax for the bears (people who think that markets are going down) and their cousins the policy bears (the anti-government, anti-central bank skeptics who think every announced policy is idiotic and dangerous). With markets having surged lately, the Cyprus haircut would have been the perfect excuse for a nice swift selloff. But nope. S&amp;P off 3. And gold? Barely higher. Snooze.
Earlier this month, we learned that the national unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 7.7 percent in February. State-level data comes on a lag.¬† However, the new January state unemployment report confirms that the jobs market continues to get incrementally better. In a post on his Calculated Risk blog, Bill McBride notes that there are now no states with double-digit unemployment rates.¬† This is the first time that has happened since 2008. Here's a chart from McBride showing current unemployment rates against recession highs: Calculated Risk
@HMOTTERSGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein was at a wedding this weekend in Miami. Blankfein's eldest son Alex, 27, †got married to fellow Harvard MBA classmate Cristina Ros, 26, according to the New York Times.†Congrats to them! Alex is expected to start as a consultant at Bain &amp; Company in September.† DealBook's William Alden tracked down a bunch of Instagram photos of the ceremony.†It looks like a lovely weekend and we've included them in the slides that follow.†
The S&amp;P 500 is pushing toward its highs of the day after the stock market started down nearly 1 percent at the opening bell. The market has been open for two hours since then, and it's basically gone straight up. It's now trading ¬†just off the highs of the day, down only 0.5 percent, at 1553. The chart below shows the S&amp;P 500 futures session today, including the pop at 9:30 AM on the right. FINVIZ.com There will be a lot of uncertainty over how the situation in Cyprus will be resolved this week. Over the weekend, the Cypriot government agreed to a bailout from the EU that contains a controversial provision forcing depositors to take a haircut on the money in their savings accounts. People in Cyprus are naturally furious, and the Cypriot government still has to approve the deal. The vote on the deal was supposed to be today, but it's been delayed to tomorrow. Meanwhile, Cypriot banks, which were supposed to re-open tomorrow (following today's EU bank holiday), will remain closed until Thursday.
The co-founder of Fisker Automotive gave the struggling company a small boost after quitting last week, buying a blue Karma for about $102,000. He had given up his company car, also a Karma, the only model the automaker has produced. "I don't get a free car because I walked away. I wanted to support my local dealer," Fisker told the Detroit News. Fisker's sudden resignation, over "major disagreements" with executive management on business strategy, is a troubling sign for the hybrid automaker. Today, no Karmas are being built, and production of the Atlantic, the model meant to generate real profits, has been delayed to late 2014. The company is seeking investors, primarily in China and Europe. Fisker's co-founder told the Detroit News his resignation was "not specifically about the sale of the company." The decision was "probably the most difficult I've ever made," Fisker told the Detroit News, but necessary: "It would be wrong to stay."
AirbusLion Air CEO Rusdi Kirana and Airbus CEO Fabrice BrÈgier, with French President Francois Hollande.Airbus just closed its biggest deal ever: 234 A320 jets for a whopping $24 billion. Its customer is Lion Air, one of Indonesiaís popular budget airlines. The Lion deal is a big coup for Airbus. The Indonesian carrier has been expanding fast. But until recently, that growth has favored Boeingófor instance, in 2011, it ordered 230 Boeing 737 planes for $22.4 billion. The archipelago nationóIndonesia is made up of some 17,000 islandsóhas been relatively insulated from the global economic crisis. With domestic consumption and increased comfort with flying on the rise, the nation expects 21% annual growth in its aviation market. But some of that expansion has been crimped by Indonesiaís safety problems. In 2007, crashes by Garuda, one of Indonesiaís national carriers, prompted both the US and Europe to ban Indonesian airlines from landing in their airports. At present,†most of Lion Airís destinations are domestic.†The Indonesian government has been pushing hard to turn that record around, including by partnering with Boeing and Airbus on enhancing its safety regimes. But itís not just Indonesian air travel thatís booming. Malaysiaís AirAsia vies with Lion Air for regional supremacy, having built out routes throughout Southeast Asia, Japan and Korea. That airlineís rapid growth has proven a boon for Airbus, as it exclusively buys the companyís planes.†Airbus wrapped up a deal with AirAsia last December for 100 A320s, worth $9.4 billion, adding to the 375 planes the Malaysian carrier had already ordered. Steady demand from Southeast Asia is providing some a welcome bright spot for French industry these days: in January, Airbus said it would hire an additional 3,000 people worldwide in 2013. At the French presidential palace, where the Lion Air deal was signed, Airbus said the contract would call for an additional 5,000 jobs.
Last week, Urban Outfitters reported that comparable same store sales were flat from the year prior. It's surprising for a couple reasons: revenues were up, and the e-commerce business saw healthy growth.¬† The culprit of Urban's flat comps this quarter? Customers returned too much stuff.¬† Urban CFO Francis Conforti explained on the conference call last week: "I believe it is important to note that if it were not for direct-to-consumer returns at stores which we currently charge against store sales, our store sales comp would have been low-single-digit positive," Conforti said.¬† The admitted dent in business because of returns is unusual, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions.¬† Some culprits could include buyer's remorse on purchases, a poor return policy, poor quality of merchandise, or people buying stuff online then returning it to stores, Sozzi said.¬† "I can't recall a specialty retail mentioning something like this before," Sozzi said.¬† Urban is known for its eclectic fashions, which can be risky. Offering clothing that's too¬†conservative can keep shoppers from coming back, while selling obscure stuff can drive them away.¬† Last year, Urban's CEO acknowledged that the retailer had a fashion problem.¬† It's possible that Urban's customers are taking risks on items like a patchwork dress or neon shirt and then realizing that the items have no place in their daily wardrobes.¬† Eric Beder, an analyst at Brean Murray Carret and Co., explained that Urban Outfitters needs to make clothing that's more relatable. "There is more work to be done in reworking the in-store collection to connect with a wider teen group," Beder said in a note.¬† If Urban does a better job of making its trendy items more appealing to a broader set of consumers, its hipster customers are less likely to suffer from buyer's regret.¬†
CNBC screencapFormer Lehman Brothers chief financial officer Erin Callan disappeared from the public eye after the bank's demise in 2008.¬† Now she's living a much quieter life in Florida with her new husband. However, she's returned to the spotlight to weigh in on the work/life balance debate reignited by the release of Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg's book, "Lean In." Callan wrote an op-ed in The New York Times¬†and appeared in an interview of "Rock Center." She has been warning other women not to lean in the way she did because she missed out on important relationships in her life and having children of her own.¬† For a brief moment in time, though, Callan was one of the most powerful women on Wall Street.¬† 
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVExperts around the world continue to sound off on the implications of the Cyprus bank bailout deal, which is expected to tax depositors by 6.5 percent to 10 percent. Like many others, Goldman Sachs' Jim O'Neill also doesn't like what's going on. From his latest Viewpoints note: Cyprus Scary Move.One fresh development that I read when I got off the plane on Saturday morning, has of course dominated all news since it emerged late Friday. As part of the agreed banking bailout, depositors in Cypriot banks are going to face a significant haircut, split between close to 10% for those above 100,000 euros and around 6.5% for those with less. This is a somewhat astonishing move, seemingly motivated yet again by what can be ìdoneî through the German parliament, with little thought of contagion to the rest of the Euro-zone, and indeed perhaps the world. There are so many issues that arise from this, ranging from the fairness of penalising small savers, to whether this means investors can trust European politicians at all. I know some people in genuine business in Europe and Cyprus which have some of their cash deposits with Cypriot banks, and they are going to be indiscriminately hurt along with the foreign investors whom they want to penalize. While I am sure it will not set a precedent, I wouldnít be surprised if markets gave a risk-premia to other global banking centres which are perceived as not being quite so stringent in attracting less desirable investments. Additionally, this would be similar for peripheral euro-area banks and markets, and it will require considerably more thought from Euro policymakers to ensure this doesnít get out of control. I canít help thinking that as much as they try to generally do things to preserve the Euro at all cost, ongoing policy decisions appear to be dismantling the underlying free market for cross-border goods and services within the euro-area. Read his entire note at GoldmanSachs.com.
Arenamontanus / FlickrThis morning, it was announced that a vote in the Cypriot parliament on the bailout deal hatched with the EU over the weekend will be postponed until Tuesday. The deal contains a haircut on depositors ñ meaning those with deposits in the bank have to pay for part of the bailout, directly out of their accounts, right away. Naturally, as the first EU bank bailout to contain this feature, it's quite controversial. People in Cyprus are furious. "It is difficult to overstate the extent of popular anger in Cyprus over the bailout deal which was pulled together on Friday evening," says JPMorgan's Alex White. That's all setting up for a tense vote in parliament tomorrow. The Cypriot government still has to actually approve the deal, and White thinks the vote is too close to call. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley both think the deal would be good for Cypriot sovereign debt if the Cypriot parliament can pass it. JPMorgan agrees. If the plan gets passed,†JPMorgan fixed income strategist Kedran Panageas estimates that the impact on Spanish and Italian bond yield spreads would only widen 5-10 basis points over depositor fears. Not a big move. However, Panageas says if the bailout plan ñ complete with deposit haircuts ñ doesn't pass the vote, things could get a little crazier in the market. Here's what Panageas says it would look like for Cypriot government debt: Negative scenario: The deposit tax is not approved Clearly, in this case, uncertainty would be high. Cyprus and the Eurogroup would be faced with renegotiating the bailout, raising tail risk. Anastasiades would be in a considerably weakened political position. In this case we could see June 2013 [Cyprus] international bond prices falling to the Ä70-80 area. That would be a pretty big hit, given where Cypriot government bonds are trading now (above Ä90). Business Insider / Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Meanwhile, the impact on other markets outside of Cyprus ñ like Spain and Italy ñ would still be fairly muted, says Panageas (with one caveat): Other peripheral bond spreads would likely widen as well, with Bunds rallying. Overall given Cyprusí non-systemic character, and given the presence of the ECB OMT program as a backstop, we think the overall impact on other markets would be moderate, with perhaps a 20-25bp sell-off in Italy and Spain versus a 5-10bp decline in bund yields. The market impact could be larger, in both Cyprus and externally, if the political situation becomes chaotic or if the ECB were to follow through on its (reported) threat to yank ELA liquidity. (ELA refers to Emergency Liquidity Assistance, which is basically the last choice for distressed euro area banks seeking funding from the ECB.) Today, Italian and Spanish 10-year bond yields are up 6 and 7 basis points to 4.65 percent and 4.98 percent, respectively, on the Cyprus bailout news out over the weekend. These two markets will definitely be closely watched throughout the week as the drama continues to unfold in Cyprus.
APVia Bloomberg, AP is reporting that Cypriot banks will now remain closed through Thursday. The bank bailout deal was completed over the weekend to take advantage of a bank holiday in the EU today, owing to the St. Patrick's Day holiday. However, the holiday was extended through Tuesday to allow the Cypriot government more time to pass a vote on the bailout deal, which includes a controversial haircut on depositors. Now, depositors in Cyprus won't be able to access their funds until Friday at the earliest.
For the S&amp;P 500, the forward P/E was at 13.5 on Friday. Monthly data show that the ratio of the forward P/E to consensus expected long-term earnings growth (which tends to have an upwards bias) was 1.26 during February. That‚Äôs about the same as the 1.21 average of this PEG ratio since 1985. Another useful valuation measure is the ratio of the market value of all stocks traded in the US to nominal GDP. It is highly correlated with the market capitalization of the S&amp;P 500 divided by S&amp;P 500 revenues. Both of these measures have recovered from their lows of 2009, but remain well below their previous two cyclical peaks. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Animal Spirits.¬† (1) East Coast to West Coast. (2) Keynes on human nature. (3) Keynes on steroids. (4) How will Fed deal with the animals? (5) No end to the endgame and no exit for the Fed? (6) Things could get tricky. (7) Greenspan‚Äôs famous question. (8) On the lookout for irrational exuberance. (9) S&amp;P 500 PEG is at average. (10) Are sentiment indicators relevant if corporations are biggest buyers of stock? (11) No cause for exuberance in headline news. (12) The ‚ÄúCyprus Moment.‚Äù (More for subscribers.) 
A leaked German intelligence report put that number at about $26 billion last year. That's more than Cyprus' annual GDP, so part of what German politicians grappled with was how to bail out the country without simply bailing out loads of rich Russians that just keep their money there. But it gets darker than that. According to the report, EU officials also fear that some of that "black money" is being laundered through Europe. Cyprus has lax citizenship requirements that make it easy for deposit-holders to gain EU citizenship, and thus access to banks all over the EU. So what exactly does it take to get access to Europe by becoming a Cypriot? Russian billionaire†Alexander Abramov is†the co-founder of international steel company Evraz. He was granted citizenship to the island nation in 2010 for ìservices to the Republic of Cyprus.î†  That's vague, of course, but there are also a few more clear (and simple) rules to becoming a citizen of Cyprus, according to Cyprus Mail. You have to be at least 30 years old with no criminal record and have at least one of the following: Abramov, for his part, acquired 50% (or more) of two Cyprus-based company and has minority stakes in two Cypriot scrap medal companies.
Bloomberg TVJefferies economist David Zervos, one of the most notably bullish guys on the Street, is striking a decidedly different tone today. Normally, he's always talking about the "spoos and blues" trade ‚Äì long S&amp;P 500, long eurodollars. Naturally, with the Fed at the center of the market's focus as of late, Zervos thinks this is a good expression of the idea that "the Fed has your back if it gets bad, and the Fed will be slow to react when it all goes right." However, Zervos is on Bloomberg TV this morning, and he says markets are underpricing the risks posed by developments out of Cyprus this weekend. After a bit of a comeback this morning, the S&amp;P 500 is only down 0.5 percent on the Cyprus news. "I guess I'm a little surprised at how complacent the markets are on this," said Zervos. Late last week, Zervos slammed the bears in a pretty forceful takedown. He definitely changed his mind this weekend about the which way the market could go, though, as the Cyprus bailout deal unfolded.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe NAHB housing market index for March is out. Homebuilder confidence fell to 44, missing expectations for a rise to 47. ‚ÄúAlthough many of our members are reporting increased demand for new homes in their markets, their enthusiasm is being tempered by frustrating bottlenecks in the supply chain for developed lots along with rising costs for building materials and labor," said NAHB Chairman Rick Judson in a press release.  "At the same time, problems with appraisals and credit availability remain considerable obstacles to completing deals." Click here to refresh &gt; Paul Diggle at Capital Economics has previously said that capacity constraints among mortgage lenders is creating bottlenecks and presenting an obstacle to the housing recovery.¬† Moreover, during the recession many companies downsized, many shut down and this ensures that any recovery will be "bumpy". The sub-index measuring current sales conditions declined to 47. The component gauging sales expectations in the next six months increased to 51. The component measuring traffic of prospective buyers increased to 35. Homebuilder confidence is considered a good leading indicator of the housing market. We've been reporting on the tight housing supply. And economists have in large part raised their home price forecasts because of a decline in housing inventory. Moreover, Bank of America's Michelle Meyer thinks "a positive feedback loop has begun". When people think home prices are rising, they think they will keep doing so and credit conditions will improve, and this in turn increases demand for homes.
APInvestor Jeremy Grantham of GMO recently went on the Charlie Rose show and described his startlingly depressing outlook for the future of humanity. Grantham thinks the number of people on Earth has finally and permanently outstripped the planet's ability to support us. Grantham believes that the planet can only sustainably support about 1.5 billion humans, versus the 7 billion on Earth right now (heading to 10-12 billion). So, basically, Grantham thinks most of us are going to starve to death. Why? In part because we're churning through a finite supply of something that is critical to our ability to produce food: Phosphorus. Phosphorus is a critical ingredient of fertilizer, and there is a finite supply of it. The consensus is that we will hit "peak phosphorus" production within a few decades, after which point our phosphorus supply will inexorably decline. As it declines, we will be unable to feed ourselves. Of course, ever since Malthus, a steady stream of doomsayers have predicted a ghastly end to the human population explosion ó and, so far, they've all been wrong. So why is a man of Grantham's intelligence adding his voice to this chorus? And how real is this threat? Are we all going to starve? Is there any hope?
WikimediaThe main reason why people are going crazy this morning over the "Troika's" (EU, IMF, ECB) bailout of Cyprus is¬†the one-off 9.9 percent tax all Cypriots with over 100,000 euros will be charged, and 6.5 percent if you have less.¬† It seems shocking, but the concept isn't that novel. As Sky News' economics editor Ed Conway points out this morning, in 1941, the Federal Reserve responded to an inquiry on why American deposits weren't taxed, since it would be so easy to administer and would produce so much revenue. Perhaps, the Fed said, it could be done. But such a tax would also violate "one of the fundamental principles of taxation in a democracy." That is, some rich guy may actually have a relatively small amount in his deposit account that consists only of his salary and dividends, while a local businessman may have his entire payroll locked up in his branch's vault. That kind of indiscriminate punishment is exactly what the Troika has executed today, Conway writes: ...one‚Äôs sympathy has to be with the country‚Äôs savers. Consider it: overnight a widow‚Äôs life savings, carefully saved up over decades, have been gouged, simply because EU bureaucrats decided to protect hedge funds and the German surplus, and to teach Russians a lesson. Here's the full reproduction of the Fed's 1941 response. Big thanks to Ed Conway for passing it along. Federal Reserve
Wikimedia CommonsIn recent years, people have struggled to understand how a country as tiny as Greece could cause so much turmoil in the global financial markets. Now Cyprus, an island country whose economy is a fraction of the size of Greece's, now threatens to stoke the euro crisis that has been dormant in recent months. This comes as the U.S. prepares for a slew of housing data and a monetary policy announcement from the federal reserve. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Update The S&amp;P 500 closed last week just five points from its all-time high.¬† "Much of the market‚Äôs recent gains have come from multiple expansion rather than higher earnings expectations," writes Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker in a note published Sunday night.¬† "Most likely, this reflects central banks‚Äô aggressive liquidity injections, which have translated into an increasing conviction among investors that major tail risks have been indefinitely removed. The growing reality that there are limited investment opportunities outside of equities has fueled stronger inflows into equity markets in some regions and driven expectations of an even more substantial rotation." In the note, Parker raised his year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 to 1,600 from 1,434. Much of the improving economic data has been driven by the end of private sector deleveraging, which Citigroup's Peter Orszag describes as the most important trend in the economy right now. Watch Orszag discuss this here:
There's one basic question lots of people may have been wondering since they've started reading about the crisis in Cyprus: Where is it? Below is a map of Europe. Cyprus is the tiny island off the coast of Turkey circled in red on the far right of the map. flickr / breki74Click to enlarge This little country, one of the euro zone's smallest member states, has a population of roughly 876,000 and a GDP of $22.4 billion, according to 2012 IMF staff estimates. At $22.4 billion in GDP, Cyprus has one of the smallest economies in the euro zone, and is more on par with the size of a mid-sized American city than than the typical euro area member state. The Cypriot banking system is known as a big offshore tax haven for Russian oligarchs and mafia types looking to launder money. The banks got wrecked on Greek sovereign debt, which they were heavily invested in when the euro crisis hit. Because Cypriot banks are mostly funded by deposits as opposed to bank debt ñ many of which are Russian deposits ñ the EU decided to subject depositors in Cypriot banks to the brunt of the cost of the bailout. This is a controversial decision because the EU has never violated the cardinal rule of public trust in the safety of bank deposits before. However, they decided to do it largely because the thought of German taxpayers bailing out banks holding the deposits of Russian money launderers doesn't play well for German politicians ahead of German elections in September. Now, there is concern that depositors in other fragile euro zone countries, like Greece and Spain, will be spooked. That's why everyone is so concerned about this tiny island nation off the coast of Turkey.
Why did Cyprus have to make a grab for depositor cash to rescue its banks? In part because there just wasn't any money left anywhere. The banks don't have much debt, and the island's equity has been wiped out. The Cypress Stock Exchange (whose components include banks, hotels, utilities, and retailers) is off about 98 percent in the last five years. Just a total complete wipeout. Big hat tip to¬† Alex Tarhini at All-Star Charts for pointing this out. Cyprus Stock Exchange General Index Bloomberg
AP ImagesToday will be a busy week for economic news.† Lots of housing data will be coming out, and the Federal Reserve will be updating us on monetary policy. However, traders also have other things on their minds. According to UBS's Art Cashin, the traders he speaks to are nervous about President's Obama's travel schedule, especially considering the positioning of U.S. naval forces. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Traders are very sensitive to this calendar.† They are not caught up on the economic numbers as they are on ancillary events.† The Bernanke press conference will be very important, since markets will pore over any detail hinting the signals and timing milestones on the Fed throttling down. More of interest (or concern) to some traders is the fact that the President is leaving the country.† Heíll be in the Middle East, visiting Israel and the Palestinians among others.† Traders recall that other nations (spelled ñ North Koreas, Iran, et. al) have been known to challenge U.S. leaders who are on foreign trips.† Of further concern, is that for the first time in several decades, the vast majority of U.S. carrier strike forces are not ìon stationî but, rather, tied up in home port.† Weíre sure our potential enemies have not noticed that. And that's not all we need to think about. "Buried by Cyprus news are some less than glowing reports from China," he writes.† "New government and cabinet may bring out harder news. Watch the ATMs across Europe.† Will this dip "disappear" like the one following the Italian election?† Likely wary but not panicky.† Stay very, very nimble."
AP ImagesAmerica's 2012 corn growing season was about as bad as it gets¬†thanks to record droughts. However, it was known that we wouldn't even know the full extent of the damage until harvest time and beyond. This morning, Morgan Stanley commodities analyst Bennett Meier reports on discussions he had with Richard Guse, a corn farmer in Minnesota, on the outlook heading into 2013's planting season.¬† It is not good. Guse says he basically has no grain reserves to draw from, and projects "old crop" (leftover 2012 yield) prices to remain high at around $8. Old crop corn stocks remain precariously tight. Richard commented that stocks at his local elevator, full at this time last year, are virtually non-existent as farmers hold tight to what little stocks they have left. Richard estimated that farmers would begin to sell from remaining stocks at cash prices above $7.50/bu, with sales accelerating above $8/bu. (According to the USDA, cash prices in Iowa traded at $7.37/bu on Friday.) Guse says prices should come down a bit this summer as long as weather remains "normal," but says corn prices won't begin to fall back to even $5 until there are two consecutive regular planting seasons. May '13 corn prices were trading around $7.12 this morning.
via ZillowCurbed's Rob Bear reports that billionaire publishing heir/financier Dirk Ziff has recently listed his Katonah, New York mansion for $8.9 million.¬† Ziff, who has an estimated net-worth of $4.4 billion, is the eldest son of the late publishing magnate William Ziff, Jr. He and his brothers inherited their father's fortune after he sold 95% of his publishing business to private equity firm Forstmann Little for $1.4 billion. With that money started Ziff Brothers Investments, which invests in a variety of asset classes, private equity and hedge funds, according to Forbes.¬†¬† The Ziffs also provided seed money to hedge funder Daniel Och. In exchange, they got a 10 percent stake in Och-Ziff, which is now a publicly traded hedge fund. Dirk and his wife, former¬†Forbes¬†reporter Natasha Bacigalupo, bought the manor in 2002 for $6.25 million, records show.
Flickr/Koala:BearThe world is still trying to digest the shocking news out of Cyprus, that to bail out the banking system, depositors will be subject to a one-off tax. They're calling it a tax, anyway. Depositors will see it as a confiscation of their money. The plan to hit depositors who have under 100K euros (and are thus insured) is particularly surprising, even if legal. The big fear is that this will reopen contagion channels, and make depositors in places like Spain and Italy nervous about their accounts. Now if the tax doesn't pass parliament in Cyprus this week, then all bets are off, because the country could have a banking collapse. But if it does, then there are some reasons to think this won't be the epic catastrophe that some are suspecting. Here are two key points: One is Cyprus' status as a haven for Russian offshore money ó and why that makes Cyprus unique ó is well known in Europe. It's why German politicians balked at a pure grant bailout, because it's an election year, and there's not much appetite to bail out oligarchs. The fact that this became an election-year political issue means the public grasps this angle, and so are likely to grasp why they're unlikely to get Cyprus'd. Beyond that, this isn't like Lehman. In Lehman, the banks were actually allowed to fail, and the status of post-failure creditors was highly uncertain. Lehman was super-complex, and it was not clear at all how it would be resolved. In Cyprus there's no failure, and the status of creditors is clear. Depositors clipped. Done. So the obvious avenues of contagion are not present. Again, if the tax isn't passed, then all bets are off. And there could be political contagion channels (will Italy have a harder time forming a government?), but the idea of a wholesale bank run seems unlikely.
A reminder for everyone shocked by the terms of Cyprus' bailout this weekend ó††back in November German paper Der Spiegel†leaked a German intelligence report that said a bailout of Cyprus' banks would be a bailout for Russian oligarchs and mafiosi that take advantage of the island's lax immigration laws to keep money there. The report was a huge hint that German politicians (and the troika officials that were privy to the study) were going to give a Cypriot bank bailout special consideration. It was filed by Germany's international spy agency, the†Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND). Once the report was out, it†put the German government in an "awkward position" with "considerable political risks", Der Speigel wrote.† That's why the terms of Cyprus'†deal hit savers so hard. All Cypriot bank deposits with over 100,000 euro are subject to a 10% percent tax, more than 500,000 euro deposits are subject to a †a 15% tax. If an account has less than 100,000 euro, it's subject to a 3% percent tax.† According to the BND, Russians have $26 billion deposited in Cyprus' banks, with $80 billion flowing through the system in 2011 alone.† From Der Speigel: Money laundering is facilitated by generous provisions for rich Russians to gain Cypriot citizenship, according to the BND which found that some 80 oligarchs have gained access to the entire EU in this way... Germany's opposition Social Democrats, which have voted in favor of previous bailouts in the crisis, are determined to challenge Merkel this time and to attach conditions to their approval of support for Cyprus. "Before the SPD can approve loan assistance for Cyprus, the country's business model must be addressed," SPD budget expert Carsten Schneider said. "We can't use German taxpayers' money to guarantee deposits of illegal Russian money in Cypriot banks... As one Merkel confidant put it: "Cyprus isn't an economic problem, it's long since become a political one." Doesn't sound like Germany has much room to change its mind here.
Flicker Michael MartelliAlthough there were rumors of a deposit tax, as a way of bailing out Cypriot banks, the news this weekend has caught many people by surprise. The idea of a one-off tax is understandably shocking to almost anyone who has a bank account. It remains to be seen whether Europe has, in the words of JPMorgan "bazookaed itself in the foot" or whether this ends up being a blip. Part of that depends on whether the new measure is actually passed or not (a vote that's now likely going to happen Tuesday). This wasn't how the European calm was expected to be broken. What everyone (including myself) expected was that the calm would be broken when a peripheral country finally rebelled against austerity. Recently the most likely candidate for this has been Italy, which had inconclusive elections, and may need to vote again fairly soon to form a new government. But that's not what happened here. Instead the rich north rebelled, as the Germans and the Finns said there wouldn't be grants (part of it is ideological, part of it is economics, and part of it is is that Merkel is in an election year). One obvious concern is that folks in other peripheral nations will worry that their bank accounts are unsafe from confiscation, although it seems unlikely that Cyprus would be repeated elsewhere. A bigger worry should be political contagion. The anger in a country like Italy stems, in part, from the notion that Merkel is calling the shots in domestic politics. Cyprus just reconfirmed how much power Germany has.
Flickr / nffcnnrAmazon has commissioned a series of big-budget, web-only shows as it takes on Netflix in the battle to capitalise on the growing appetite for watching programmes on smartphones, tablets and internet-enabled televisions. The online retailer is producing at least 11 pilots - starring big names such as John Goodman and Bill Murray ‚Äì which will be shown to the public from this spring and then either made into series or shelved, according to the audience reaction they get. The pilots will be shown free on a service called Amazon Instant Video, with viewers given a chance to input feedback on the shows. In Britain, the pilots will be also be available on LoveFilm, the internet video service owned by Amazon. The completed series, however, will only be available to LoveFilm subscribers in Britain and Amazon Prime subscribers in the US. The pilots, mainly focusing on comedy and children‚Äôs programmes, include Alpha House, which stars Goodman, with a cameo from Groundhog Day star Bill Murray. "I'm always worried I'm going to be in a YouTube Video,‚Äù said Goodman, who made his name in the 1980s television series Cheers, but went on to star in Hollywood films such as The Big Lebowski. He added: ‚ÄúBut this is just the same as a TV set ‚Äî full production values, great director, good technical people." Another pilots include Onion News Empire, a television news satire, and a musical comedy called Browsers. "I think the distinction between a regular TV show and an online TV show will soon fade away," said Roy Price, director of Amazon Studios, the unit making the pilots. "It just makes sense that if you're trying to decide what TV show to make, it might be a good idea to ask customers which one they like." Netflix last month launched House of Cards, starring Kevin Spacey. It invested $100m in the remake of the classic British series, making all 26 episodes immediately available to subscribers, who could sign up free for one month. Todd Yelin, Netflix's vice-president of product innovation, said the project had done ‚Äúexcessively well‚Äù. Whilst declining to give actual viewing figures, he said it was the most-viewed show ever on the internet video service, and had done ‚Äúbetter than our wildest dreams". Microsoft is also known to be producing its own series, while Google, Apple, Intel and Twitter are reported to be considering their own projects. 
Rick Diamond/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
According to a report from Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation, the Cyprus vote on a bank bailout package that includes controversial haircuts for depositors is already being pushed back to Tuesday. Via Open Europe: RANsquawk: CYBC reports that Cyprus may postpone parliament vote, Cyprus banks may remain shut tomorrow And Reuters' Jamie McGeever confirms: Cyprus parliament vote on bank deposit levy will take place on Tuesday - EU official Morgan Stanley's latest note discusses how the process should be frought with implementation issues. Read their take here &gt;
Morgan Stanley analysts say the unprecedented depositor haircut agreed to as part of this weekend's bailout deal of the Cypriot banking system will be good for the sovereign, echoing similar comments by Goldman. Daniele Antonucci, a Europe economist for Morgan Stanley, says that "assuming a successful implementation of the bank levy, the Cyprus debt trajectory can shift downward to a more sustainable path (see chart), in line with the 100% debt/GDP target for the 2020." Morgan Stanley However, there are four big problems facing successful implementation of the controversial plan, according to Morgan Stanley (and one of them is Russia). The first is that the Cypriot government may not approve the package. The deposit haircut is wildly unpopular in Cyprus for obvious reasons. However, there are already reports this morning that the government is considering revising the deal to allow those with the lowest account balances to avoid the tax, making it more progressive, so this could help it pass through parliament a little more easily. Second, while the IMF has gotten involved with a financial contribution, it hasn't mentioned a role as a supervisor of the program and enforcer of conditionality yet. "It is worth highlighting that a rescue programme without IMF supervision may disappoint investors and cause market volatility," says Antonucci. Third, the Cypriot government will likely face legal challenges over the decision to impose depositor haircuts. "According to the FT, the domestic depositors will be compensated with banks stocks, unlike foreigners, writes Antonucci. "Although there are not enough details to draw an educated conclusion, we cannot rule out possible legal challenges due to the different treatment of depositors based on their domicile." Finally, there is Russia, which seems like the most substantial issue: Russian Response: With regards to the Russian role, the planned trip by Cypriot ministers to Moscow early next week may indicate that Russia is not yet on board. The levy is probably a negative surprise in Russia, and Russia's support may prove difficult to secure without further concessions. Russia is likely to weigh three important factors: 1) the significant loss for Russian depositors on the levy, with deposits from non-EU residents, many of whom are¬†Russian, amounting to 31% of the total (‚Ç¨21bn) at end-Jan 2013; 2) the reduction in the role of Cyprus as a provider of finance for Russia, as the banking sector shrinks; and 3) the cost of a longer repayment schedule and lower interest rate on the ‚Ç¨2.5bn Russian loan to Cyprus provided in 2011. In our view, Russia may only agree to adjust its ‚Ç¨2.5bn loan and support IMF participation when a) it has clarity on the impact of the measures on Russian interests and b) it has secured some mitigation of the levy's impact on Russian depositors, and some constraints on the shrinking of the banking sector to protect Russian interests. It seems like it could be difficult for Russia to secure concessions that could protect its interests in Cypriot banks, as the government in Cyprus seems keen on making the haircuts more progressive. Naturally, this means that all of the wealthy Russian oligarchs hiding money in Cyprus will have to pay more, not less. Today, Russian President Vladimir Putin was quoted as calling the depositor haircuts "unjust, unprofessional and dangerous."
BloombergGoldman Sachs Chief U.S. Equity Strategist David Kostin is bumping up the bank's year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1625 from 1575. In a note to clients this morning, Kostin writes, "The 2013 US equity market story is becoming one of improving business activity accompanied by increased CEO confidence,"¬†pointing to recent positive surprises in employment, manufacturing, and retail sales data. Accompanying all of that is a forecast for 2 percent GDP growth in 2013 and 2.9 percent growth in 2014, with 10-year Treasury yields rising to 2.5 percent by the end of the year and 3.0 percent by the end of 2014. "The ‚Äòsequester‚Äô has begun and the federal government is still functioning," says Kostin. Below is Goldman's thesis: We lift our year-end 2013 index target to 1625 (from 1575) reflecting a modest 4% rise from the current level. US equities currently trade near fair value based on various metrics as well as our macroeconomic regression model, our dividend discount model (DDM), and the relationship between return on equity (ROE) and price/book value. S&amp;P 500 trades at 13.9x bottom-up consensus forward EPS, near the average of the past decade, but well above the 12.9x average forward P/E since 1976. Fed model suggests 14% upside by year-end 2013 while the cyclically-adjusted P/E ratio points to 7% downside.  We recommend cyclical exposure rather than defensive tilt. Financials, along with Industrials and Materials, should outperform. The thesis behind our bullish view on Financials involves accelerating economic growth, rising 10-year interest rates, improving ROE, and rising dividends and buybacks. We lower Information Technology to Neutral. However, the call doesn't come without risks, Kostin writes: Risks: Margins downside, multiple upside, mixed response to higher interest rates.  First, earnings will be lower than we currently forecast if margins are squeezed because firms are unable to pass through higher input costs. Upside opportunity may exist from a higher P/E multiple if US equities receive more inflows in 2013 than our current $200 billion estimate. The impact of rising bonds yields on stock prices and valuation will depend on whether it stems from growth or inflation. Faster economic growth would support higher EPS and potentially lead to an expanding P/E and a rising equity market. In our view the risk of higher inflation appears modest in an environment of 7.7% unemployment.  Money flow is difficult to forecast. Many investors cite the potential for a ‚Äúgreat rotation‚Äù from bonds to stocks. Despite share prices more than doubling, the high S&amp;P 500 drawdown during recent years actually spurred risk-averse retail investors to shift assets into bond funds and away from stocks. We expect this pattern will persist until 10-year US Treasury yields reach 3%. Asset reallocation is likely to be a key theme in 2014 rather than this year. Goldman is also lifting its 2013 S&amp;P 500 earnings forecast to¬†$108 from $107 and its 2014 forecast to $116 from $114. In other words, the call relies on the fundamentals ‚Äì a continued improvement in the economic data and the argument that this is not the peak for profit margins.
MOSCOW (AP) ó The spokesman for Vladimir Putin says the Russian president is strongly critical of a plan to levy a tax on depositors in Cyprus. Russian companies have an estimated $19 billion in Cypriot bank accounts. Russians have for years seen Cyprus as an investor-friendly jurisdiction with lax banking regulations and low taxes. A proposed bailout of Cyprus's economy would impose taxes on bank deposits of up to 9.9 percent. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the president criticized the plan in a meeting with economic advisers. Putin was quoted by Russian news agencies as saying that the decision, if taken, would "unjust, unprofessional and dangerous." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
Jim D. Woodward / FlickrThe decline in European stocks and the euro today, post-Cyprus, is an obvious outward sign of nervousness. But we'll know more in the coming days about whether "contagion" channels have been re-opened and whether concerns about Cypriot banks spread to other peripheral nations in any manner. Lorcan Roche Kelly, an analyst at Trend Macrolytics, has a note out arguing that a wider panic is unlikely, but that we'll be able to tell more in the days ahead. He writes: For more real-time analysis, follow Lorcan on Twitter.
Pool / AFP / GettyThe U.K. economy is currently in or on the verge of a triple-dip recession. The pound has been tanking and there are loud worries about stagflation. Yet despite the downward spiral, the current U.K. government, led by PM David Cameron and Finance Minister George Osborne has insisted that the current path of austerity must be preserved to bring the debt down, and maintain the confidence of world markets. Of course, this is a canard. Austerity has not brought the debt down, as targets have been missed. And when you have your own central bank/currency (as the U.K. does with the Bank of England) global market confidence is kind of irrelevant when it comes to your debt. As such, the comments of Osborne in the wake of the Cyprus bailout are quite revealing. First there's a hometown angle here for the UK, since a lot of U.K. members of the military have money in Cypriot banks. The U.K. government has said they will be re-compensated for whatever bank deposit haircuts they endure. But check out what Osborne took away as the broader message from Cyprus. He used it as an example of why the U.K. must maintain its austerity path: ìThat is an example in Cyprus of what happens if you donít show the world that you can pay your way. ìI mean that is why in Britain weíve got to retain the confidence of world markets,î he said. This is sheer nonsense. This has nothing to do with whether the country could "show the world that you can pay your own way." It has to do with the fact that the Cypriot banks had large exposure to Greek debt (because of how intertwined their economies are) and took big losses on Greek debt writedowns. And it has to do with the screwed-up Euro system, whereby no country has their own currency. And it has to do with having an oversized banking system, and all kinds of other things. There are virtually no applicable lessons to the U.K. here. But the government is using the incident as another excuse to justify disastrous policy.
Markus Schreiber/APOne of the most disturbing angles to the Cyprus bailout ó wherein the government is being forced to tax bank depositors ó is this idea that Berlin is calling all of the shots in Europe. According to multiple reports, Germany basically said to Cyprus: Tax your depositors, or you can leave the Eurozone. We're not just writing going to write a big check this time, because you're too small to really matter. On the one hand you might say: Germany is writing the checks, so of course it can call the shots like this. On the other hand, this look like German bullying causing a destruction of trust and wealth in the worst possible way. Regardless of whether it's a good or bad thing, Germany is clearly sending a message. Citi's currency expert Steven Englander lists six lessons that Germany just sent the rest of Europe, particularly peripheral Europe. 1.†††† No free rides for anyone. 2.†††† Small country blackmail on contagion can be resisted. 3.†††† Narrow populism can face resistance from the countries writing checks. 4.†††† There is a cost to easy banking and regulatory regimes. 5.†††† German elections count as much as Italian. 6.†††† Moral hazard will not be condoned (some of the Fed/Treasury phraseology prior to the Lehman bankruptcy can be recycled). Point 2 &amp; 5 are particularly interesting. The idea of Cyprus (which has a GDP only seven percent as big as Greece's) not being big enough to be Too Big To Fail has definitely worked against its favor. And then the significance of Merkel's re-election (coming in September) also did not help the Cypriots. There is a growing Euroskeptic breeze blowing in Germany, with the new Alternative For Germany party gathering steam.
On Saturday morning, Cyprus and the EU announced a plan to tax depositors' bank accounts at 6.5 percent up to 100K eur and 9.9 percent over that. The idea of taxing anyone's bank accounts is incredibly controversial, but the hit on those with less than 100K was the biggest shocker, since bank accounts are insured up to that level (Cyprus gets away with it legally, by calling it a "tax" and not a haircut). But the outcry has been so loud, that the country is busily working to revise the schedule. The incomparable Matina Stevis has the current planned tax schedule, which is being discussed today. Matina Stevis
Tim Moffatt/FlickrThe Cyprus bailout deal has a lot of people scratching their heads over what EU leaders were thinking when they came up with it. As part of a plan to rescue Cypriot banks, deposit-holders in those banks will be subjected to an immediate expropriation of a certain percentage of their savings accounts, the exact amount of which is still being worked out. (Initially, it was 6.5 percent on balances below 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent on those above 100,000.) The government is framing this haircut on deposits as a "tax." Many market observers are worried about the precedent this sets. After all, what's to stop EU leaders from deciding to do the same thing the next time a banking system in a bigger euro member state needs a bailout? Those involved in crafting the deal have gone to great lengths to construe Cyprus as a "unique" case, owing to exceptional circumstances. However, given the increasing trend toward private-sector involvement in bank bailouts in the euro zone and the relatively favorable situation that creates for a country's government debt (as opposed to the approach wherein the sovereign foots the entire bill), depositors elsewhere in peripheral Europe may be less than convinced that it couldn't happen again. Morgan Stanley analysts Paolo Batori and Robert Tancsa explain in a note to clients, writing,¬†"A successful implementation of this [deposit haircut] programme would certainly be positive for Cypriot government bonds, as the debt trajectory would peak significantly lower than was previously expected, minimizing the risks of any restructuring in the near term." In other words, going forward, euro zone bank bailout programs may be incentivized to impair depositors. That is not welcome news for those with deposits in peripheral Europe, but it may be worse for them than just having to worry about the next time a banking system has to get bailed out. According to a report by Goldman's European banking analysts, led by¬†Jernej Omahen, the Cyprus bailout deal means depositors have to cope with a whole new risk: savings accounts emerging as a new tax base for future wealth taxes in Europe. "A depositor in a peripheral bank is likely to ask the obvious question: how likely is a deposit tax for me?" says Omahen. The Goldman team writes in the report: Cypriot deposit tax is certain to require depositors in GIIPS banks to assess two issues: (1) the probability of savings being used for bank clean-ups (‚Äúbail-in‚Äù) and (2) perceiving their savings as a potential base for a ‚Äúwealth tax‚Äù. In our view, the ‚Äúbail-in‚Äù risk is unlikely to rattle periphery depositors at this point ‚Äì after all, Cyprus is late in addressing its bank issues. Elsewhere on the periphery, especially in Spain and Ireland, depositor risk perception of banks has improved; deposit inflows have materialized. Perceiving deposits as a base for potential taxation, however, is new; the scope/duration of its impact hard to gauge. Goldman expects the read-across for Irish, Portuguese, and Italian banks to be relatively small. However, Greek and Spanish banks could have issues, according to the report: Greece: the read-across is not clear cut, in our view. There is an argument to be made that risk-aware depositors have already moved their deposits away from Greek banks, leaving solely the ‚Äústicky‚Äù residual in the banks. However, close ties between the two countries, as well as deposit flow to Cyprus during Greek crisis peaks, could form an argument for a re- start in deposit outflows, in our view. Perceiving deposits as a potential tax-base could add to the volatility. Spain: similar to Ireland, a depositor is also likely to interpret the Cyprus deposit tax as something that could have happened in 2012 ‚Äì but didn‚Äôt, in our view. Post the (external) stress-tested and considerable recapitalization in 2012, deposit flows have turned positive, suggesting confidence has returned. However, the last leg of Bankia recapitalization, which involves conversion of preference share holders (mostly retail) into common equity holders, will take place over the course of March. From a timing perspective, this substantial transaction is likely to coincide with the Cyprus crisis, potentially invoking unwelcome parallels. The table below shows how much each peripheral euro area country could raise from a "wealth tax" on deposits similar to the one being applied in Cyprus. ECB, Eurostat, Central Bank of Cyprus, Goldman Sachs Research estimatesClick to enlarge
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets are tanking all around the world thanks to the goings-on in a country with a GDP that's less than Shreveport, Louisiana's. The news on Saturday that to bail out Cypriot banks, depositors would get slapped with an instant one-off haircut/tax/stability levy has stunned the world (even though it had been rumored as a possibility for awhile). The fear is that Europe has just crushed the trust of depositor holders everywhere, who now must wonder whether their money in the bank is actually good or not. So stocks are falling around the world. Japan, which had been ultra hot fell 2.7%. Italy is down over 2.6%. Germany is down over 1%. US futures are pointing down about 1% and so on. European financials are getting hit particularly hard.
