Wyn Van Devanter via FlickrOne in every 1,155 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in November, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure filings were down 37% from a year ago, but and down 15% from the previous month. This was driven by a drop in foreclosure starts which fell to the lowest level since December 2005. "While foreclosures will likely continue to stage a weak rally in certain markets next year as the last of the distress left over from the Great Recession is dealt with," said Daren Blomquist at RealtyTrac. "It is highly unlikely that there will be a foreclosure comeback that poses any major threat to the solid housing recovery that has now taken hold." But some states and cities continued to struggle with foreclosures. At the state level, Florida continued to post the nation's highest foreclosure rate, with one in every 392 homes receiving a foreclosure filing. Delaware and Maryland rounded of the nation's three states with the highest foreclosure rates. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate, i.e., one in every X homes received a foreclosure filing.
YouTube/SPCapitallQSam Stovall, market historian extraordinaireFew people know more about obscure stock market patterns than Sam Stovall, S&amp;P Capital IQ's Chief Equity Strategist. When Business Insider asked Stovall for his best chart of the year, he submitted this pattern that basically predicted this year's huge returns. It comes from a March 25 presentation that his team gave to clients. It illustrates the annual returns for the S&amp;P 500 during years when it closed positively during the first two months of the year. On average, the S&amp;P gains 24%. So far this year, it's up 27%. That's a breath-takingly small margin of error. "As always, remember history is a guide, but never gospel," says Stovall. Check it out. Business Insider
Auto parts retailer AutoZone boosts stock buyback by $750 million AutoZone Inc. said Wednesday that its board of directors approved a $750 million increase in its stock buyback program. The auto parts retailer said that since launching its stock repurchase program in 1998, its board has approved $14.2 billion in buybacks. Companies typically buy back stock to help support the company's share price and earnings per share. AutoZone, which is based in Memphis, Tenn., has over 5,200 stores in the U.S., Mexico and Brazil. Its shares rose $8.80, or 1.9 percent, to close at $470.56 Wednesday. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Facebook Inc, Chief Executive†Mark Zuckerberg†and dozens of banks must face a lawsuit accusing the social media company of misleading investors about its health before its $16 billion initial public offering, a federal judge said. In a decision made public on Wednesday, U.S. District Judge†Robert Sweet†in Manhattan said investors could pursue claims that Facebook should have prior to its May 2012 IPO disclosed internal projections on how increased mobile usage and product decisions might reduce future revenue. "The company's purported risk warnings misleadingly represented that this revenue cut was merely possible when, in fact, it had already materialized," Sweet wrote in his 83-page decision. "Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded material misrepresentation(s) that could have and did mislead investors regarding the company's future and current revenues." In a statement, Facebook said: "We continue to believe this suit lacks merit and look forward to a full airing of the facts." Facebook went public at $38 per share. The Menlo Park,†California-based company's share price rose as high as $45 on May 18, 2012, its first day of trading, but quickly fell below the offering price and stayed there for more than a year. Investors including pension funds in†Arkansas,†California†and†North Carolina†claimed that Facebook negligently concealed material information from its IPO registration statement that it had provided to its underwriters' analysts. They sought damages resulting from their having sold or holding onto the shares as they fell below the IPO price, bottoming at $17.55 on September 4, 2012. The lawsuit does not allege fraud. More than 40 defendants were sued, including Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg, lead underwriter Morgan Stanley,†Goldman Sachs Group Incand†JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. In Wednesday trading, Facebook shares closed up 71 cents at $55.57. Facebook is expected to join the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index after the close of trading on Friday. FACEBOOK: LAWSUIT LACKS MERIT In court papers, the defendants had argued that Facebook had no obligation to make the requested disclosures, which they called immaterial, and that Facebook's actual results exceeded original projections. They added that the†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission†and other courts have said revenue projections need not be disclosed before an IPO because they are "inherently speculative and unreliable." Morgan Stanley spokeswoman†Mary Claire Delaney†declined to comment. The lead plaintiffs are represented by the law firms†Bernstein†Litowitz Berger &amp; Grossmann, and Labaton Sucharow. Both firms "are quite pleased with the thorough and detailed opinion by the court," said Thomas Dubbs, a Labaton Sucharow partner, in a phone interview. "We look forward to prosecuting this action vigorously." Dubbs said U.S. securities laws allow damages to be pursued by IPO investors who sold shares at a loss, as well as by investors who held on while the share price remained below what it would have been absent the alleged violations. Zuckerberg, 29, founded Facebook about a decade ago.†Forbes†magazine said he was worth $19 billion in September. Sweet oversees litigation arising from the IPO, and the investor case combined 30 lawsuits brought around the country. On Monday, the judge issued a decision that investors could also pursue claims accusing Nasdaq OMX Group Inc of concealing technology problems that led to difficulties in processing trades on Facebook's first day of trading. He dismissed claims over Nasdaq's decision not to halt the IPO or cancel trades. Sweet's decisions are dated December 11 but were not made public for several days. The case is In re Facebook Inc†IPO Securities†and Derivative Litigation,†U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 12-md-02389. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Alexei Oreskovic; Editing by Gerald E. McCormick, Jeffrey Benkoe and Bernard Orr)
In an effort to boost sales, McDonald's (NYSE: MCD  ) is looking to go digital. The world's largest hamburger chain just announced that it will be testing a new McD app in more than 1,000 stores. The hope is to get younger shoppers more engaged with the McDonald's brand. While customers won't be able to make purchases or order with the app, they can get daily deals sent directly to their smartphones. With mobile apps having found success at†Starbucks (NASDAQ: SBUX  ) , McDonald's wants in on the action as well. McDonald's continues to underperform in the U.S.McDonald's is desperate to revive same-store sales at its restaurants. For the month of November, U.S. comparable sales decreased 0.8%. On a global basis sales rose 0.5%, led by a 1.9% increase in Europe. The strongest aspects of McDonald's business in November were breakfast, chicken menu items, and the Dollar Menu. McDonald's has ambitious plans going forward with its "Plan to Win" strategy. With all the competition in the restaurant space, McDonald's is not only playing defense to protect its No. 1 position, it is also trying to find new ways to grow. The emphasis for McDonald's is on optimizing its menu, improving customer service, and continuing to grow the brand. Going forward, McDonald's targets system-wide sales growth of between 3% and 5%, and operating income is expected to grow 6% to 7%. Next year, McDonald's plans to open 1,500 to 1,600 new restaurants and remodel 1,000 others. The company also expects to benefit from its sponsorship of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. Cash returned to shareholders is a huge positiveOne great thing about investing in McDonald's is that the company generates a tremendous amount of cash. Over the last few years, the company has generated cash from operations of around $7 billion annually. McDonald's has been rewarding shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. This year, the company will return $4.5 billion to $5 billion to its shareholders. Its dividend yield of 3.4% is one of the best in the restaurant industry. What's with this new McD app?McDonald's is targeting younger customers with its new McD app. The app will let customers know of deals in their particular area, such as a buy-one-get-one free breakfast sandwich or a $1 McChicken sandwich. In essence, the new app so far is just an electronic coupon. Down the road, McDonald's hopes to change that by allowing ordering and payment. Mimic Starbucks' successSo far, Starbucks has been the most successful restaurant company with its mobile app. The company introduced its app in 2011; today, about 10% of all purchases are made using the Starbucks app on iOS and Android. Starbucks allows its customers to make purchases and earn rewards via the My Starbucks Reward program. This certainly helps keep Starbucks engaged with its customers and builds customer loyalty. By following Starbucks with its own mobile app, McDonald's continues to mimic the success of Starbucks. McDonald's emphasis on coffee and the rollout of its McCafes is a direct response to the success that Starbucks has had. In my article "Why McDonald's and Starbucks Are the Real Winners This Black Friday," I talked about how McDonald's has copied many of the things that have made Starbucks successful. This includes McDonald's even offering a Pumpkin Spice Latte this past holiday season. How do shares compare?I see Starbucks as more of a growth stock and McDonald's as a value stock. McDonald's is trading at only 15 times next year's earnings, while Starbucks is trading at 24 times next year's earnings. Starbucks' dividend yield is only 1.3%, while McDonald's yield is 3.4%. Over the next five years, Starbucks plans to grow to 30,000 locations worldwide, up from 20,000 today. It's this growth that warrants Starbucks trading at a higher multiple than McDonald's, not to mention global comparable sales increasing by 7% in the third quarter. Foolish assessmentMcDonald's will continue to tinker with its business until comparable sales turn around. I see things improving for McDonald's as we head into 2014. Starbucks, meanwhile, will continue doing what it does best: serving great coffee and opening new locations. It's been a winning formula this year for investors, with shares of Starbucks up over 39%. Over the long-run, I'm a big fan of both Starbucks and McDonald's.  Where else can you find great growth?Tired of watching your stocks creep up year after year at a glacial pace? Motley Fool co-founder David Gardner, founder of the No. 1 growth stock newsletter in the world, has developed a unique strategy for uncovering truly wealth-changing stock picks. And he wants to share it, along with a few of his favorite growth stock superstars, WITH YOU! It's a special 100% FREE report called "6 Picks for Ultimate Growth." So stop settling for index-hugging gains... and click HERE for instant access to a whole new game plan of stock picks to help power your portfolio. Mark Yagalla has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends McDonald's and Starbucks. The Motley Fool owns shares of McDonald's and Starbucks. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Historically, periods of higher interest rates have been linked very closely to strength in the greenback. But these cycles are multi-year periods, and what happens during any given six- or 12-month timespan within that time frame might not be the same as what happens over the cycle as a whole. So, even though the dollar‚Äôs value has moved up, down and sideways at various points this year, Credit Suisse‚Äôs foreign exchange analysts say in a recent report called ‚Äú2014, The Year of the Dollar‚Äù that a larger trend is visible on the horizon. A multi-year bull market in the U.S. currency will begin in the new year, according to their forecasts. In an early October report, the analysts noted that the dollar rally had stalled against the G10 currencies. Despite weakening a bit this month, the dollar has been trending higher since mid-October. The Bank of England‚Äôs effective exchange rate data shows that at 86.54 as of Dec. 13, the dollar is approximately 6 percent stronger than it was at the beginning of the year. Credit Suisse expects the trade-weighted dollar index to rise to 90.70 over the next three months and to 95.99 over the coming year. The analysts say a likely divergence in monetary policymaking among the world‚Äôs largest central banks in the New Year should give the rally traction. Consider the following three examples: As a result of the above, the Credit Suisse analysts expect the yen and the Australian dollar to fall ‚Äúsubstantially‚Äù against the greenback, and for the euro to follow suit later on. They expect the dollar-yen exchange rate, for example, to rise to 120 yen for every dollar from its current level of about 103, according to the most recent forecasts in a Dec. 11 report called ‚ÄúA Differentiated December.‚Äù And while an Australian dollar now gets you about $0.89, a year from now, it will only get you $0.80 this time next year, the analysts forecast. Similarly, a single euro will currently buy you about $1.38, but they expect that to fall to $1.24 by next December. And the analysts don‚Äôt expect the moves to be short-lived. Rather, they consider early 2014 to be the long-awaited start of a period of dollar outperformance of a kind that historically has lasted anywhere from six to nine years. It took six months for the divergence to get going, so the dollar‚Äôs response to interest rate changes is neither automatic nor immediate. Indeed, in seven out of eight recent periods in which interest rates rose ‚Äì the first in March 1972 and the most recent in June 2004 ‚Äì the dollar actually lost value in the first year of each multi-year cycle before eventually following the more logical trajectory of strengthening. Investors were not simply being irrational by shunning dollars just as they are expected to begin appreciating. Consider what it means to ‚Äúown,‚Äù or to be long, the dollar. Most investors seeking a way to profit from changes in exchange rates turn to government bonds, and in the case of the dollar, that means Treasuries. Given the size of the U.S. government‚Äôs current account deficit, which is financed with regular auctions of Treasury bills and notes, odds are that these investors already have a significant chunk of Treasury securities in their portfolios. And as rates were rising, they were watching the value of those assets erode. With little clarity on just how far rates could go, the risk of buying too soon was akin to doubling down on an unfavorable investment‚Äîand the possibility that the new purchases would soon be declining in value as well. What we witnessed for much of 2013 is the outcome of that thought process in action. As the yield on the 10-year Treasury has risen, foreign owners of these bonds have responded by selling, rather than by buying more. Markets have for some time been expecting the Federal Reserve to start reducing monthly asset purchases either in December or January, and Credit Suisse forecasts that U.S. Treasury yields are likely to stabilize soon at a new, higher level (around 3 percent on 10-year notes, up from 2.86 percent now). Considering both of those things, history and logic suggest that investors would focus less on their recent capital losses (and the fear of adding to them) and more on the opportunity presented by higher yields. That mindset shift seems now to be under way, if belatedly so. It‚Äôs a great reminder that even if two market trends tend to frequent the same parties, they may not always arrive together.
In the midst of all the talk of crack smoking, drinking on the job, and hurtling his body at a fellow Toronto politician, it's important to remember that Rob Ford is just a man. And a man sometimes needs to express himself through the art of dance. That is what Toronto's Mayor did during a local jazz band's performance at a City Council meeting, according to the Toronto Sun. The point of the music break was to promote local business. But it was truly Ford who gave his councilmen "the business." Check out the video (via WaPo) below: 
Center on Budget and Policy PrioritiesThe Center for Budget Policy Priorities¬†released a number of charts today that shows how much the federal government favors high-income households over low-income ones in housing benefits. This largely results from the fact that homeowners receive significantly more aid than renters and high-income Americans are much more likely to be homeowners. In 2012, the federal government gave out $240 billion in housing aid. Income data is not available for all of it, but of what is available, more than half went to those with incomes greater than $100,000 ($81.6 billion). Only $40 billion went to those with incomes less than $50,000. Overall, high income households receive four times as much in housing aid as low-income ones. The main reason for this is the majority of federal housing aid flows to homeowners, not renters. The mortgage interest deduction is the most well-known program that subsidizes homeownership. That deduction alone is larger than all federal rental aid combined. The federal government gave out about $60 billion in housing benefits to renters in 2012. It gave out more than three times that much to homeowners. Low-income households receive the vast majority of that rental aid, but the opposite is true of aid to homeowners. That flows primarily to high-income households.¬† This comes at a time when renters are struggling to keep pace with rising housing costs. Fifty percent of renters now spend more than 30% of their income on housing. This has forced renters to cut back on other household necessities or live in inadequate units.  Center on Budget and Policy PrioritiesRenters are more likely to face a severe cost burden (defined as spending at least 50% of income on housing) than homeowners are. This is a result of rising median gross rent and falling media income over the past 15 years. For both renters and homeowners, the percentage of households that have a severe affordability problem with their housing has increased since 2001. These problems are only going to get worse as millions of seniors find themselves in need of rental housing in the coming decades.¬† Yet, while this silent crisis continues, the majority of the money that the federal government spends on housing flows to homeowners, not renters.
Flickr/Tony TakitaniConvergEx Group will cough up $43.8 million to settle criminal fraud charges brought by the Justice Department against one of the firm's brokerages. The SEC also charged three Converge Ex Group brokerage desks with civil fraud. They will pay $107 million to settle the charges. The brokerages are accused of lying to customers about commission rates.  Clients were made to believe ConvergeEx¬†charged an explicit commission to execute trading orders for stocks.¬†  In fact, the brokerages were allegedly routing orders through a Bermuda desk, which executed them for peanuts. This allowed the brokers to boost their profit margins: customers were unknowingly paying more than double what they thought they were paying to have their orders executed.¬†Justice says the names for this alleged scheme at ConvergeEx were¬†‚Äúspread,‚Äù ‚Äútrading profits,‚Äù or ‚ÄúTP.‚Äù¬†The Bermuda desk would often ask the clients' brokers about the odds of the scheme getting detected before pocketing the extra money, according to the complaint. ‚ÄúConvergEx brokerages sent customer trades on an unnecessary journey through its offshore affiliate so they could take extra fees behind customers‚Äô backs,‚Äù Stephen L. Cohen, associate director of the SEC‚Äôs Division of Enforcement, said in a statement. ¬† The full SEC complaint can be found here ¬ª¬† We are waiting for the Justice Department's complaint.
Oracle reported non-GAAP revenue of $9.28 billion and adjusted earnings per share of 69 cents. That's a beat on profit. Analysts expected Oracle to report adjusted earnings of 67 cents a share, up from 64 cents in the year-earlier quarter and revenue basically flat at $9.18 billion. New software licenses and cloud software were essentially flat, and that's not good. But hardware, Oracle's problem child, did relatively well, shrinking only 3%. Some analysts were expecting hardware to decline as much as 13%. Oracle had said that it would shrink between 1% and 11%. It's good that Oracle exceeded expectations this quarter because it missed revenue expectations for the previous three quarters in a row. Oracle president Mark Hurd has been rejiggering Oracle's famous sales force for more than two years now, doing things like changing sales territories and hiring college grads to increase sales. So far, these efforts haven't stirred the hoped-for growth, so this is a good sign. Here's the relevant parts of the press release.
Flickr / Federal ReserveThe first Federal Reserve Board of Governors, 1914.The Federal Reserve sent shockwaves through the markets by unexpectedly announcing a tapering of its quantitative easing program. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.The FOMC just delivered the long-awaited first reduction in the pace of asset purchases the Federal Reserve makes under its quantitative easing program known as QE3. This came as a surprise to many, but markets are taking it in stride ó stocks are higher while both short-term and long-term interest rates are lower in the wake of the release of the decision. Reactions are coming in from Wall Street strategists, many of whom predicted that the FOMC would hold off on "tapering" until its January or March meeting. Below is a sampling of their responses to tapering. Alan Ruskin, Deutsche Bank:†"This statement tends to elevate the importance of the inflation rate in decision making should it be meaningfully undershooting target, which is very constructive for risky assets.†Other important changes include:† the FOMC forecast dots have shifted to a median of 0.75% fed funds at the end of 2015, the median on ëthe dotsí the 2016 is down 25bps to 1.75%.†Taking the above, this is a very dovish taper-lite where the Fed has done its utmost to provide an offset with its forward guidance, notably on the inclusion of inflation in the unemployment threshold. ††This has clearly tempered the interest rate response which is exactly what they would have wanted.† Risk has responded positively almost immediately, which should be ample vindication that the Fed should not have waited, and fears of a negative impact on financial conditions were exaggerated.† The action today finally gets the uncertainty of when they would taper out the way which is another helpful factor for risk. The fed fund futures curve has barely budged, and even the shape of the curve has shown little change suggesting the Fedís balancing act was largely priced in. †Risky assets are now seen remaining robust into year-end." Steven Englander, Citi:†"The Fed statement is being viewed as a very dovish tapering ñ small reduction in purchases, indication weakening of unemployment trigger, UR trigger now conditional on inflation, no date for end. In some ways the key may be the absence of an end-date to tapering ñ from a markets perspective it pushes out the date of any possible rate hike. In addition they lowered the lower bound of some of the core inflation forecasts, which may reinforce the low rates guidance.†Even the 30-40 percent of the market that were looking for a March and beyond tapering seems to be satisfied by the comfort that the Fed is offering...Overall risk friendly ó investors seem to have gotten over their fear of tapering and the surprise may be how irrelevant currency fundamentals are when the news is that the alcohol content of the punch bowl is being reduced so gently after so much spiking that no one even notices.†Overall it looks as if the short-end of the rates curve is anchored low enough for long enough for risk to be bought. There may be some hiccups on the way (and some take profit/closing of positions), but this is as gentle a tapering as anyone could have expected." Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ:†"What the heck, the stock market likes it, up 184 points. Tapering was supposed to hurt stocks, morphine drip and all that nonsense. Why is the stock market embracing QE tapering today? They are still buying $75 billion each month of course, but also perhaps doing better because the Fed watered it down. They changed some other rules of the game. They tried to tell us that interest rates will go up very slowlyÖ if at all. They inserted a line near the end of the FOMC statement saying it is likely that it will be appropriate to keep short-term rates at zero 'well past' the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6.5%, especially if inflation is below its 2% target. As you recall, they had been saying they would sit down to talk about lifting interest rates when unemployment fell to 6.5%.†Net net, the Fed bit the bullet and tapered QE by $10 billion today, but they are still buying $75 billion per month. At this rate, they might be stringing out the QE exit and cut $10 billion per month for the next 7 or 8 meetings. We hope not. The big news today is trying to tell the market they would keep rates at zero 'well past' the unemployment rate hitting 6.5%." Eric Green, TD Securities: "The FOMC tapered asset purchases by $10B with a reduction in both $5B in Treasuries and $5B in MBS to take shape in January. There was only one dissent for this action (Rosengren) which demonstrates more agreement than was the case when Bernanke launched operation Twist. We knew the Fed was eager to move beyond a buying program that had become increasingly anachronistic within an economy no longer in re-hab, and we also knew they had all the economic justification to do so in December. That they chose to move one meeting earlier than expected, and at a time when the prevailing view was not December, demonstrates a level of confidence in the outlook that has now found its way more forcefully into the post meeting statement.†Forward guidance received a face lift, but no more and on balance remains as fuzzy as ever. This is consistent with our view that whatever changes would be made would be more qualitative than quantitative." Michael Gapen, Barclays:†"Notably, in our view, the December statement said risks to the growth outlook are ìnearly balancedî, which is a fairly strong shift from the previous language solely focused on downside risks in prior statements. Altogether, the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that, in our view, reduces the likelihood of fiscal brinkmanship, appeared to play an important role in the December decision, just as the pending federal government shutdown and debt ceiling debate posed in September when the committee did not alter its policy stance.†We did believe that the committee would strengthen its forward guidance if it decided to taper, particularly given the sharp fall in the unemployment rate in recent months. We read the December statement as imposing a 'soft' inflation floor in its policy rate guidance. The statement says the committee 'anticipates' that it will keep the policy rate within its current target range 'well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committeeís 2 percent longer-run goal.' This is not as strong as saying the committee will refrain from raising rates until its inflation projections are at or above their longer-run target, but it does provide more guidance that the committee is prepared to let the unemployment rate drift lower if inflation remains subdued." Andrew Wilkinson, Miller Tabak: "The Fed shaved $5 billion from each of its bond purchase programs and so announced the onset of tapering at two-times the pace we had anticipated. Within the statement there is little change in the tone ñ unemployment remains elevated but is improving, while the restraint from fiscal policy maybe diminishing. Inflation remains stable. With ongoing policy accommodation the Fed expects to witness growth pick-up from its recent pace and for unemployment to gradually decline consistent with its dual mandate. Risks to the economic outlook are more balanced it noted. A Pyrrhic victory for those who feared inflation was a reason to hold off from tapering ó the FOMC noted that inflation persistently below its 2% objective could pose risks to economic performance. Its focus is on watching for signs of an expected return to target." Emad Mostaque, Noah Capital Markets:†"It is clear that they donít expect inflation to now exceed 2% before 2017 (central tendency), with unemployment at ~5.5% by then, not too different from now and not sufficient to stoke inflation (I think the NAIRU is now closer to 4%, but obviously employment is odd as the participation rate may increase as we head toward it).†This leaves us in a curious position wherein 2% inflation suddenly becomes a floor/target for hiking and we are likely stuck at ZIRP unless we see a mighty capex-led US recovery (unlikely in my opinion).†Any hits to the bullish view of the market on the US will push down long rates further as the reality of the Fed holding its hands up and admitting thereís not much else they can do for employment kicks in, making me comfortable with my 1% long-term target on the US 10 year given I believe current economic projections are overly optimistic in assuming continued rises in corporate margins and incorrect inferences from key data points."
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidFormer SAC Capital trader Michael Steinberg was found guilty of insider trading in shares of tech stocks Dell and Nvidia. Steinberg, who worked at SAC subsidiary Sigma Capital, was found guilty on all five counts (one conspiracy, four securities fraud), CNBC's Kate Kelly reported. He faces up to 85 years in federal prison, according to CNBC's Kelly. Before the guilty verdict came out, Steinberg fainted in the courtroom, according to Reuters.¬† SAC Capital, the $14 billion Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by Steve Cohen, was criminally indicted this summer on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund¬†"with criminal responsibility for insider trading¬†offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by¬†institutional practices that encouraged the widespread¬†solicitation and use of illegal inside information." Former SAC portfolio manager Matthew Martoma, who¬†fainted on his front lawn when the FBI showed up, has a trial coming up for insider trading. ¬†He has been¬†charged with using non-public drug trial information¬†to trade in shares of pharmaceutical companies Elan and Wyeth.
Via CNNCNN's senior investigative producer Scott Zamost uncovered some home videos of the real life "Wolf Of Wall Street" during his hard partying days.† Jordan Belfort (a.k.a. "The Wolf") is the author of a tell-all memoir chronicling his boozy, drug fueled high-flying Wall Street lifestyle running a 90s-era boiler room Stratton Oakmont.† The book has been adapted into a movie directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Leonardo DiCaprio. It debuts on Christmas Day. †You can check out a review here from Business Insider's Linette Lopez.† In the meantime, CNN's Zamost has a bunch of video clips of the real Belfort partying it up in the Hamptons and on his yacht. †Belfort called it "Adult Disney Land for dysfunctional people."† 

Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Murky Earnings Landscape Is A Bigger Issue Than The Fed Taper (Gluskin Sheff)  The Fed just announced that it will taper asset purchases to a monthly rate of $75 billion from the current $85 billion pace. But Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg thinks there's a bigger market issue at hand."Never mind the Fed taper ‚Äî a much bigger issue, perhaps even obstacle, is the earnings landscape which has turned murky," Rosenberg said in a note ahead of the Fed announcement. This is in part because a record 94 S&amp;P 500 companies have issued earnings downgrades so far this quarter and only 12 have had positive pre-announcements. This 7.83x ratio is the worst in seven years.¬† Moreover, "the analyst earnings revision ratio is heading south (according to BAML data) ‚Äî down to 0.86x (positive to negative EPS revisions) in November from 0.90x in October, 0.91x in September and the nearby high of 1.11x in August," writes Rosenberg. "This is the lowest reading in seven months." Advisors Reveal Their Top Investment Ideas For 2014 (WealthManagement.com) Diana Britton at WealthManagement.com asked advisors for their top investment ideas for 2014. Here are five. 1. 3D printing ‚Äî Wohlers Associates expects sales of 3D printing products to grow to $10.8 billion by 2021, from $2.2 billion in 2012. 2. The Dogs of the Dow strategy ‚Äî¬† one would annually pick the 10 highest dividend-yielding stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Since yields move inverse to price, the strategy is a value and contrarian one." 3. Japan ‚Äî Some advisors think Japan will be the "next engine of growth" on the back of Abenomics, a three-pronged approach to countering deflation involving fiscal and monetary stimuli along with structural reforms. 4. Long volatility ‚Äî Betting on VIX options as the measure of volatility has been down in 2013. 5. Emerging Markets ‚Äî "Half the PE (price to earnings ratio) of the U.S. market and triple the growth rate,‚Äù said Jim Goodland, president of Securus Wealth Management. Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal The Most Important Charts Of The Year (Business Insider) Equity markets have stopped worrying about macro surprises, Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors told Business Insider. "The chart shows the prospective PE on developed world equities versus macro surprises in G10 (whether macro data are coming in above or below the Bloomberg consensus). I think the markets lost their sensitivity because of three words: 'whatever it takes'. We no longer worry that macro weakness will cue more systemic stress. In short, markets think we're back to normal. I don't think we are, but that's another story." Minack Advisors How Advisors Can Prepare For The Coming Less In Assets Under Management (The Wall Street Journal)  As baby boomers retire they will start to tap into their principals which will see assets under management (AUM) with many firms start to fall, writes Bob Glovsky, of Boston-based The Colony Group in a Wall Street Journal Column. But advisors can prepare for this by 1. Changing their revenue model, since many bill their clients based on AUM. Instead they can try switching to a flat fee. This "will insulate you both against the decumulation and also against market downturns because it does not rely on a percentage of AUM," he writes. 2. They should actively work on bringing in new clients. He suggest reaching out to different demographics because there still isn't a lot of diversity in their client base. Here's The Market Pattern That Repeats Whenever We Get A New Fed Chair (UBS)  Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen is expected to take over as Fed chair when Ben Bernanke steps down in the coming weeks. This transition usually sees gold prices rally faster than stocks, or stock prices fall faster than gold, according to Julian Emanuel at UBS. UBS
REUTERS/China Daily The Fed announced a taper and stocks are spiking. The Dow is up 275 points and the S&amp;P 500 is up 28 points. Gold is basically unchanged and bonds are now higher, with the yield on the 10-year at 2.89% (up 5 basis points from yesterday's close). The Fed will taper its asset purchasing program to a monthly rate of $75 billion from the current $85 billion pace, the FOMC just announced. Click here for our full breakdown of the Fed's surprise decision ¬ª
REUTERS/Jason ReedThe Federal Open Market Committee just announced the first reduction (a.k.a. "tapering") of the pace of monthly bond purchases the Federal Reserve makes under its quantitative easing program known as QE3. This comes as a bit of a surprise, but markets are taking it in stride ó stocks and bonds are actually trading higher in the wake of the decision. Ben Bernanke just held his final press conference as chairman of the Fed. Below is our live blog. --------------------- 2:33 PM:†Bernanke is reading his opening remarks. He says the FOMC sees job growth continuing based on recent data. 2:36:†Bernanke says the future course of asset purchases will be deliberate and based on incoming information. 2:38:†Bernanke says the Committee believes it will be necessary to keep short-term interest rates low "well past the time" when the unemployment rate falls below 6.5%. 2:40:†Bernanke begins taking questions. 2:41:†Bernanke says his expectation is that similar moderate steps will be taken in 2014 in terms of reducing the rate of asset purchases the Fed makes under quantitative easing. 2:46: Bernanke says he consulted closely with incoming Fed chairman Janet Yellen, who "fully supports" the decisions the FOMC took today. 2:48:†Bernanke says it's difficult to get inflation to move quickly to target, although the Fed is committed to do what is necessary to move it back to target in the coming years. 2:52: Bernanke says even as the Committee meets its goals in terms of labor market improvement, the lack of inflation still remains "more than a bit of a concern." 2:56: Bernanke says the leadership transition at the Fed did not play into the FOMC's decision regarding when to begin tapering asset purchases. 3:00:†Bernanke says the reduction in the pace of asset purchases is not intended to be a tightening as it is offset with enhanced forward guidance. 3:02:†Bernanke says the FOMC has other things it can do to modify forward guidance in order to ramp up stimulus again if necessary. 3:07: In answering why job growth has not been stronger in recent years, Bernanke says, "People don't appreciate how tight fiscal policy has been." 3:34: Bernanke says a lot of the decline in the labor force participation rate is demographic or structural, reflecting changing sociological trends. 3:37:†Press conference concludes.
Bernanke just made a very important statement, as proved by the fact that everyone on Twitter tweeted it at the same time. @richardhw According to Bernanke, the economy still sucks because there's been so little government spending.† This of course stuns a lot of people who think there's been TONS of government spending. But there hasn't been. Last week Justin Wolfers tweeted this chart showing that the pace of government spending growth is WAY slower than it has been in past recoveries. †Justin Wolfers And then there's this chart from Calculated Risk, showing how public sector employment is way down compared to other recoveries. Calculated Risk Now you can debate why this is. A lot of the austerity is at the state level. But the point is, the trajectory of public sector spending and employment is much lower than it normally is after a recession.
Mario Tama / Getty ImagesCiti currency analyst Steven Englander explains why the market surged on the news that the Fed will scale back its pace of asset purchases. Here's the sentence, and then below, the explanation: The Fed Statement is being viewed as a very dovish tapering ñ small reduction in purchases, indication weakening of unemployment trigger, UR trigger now conditional on inflation, no date for end. So let's break down what that means: -- The reduction in purchases is very small. -- The Fed has said in the past that it would not consider raising rates until the unemployment rate fell to 6.5% but today the language is indicating that they'll wait until unemployment falls significantly below that before they consider raising rates. -- The Fed will not raise rates as long as inflation is super-low. -- There's no target date to ending QE, even though the taper has begun. That's why the Dow is up 200. For LIVE coverage of Bernanke explaining his decision, see here.
When the Turkish stock market dives 5.2% like it did yesterday, it drags the world down with it. Of course, it dragged down the iShares MSCI Turkey ETF (which also fell 5%),† but it also dragged down the iShares MSCI emerging markets ETF by almost 1%. This is something to watch, as it appears the fall was caused by factors that aren't going away any time soon. Turkey's tumble was caused by political factors, a battle between Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and his new opposition, lead by a cleric in self imposed exile named Fethullah Gulen. Despite the fact that he's been living in Pennsylvania since 1999, Gulen is the country's most powerful Muslim cleric. This week, *Gulen's supporters arrested at least 22 of Erdogan's high-powered alleged supporters. This includes the children of three of his cabinet ministers, construction magnate Ali Agaoglu, and Suleyman Aslan, the CEO of state-owned lender Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB). Halk Bankasi shares plunged 9% from the beginning of the month as a result. The problem here is that the Gulen v. Erdogan showdown is just coming to a head now, though it's been brewing for some time. The two leaders are from the same Muslim AKP party, which rose to power in 2002. Together, they helped take power away from the army, but since then Gulen has become more moderate. During this summer's violent protests he was especially critical of the government. In recent weeks, members of the AKP party have defected out of loyalty to Gulen as well. Erdogan, for his part, has accused Gulen and his supporters of creating a "parallel state" within Turkey. So if the Prime Minister means what he said, this battle isn't over. *A Gulenist owned paper now puts the number of arrests at 52, and he has denied involvement in the arrests, high-level Turkish officials have said that it's hard to dispute the cleric's control of the police force.
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWarren Buffett made about $37 million a day in 2013. Many familiar faces make an appearance on Wealth-X's list of the billionaires who made the most money this year.¬† Businessmen like Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, who have dominated wealth rankings for years, continued to add billions of dollars to their already sizable fortunes.¬† Here's the full list, ranked by billions made from January 1 to December 11, 2013:¬† The corporate raider had a big year after bets on Netflix and Herbalife yielded Icahn Capital Management $800 million and $500 million profits, respectively. He tweeted his thanks to Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and Kevin Spacey, star of the streaming service's hit show, "House of Cards."¬† The founder of Galaxy Entertainment Group became Asia's second-richest man in 2013 as gambling revenue grew at a record pace in Macau. Lui is looking to expand his flagship casino in the city's Cotai area, which is known by many as the Asian version of the Las Vegas Strip.¬† Google's co-founder and CEO made $3 billion in 24 hours when Google stocks hit an all-time high in October, breaking $1,000 for the first time. Android became the world's most popular operating system, running on 43% of the globe's smartphones. Brin, Google co-founder and head of special projects with Google X, made $2.9 billion in the October stock surge. As of December 11, Brin is worth an estimated $30 billion, a 4.8% percent increase over the year.¬† The founder of Softbank, Asia's top Internet and telecommunications corporation, lost $70 billion in the dotcom crash, but¬†he's surging back in a big way. The¬†purchase of Sprint and a large investment in¬†Finnish game-maker Supercell¬†are highlights in a year that saw Son's personal net worth more than double, growing from $8.8 billion to $19.1 billion.¬† Facebook stock hit an all-time high in October, and¬†revenue continues to grow¬†despite questions about the longevity of the product.¬† The founder and CEO of Amazon, which made¬†$17.1 billion in net sales¬†in the third quarter,¬†raised some eyebrows when he bought the Washington Post for $250 million this summer. According to Wealth-X, the casino mogul's personal net worth grew to an estimated $35.3 billion this year thanks to profits from his gambling properties in Las Vegas, Macau, and Singapore.¬† The world's wealthiest man ended the year with a personal net worth of $72.6 billion, up nearly 19% from $61.1 billion in 2012.¬† Berkshire Hathaway's CEO personally made about $37 million a day in 2013, a year that saw the company's acquisition of Heinz ¬†and Nevada's NV Energy.¬†
IMDB / Rambo IIHere's an important point that's inspired by a few tweets from our friend Josh Brown. In announcing the beginning of the reduction of Quantitative Easing ‚Äî which Bernanke just did ‚Äî he just slapped in the face all of the doomers, gloomers, and policy bears who said the Fed could never reduce the pace of QE and that we were permanently trapped in a world of Fed stimulus. But the economy is getting better, interest rates AREN'T exploding to the upside, and the stock market is more than handling this well (stocks are up nicely). Basically Bernanke just executed what a bunch of people said was totally impossible. The Fed's actions aren't over yet. Quantitative Easing is an ongoing process, and then at some point the Fed will have to raise rates. But the process of exiting the crisis strategy is proceeding apace.
flickr / Gage SkidmoreBy now you know that the Fed just started the dreaded "taper" but if you're normal, you have no idea what that means. So let us explain. In normal times, the Fed cuts interest rates to stimulate the economy. During the Financial Crisis, the Fed was forced to cut rates to basically zero to get the economy going again. But that wasn't enough! Unemployment remains way too high. So the Fed has used new unusual tools to stimulate the economy since it can't cut rates below zero. One of the big tools is called Quantitative Easing, which is purchasing of government bonds and mortgage bonds, in an effort to depress long-term interest rates and get liquidity into the market. This is how the Fed stimulates the economy since it can't cut rates. The Fed has done a few rounds of Quantitative Easing since the crisis, but the latest has been open ended, meaning the Fed buys $85 billion worth of assets every month. And the Fed has indicated that it would not stop buying until the economy strengthened significantly. We've gotten a nice kick of strong data lately (good jobs numbers, falling unemployment, solid housing and manufacturing data) and the Fed feels it can start to ease back on the pace of asset purchases. They're not ending Quantitative Easing, they're just reducing it barely. From now on it will only purchase $75 billion worth of assets per month. That's the taper. At some point in 2014 most likely it will end it totally. And at some point much after that, maybe in 2015 or 2016 the Fed will actually hike rates. So what does this mean for you? Not much really. It won't have much of an impact on mortgage rates at this point, because it was all expected. Also because the Fed plans to keep interest rates very low for a very long time. The stock market is rallying on the news because again, this was basically baked in. The main thing is that the Fed has started the path toward getting back to normal policy, where it's not buying a bunch of assets each month, and instead guiding policy by trying to adjust interest rates.
The Fed lowered its unemployment forecast for 2014, to 6.3%-6.6% from 6.4%-6.8%. This is important because the Fed has tied potential rate cuts to an unemployment target of 6.5%. They also cut the unemployment forecast 10 bps for 2013, to 7.0% from 7.1%.¬† They also hiked GDP forecasts 20 bps, to a range of 2.2-2.3, from 2.0-2.3. And they reiterated inflation wouldn't hit their 2.0% target until 2015 at the earliest. Here's the table: Federal Reserve And the charts: Federal ReserveFederal ReserveFederal ReserveFederal ReserveFederal Reserve
REUTERS/Jason ReedThey tapered.The December FOMC decision is out. The Fed will taper asset purchases to a monthly rate of $75 billion from the current $85 billion pace. Half of the reduction is in Treasury purchases and half of the reduction is in purchases of mortgage-backed securities. However, the FOMC did not modify its forward guidance, leaving the unemployment rate threshold for the first rate hike at 6.5%. The Committee also released updated Staff Economic Projections. The central tendency for its 2014 unemployment rate forecast is now 6.3-6.6%, down from 6.4-6.8%.¬† Next up is Ben Bernanke's final press conference as chairman of the Federal Reserve, beginning at 2:30 PM. We will have LIVE coverage here. Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª Below is the full text of the statement. Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October indicates that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown further improvement; the unemployment rate has declined but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, while the recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat in recent months. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint may be diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will pick up from its recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having become more nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment since the inception of its current asset purchase program, the Committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions over that period as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions, the Committee decided to modestly reduce the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in January, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $40 billion per month rather than $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. The Committee also reaffirmed its expectation that the current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to 1/4 percent will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee now anticipates, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Charles L. Evans; Esther L. George; Jerome H. Powell; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Eric S. Rosengren, who believes that, with the unemployment rate still elevated and the inflation rate well below the federal funds rate target, changes in the purchase program are premature until incoming data more clearly indicate that economic growth is likely to be sustained above its potential rate. Statement Regarding Purchases of Treasury Securities and Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities (200 KB PDF)
Reuters/KCNA KCNAThe execution of Kim Jong-un's uncle-in-law,¬†Jang Song Thaek, has been seen as a "confirmation of an ongoing power struggle in Pyongyang," according to Alastair Newton, Nomura's senior political analyst. While jitters out of North Korea are quite common, Newton believes that the risk of a market-moving incident has increased. The publicity around the execution is, internally, expected to drive home the idea that Kim Jong-un is in control. But there have been reports that indoctrination sessions have increased and people have been required to write letters of support and loyalty to Kim. Newton thinks that ever since private markets were reinstated, there's more information about the world trickling into North Korea and there are concerns about a grass roots uprising. This along with Jang's execution, which has certainly unsettled even the privileged, explains why Kim wants more loyalty. Based on all of this, it does seem like Kim is more in control today. "But I still think regime instability is a significant concern, which is likely to prove persistent," writes Newton. The regime also faces external pressures from the U.S. and China to wind down its nuclear weapons programs. And South Korean president Park Geun-hye has said the current situation is "grave and unpredictable," and is calling for more border vigilance. Tensions are expected to increase ahead of the upcoming joint South Korea/U.S. military exercises and the birth anniversary of Kim il-Sung when North Korea likes to demonstrate its military prowess. "[T]he already non-negligible risk of a potentially market-moving incident (or incidents) into the New Year has probably increased," wrote Newton. In the long term he thinks the Korean peninsula "looks likely to become an increasingly dangerous place."
Wolf of Wall Street trailerLast night, The Wolf Of Wall Street premiered in New York City and Business Insider got to check it out. There's no question that it's an epic film in terms of scale, but at times it gets so lost in itself ó in the debauchery, the opulence, and the excess ó that it forgets that the audience is watching a story. And stories need to move at a steady clip. That isn't to say that 'Wolf of Wall Street' isn't enjoyable, it is, but there are few times when you feel that director Martin Scorsese is so obsessed with re-creating the world of the wolf, that the story of main character Jordan Belfort suffers. Belfort, played by Leonard DiCaprio, is a kid from Queens with big dreams of making it on Wall Street. He starts working at Rothschilds in 1987 where he meets his first boss, played by Matthew McConaughey. In one of the first scenes, McConauhey takes the young, innocent Belfort to lunch at Windows of the World and explains Wall Street to him. It is during that speech that you realize that this movie is 2/3rd brilliant comedy. McConaughey†is perfect. The way he explains Wall Street money as a fantasy, its salesmen as crooked soldiers, and its clients as idiots, is incredibly hilarious and more importantly, accurate. That is the speech that turned Belfort into a wolf. When the stock market crashes on Black Monday, he goes to work for a hole-in-the-wall Long Island penny stock firm. That's where the wolf learns to hunt. It's how he learns he can sell anything to anyone if he lies, and that he can teach anyone else to do it too. It's how the scam, his firm Stratton-Oakmont, is born. That first hour in which Belfort finds his band of merry menaces, builds his firm, and becomes a debauched adulterating drug addict is incredibly funny. It moves fast, and Jonah Hill's character, Danny Azoff, steals the show. Hill's voice is perfect, his prosthetic teeth are perfect, and like McConaughey's†character, you an see the greed on his face. It's human and it's honest. This is where Scorsese shines. The movie is a lot like 'Goodfellas'. DiCaprio speaks to the camera with the same intensity as Ray Liotta, though he's got way better clothes. Scorsese, for his part, captures the dynamic of Stratton-Oakmont's close criminals so well that it feels like you're part of the family. That sense of family gets complicated in the next hour, as you see Belfort go completely nuts. He leaves his wife for a Long Island princess named Naomi, played by Margot Robbi, who matches (if not surpasses) DiCaprio's intensity. The lady is really seductive, and so is Belfort's life. Yachts, cars, having sex on piles of money, crazy private planes to Vegas, tons and tons of drugs. It's all there. This is where Scorsese can lose us. It's clear that he wants to capture every moment of Belfort's spiral. The film smacks of a morality play. As Belfort loses control, the story slows down. As such, the movie was long, long, long. A bunch of scenes should have been cut, especially because there are two major things that the movie was missing. First, the victims. There were people that lost their life savings with Stratton-Oakmont, and they were nowhere to be found in the film. This makes it hard to see Belfort as the true criminal that he was. Second, Belfort had mob ties. The mob is Scorsese's wheelhouse, so it's a wonder that the connection didn't make it into the film. Could've been fun, as fun as his spot-on presentation of a shady Swiss banker ó as fun as the porn star facial hair on Belfort's drug dealing high school friend. All in all though, the film is a party, and not just because of the drugs and debauchery. It's because the movie sounds like a party ó the soundtrack brings back Jock Jams mix CDs and Limelight club anthems. Plus Leonardo DiCaprio can dance. Go ahead brother. GO. AHEAD.†
Flickr via JDLasicaEvan SpiegelThere's an oft-cited study out there that says money†does buy you happiness ó but only up until a certain point.†It says that after you make $75,000 per year, increasing your income is not going to make you any "happier." But the truth about wealth and happiness is more complicated than any study can say. Take the case of Evan Spiegel, the 23-year-old CEO of a startup called Snapchat. Last month, the Wall Street Journal and others reported that Spiegel turned down a $3 billion acquisition offer from Facebook.†When people read these reports, they thought Spiegel was crazy. But here's the thing.†Spiegel comes from a wealthy family. His dad lives in one of the most expensive neighborhoods in the Los Angeles area. Also, Spiegel was able to sell some of his stock in Snapchat to investors for millions of dollars. So the fact is, when he turned down Facebook's $3 billion offer, Spiegel was not saying "no" to being rich.†He was already rich twice over. And what did that money ó his father's and his own ó buy him?†It bought him a relatively risk-free chance to spend the rest of his life running a global technology company. It bought him a pursuit. Having a pursuit that means something to you is not the same thing as having happiness, but it's something like it that can't quite be quantified in a study. Many people in the tech industry know that, and appreciate Spiegel's decision. Not everyone, though. One tech executive I met with last week shook his head in bewilderment when Snapchat came up. He said that Spiegel was "taking food out of the mouths of generations of Spiegels." Obviously, the topic of wealth and its relationship to happiness is complicated and conversations about it are laced with judgement.†And that's why it so fascinating to read a thread they have on Quora where rich people are answering the question: "What does it feel like to be financially rich?" Here are some of the most candid thoughts from the thread. Some of them are heart-warming. Some are brutally honest. Some are very surprising. Screenshot/YouTube"Happiness has mostly to do with relationships and the quality thereof." "I don't believe very much in the hedonics argument about wealth - that the more you have, the more money you need to maintain a certain level of happiness. Happiness has mostly to do with relationships and the quality thereof. I doubt that it's a metric that can be measured effectively by economists to come to a conclusion." ó†J.C. Hewitt "[Being rich] feels like all the other blessings we have in life when times are tough - we know that they are blessings, strive not to take the for granted, but can forget we're blessed when we're feeling down. It's like having a beautiful kid of a wonderful spouse or great parents. And for me, at least, I can say with absolute certainty it has not made me any happier." ó Rick Webb, COO Barbarian Group "I thought, if I †could make 10 million dollars then it must be too easy. In fact, I honestly thought, everyone else had probably already made 11 million dollars. So then I felt poor again. I now needed 100 million dollars to be happy." ó James Altucher "After she attained what she thought was success, [my mother] was diagnosed with Stage IV cancer. She spent the days up until her death regretting almost all the choices she made and beat herself up day after day. One of her last journal entries included reflections on how unappreciative she was with the things in front of her, and finally realizing happiness does not lie within superficial matters a little too late." ó†Mona Nomura †"Rich people are prone to all the same maladies and emotions as anyone else, and at the same frequency. And certainly, in some cases, money itself can cause stress and unhappiness.†But, with one difference -- if you're unhappy and rich, you have money. And money buys creature comforts." ó Steven Kane Shutterstock"After a few months of wealth you will eventually get used to it and become the same person that you are now."After a few months of wealth you will eventually get used to it and become the same person that you are now." ó†Balraj Chana "Socially, the life of someone who makes a lot of money is probably not what you expect. The "rich" on television are usually old money of some kind. The working rich pretty much have to devote their lives to work. At many points, my dad was working and traveling for twelve months out of the year. I think when my sister was born, he was literally commuting between NYC and Z¸rich five days out of every seven."†ó J.C. Hewitt "It feels good when you break your own money making records and look at the rest of the world like retards. It's good to defeat the system and money helps you do that." ó Anonymous. "Life is effortless for the rich. Just by being who you are, perhaps 99% of the world will hop-to and accord you respect that you don't deserve. Even the stupidest and most illiterate rich person can be showered with respect and praise." "Having grown up as a child in a family which can be described as old money, and having since then lived in humbling circumstances, I can say for sure that families from old money treat their children like gods. When I was little, I used to take kids aside and explain to them that I was indeed God. 'Psssst, you know I'm God, right?'†Obviously that feeling has left me, but it hasn't left my father, who used to tell me that we have blue blood. He now sits in his room in a constant depression, and is the most miserable person I know." ó†Igor Atakhanov "†My life has less risk. †If I'm ever ill, I go to the best doctor. †If I want to invest in real estate, I can afford to lose the investment without effect to my lifestyle. †I can have 5 kids and know that each of them will go to college." ó Josh Kerr "When you've achieved all material goals, you startup asking yourself, is this it? And then if you're a truly ambitious individual, with some care for what the world could be you start asking yourself, what next, how can I change the world? That's where I'm at at this point." ó Anonymous
Ben Bernanke is expected to step down as Chairman of the Federal Reserve within the next few weeks. And he's expected to be replaced by current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. According to UBS's Julian Emanuel, the first few months of a new Fed Chair's term are marked by a very specific type of volatility in the markets. Specifically, gold prices will rally faster than stocks or stocks will fall faster than gold. It happened with Arthur Burns, Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan, and Ben Bernanke. "If history is a guide, the markets will test Yellen's leadership and communication skills in short order," writes Emanuel. "There is no honeymoon." Gold is often considered a proxy for investors concerns. Not everyone agrees with this idea. Still, it's an interesting pattern to ponder. UBS
AP Photo The U.S. attracts the most immigrant inventors of any country, and it's another reason to be bullish about the economy, according to U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan. "Think of these people as best in class, the top brains of their respective country. They are restless, driven to create value, and at the forefront of incubating/spawning new companies or industries," Quinlan writes to clients. "They are smart and mobile, and on the move to one country in particular: the United States." Canada, Australia, and Singapore outrank the U.S. in terms of international migrants as a percentage of total population, but the U.S. has 57.1% of the world's immigrant inventor community,¬†according to¬†World Intellectual Property Organization data. And other countries don't even come close. Quinlan answers why: Think world renowned universities, notably those strong in R&amp;D. America‚Äôs entrepreneurial eco-system is another draw, with Silicon Valley long a magnet to the world‚Äôs best and brightest. The U.S.‚Äô lead in innovation and technological advancements is yet another force pulling inventors to America;¬†ditto for America‚Äôs respect for intellectual property rights, world-class standard of living, internet freedoms and pursuit of the American dream, or the potential for unfathomable wealth. Here's the global breakdown: U.S. TrustQuinlan also notes that the number of international students enrolled in U.S. universities has never been higher, which bodes well for future immigrant-operated but U.S.-based inventions. U.S. Trust
Bitcoin is down 25% in the past 24 hours on USD exchanges, to an average of $559. As a result, redditors decided to perform a public service by†"stickying" ó artificially boosting the profile of ó a post linking to a suicide hotline phone number. This is also the No. 5 post on reddit overall. Check it out: reddit
Business Insider/Matthew BoeslerHere they are:†the most important charts of the year.† We asked our favorite portfolio managers, strategists, analysts, and economists across the Street for the charts that they deem the most important right now, and this is what they sent us. Much of the focus is on the 10-year Treasury yield ó where does it go, and what is the read-across for other financial markets around the globe? Many are focused on the stock market as well, the consensus being that indices will rise to new highs again in 2014. But there are a lot of other things going on as well.
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen LovekinLast night was the New York City premiere of the highly-anticipated film, "The Wolf Of Wall Street."† The movie is an adaptation of Jordan Belfort's best-selling tell-all memoir that chronicles his boozy, drug-fueled hard-partying lifestyle as a Wall Street hustler running a 90s-era boiler room.† The film stars†Leonardo DiCaprio, Margot Robbie Matthew McConaughey†and Jonah Hill. It's directed by Martin Scorsese.† Business Insider's Linette Lopez got to see it†last night and has a review of the film. We've also included photos from the red carpet in the slides that follow.†
UBS71% predicted tapering would begin in September. They were wrong.All eyes will be on the Federal Reserve at 2:00 p.m. ET today as it ends its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. The big question on everyone's mind: will the Fed announce a tapering of its quantitative easing program. The consensus expects the Fed to announce tapering in March. However, there are almost as many people who think it could happen today. (See the right side of the chart) Basically, there's no consensus. And don't forget, almost every economist on Wall Street expected the Fed to taper back in September, but they were wrong. (See the left side of the chart.) In other words, economists are not very good at this. Here's UBS with a quick rundown of the evolving expectations: Surveys show that March is considered by economists to be the most likely timeframe for a taper (39%), with a sizable percentage of economists anticipating a taper announcement at the December meeting (33%). (Tuesdayís reported 0.2%m/m gain in the core CPI lends support to our forecast for a taper announcement to occur at the Jan FOMC instead of March.) In the immediate aftermath of the non-taper in September (where 71% of economists expected a taper), the vast majority of economists shifted their call to the December meeting. (See chart on following page.) Since that initial shift, there has been a gradual erosion of that view in favor of a later taper, as Fed officials attempted to explain their lack of action. The recent strong payroll report caused a reversal some of that trend. Some economists argue that any discussion of tapering is incomplete without a discussion about forward guidance. In other words, any survey about tapering expectations is pretty much pointless as it is incomplete. Regardless, the wait is almost over and we'll find out if if these 33% are right at 2:00 p.m. today.
Last night Martin Scorsese's 'Wolf of Wall Street' came home, and premiered at the Ziegfeld Theater in New York City. I went. Let me premise this review by saying that I don't go to these things ó these Hollywood glitterati everyone-hold-your-breath-there's-Leo things. These suck-it-in-you're-on-the-red-carpet-now-smile things. But I had a killer, killer time. It wasn't hard. The crowd was positive, the movie ó the story of a crooked Wall Streeter and his opulent rise and ugly fall ó had chops (though I'll get to my qualms in a moment), and the after party was fun. The movie started early, at 6:00 pm. This may have something to do with the fact that it is about three hours long (a problem). I had one drink before the film started rolling. I wish I'd had two, as I skipped the red carpet anyway. And I recommend that all civilians (non-film) people do this. In skipping the red carpet I skipped the squealing, flashing, and crowding that more resembles Times Square traffic than an actual celebration. Plus, you get a good spot to watch people walk in and out of the theater. Those are the money sightings. Remember that. Now for the movie. The Wolf of Wall Street is the story of Jordan Belfort, a Queens kid turned penny stock hustler who made a fortune on Long Island in the 80s and 90s. The way Scorsese tells it, Belfort's firm, Stratton-Oakmont, was basically a non-stop orgy of greed, drugs, money and sex. Belfort's personal life was like that too. The first hour or so of the movie was hilarious. This was Belfort's rise ó his introduction to Wall Street and his A-Ha moment. The moment he realizes he can teach any idiots to sell stocks to idiots. The idiots he finds to do the selling are pitch perfect, especially Donnie Azoff (played by Jonah Hill in a perfect pair of prosthetic teeth). Some coke, crack and a ton of Quaaludes later Belfort is rich beyond belief and married to his second wife, a bombshell named Naomi, played by Margot Robbie. Both Robbie and Hill team up to steal the show from DiCaprio. He was good, yes. But they were better. If I had driven to the North Shore of Long Island directly after the movie and cut off a Escalade on the highway, it could easily have been Robbie and Hill flipping me off from the front seat as they drove away. That's how spot on they were. Plus, Bo Deedle played a private investigator in the movie, Fran Lebowitz had a cameo, and the soundtrack was full of 90s dance party tunes that had me thinking about MTV Jamz and In Living Color re-runs. There were some issues though. Belfort's real victims, the investors who lost money, were nowhere to be found. That made it harder to see how he was more than a degenerate, he was a criminal. He lied to people and took their money. That shouldn't be forgotten. Additionally, the movie was too long. I won't mention where I started to fidget in my seat ó I've already said much too much ó but (and I never thought I'd type this) maybe there was too much yachting. None of this, obviously, is what makes a premiere special, though. Anyone can see the movie in the theater. What's cool about the premiere is that a guy behind me whispered "hey, that's my pillow," during one of the scenes in Belfort's living room. The people that made the movie were there. They finally got to celebrate the furniture they donated, the money they spent, the actors they dressed ó what have you. That's what makes a premiere cool. You get to pretend you're part of the family. And after-parties. Those make it cool too. The Wolf Of Wall Street after-party was at the Roseland Ballroom in NYC. It's a venue that sees more "18-and-over" concerts than Hollywood blow-outs, but it looked great. The party was a mix of freezing girls in cocktail dresses dresses, New York City social royalty, film industry folk, and of course, the stars. Linette Lopez, Business InsiderThat's as close as I got to Leo. I don't have a death wish.Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese were there sitting at a table near the DJ. I didn't get close because they were mobbed, and it seemed like a lot of work. Like, real "cut through body guards, avoid the girl having a silent melt-down and don't spill your drink" work. The key to the after-party is not to spend your time stalking people, but to find a bar and post up. Everyone needs a drink, and in doing that you'll watch a lot of key people go by, like Kevin Connolly from Entourage (I've always had a soft spot for E, don't judge me). More importantly, try to go with an industry person who actually knows the people that made the event happen ó the planners, the media connectors, the sponsor finders. They are the silent force that moves this entire show along. The night in general was about that force. At a premiere, the movie is the icing, the celebration is the cake. Let them eat cake.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonThe price of Bitcoin has been getting clobbered over the last day as China continues to crack down on its use. The latest huge blow is that Bitcoin exchange BTC China announced that due to regulatory issues it could no longer accept deposits in Renminbi (the Chinese currency) which is a huge problem to say the least. Interestingly, BTC China had just raised $5 million in venture money back in November, so that is very bad timing. But this isn't the first time China has cracked down on bitcoins either. Earlier this month, the People's Bank of China told financial institutions not to accept bitcoins as legal tender.¬† At the time it said, "the warning is aimed at protecting the property rights of the public, safeguarding the Renminbi status as a fiat currency, preventing money laundering, and maintaining financial stability in China," according to Xinhua. So why would China want to crack down on Bitcoin? Simple: capital controls. China tightly regulates all the money flowing in and out of the country. You can't just bring a bunch of cash into the country, in part to prevent people from buying up the local currency (which is generally believed to be deliberately suppressed). And China makes it hard to get money out of the country as well. There are various ways currently that rich people do get their money out of Chinese banks and out of the borders. One popular way is through Macau. Rich people buy a bunch of gaming chips through seedy "junket operators." Then they go to Macau and gamble a bunch. Then they take what they have left, and exchange their chips into the local Macau currency, at which point they can deposit that money in a Macau bank, and voil√† the money is outside of the country. Bitcoin offered/offers an even quicker way to get your money out of the border. Buy 10,000 yuan work of bitcoins on a site like BTC China, transfer those bitcoins to a wallet outside of the country, and then sell those bitcoins in some new currency in a different country. Voil√†, your money is liberated! Of course there's also the arbitrage play which China isn't too happy about. For a while, Bitcoin was more expensive in dollar terms on BTC China than it was when traded abroad. This made it easy for traders to buy bitcoins using the greenback elsewhere and then selling them on BTC China for a profit. And remember when China reported a surge in exports in November there was some speculation that fake invoicing was back. So as long as China is going to restrict the way money flows across the border, there's no way they're going to tolerate bitcoin use in a large scale, since it enables transactions that can't easily be tracked and stopped. The more interesting question is whether Chinese regulations can actually stop bitcoin usage. Obviously restrictions will make it more difficult to use, but there are going to be all kinds of workarounds, even if financial institutions are prevented from dealing with bitcoin exchanges. The extent to which an even grayer bitcoin market emerges in China will be a big story to watch.
Flickr / Federal ReserveBoard of Governors meeting, January 1, 1922.A slew of strong better-than-expected economic data has economists increasing the odds that the Federal Reserve will announce the tapering its $85 billion quantitative easing program at the conclusion of its FOMC meeting on Wednesday December 18. "It's still a close call,† but chances are now above 50 percent that the Federal Reserve will modestly reduce its asset purchases later this month," said Potomac Research Group's Greg Valliere who was communicating the analysis of former Fed Vice Chair Don Kohn. "There's a 60-40 chance that the FOMC will decide on Dec. 18 to begin tapering." However, a December tapering announcement is not the consensus. Most economists don't expect a tapering announcement until January or March. Goldman Sachs' David Mericle explains three reasons why in a new 9-page note to clients. Mericle expects tapering to begin in March, "with January possible as well." As for the December FOMC meeting: "We expect modest changes to the economic forecasts. In light of recent data, participants will likely mark down their projections of inflation and the unemployment rate and mark up their growth projections slightly," wrote Mericle. Notable economists forecasting a tapering announcement include Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey and Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna.
ShutterstockWinter is an awful time for skin and hair. Lips get chapped, skin breaks out, and hair becomes static-y as it adjusts to the changing temperature and humidity. But it doesn't have to be this way. Here are seven simple beauty hacks that every guy should know. Even better, they all use common household products, so even if you don't end up liking one of the tricks at least you didn't spend $50 on a cream. So you're not supposed to pop pimples, but they're hard to ignore. If you do and the area becomes red and irritated before a big date or meeting, rub some redness-reducing eye drops on the area. The drops contain tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride, which helps get rid of redness fast. Just put some on a Q-Tip and apply it to the pimple. In the winter, it's not uncommon for people with fine hair to get static cling because of the dry air. One way to fight it is with a balm or hair gel, but if you're not into that sort of look (or ran out of product), you can also just take a dryer sheet and rub it onto your hair and brush. Easy. For those just on the verge of getting a huge pimple, rub some calamine lotion onto the area. It's ridiculously cheap, and dries up cystic acne very quickly (though it will dry out your skin too, so just make sure to moisturize after taking it off). If you're not using lip balm regularly ‚Äî and sometimes even if you are ‚Äî lips have a tendency to get chapped in the winter. Mix some olive oil with sugar (you can also use honey and sugar) in a small bowl to create a scrub, and gently massage it into your lips. Rinse off with warm water and finish with your favorite lip balm. Coconut oil has become the go-to product for beauty, health, and wellness enthusiasts. It's an amazing body lotion because it seals in natural moisture, and is naturally antibacterial and antifungal. Plus it smells amazing. You'll usually find the unrefined virgin variety in health food stores like Whole Foods (look in the cooking section) ‚Äî just make sure it's not hydrogenated, bleached, refined, or deodorized. We recommend Dr. Bronner's. When you haven't gotten enough sleep (or your face is puffy from drinking all night at a holiday party), wake up a little earlier than usual and put a cold pack over your eyes for 5-10 minutes. The cold will de-puff your face, and help you look more alert than you actually feel. The number one reason your face can look haggard during the winter is because of all the dead skin cells that accumulate. To make your skin look fresh, you should scrub your face with an exfoliant, such as baking soda. It's coarse, but not too coarse, so it will get rid of the top layer of dead skin cells without irritating skin. Combine a teaspoon of baking soda with water and massage into skin before rinsing off with warm water. And don't forget to moisturize afterwards.
Reddit user sverdrupian has posted an amazing, 73-year-old map showing what the world looked like from the view of Standard Oil. By 1940, the Standard Oil trust created by John D. Rockefeller had been long broken up into "baby standards." The largest one ‚Äî and the biggest producer in the world ‚Äî remained registered in New Jersey but was headquartered at the Standard Oil Building in Manhattan. The map is distorted to emphasize important areas.¬† There are a bunch of neat things going on: sverdrupian/reddit
In the US, demographic changes are having a significant impact on income distribution. Most significantly, in my opinion, is that for the first time ever, the number of single people in America is almost equal to the number of married ones. Let‚Äôs review the stats, which are released monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the employment report:  (1) During November, there were 124.1 million married persons and 122.5 million singles who were 16 years old or older. The percentage of singles in the total adult population (16+ years old) rose from 37.7% at the start of 1977 to 49.7% now.  (2) The adult population that has never been married rose to a record high of 74.5 million during November, accounting for 30.2% of the adult population, up from 22.4% at the start of 1977.  (3) The adult population that is divorced, separated, and widowed was 48.0 million during November, accounting for 19.5% of the adult population, up from 15.4% at the start of 1977.  It stands to reason that these demographic trends might be having a significant impact on income distribution and exaggerating the extent of inequality. On average, a young or senior single is likely to earn less than the combined income of a married couple.  Today's Morning Briefing: Singles &amp; Income Inequality.¬†(1) Obama set to fight inequality. (2) It‚Äôs here to stay. (3) Governments can impose equality by spreading poverty. (4) Populist ruling classes and their capitalist cronies. (5) Demography is driving income distribution in US. (6) Single persons could soon outnumber married ones. (7) Two earners make more than one. (8) The Fed is struggling to communicate. (9) Low inflation provides great opportunity to taper. (10) Technology finds more commodities. (11) Mexico deregulates crude and should produce more of it. (12) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Materials. (More for subscribers.) Ed Yardeni
ReutersChinese home prices climbed in 66 of 70 major cities covered by the National Bureau of Statistics in November. This is up from 65 in October.¬† But prices of new apartments were up 0.53% month-over-month in November, lower than 0.62% the previous month. Second hand home prices also slowed to 0.4%, compared with 0.42% in October.¬† The cooling in Chinese home prices can be attributed to two key things. First, over ten cities "extended or upgraded their property tightening measures" since November, according to Societe Generale's Wei Yao. Slowing new home sales also fed into weaker home price growth. "The slowdown in sales growth began in March this year when nationwide tightening measures were announced by the State Council under the previous government," wrote Bank of America's Ting Lu in a note to clients. "Since then, city-specific measures were rolled out in Tier-1 cities first, and later expanded to Tier-2 cities such as Shenyang, Nanchang and Xiamen." These measures tightened household purchase restriction (HPR), weighing on demand. Here's a comparison of the property tightening measures across Chinese cities from Morgan Stanley: Morgan Stanley Second, tighter credit conditions also helped cool home prices since the downpayment on second homes was increased mortgage loans were suspended by some banks. Both these factors should see housing inflation "moderating gradually in the coming months," according to Yao. Moreover, property fixed asset investment (FAI) has been ticking up and housing starts were up 11.5% on the year in November, from 6.5% the previous month. This points to increasing housing supply in 2014, which should also help cool the pace of home price growth.
GettyPippa Middleton and Nico Jackson got engaged while on a trip to India earlier this month.Well, we already know she can rock a white dress!¬†Pippa Middleton¬†-- who very nearly stole the spotlight from sister¬†Kate Middleton¬†at her wedding to¬†Prince William¬†in 2011 -- is set to walk down the aisle herself in 2014, sources reveal in the new issue of¬†Us Weekly. PHOTOS: Pippa's hottest style moments The British event planner's boyfriend, banker¬†Nico Jackson, popped the question during their early December trip to India's Oberoi Amarvilas, insiders share. (Oberoi Amarvilas is a five-star resort, with views of the famed Taj Mahal.) PHOTOS: Kate and Pippa's childhood album "It was exactly how he planned it," one source tells¬†Us¬†of the proposal. "Very romantic and grand!" Together for 15 months, the couple were first rumored to be engaged back in September. Those rumors were false, but the two were clearly smitten. They even engaged in some PDA at the 50th anniversary party for Annabel's nightclub on Sept. 27. PHOTOS: Pippa -- Britain's most eligible bachelorette? Since the engagement, Middleton, 30, and Jackson, 36, have been celebrating their happy news in private. A source says they plan to spend Boxing Day (Dec. 26) at her family's Bucklebury estate before heading to the Alps for vacation in the new year.
Markit EconomicsMarkit just started releasing preliminary results of its monthly Purchasing Managers Index survey of services-sector businesses, and the flash results of the December survey point to a slight acceleration in American services-sector expansion in December. The flash December index reading rose to 56.0 from November's 55.9 reading. Numbers above 50 on the index indicate varying rates of expansion whereas numbers below 50 indicate varying degrees of contraction. The employment sub-index jumped to 55.7 from November's 52.4 reading, indicating a strong acceleration in employment growth in December. In fact, Markit notes that this month saw the strongest rate of job creation in survey history. At top right is a complete breakdown of the sub-components of the index. Click here for the full release ¬ª


REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA man talks on an iPhone in Beijing July 24, 2013. A sharp drop in Apple Inc's China revenue in April-June underscores the challenges it faces in its second-largest market as the technology gap with cheaper local rivals narrows and as Samsung Electronics keeps up a steady stream of new models across all price ranges. TAIPEI (Reuters) - China Mobile Ltd said it's still in talks with Apple Inc to sell iPhones amid mounting industry speculation that the pair are about to announce a deal to net the technology giant hundreds of millions of potential new customers. Xi Guohua, the chairman of the world's largest mobile phone carrier, said on Wednesday morning that his company had no announcement to make on any deal to carry Apple's smartphones. Xi was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Guangzhou, a southern city of China. A tie-up between the pair in the U.S. company's second-largest market after its home turf has been expected for some time and would boost Apple in its global rivalry with South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this month that an announcement would be made "around December 18". Xi's comment on Wednesday that talks were continuing was first reported by local media and later confirmed by company spokesman Ge Qi. A deal with China Mobile could potentially be worth billions of dollars in revenue for Apple. Up to 759 million potential new China Mobile customers could gain access to iPhones, generating up to $3 billion in extra 2014 revenue - nearly a quarter of Apple's projected revenue growth in its current fiscal year. But after an expected initial surge, Apple is likely to find itself back in a battle with its main smartphone rival, South Korea's Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. Xi also told the conference China Mobile aims to sell between 190 to 220 million handsets next year. He said the company plans to step up subsidies to cover the cost of handset sales after spending 27 billion yuan ($4.5 billion) in 2013, according to the company's official account on the Sina Weibo microblogging service. ($1 = 6.0710 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Clare Jim; Additional reporting by Shanghai newsroom; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Kenneth Maxwell)
FedEx earned $500 million, or $1.57 a share, in the second quarter ended November 30, versus $438 million, or $1.39, in the same quarter last year. Analysts, on average, expected earnings of $1.64 as per Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. FedEx, seen as a bellwether because its results reflect economic activity, forecast a strong holiday season and full-year 2013. It sees full-year earnings per share growth between 8 percent and 14 percent above last year. Previously its outlook was for growth between 7 percent and 13 percent. Total revenue was $11.40 billion, just short of analysts' estimates of $11.43 billion. Revenue at its bigger express shipping segment dipped to $6.84 billion from last year`s $6.86 billion. The unit has suffered as clients choose slower, cheaper delivery options. FedEx has been revamping routes and trimming capacity to Asia and other international markets to stanch the decline. Revenue for ground shipping jumped 10 percent to $2.85 billion. Shares of FedEx fell 1.1 percent to $136.97 in premarket trading. The stock is up about 52 percent year to date, while the S&amp;P has risen about 25 percent in the same time, according to per Thomson Reuters data. (Reporting by Nivedita Bhattacharjee in Chicago; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)
REUTERS/Mike Blake Housing starts climbed 22.7% month over month in November to an annualized pace of 1.091 million. Permits beat expectations, coming in at 1.007 million (but down from the original 1.034 million figure in October). October's permits print was revised up to 1.039 million. As ED&amp;F Man Capital managing director Tom di Galoma pointed out to us in an email, this was the highest level of housing starts since February 2008. Click here for updates ¬ª
Wikimedia CommonsMonetary policy is complicated.When the Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting at 2:00 p.m. ET today, it'll reveal whether or not it has decided to begin tapering. Tapering refers to the gradual reduction of the Fed's monthly purchases of $45 billion worth of Treasury securities and $40 billion worth of mortgage bonds. The program has been intended to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates low and credit market liquidity high. According various surveys of the market economists, it appears that the expectation is for no taper announcement today. Rather economists expect the tapering announcement to come in January or March. But a closer reading of the economists' commentary shows that there is very low conviction in any forecast related to the tapering. "No one should be shocked if tapering is announced, but we expect it to be delayed for at least one more meeting," wrote High Frequency Economics Jim O'Sullivan on Monday who's on the record for calling for a January tapering announcement. But O'Sullivan's sentence is loaded. The phrase "No one should be shocked" implies a relatively high probability of a tapering announcement today. "We put the probability of them tapering tomorrow somewhere between 50-50 and 60-40," said PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian to Bloomberg TV on Tuesday. "60-40" is a fantastic way of saying it might and it might not.¬† You can't be wrong with that range. Former Fed Vice Chair Donald Kohn used that same language in a discussion with his Potomac Research Group clients. O'Sullivan, El-Erian, and Kohn aren't alone in using this ambiguous language. Here are some highlights from the FOMC previews we've read¬† (Emphasis added. Translation offered.) To be fair, there are some economists who offer tapering calls with much higher conviction. We can think of at least three explanations for why the language is so vague and wishy-washy. Remember Matthew Hornbach? He's the Morgan Stanley interest rate strategist who destroyed one of the key arguments supporting the September taper calls. In his December 10 research note titled "Stop Talking About Tapering," he explains why we should just.. stop talking about tapering. Investors should stop talking about tapering and start focusing on what comes with the first taper. Most bond market investors are comfortable with the idea of tapering at one of the next three FOMC meetings. It should not matter much which meeting. What matters more is whether the Fed combines tapering with a cut in the unemployment rate threshold (URT) or a new inflation floor. In other words, today's announcement is about much more than whether or not the Fed announces a taper. What matters is everything else the Fed says. And to be fair, most economists offer comprehensive monetary policy forecasts that go far beyond tapering expectations. With all of that in mind, here's Morgan Stanley's expectation via Hornbach: While our US economists expect the Fed to begin tapering at the March 2014 FOMC meeting ‚Äì the headline most market participants care about ‚Äì they also believe the Fed will lower the URT to 6.0% from 6.5%. In many ways, addressing the URT first makes sense, given the proximity of the actual unemployment rate to the current 6.5% threshold. Moreover, potential changes to government unemployment benefits could drive unexpected shifts in the unemployment and participation rates. Our economists suggest there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding how the expiration of the benefits will affect the behavior of participants in the long-term unemployed program (currently 1.33 million). The announcement comes at 2:00 p.m. ET. We'll cover it live on BusinessInsider.com.
† New York Times columnist Paul Krugman says that Fed Chair Ben Bernanke will be remembered as "innovative" and that the Fed's larger institutional concerns surrounding inflation kept Bernanke from acting more dramatically from the start. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow us on YouTube &gt; 
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueChairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke speaks at the Federal Reserve Conference on Key Developments in Monetary Policy in Washington October 8, 2009.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Margin CallIt's Fed day today. The FOMC will announce its next policy decision at 2 PM ET. But besides that there are a few other odds and ends happening. From Calculated Risk, they are: ï 7:00 AM ET, The Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) will release the results for the†mortgage purchase applications index.ï At 8:30 AM, the†Census Bureau will release Housing Starts for September, October and November. Total housing starts were at 891 thousand (SAAR) in August. Single family starts were at 628 thousand SAAR in August. The consensus is for total housing starts to increase to 952 thousand (SAAR) in November.ï During the day: The†AIA's Architecture Billings Index for November†(a leading indicator for commercial real estate).
We mentioned earlier how Bitcoin has gotten crushed thanks to restrictions in China. But if you think it's ugly in Bitcoinland, check out the other Cryptocurrencies. Via CoinMarketCap, here's how the next few biggest ones have fared. CoinMarketCap
Sorry for the belligerent post title, but I really hate the chart below.¬† You know it.¬† You‚Äôve seen it all over the place for 5 years straight.¬† Heck, I‚Äôve probably used it sometimes.¬† But I hate it.¬† Because I think it‚Äôs highly misleading. The chart, which shows the size of the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet relative to the S&amp;P 500, is usually presented to imply some sort of direct causal relationship between QE and stock price movements.¬† I don‚Äôt deny that the portfolio rebalancing channel probably has some indirect impact on asset prices.¬† In fact, I think it could be pretty powerful.¬† But I don‚Äôt think this chart is all that helpful in gauging where the S&amp;P 500 is headed or why it might go in a particular direction.¬† And more importantly, I think there have been much more important factors driving the stock market over the last 5 years than QE. Pragmatic Capitalism(Stupid QE Chart Numero Uno) First, let‚Äôs put the above chart in the right context.¬† If we take the long view then the scale of the chart starts to look a little suspicious as seen below: Pragmatic Capitalism(Stupid QE Chart Numero Dos)¬† Okay, but what if we just use figure one?¬† That‚Äôs better, right?¬† After all, there was no QE before 2008 so it‚Äôs no fair to use the long-term chart.¬† This is a lot better, but it still shows a huge discrepancy there between the S&amp;P 500 and QE in the last few years.¬† After all, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet has grown by about 30% per year while the S&amp;P 500 has grown about 20% per year over this period.¬† But we can do better than this.¬† So, what we usually see is something like this: ¬†Pragmatic Capitalism(Stupid QE Chart Numero Tres) Yes, if you just rearrange the axis a little bit you can actually make QE look like it‚Äôs driving the stock market perfectly.¬† Of course, if you continued to let figure 1 run in the coming years (assuming 30% growth in the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet) then there‚Äôs a high probability that this chart would start to look increasingly silly over time.¬† So what we really have here is a fantastic case of data mining and recency bias where people are infatuated with QE and recent market returns and making the data fit their conclusions in any way possible. Bottom line, don‚Äôt use figure 3 or anything like figure 3.¬† It‚Äôs a little lazy if you ask me.¬† There‚Äôs a lot more to QE than a clever sounding conspiracy theory about how the Fed is driving stocks higher in some directly correlated balance sheet maneuver. Related:
KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine's Prime Minister Mykola Azarov on Wednesday described a $15 billion aid package from Russia as a historic deal to allow the ex-Soviet republic return to economic growth, as protesters in Kiev voiced anger over a "sell-out" to Moscow. Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovich and Russia's Vladimir Putin announced the bailout for Kiev on Tuesday after talks in Moscow. The deal also includes lowering the price for Russian gas deliveries to Ukraine pays by about a third. "The head of state managed to agree lower gas prices as of January 1st and until the contract ends," Azarov told his government, referring to a ten-year gas contract that expires in January 2019. "This allows a revival of economic growth." "Yesterday, a historic development occurred. "The president reached agreement on exceptionally beneficial conditions for crediting Ukraine's economy, which allows us to carry out wide-ranging plans for economic modernisation," Azarov said. Bids on Ukraine's national hryvnia currency briefly rose 0.5 percent in early Wednesday trade to 8.25 against the U.S. dollar - versus 8.29 per unit on Tuesday close - before easing back to 8.28. Azarov also said he would propose lowering corporate tax in 2014 by one percentage point from the current level of 19 percent as well as continue raising social spending. The deal clinched with Moscow, Kiev's Soviet-era overlord, gives the Ukrainian government and Yanukovich some immediate breathing space in handling the troubled economy. But it infuriated protesters who have been camping out in Kiev's main square for four weeks now, demanding the president resign after his last-minute U-turn away from a trade deal with the European Union and towards closer ties with Moscow. (Reporting by Natalia Zinets and Pavel Polityuk, writing by Gabriela Baczynska; editing by Ralph Boulton)
Here's Morgan Stanley's Fed prediction for today. Morgan Stanley This is the first we've seen anyone make the guess that's highlighted there. For the last few years Bernanke has held a press conference every few meetings, which is part of his effort towards greater transparency. And it also reflects the reality that communication has become one of the Fed's most powerful tools. (When interest rates are at zero, one of the main things you can do is talk). Janet Yellen is really big on the importance of communication (she gave a speech on it earlier this year) so it certainly seems plausible that having a press conference after every meeting in 2014 is something she would find valuable. And incidentally if they do start this practice right away next year, it would mean that today's press conference from Bernanke won't necessarily be his last, since he's still scheduled to be Fed chair for the January meeting.
From the UK's Office Of National Statistics: The percentage of people aged from 16 to 64 who were in work (the employment rate) was72.0%. The employment rate is up 0.4 percentage points from May to July 2013 and up 0.8 from¬†a year earlier. There were 30.09 million people in employment aged 16 and over, up 250,000¬†from May to July 2013 and up 485,000 from a year earlier. The percentage of the economically active population aged 16 and over who were unemployed(the unemployment rate) was 7.4%. The unemployment rate is down 0.3 percentage points fromMay to July 2013 and down 0.5 from a year earlier. There were 2.39 million unemployed peopleaged 16 and over, down 99,000 from May to July 2013 and down 121,000 from a year earlier. The pound is up nicely today. FinViz
C-SPANThis past weekend Paul Ryan signaled that the Republicans won't want "nothing" in exchange for agreeing to lift the nation's debt ceiling sometime next year. Now Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) says the same.† From POLITICO: ìI think the debt ceiling legislation is a time that brings us all together and gets the presidentís attention, which with this president, particularly when it comes to reducing spending, has been a bit of a challenge,î McConnell said Tuesday. He declined to answer what specific conditions he would like to see attached to a debt limit hike. It's odd to see a comment about reducing spending right as Congress passes a 2-year budget agreement, but that's the nature of debt ceiling politics. It's never about logic, just extortion and hostage taking in exchange for political concessions.†
flickr/Unnar √ùmir Bj√∂rnssonWhat will the Federal Reserve do today? This cal from Kit Juckes of SocGen is well-reasoned: We don't think the FOMC will ‚Äòtaper' its bond purchases today (why risk volatility in illiquid year-end markets?) but we do expect a very strong hint that the move is coming in January and I also think tapering is now 90% priced in to asset markets (see note I sent out last night). There is a press conference after the meeting and that allows for hints on changes to the forward guidance framework, as well as a chance to reinforce the familiar ‚Äòtapering is not tightening' message. The Fed does not want to see market volatility when the taper is finally announced. And while the rise in longer-dated yields since May simply reflects economic reality, I expect an attempt to prevent any further significant rise in yields from here, for now.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstMarkets are pretty much higher across the board today as the world waits for the Fed decision. This afternoon the FOMC will announce whether it plans to "taper" meaning slow the pace of asset purchases that it engages in through Quantitative Easing. It may announce that today, or it may hold off until early next year, or it could do some permutation. For example, it could taper, but at the same time it could say something really dovish in the language. Or it could not taper, but say something very definitive about how a January taper is likely. There are all kinds of possibilities. In the meantime, the big datapoints out so far today are a very strong economic optimism report out of Germany and a wide trade gap out of Japan.
Recent days have brought headlines about Chinese authorities clamping down on Bitcoin ‚Äî not wanting various institutions to deal in the digital currency. The latest is that BTC China, the big Bitcoin startup there, announced that it could no longer accept deposits in the local currency. This makes sense. One of the big things that everyone was talking about was how Bitcoin made for the perfect tool to circumvent capital controls (restrictions on getting money out of the country). So Bitcoin is getting crushed. Not that long ago it was above $1,000. Then it settled into around a $900 area, then it dropped to around $700. Now it's around $500. ClarkMoody
About 1,500 incarcerated NYC teens get behavior therapy through Goldman Sachs-funded program NEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî About 1,500 incarcerated New York City teens have received behavioral therapy aimed at lowering their chances of returning to jail in the first year of a Goldman Sachs-funded program that's the first U.S. effort to lure private investors to finance public social programs. Nonprofit research group MDRC, the program's administrator, said Wednesday its met many of its first-year goals as it aims to counsel more than 9,000 youths over the next four years under a novel approach to social welfare, called a social impact bond: let companies foot the bill and profit if the program is a success. Goldman Sachs stands to make a profit on its $9.6 million investment if MDRC's behavioral therapy program prevents enough 16-, 17- and 18-year-olds in the city's notorious Rikers Island jail complex from reoffending. More than 3,100 adolescent inmates were admitted into Department of Correction custody on Rikers in 2010, the most recent year for which figures are available. The DOC says nearly half return within a year of being discharged. If the recidivism rate declines by at least 10 percent, officials said, the project will be considered a success and the Department Of Correction will pay back the $9.6 million loan. Goldman stands to make a $2.4 million profit if an independent review of recidivism data finds the reoffending rate of the 1,500 young people in the first group declined more than 9 percent in the first year after their release. Goldman could make even more if they stay out of jail for a second year. The program must also serve 9,240 participants within four years for Goldman to get paid. If rates don't fall low enough, the city won't make any payouts. "It's important for people to understand what a huge undertaking this is," said Susan Gottesfeld, the associate executive director of The Osborne Association, one of the groups implementing the behavior therapy, called Adolescent Behavioral Learning Experience, or ABLE. ABLE gives the young people Moral Reconation Therapy, a research-based 12-step curriculum that helps teens improve their thinking so that they make better choices in how they react to life's situations. But lockdowns, alarms, security measures and young people being placed in punitive segregation all present barriers to providing consistent therapy, the review found. The Vera Institute of Justice will review the data to discover what effect, if any, the ABLE program has on reducing recidivism. Vera will compare those numbers with a historical group who didn't receive the cognitive behavioral training as well as to a group of 19- and 20-year-olds. That report is due in July 2015. The program has "already improved their problem-solving and decision-making in jail and we are hopeful the program will accomplish its goal of reducing recidivism," said DOC Commissioner Dora B. Schriro. The Goldman loan was backed by a $7.2 million grant by Bloomberg Philanthropies, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's personal foundation. That grant was a key factor in the city's ability to finance the program. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
