According to Reuters, Venezuela just suffered a massive power outage affecting multiple cities, including the capital Caracas. The blackout comes just 6 days ahead of contentious municipal elections across the country. Folks on Instagram are documenting what Caracas looks like without light.            
Instagram/courtneyroseeIt's the most wonderful time of the year! It's the time of the year when all of the big Wall Street banks come out with detailed forecasts and predictions for what will happen in 2014. These calls can frequently be very focused (Top 10 Investing Ideas For Asian Corporate Credit) or very macro. The calls frequently come in notes that are hundreds of pages long, providing plenty for investors to chew on. These reports will be coming out all month, but already it's clear what the big idea for 2014 is: The final return to a normal non-crisis environment and the search for growth. This theme was stated with the most flair by Japanese investment bank Nomura, which titled its 2014 outlook the "End Of The End Of The World." The idea there is that since 2009, investors have been able to make progress merely by beating back the doomers. Betting against a U.S. financial collapse was a great call. Betting against a Eurozone crash was a great call. Betting against a Chinese hard landing that threatened the whole world was a good call. Betting against a debt ceiling default was the right call. But the story of 2013 is that all of these fears really did come to an end. Nobody is worried about a big Chinese hard landing or a European collapse. And 2014 might be the first year in a while without some huge fiscal scare if the GOP is smart enough not to go down the same cul de sac it entered into during the "defund Obamacare" fight. So instead of just betting against doom, investors will have to find real growth, and that will require effort. Nomura is bullish on Japan and Europe, and is worried that the great bull run in the U.S. might finally abate in 2014 due to margin compression. Morgan Stanley's outlook for 2014 incorporate similar ideas. They lay out 5 big things that need to happen for sustained global growth, and what's key is that each pillar is region specific and not crisis related. For example, Europe needs to make progress on a harmonized banking union. China needs to get serious about reforms and a growth model not just based on exports and credit. And the Fed needs transition out of QE to a model more based on guiding interest rates. But overall the vibe is the same. Investors ought to look at region-specific stories, and not think about the risk of collapse. Meanwhile, Citi's top economist Willem Buiter goes so far as to call 2014 a potentially "revolutionary" year for the global economy, precisely because of the end of the age of crisis. Yet what is revolutionary about 2014 is that the likelihood of severe downside tail events, which could paralyze the global economy, seems to have diminished significantly (though not disappeared). Granted, the euro-area is still work in progress, China presents meaningful question marks, Congressional gridlock in the US could still throw sand in the federal fiscal wheels and geopolitics can always surprise. But, enough progress has been made that all of these issues seem less threatening today than 12 months ago. More forecasts will be coming out, and surely some strategists and economists will have a different view of 2014. But make no mistake. This is the big theme. The end-of-the-crisis trade is coming to an end. Now you have to really hunt for your meals.
"We enter 2014 less optimistic than we have been in the past few years," said BMO's Brian Belski in a note to clients today. "Our models suggest mid-single-digit gains in 2014 based on slightly lower risk premiums, better revision trends and dividend increases, but macro conditions remain an obstacle." Belski entered 2013 on the bullish side of the Street. However, his sentiment toward the market quickly turned after the S&amp;P 500 blew past his target. In today's note, he reiterates his expectation that the S&amp;P will rise modestly to 1,900 on EPS of $116. Here are his bullets: Unlike some of his peers, Belski sees little lift coming from expansion in the stock market's price-earnings multiple. "Unfortunately, trends in productivity, labor costs, and profit margins suggest that such levels of EPS growth will be difficult to achieve over the near term," he wrote. "As a result, we believe this provides further evidence that the multiple expansion part of this cycle has largely played out, while future gains will likely require good old fashioned earnings growth." Belski's 1,900 target puts him write at the median on Wall Street.
Morgan Stanley sees the U.S. economy accelerating nicely in 2014 and 2015. "We expect 2013 real GDP to expand just 1.6%Y this year, shifting to a sustained pickup in growth to 2.6%Y in 2014 and 2.7%Y in 2015," wrote Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. "The government shutdown is a transitory drag that has delayed an inflection point in the recovery by one quarter. Final demand is strengthening as we move toward the New Year and the pieces remain in place for growth to shift into higher gear." "Four fundamentals build the foundation for this performance," said Reinhart. In his words: The financial crisis of 2007-08 took an enormous toll on the level of economic activity. With this adjustment mostly having run its course, the drag on growth has lifted. Similarly, fiscal consolidation at the federal level will continue as background noise, but at nowhere near the volume of the tax increases and sequester-driven swoon of the first half of the year. Meanwhile, considerable wealth has accumulated, driven by the run-up in major equity indexes and gain in home prices. In the Federal Reserve‚Äôs Financial Accounts, net worth as a percent of disposable income is poised to soar further in 2013. Adding this fuel to sales, firms should feel a need to increase capital spending. Supportive of this spur, businesses have been underinvesting for some time and have ample cash on hand, implying a reason and an ability to invest. Reinhart's team also expects the unemployment rate to fall to "¬†6-1/2 percent on the cusp of Q4 2014 and 6.0 percent by mid-2015." Earlier today, Citi's economics similarly predicted that the U.S. economy would grow at a 2.7% pace in 2014, but with an unemployment rate averaging 6.8%.
Wikimedia Commons100 hryvnia MOSCOW (Reuters) - Massive protests against Viktor Yanukovich hammered Ukraine's financial markets on Monday, increasing the risk of a currency crisis as the president tries to hold on until an election in early 2015. Ukraine's debt insurance costs jumped and currency traders increased bets on a devaluation after 350,000 people protested on Sunday against Yanukovich's decision to ditch a trade pact with the European Union. Central bank Governor Ihor Sorkin backed up foreign exchange intervention by vowing to do everything needed to uphold financial stability. In an online video message, he urged savers "to be confident in the banking system" and not to withdraw their deposits. Yet even though the protest was the largest since the Orange revolution that overturned Yanukovich's election victory in 2004, analysts stopped short of predicting wholesale upheaval. "I'm trying to work out when a country has ever provoked a revolution over a trade deal," said Charles Robertson, global chief economist at Renaissance Capital in London. Robertson contrasted today's situation with the Orange revolution over electoral fraud, and the economic collapse in another ex-Soviet state, Georgia, that preceded its 2003 Rose revolution. Data provider Markit quoted five-year credit default swaps (CDS) at 1067 basis points, the highest since September, after a close of 972 bps on Friday. Ukraine's dollar bonds fell, with its 2020 issue losing 3 points to 85 percent of par, its lowest since early 2012. The June 2014 bond also fell, pushing its yield towards 20 percent. YouTubeWestern analysts were unsettled by TV footage of violence near the presidential office in Kiev, where masked protesters and the driver of an excavator clashed with helmeted riot police massed several men deep. Mainstream opposition leaders, including former heavyweight boxer Vitaly Klitschko, called the breakaway group provocateurs and urged peaceful action. Security forces halted a convoy of protesters' cars on Sunday evening on its way to Yanukovich's official residence outside the city, according to reports. "He survived the weekend - I did think it was a Ceausescu-type scenario," said Tim Ash at Standard Bank in London, referring to the overthrow and execution of Romanian communist leader Nicolai Ceausescu in 1989. Ash was surprised at the relatively mild sell-off in Ukrainian assets after the failure of last week's EU summit in Vilnius. "Orange Revolution 2 is on," he said. "The stakes are much higher now." EXTERNAL DEFICITS To grow, Ukraine's $176 billion economy needs gas imports from Russia to be cheap and its steel exports to be expensive. The opposite is now the case. The government ends up taking the strain because it subsidizes most of the cost of gas sold to households across the country of 46 million that borders Russia to the northeast and four new EU states to the west. Yanukovich walked away from the trade deal because it lacked a hoped-for stand-by loan of as much as $15 billion from the International Monetary Fund. The global lender was not prepared to lend new money without gas-price reforms. Russian President Vladimir Putin has meanwhile made a gas discount conditional on Ukraine joining a Russia-led customs bloc that includes Kazakhstan and Belarus. He has not, however, ruled out possible further funding. Jacob Nell, a Moscow-based economist at Morgan Stanley, estimates that Ukraine will have to raise external financing of $18 billion for Yanukovich to make it to the 2015 election. Yet he does not see risks of financial instability becoming acute until late 2014 - as external deficits tend to widen seasonally later in the year. Without new money, forex reserves may fall below the two months' import cover viewed as critical. "The Ukrainian authorities are likely to face a difficult choice in 2014 between joining the Customs Union ... or a rising risk of an uncontrolled forex adjustment in the second half of 2014," Nell wrote in a report on Monday. Ukraine, which runs a 'crawling' peg of its hryvnia to the dollar, last devalued in 2008. The central bank on Monday offered to sell dollars at 8.1502 hryvnia per dollar, compared to 8.1397 hryvnia on November 14. Analysts worry less about the risk of sovereign default: Nell calculates that the sovereign must repay $8 billion before the election, of which half is owed to the IMF. Emerging markets investor Templeton was reported to have held a $5 billion Ukraine position in August, making its behavior key to the performance of the country's bonds. CENTRIFUGAL FORCES Energy analysts, meanwhile, doubt that Putin will rush to the aid of Yanukovich after years of acrimony between Kiev and Moscow over gas. A deal signed in 2009 by former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko led to her conviction and imprisonment for abuse of office and left Ukraine paying the highest price of any European buyer of Russian gas. Rather than lend more money to Yanukovich, Putin may prefer to spend it on completing the South Stream gas export pipeline, the second of two subsea links to Europe that seek to reduce risks of supply disruptions by skirting Ukraine. "Good relations between Russia and Ukraine would have killed South Stream - the pet project of Vladimir Putin," said Mikhail Korchemkin of U.S.-based consultancy East European Gas Analysis. With outside support lacking, there are fears that the centrifugal forces that have characterized Ukraine's history on the borderlands of eastern and central Europe could come increasingly into play. Yanukovich is from the Russian-speaking east, while protests have been large in cities in the west. "One part of the country (is) willing to go the EU way and the other willing to go to Russia," said Regis Chatellier, global sovereign credit strategist at Societe Generale. "The problem is this ... is happening precisely at the moment when the country is facing major, major economic challenges." (Additional reporting by Pavel Polityuk in Kiev and Sujata Rao and Shadi Bushra in London; Editing by Giles Elgood) REUTERS GRAPHICS
Jonathan Alcorn/ReutersRetailers opened more stores than ever on Thanksgiving Day this year in an effort to boost holiday sales and give customers more time to take advantage of Black Friday deals.† But the earlier openings largely detracted from Black Friday's sales, leading to a lackluster Thanksgiving weekend for retailers, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.† "Stores that opened on Thanksgiving Day saw a surge in traffic on the holiday but appeared to slow early morning Black Friday," analysts wrote in a recent note. "We are not convinced strong Thursday sales made up for softer Friday traffic." According to ShopperTrak, Black Friday traffic declined 11.4% and sales decreased 13.2% compared to last year. Foot traffic for both Thanksgiving and Black Friday rose 2.8% to more than 1.07 billion store visits, while sales over both days rose 2.3% to $12.3 billion compared to last year. A few retailers, including Macy's and Kohl's, opened on Thanksgiving for the first time this year. Others, including Wal-Mart, Kmart and Target, opened earlier than ever on the holiday. The retailers all said their earlier openings were a response to customer demands.
REUTERS/StringerA craftsman paints lantern parts in the shape of the head of the bodhisattva Guanyin, for a lantern festival to celebrate the Chinese Lunar New Year, at a workshop in Suining, Sichuan province.SHANGHAI (Reuters) - In a dimly-lit arcade in downtown Shanghai, shopkeeper Xia Zihan holds out a glinting, yellow-glass carving of the fertility goddess Guanyin, a range she says is starting to sell well after China relaxed its single-child policy last month. "Since the news allowing a second child, we've already asked our factory to increase production of the Guanyin statues," said Xia, adding she expected to see around a 10-20 percent increase in demand for the figurines that cost around one thousand yuan ($160) each. Beijing said last month it would allow millions of families to have two children, the most radical relaxation of its strict one-child policy in close to three decades. With an estimated bump of up to 10 percent in the number of births per year, the demand for maternal healthcare is bound to surge, a lift for private hospital operators who are increasing their share of China's gigantic healthcare market. Healthcare providers like Singapore-based Raffles Medical Group Ltd, Malaysia's IHH Healthcare Bhd and U.S. healthcare firm Chindex International Inc already operate in China. "I think for the short-term we can expect some kind of rebound of the fertility rate as women rush to have more babies in the next few years," said Peng Xizhe, a demographics expert at Fudan University in Shanghai. The new rules, which will roll out gradually around China, will allow couples in which just one parent is an only child to have a second baby, part of a plan to raise fertility rates and ease the financial burden of China's rapidly ageing population. This would see an extra annual one million or so births on top of the current 16 million each year, substantial in itself but marginal when compared to China's near 1.4 billion population. Still, the extra births are close to the number of people in a city like Dallas, Texas. The fertility market, especially at the value-end of the scale, could see a short-term spike. The main demographic likely to benefit from the policy change is urban mothers in their late thirties, a group more likely to seek methods to boost their chances of having a second baby, said Peng. Some families will turn to Guanyin figurines, fertility-boosting foods or China's $13 billion traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) market to give birth quickly. Medicine men who promise to ensure the birth of a boy child are also in demand. China's highly-fragmented TCM market is led by firms such as Tasly Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd and China Resources Sanjiu Medical &amp; Pharmaceutical Co Ltd, which each have billion dollar-plus annual sales. Analysts said the more mainstream market for pregnancy-related supplements could receive a $40-50 million boost. "The two child policy could bring a wave of women having babies, which would have a positive effect on our sales," said Snow Jin, manager of a herbal store that sells ingredients for "fertility soup" on China's eBay-like online market Taobao. "Parents having a second child are usually older, and so will likely have greater demand for fertility products." The soup, filled with herbs such as Chinese angelica and honeysuckle, as well as red dates, black beans and eggs, is thought to help boost the chances of conception. ABOUT A BOY The increased demand will be focused on major coastal cities such as Shanghai and Shenzhen, and will affect public sector workers most, a demographic for whom the one-child policy has traditionally been more strictly enforced. "If the policy hadn't changed I would not have been able to have a second baby. My husband isn't an only child and as I work in the state sector, if I break the rules and have a second child then I would lose my job," said Lily Cai, 30, a civil servant in Shanghai who has a 16-month-old baby girl. Cai said her husband and his family were keen to have a second child, and have often said it would be better to have a boy, a traditional preference in China. "Almost all my clients are people looking to have a child. Perhaps they've already had a girl, but now want to have a boy to continue the family line," said medicine man Sun Daoguo, who runs a Shanghai store. Parents pay up to one thousand yuan for him to help raise the chances of a boy being born, he said. Sun said he advises mothers-to-be on how to adjust their feng shui, the traditional Chinese concept of balance between a person and the environment, to increase the likelihood of giving birth to a son. More conventional medicines, over-the-counter supplements and treatments such as In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) could also see a surge in sales, although analysts said high-cost procedures like IVF would see the least benefit. "The increase in caring for older mothers will really raise the demand on maternity hospitals and increase the strain on doctors," said Jiang Peiru, head of gynaecology at one of Shanghai's top hospitals. She said the clinic had prepared an extra 40 beds, hired more staff and increased training. "We haven't seen a clear rise yet, but next year and the year after there will definitely be an increase as mothers look for treatment due to the child-birth reforms." ($1 = 6.0932 Chinese yuan) (Additional reporting by SHANGHAI newsroom; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan)
REUTERS/David MoirFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Advisors Can Spot A Fraud (The Wall Street Journal) It is important for advisors to know the warning signs of fraud in a company and not just rely on auditors when considering an investment, writes Brian Fox of Tennessee-based Capital Confirmation in a Wall Street Journal column. These signs include 1. The use of a post office box for a mailing address. Some will try and cover this up by using a P.O. box at UPS or FedEx. 2. A constant gross margin for a company at a time when the gross margins of rival companies are shifting.¬†¬†Fox says advisors should also check numbers with a third party and should at the end of the day "do their own homework." Driver In Paul Walker Crash Was Merrill Lynch Advisor (Investment News) Over the weekend actor Paul Walker died in a car crash. The driver of the car, Roger W. Rodas, who also died in the crash was a "nearly-two-decade Bank of America Corp. employee who had become one of Merrill Lynch's most successful brokers in Southern California," reports Trevor Hunnicutt of Investment News. Rodas and Walker had in fact met at a race track in California, and WealthManagement.com reports that Walker officially became his client in 2007. "[Mr. Rodas] achieved quite a bit," William Halldin, a Bank of American spokesman told Investment News. "We're deeply saddened by this news." Columbia's Endowment Returns Comes Out On Top (CNBC)  The endowment investment returns of Harvard, Brown, Cornell, Stanford and Yale under-performed the 60% stocks/40% bonds portfolio model, according to a report from Charles A. Skorina &amp; Co. Columbia topped that list of 12 university endowments with a five-year 6.8% annualized return, compared with Harvard's 1.7% annualized return.¬† "One common trait among the various endowments is their use of so-called alternative investments like hedge and private equity funds, real estate and more," writes CNBC's Lawrence Delevingne. "Those can diversify and help juice returns, but they can come at a high cost in terms of fees paid to third party managers. In short, they don't always improve returns." Every Portfolio Manager Will Love This Chart (Nomura)  In periods of crisis, cross-asset correlations rise and this limits a money manager's ability to diversify portfolios. But "2013 has been a year marked by a fall in correlation between asset classes, countries, factors and stocks," write Nomura's Sarah McCarthy, Rupal Agarwal and Inigo Fraser Jenkins. "That is a natural response as the nadir of the crisis recedes further into the past and normality returns to markets that can respond to their own ‚Äòfundamentals‚Äô rather than one common risk-on-risk-off dynamic. That means that asset markets can start to diverge." Nomura ROBERT SHILLER: 'I Am Most Worried About The Boom In The US Stock Market' (Reuters/Der Spiegel)  Nobel Prize winner Robert Shiller says stock exchanges of various countries are at high levels. "I am not yet sounding the alarm. But in many countries stock exchanges are at a high level and prices have risen sharply in some property markets," Shiller told Der Spiegel. "That could end badly." "I am most worried about the boom in the U.S. stock market. Also because our economy is still weak and vulnerable," he added.
Justin Sullivan / Getty The two bullet points below from a just released update by Yum Brands explain all you need to know about the "magic" of half-off retail discounts. So, sales were up 16% for the 10 days in which margins were crushed, then down 8% for the remaining 20 days. And the net impact on the bottom line is...
REUTERS/David Moir(Reuters) - RBS and its retail banking unit Netwest's online systems and debit cards failed on Monday evening as customers were unable to process payments on one of the busiest online shopping days called the "Cyber Monday". Millions of customers across the United Kingdom were unable to withdraw cash, pay for goods or use telephone and online banking services. In its response, the bank's twitter account, RBS Help tweeted "we are aware of some technical issues and are working hard to fix them. Sorry and thanks for your patience." The bank's Irish unit, Ulster Bank, also reportedly faced similar glitches. RBS, which is 82 percent owned by the UK government, faced a probe by the Financial Conduct Authority in April when technology failure left customers unable to avail the bank's card and online services. A software upgrade gone wrong also led to similar problems for RBS' customers in June 2012. (Reporting by Aashika Jain in Bangalore; Editing by Leslie Gevirtz)
Am + Mo via www.flickr.com creative commonsHedge funds looking to spot and ride market trends are hoping for a fresh start IF SOMETHING has not worked for five years, most people would conclude that it was broken. Tell that to the geeks managing "quant" hedge funds, who craft elaborate algorithms to profit from market movements. Once money-spinners, their prized formulae have misfired since 2009, losing money in four of the past five years. Unless their results improve markedly, the giant funds will finish this year as the worst-performing of the most common hedge-fund strategies. "Trend-following" involves programming computers to analyse market movements and try to infer where they might go next. Practitioners speak with reverence of "crossover levels" and "momentum speeds" leading to "breakout points". A rough translation is that a trend that lasts a few days or weeks can profitably be invested in until it reverses, at which point a new trend may already be forming. Whether the markets are going up or down does not matter. Nor does the underlying asset being analysed--typically a futures contract linked to a commodity or a security. The EconomistAfter prospering through the market rout of 2008 (the prolonged slump gave even the dimmest trend-follower time to cotton on), the sector swelled from $91 billion to $215 billion, according to Hedge Fund Research, a data provider. Winton Capital, Man Groupís AHL fund, Cantab, BlueCrest and other "black box" traders, as their critics dub them, became darlings of the investing world. Unfortunately, the influx of investment coincided with the reversal in the strategyís fortunes (see chart). The main problem is not with the quantsí models, practitioners insist, but with the markets themselves. In the aftermath of the financial crisis, they have been dancing to the tune set by politicians and central bankers. Efforts to save the euro or stave off deflation regularly send markets into convulsions, in the process distorting the historical patterns that the algorithms are designed to exploit. The ensuing jolts and crashes have no precedent, leaving even the most finely crafted trade at risk from political meddling. Not even the worldís wiliest supercomputers can predict what the European Central Bank will dream of next, apparently. Worse, such interference prompts stocks, bonds and commodities to move in unison. When in May the Federal Reserve hinted at a "tapering" of Americaís ultra-loose monetary policy, for example, both government bonds and shares tumbled. What had started out as a good year for the trend-followers turned into a drubbing. One of the sectorís main selling-points, that its returns are uncorrelated to those of other asset classes, is at risk. The quants are remarkably sanguine about their recent record. "Performance since 2009 in traditional strategies hasnít been great, but itís no disaster either," says Sandy Rattray, AHLís boss. Many of the stock-picking hedge funds that had been lionised for making money in the crash suffered large losses in subsequent years, he points out. Low interest rates, which depress returns on the safe assets quants hold as collateral to back their trades, have not helped. The big unknown is whether trend-following will ever work again. The quants are adamant that the models are simply in hibernation. Profits will return, they say, as soon as prices revert to being dictated by investors rather than policymakers. "Imagine where bonds would be trading if it werenít for the interference," says Leda Braga of BlueCrest. Some wonder whether the growth of quant-fund investing has irreparably harmed returns. Decent trend-following algorithms can be bought online. Some of the funds are adapting in response. Winton, the biggest, now invests some of its cash in equities; it is among the few to have risen in value this year, albeit modestly. AHL is focusing its energies on trading in more esoteric markets, like German power or iron-ore futures, which it hopes are less crowded. Yet it is hard to find markets that are immune to political meddling, or politicians who are inclined to let the forces of finance be. Trend-followers may yet prosper again, but the breakout point, as it were, may be some way off. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
LinkUpToby Dayton is the CEO of LinkUp, an online job search engine that only indexes listings posted directly on company websites. LinkUp data are being used by major investment banks on Wall Street to forecast job growth. The rationale is that a rise in job openings should naturally presage a rise in hiring. In a recent blog post, Dayton posted the map at right, which shows growth in job openings by state over the first nine months of 2013. The first thing that jumps out from the map is that the Pacific Northwest region is looking pretty hot compared to the rest of the country. We reached out to Dayton to find out what's going on up there in the top left of America. According to LinkUp data, the hottest industry in the region is Agriculture, Forestry, &amp; Fishing. In September, there were 12,452 total job listings ó up 11,759% from 105 listings in January. In Science, Pharmaceutical &amp; Biotech, there were 5338 listings in September ó up 706% from 662 listings in January. Across all industries, there were†85,965 total job listings in September, up 134% from†36,689 listings in January. Openings for jobs in the†Agriculture, Forestry, &amp; Fishing industry accounted for 25.1% of total growth, while job openings in the Technology industry accounted for 20.1% of growth. LinkUp LinkUp
Karo Sahakyan / AP YEREVAN†(Reuters) - Hundreds of people marched through the capital of†Armenia†on Monday to denounce visiting Russian President†Vladimir Putin†and protest against plans to join a†Moscow-led†customs union. Some of the estimated crowd of 500 in central†Yerevan†held up banners declaring "Putin, go home" or "No to the USSR", a reference to the Russian leader's efforts to bind former Soviet republics together more closely in economic and security alliances. Police in†Yerevan†said they detained 110 protesters, the local news agency Arminfo reported. Putin flew to the†South Caucasus†country for talks on its decision in September to join†Russia,†Belarus†andKazakhstan†in a†Customs Union, which he touted as having already brought "tangible dividends." The rally in†Yerevan†followed much larger protests in†Ukraine†after it abandoned a trade pact with the†European Union†last week to rebuild economic ties with†Russia†instead. Putin described the Ukrainian protesters as "very well prepared and trained militant groups" engaged in an†attempt to shake its legitimate rulers, He hinted that they had been trained by outside actors, an accusation he made against participants in†Ukraine's "Orange revolution" which overturned a stolen election nine years ago. Kremlin critics in the West accuse Putin of putting pressure on†Ukraine,†Armenia†and other ex-Soviet republics to reject deals that would increase their integration with the EU. Demonstrators in†Yerevan†marched to President†Serzh Sarksyan's administration†to hand over a letter urging the government to renounce its decision to join the†Customs Union. RIA Novosti / REUTERSRussian President Vladimir Putin (L) walks with Armenian President Serge Sarksyan. Putin has made clear†Moscow†wants to increase its influence in the strategic region sandwiched between†Russia,Turkey, Iran and the oil and gas deposits of the Caspian Sea basin. "We are going to strengthen our position in the†South Caucasus, drawing on the best of what we have inherited from ancestors and good relations with all countries in the region," Putin told a Russian-Armenian regional forum. "Participation in the†Customs Union†... already is bringing†Russia,†Kazakhstan†and†Belarus†tangible dividends." Putin said that under an agreement signed Monday to regulate natural gas deliveries to†Armenia,†Moscow†will forgo 30 percent export duties.†Russia†will supply†Armenia†gas at a price of $189 per 1,000 cubic meters, he said. Russian state gas export monopoly Gazprom also said on Monday it would take over full ownership of its subsidiary†ArmRosgazprom, by acquiring the remaining 20 percent of shares from†Armenia. Russia†is the biggest foreign investor in†Armenia†and its largest trading partner. Bilateral trade grew 22 percent to $1.2 billion last year. Most trade has been imports to†Armenia. In 2010†Russia†extended its lease on a military base in the landlocked, resource-poor nation of 3.2 million until 2044, ensuring it maintains a firm foothold in the†South Caucasus. The region includes†Azerbaijan, which has been embroiled in a territorial dispute with†Armenia†since the Soviet collapse, and†Georgia, with which†Russia†fought a five-day war in 2008. (Reporting by Hasmik Mrktchyan and Alexei Anishchuk; Writing by Steve Gutterman and Alissa de Carbonnel; Editing by Timothy Heritage/Mark Heinrich)
YouTube/PulseVideoStarThe German Federal Motor Transport Authority, Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt (KBA) has concluded an investigation into three recent Tesla Model S fires and found "no manufacturer-related defects," Tesla said today. In a press release, Tesla said it provided the KBA with relevant data on the accidents, and received a letter saying "no further measures under the German Product Safety Act [Produktsicherheitsgesetz (ProdSG)] are deemed necessary." In November, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) opened an investigation into the three fires. Tesla said it has "requested" the process, but NHTSA Administrator told a House panel that was untrue, according to The Detroit News. That investigation is ongoing, but at least the Germans have been placated.
KNCMinerStockholm-based KnCMiner sold $8 million worth of their new $10,000-a-pop bitcoin miners in 24 hours last Wednesday, according to KnC spokesman Alex Lawn. Bitcoins are mined by directing intense amounts of computing power at solving math problems. The faster and more efficiently you can solve math problems, the more bitcoins you get.¬† Bitcoin is structured so that it gets harder and harder to mine bitcoins over time, so there's a huge arms race to build the most hardcore computers dedicated to mining the coins. KNC says it sold $1 million every hour for the first five hours the new unit, called the Neptune, went on sale, said the company spokesman. The huge sales are despite the fact that the product won't even be available until early next year. The Neptune's headline feature is that it runs on¬†20 nm application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), which means more circuits can be fitted on a chip, allowing for faster and more complex processing while using less power.¬†Electricity costs are the principal limiting factor in mining bitcoins, and Lawn claims the Neptunes enjoy a 30% reduction in power consumption from the previous generation.¬†¬† ¬†¬† It's impossible to know many Bitcoin per day the Neptune can produce, since it becomes progressively harder to mine one Bitcoin as more are produced.¬†But technically, if the the current difficulty rate of mining Bitcoin were to remain, which KnC claims won't be the case, its new miner operating at maximum efficiency would capable of mining at least 2.1 bitcoins a day. ¬†A one-to-one comparison with previous models is also difficult, again for the progressing difficulty element. Still, he¬†said, customers could have already made up to $70,000 from their current 28 nanometer miner if they got it in October, when bitcoin was worth less than $200. It's new worth more than $1,000. Lawn also claims KnC customers already create nearly 70% of the bitcoins mined in a day. We can't verify that claim. "We went right to the cutting edge, because we had to, as someone was going to, so it better be us," Lawn told us in a note. "A formula one race if you will.¬†The competitors were late to the start line so they had to make wild claims, but I think they've taken it a bit too far. "20 nm is bleeding edge. We may well beat Apple as they plan to use it at 'some point' next year." Lawn said KnC is hoping to begin shipping Neptunes by Q2 2014 at the latest. The combined amount of processing power now being devoted to bitcoin is now greater than what the top 500 supercomputers combined are capable of, according to Forbes' Reuven Cohen.¬†John Aziz recently discussed the moral implications of this, addressing the argument that all that computing could be more usefully directed at any number of pressing world problems.¬† But if you're looking for a high-growth industry, this is it.¬†
¬† Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, who are betting big on bitcoin, and investor Jeremy Liew, of Lightspeed Ventures, discuss whether digital currencies can be as reliable as the U.S. dollar and even replace some volatile state currencies at our Ignition conference.  Produced by Kamelia Angelova, Alana Kakoyiannis and Justin Gmoser
Last week, a self-described "Godfather of Hipsterdom" and sometimes author/TV personality released a list of tips on bar etiquette that were so terrible that I felt obligated to respond. #1: Can we please stop calling them hipsters and go back to calling them pu**ies? You can read his list and my entire response here. Filled with senseless, lowbrow, intentionally provocative drivel, it includes such gems as: As a result, I have decided to come up with my own‚Äîa simple and succinct, updated and definitive list of rules for bar etiquette: 1. Be a regular at more than one bar. 2. Be patient. There‚Äôs no line to get drinks in your refrigerator. 3. Always tip more than you should. Tipping at a regular bar is a good investment. #1: I say 'keep the change' purely for my own convenience. 4. Never ask for a ‚Äògood pour.‚Äô¬†That‚Äôs asking them to give you something for free, and bartenders can and do get fired for that. If they like you, they‚Äôll hook you up. 5. Never tip a bartender on a free round.¬†Thank him or her and tip big on the next round or when you close out. #1: If I only wanted one drink, I'd go for communion. 6. If you‚Äôre having more than one drink, or are with a group of people, just throw your card behind the bar.¬† You can always settle the tab in cash at the right time. 7. Don‚Äôt get drunk on beer when you‚Äôre trying to pick up girls.¬†(Too many trips to the bathroom.) #1: I spent last night pouring champagne, feeding her dessert, &amp; telling stories of my trip to Bhutan. I've never been to Bhutan. 8. Never take off your suit jacket. Nobody ever pictures a drunk in a suit and tie. Remove the jacket; destroy the illusion. 9. Don‚Äôt treat a bartender like he‚Äôs just some guy waiting until he finds a real job. #1: When it doesn't matter how much the drinks cost, it's always Happy Hour. 10. Don‚Äôt whistle, snap, yell, or wave money. Unless you want people to think you work at Morgan Stanley. 11. If you want to buy a woman a drink, ask her permission. 12. If you are having friends, colleagues, or a partner meet you out, clear your tab before they show up. It‚Äôs not cool if they end up paying, but more importantly, it‚Äôll make you look like the drunk that you are. #1: If you hear me say 'I'll be right back' at a party, it usually means I'm leaving. 13. Do what you want to do, not what people expect you to do.¬†If you want to put ice in your Pinot Grigio, go for it.¬† 14. Don‚Äôt try ordering a drink from a bar back. 15. Don‚Äôt argue about a tab. If you‚Äôre arguing, it‚Äôs probably because it‚Äôs over a material amount of money.¬† And that means you‚Äôre probably not sober enough to argue. Skirt #1: I can always tell a banker within the first 2 minutes of meeting him in a bar... because he tells me. 16. ‚ÄúWhen in Rome‚Ä¶‚Äù might be the Golden Rule.¬†But it‚Äôs just another way of saying, ‚Äúhave some goddamned common sense.‚Äù 17. Don‚Äôt preemptively mention the tip. There‚Äôs no need to ever say, ‚ÄúI‚Äôll take care of you tonight, ______.‚Äù (Insert: Pal, Chief, Bubba, Hon) 18. Shots generally only serve one purpose, to speed up the effects of alcohol. There‚Äôs a time and a place. And that time and place comes around less frequently after the age of 30. #1: Blacking out is just your brain clearing its browser history. 19. Always know what you are going to order ahead of time.¬†Have a go-to drink in your repertoire. An old fashioned, vodka martini, a common beer, or even just a house chard. Sit down, take a sip, relax, and then figure out what you really want to drink. 20. When you‚Äôre out with friends, put your damn phone away. #1: Checking your phone after someone else pulls out their phone is the yawn of our generation. As per ‚ÄòHow To Be A Man,‚Äô you can get away with a lot more if you‚Äôre the one buying the drinks.
REUTERS/Max RossiEven Wetten of Norway competes in the men's speed skating 1000 metres race at the Torino 2006 Winter Olympic Games in Turin, Italy, February 18, 2006. Bond oracle Jeff Gundlach and recent Nobel Prize-winner Robert Shiller sat down with Barron's for a joint interview to "size up the world." These guys are, quite simply, two of the sharpest market minds out there right now, so it's especially interesting when their opinions line up. And it seems the two are in agreement over Norway's bubbly, "out of whack" housing market. First, Gundlach serves up some numbery goodness, and then Shiller brings it home with a dose of cerebral cultural commentary.¬†From Barron's: Gundlach:¬†Take a look at Norway if you want to see a country that really looks out of whack. The housing market there has been so strong, and the debt ratios are so high. People don't think about Norway as being that type of a country. But if you look at the charts, it is pretty remarkable. By last June, the Norway housing index had risen 77% from year-end 2004, an all-time high. The U.S. home-price index, by contrast, sat at a 3% loss, compared with its level at year-end 2004. Shiller:¬†I've been trying to understand and think about these things in psychological terms. So what is it with the Norwegians? Well, they have a kind of a superiority complex. First of all, they were smart enough not to join the European Union, and they don't bear any of the burden of the southern EU countries. And they have North Sea oil, and their economy looks good. So they just think they are immune from all the problems of the world, and people are coming into Norway for jobs. So it just sounds to them that their real estate ought to be booming...There is something about our culture at this point in history. The rise of capitalism all over the world has gotten people in a very speculative mode in lots of places, and we are all capitalists now in a much deeper sense than we ever were before. Gundlach and Shiller join another major economic voice, Nouriel Roubini, in sounding the alarm over Norway. They're not alone. Last year, The Atlantic's Matthew O'Brien put it best, writing that Norway's housing bubble "makes ours look almost cute by comparison." And according to a new IMF report, Norway has the third most overvalued housing market in the developed world, beaten out by only New Zealand and Canada.¬† Last year, the San Francisco Fed compared U.S. and Norwegian home prices. Here's the chart: FRBSF
When investors are freaked out, they'll dump stocks, bonds, and other investments simultaneously and almost indiscriminately. During periods of crisis, numerous asset classes will make big swings hand in hand. In other words cross-asset correlations rise. And in the wake of the financial crisis, correlations surged. One of the downsides of rising correlations is that investors and money managers lose their ability to diversify their portfolios. However, those correlations have come down sharply in recent months. "2013 has been a year marked by a fall in correlation between asset classes, countries, factors and stocks," wrote Nomura's Sarah McCarthy, Rupal Agarwal and Inigo Fraser Jenkins. "That is a natural response as the nadir of the crisis recedes further into the past and normality returns to markets that can respond to their own ‚Äòfundamentals‚Äô rather than one common risk-on-risk-off dynamic. That means that asset markets can start to diverge." "Absolute correlation among asset classes continues to fall rapidly (Fig. 41), showing a smaller magnitude of co-movement between asset classes, indicative of a normalisation," they added. Nomura
Princeton.eduSince World War II, the U.S. economy has grown on average nearly 2 percentage points faster under Democratic presidents than Republicans. Two Princeton economists are out with a new study that seeks to explain why. Mostly, the answer seems to be good luck.† Alan Blinder, a veteran of the Bill Clinton Council of Economic Advisers, and Mark Watson, who has been at Princeton since 1995, conducted the study. It found that the average real GDP growth rate under Democratic presidents was 4.35%, a marked increase from a 2.54% growth under Republicans.† The two economists attribute the bulk of the "astoundingly large" difference to random chance. Specifically, they point to oil and productivity shocks as two of the major reasons for the difference, both of which look "a lot more like good luck" than differences in governance. Here's a breakdown of some of the reasons for the gulf in economic growth under Democratic and Republican presidents: Contrary to conventional wisdom, the authors conclude that defense spending is not a major factor for the economic gap. Neither are other cosmetic differences that the researchers looked into ó like the height and age of presidents. Taken together, the three above factors ó oil price and productivity shocks and consumer confidence ó account for between 46% and 62% of the economic performance gap between Republicans and Democrats. The rest is unexplained by the study. Overall, Democrats account for the top four terms of average GDP growth in the post-World War II era. Ronald Reagan's second term is the only Republican entry in the top five. President Barack Obama's first term in office was the lowest of seven Democratic presidencies, ranking 14th of 16 terms overall.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFor many, the actual act of holiday shopping is the scourge of an otherwise cheerful season. A good gift is hard to find for anyone, but if you've got an investor in your life, it can prove especially difficult. Not to fear, because we've got a bunch of great options for you. Whether it's a desktop essential, a must-have book, or a premium item, we have you covered this year. Prices may vary, but these are sure to keep any investor risk-on for 2014.
Kim Bhasin / Business InsiderLast week, American retailers were vying for customers' time and dollars during Black Friday sales.† Three retailers' strategies stood out as the best during post-Thanksgiving sales, according to a note by Goldman Sachs.† Here are their favorites:†
REUTERS/Gene BlevinsOff-roaders with their sand rails, bikes and quads light up the night at the Oldsmobile Hill sand dune in Glamis, California, November 29, 2013.Markets traded sideways for most of the day, but ended in the red. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Alex/FlickrThe concept of the ìCircle of Competenceî has been used over the years by Warren Buffett as a way to focus investors on only operating in areas they knew best. The bones of the concept appear in his†1996 Shareholder Letter: What an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses. Note that word ìselectedî: You donít have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital. Itís a simple concept: Each of us, through experience or study, has built up useful knowledge on certain areas of the world. Some areas are understood by most of us, while some areas require a lot more specialty to evaluate. For example, most of us have a basic understanding of the economics of a restaurant: You rent or buy space, spend money to outfit the place and then hire employees to seat, serve, cook, and clean. (And, if you donít want to do it yourself, manage.) From there itís a matter of generating enough traffic and setting the appropriate prices to generate a profit on the food and drinks you serve ó after all of your operating expenses have been paid. Though the cuisine, atmosphere, and price points will vary by restaurant, they all have to follow the same economic formula. That basic knowledge, along with some understanding of accounting and a little bit of study, would enable one to evaluate and invest in any number of restaurants and restaurant chains; public or private. Itís not all that complicated. However, can most of us say we understand the workings of a micro-chip company or a biotech drug company at the same level? Perhaps not. But as Buffett put so eloquently, we do not necessarily need to understand these more esoteric areas to invest capital. Far more important is to honestly define what we do know and to stick to those areas. The circle can be widened, but only slowly and over time. Mistakes are most often made when straying from this discipline. The concept applies outside of investing. Buffett†describes†the circle of competence of one of his business managers, a Russian immigrant with poor English who built the largest furniture store in Nebraska, thusly: I couldnít have given her $200 million worth of Berkshire Hathaway stock when I bought the business because she doesnít understand stock. She understands cash. She understands furniture. She understands real estate. She doesnít understand stocks, so she doesnít have anything to do with them. If you deal with Mrs. B in what I would call her circle of competenceÖ She is going to buy 5,000 end tables this afternoon (if the price is right). She is going to buy 20 different carpets in odd lots, and everything else like that [snaps fingers] because she understands carpet. She wouldnít buy 100 shares of General Motors if it was at 50 cents a share. It did not hurt Mrs. B to have such a narrow area of competence. In fact, one could argue the opposite: Her rigid devotion to that area allowed her to focus. Only with that focus could she have overcome her handicaps to achieve such extreme success. In fact, Charlie Munger takes this concept outside of business altogether and into the realm of life in general. The essential question he sought to answer: Where should we devote our limited time in life, in order to achieve the most success? Charlieís†simple prescription: You have to figure out what your own aptitudes are. If you play games where other people have the aptitudes and you donít, youíre going to lose. And thatís as close to certain as any prediction that you can make. You have to figure out where youíve got an edge. And youíve got to play within your own circle of competence. If you want to be the best tennis player in the world, you may start out trying and soon find out that itís hopeless ó that other people blow right by you. However, if you want to become the best plumbing contractor in Bemidji, that is probably doable by two-thirds of you. It takes a will. It takes the intelligence. But after a while, youíd gradually know all about the plumbing business in Bemidji and master the art. That is an attainable objective, given enough discipline. And people who could never win a chess tournament or stand in center court in a respectable tennis tournament can rise quite high in life by slowly developing a circle of competence ó which results partly from what they were born with and partly from what they slowly develop through work. So, the simple takeaway here is clear. If you want to improve your odds of success in life and business then define the perimeter of your circle of competence, and operate inside. Over time, work to expand that circle but never fool yourself about where it stands today, and never be afraid to say, ìI donít know.î
The virtual currency craze is on a tear, with new virtual currencies emerging every day. The New York Times just ran a series of articles about them last week. ‚ÄúCharles Ponzi would be so proud!‚Äù one person appropriately commented at the bottom of this article. Before going any further, let‚Äôs learn a bit more about the bitcoin system (also here and here). There are three components to this system: 1. A unit of account‚Äîthe Bitcoin (BTC)‚Äîin which all transactions are recorded and goods and services are priced. 2.¬† A payment system, supposedly secured and anonymous. 3. A means of payment‚Äîbitcoins‚Äîthat is needed to complete all transactions in the payment system (there are coins of several denominations and the coin with a face value of one BTC is called the ‚Äúbitcoin‚Äù). Given the craze over bitcoins, their price in US dollars (USD) has soared with a BTC 1 coin going for as much as USD 1200 at one point, leaving Business Insider‚Äôs Joe Weisenthal saying: ‚ÄúAt this point, I have zero idea what a ‚Äòfair‚Äô price for Bitcoin is.‚Äù I have an answer to that question, but before I reveal it (pretend you did not read the title of this post), let‚Äôs spend a bit of time getting to know the Bitcoin, starting with its payment system. All transactions that have occurred since the beginning of the bitcoin system are recorded on a ledger called the ‚Äúblockchain.‚Äù The system is setup so that every ten minutes or so a new page‚Äîcalled a ‚Äútransaction block,‚Äù or just ‚Äúblock‚Äù‚Äîis added to the ledger. This new page refers to all past transactions requests (by referring to the immediate previous block) and records all the new transactions requests. The ledger is crucial to the system because it allows users to verify that a transaction request between two parties is not fraudulent. For example, Mr X. uses the bitcoin payment system to send a request to buy a pizza from Joe‚Äôs Pizza. Joe‚Äôs Pizza wants to make sure that this is a valid transaction. That requires verifying that Mr. X holds enough bitcoins to pay for the pizza (the ledger will tell from which past transactions he got his bitcoins), and that he is not trying to double spend the bitcoins. This verification process is done by the accountants of the system, who are called the ‚Äúminers.‚Äù Usually Joe‚Äôs will wait for confirmation from several miners (the rule of thumb seems to be six confirmations) before agreeing to sell the pizza (‚Äúconfirmation‚Äù means that a recorded transaction request is included in following blocks). Anybody can be a miner, you just need a computer. Adding a page on the ledger is extremely difficult (more here) and requires time and CPU power. A miner can only add a page to the ledger after meeting a specific encryption requirement called the ‚Äúproof of work.‚Äù The proof of work involves encrypting new transaction requests in the form of a 16-digit hexadecimal number‚Äîcalled ‚Äúhash‚Äù or ‚Äúdigest‚Äù‚Äîthat must be no greater than a target value set by the system. For example, to simplify, Mr. X‚Äôs transaction request with Joe‚Äôs Pizza will be combined with many other requests and encrypted as a number‚Äîsay 16. But if the target value is 10, then the encryption failed to meet the requirement of the payment system, and encryption must be redone until it generates a random number below or equal to 10. This mathematical requirement is currently so difficult to satsify that it may take years for a miner using a standard computer to add a page. Indeed, the probability of finding a hexadecimal value that meets that requirement is virtually zero (3.82√ó10-19 last time I checked: check ‚ÄúCurrent probability of a winning a block per attempt‚Äù in ‚Äútarget‚Äù hyperlink above). A miner has much more chance to win the Powerball (5.71√ó10-9)! To speed up the process, miners can pool their CPU resources and can buy more powerful computers; however, the difficulty of adding a page to the ledger is adjusted over time to make sure that on average only one page can be added every ten minutes. One may wonder why it is so difficult to add a page to the ledger. The main goal is to make the payment system more secure by preventing double spending of bitcoins. Another reason is to maintain the value of bitcoins by making sure that they are not put in circulation too quickly. We will come back to this second reason later and focus on the first. If Mr. X is a miner, as an accountant he has direct access to the ledger so he may be tempted to temper it (‚Äúcook the book‚Äù). He can do so by adding to the ledger a transaction that is fraudulent in the sense that he is overspending his bitcoins (overdraft is prohibited). Given that all transaction requests are known, all other accountants could easily verify that this transaction is invalid by checking prior transactions of Mr. X. To be able to cheat the system, Mr. X has to create an entirely new (fraudulent) ledger with all past valid transactions and a new page that includes his fraudulent transaction. But he has to do it without anybody else knowing, so he has to solve a proof of work alone. In the meantime, every ten minutes a new page is created, so by the time Mr. X solves the problem many more pages will have been added to the non-fraudulent ledger. A rule in the bitcoin payment system is that accountants are only supposed to add pages to the ledger that contains the most proof of work‚Äîthe ‚Äúthickest‚Äù ledger (in bitcoin terminology, the accountants should add a block only to the ‚Äúlongest‚Äù blockchain, but the adjective ‚Äúlongest‚Äù is an unfortunate choice of word because what really matters is the amount of proof of work and this can result in a smaller ledger if difficulty is increased given everything else. As stated earlier difficulty is adjusted to make sure that a page is added to the ledger every 10 minutes or so in that case ‚Äúlongest‚Äù is an ok choice of word). So even if Mr. X succeeds in creating a new ledger that includes his transaction, all other accountants will know it is a fraudulent ledger because it won‚Äôt be the thickest. Of course all this assumes that there are only a few rogue accountants that do not pool their computer resources together to game the system by creating an invalid block in about 10 minutes. You will notice that so far we have not described bitcoins themselves. We merely presented the architecture of a payment system with some security features. This payment system could technically use an existing unit of account (e.g., USD) and existing means of payments (one would just need to link his bank account to the payment system, like for PayPal). Is it secured and anonymous? I can‚Äôt tell you if it is safer than existing payment systems‚Äîit is not my expertise‚Äîbut some past events clearly show that it is not a full-proof payment system. Bitcoins and BTC come into the picture when one wonders how to reward the crucial work done by the miners. Being a miner, beyond being an extremely tedious activity, involves some upfront fixed costs (a computer) and some variable costs (electricity and computation time). But miners are crucial to the trustworthiness of the bitcoin payment system, so they should be rewarded. While paying miners in dollars could be done, the creator of the bitcoin payment system‚Äîwho goes under the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto‚Äîwanted a system that runs on an independent unit of account with independent means of payment; hence the BTC and bitcoins. Each time a miner creates a new block by solving the proof of work, he currently gets 25 BTC in the form of bitcoins (over time this reward declines). The miner also receives a transaction fee paid in bitcoins. This transaction fee is provided by the persons involved in the transaction request (currently it seems to be paid by the buyer, Mr. X). The more transaction requests are included in a block, the more transaction fees will be collected by the miner who solves the proof of work. In order to obtain bitcoins, one must first create a bitcoin wallet (or here). This wallet contains at least one bitcoin ‚Äúaddress‚Äù or ‚Äúpublic key‚Äù (think debit card number) with a corresponding ‚Äúprivate key‚Äù (think debit card code). Addresses are public information but not the private key. When a miner is lucky enough to create a block, bitcoins are credited (out of thin air) to an address of his choosing. The creator of the payment system was frightened by this ex-nihilo creation of bitcoins, so he put constraints on the supply of bitcoins. The first one is the extreme difficulty to create a block, which makes sense in terms of security but also aims at creating an artificial scarcity of bitcoins. The second is that the maximum amount of bitcoins is set at BTC 21 million (at which time the reward for block creation will be BTC 0). Given the average rate of block creation (one every 10 minutes), the maximum should be reached by the year 2140. The hope is that accountants will be willing to earn their reward for creating blocks via transaction fees only. Bitcoins can also take a physical form (or here, or here) that contains a hidden private key (think of the hidden code at the back of a gift card). These physical coins are representation of virtual coins and are funded via the income earned by the issuer of physical bitcoins. Thus, given the way they are created and used at the moment, they do not provide a means to bypass the BTC 21 million limit. They are just physical representations of virtual coins that are useful for people who are worried about leaving their private key online. The creator of this system does not seem to see that this hard limit on bitcoin supply implies that, given transaction fees, the larger the number of transactions, the more bitcoins will go to the transaction payments and the less will be available for other purposes. One could avoid this by lowering the fee inversely with the amount of transactions, but that would reduce the incentive to be an accountant at the time when more are needed. A third possibility is for a Bitcoin deflation so that more goods and services can be bought with less bitcoins; thereby leaving more bitcoins to pay the accountants. Okay, enough with the description. Let‚Äôs move to the analysis of the ‚Äúmoneyness‚Äù of bitcoins. We are told that bitcoins are to be considered an alternative monetary instrument. Let‚Äôs take this proposition seriously and analyze it. Frankly, looking at the previous bitcoin creation mechanism, I see Easter egg hunting rather than mining. Gold only exists in a relevant quantity only in specific geological soil so you are not going to mine randomly. Mining also requires digging and here you are merely looking around for the coveted item. It‚Äôs important to realize that block generation is [‚Ä¶] like a lottery. Each hash basically gives you a random number between 0 and the maximum value of a 256-bit number (which is huge). If your hash is below the target, then you win. If not, you [‚Ä¶] try again. (Here) In addition, once you mine the gold nuggets they need much further processing before becoming coins whereas bitcoins are directly usable. But I digress. Monetary instruments are financial instruments. Like all financial instruments, monetary instruments have an issuer who promises to do something in the future. There are one or two common promises embedded in monetary instruments. One is that they are convertible into something else, another is that the issuer will accept them as final means of payment from his debtors. Bank accounts contain both promises (conversion into cash on demand, and one can pay debts due to banks by using funds in a bank account). Federal Reserve notes currently only contain one promise, the government will take them in payment at anytime (either directly or through the banking system in case tractability and security of payments are required). Some Federal Reserve notes were convertible into gold coins in the past. Gold coins are also monetary instruments that contain only one promise, that of being accepted back by the issuer to settle debts due to him (usually a government). Gold coins have an extra feature, they are collateralized by the value of the gold content. Note that the gold content of the coin is not a monetary instrument, and it is not what makes the coin a monetary instrument. Gold bullions were never financial instruments (they contain no promise), they are real assets, i.e. commodities (payments made with them are payments in-kind). Given the nature of monetary instruments, they have also other characteristics common to all financial instruments. First, all financial instruments are accounting creatures. They are the asset of the bearer and the liability of the issuer. Gold coins were the liability of, e.g., the King, Federal Reserve notes are liability of the Federal Reserve, and coins are the liability of the Treasury. Currency is their liability because they (at least) promise to take their currency from bearers in payments at any time; issuers owe that to the bearers. That is partly how their scarcity is controlled. Second, all financial instruments have a fair value that is defined as the discount value of future streams of monetary payments.¬†  Where the subscript t indicates the present time, Pt is the current fair value, Yn is the income at a future time n, FVN is the face value that will prevail at maturity, Et indicates current expectations about income and face value, dt is the current discount rate imposed by bearers, N is the time lapse until maturity (n = 0 is the issuance time). There is a wide variety of financial instruments using that formula. On one extreme are modern monetary instruments that, provide no income (Y = 0), have an instantaneous maturity (N = 0), and are widely expected to be taken back by their issuers at their initial face value at any time, Pt = FV0. On the other extreme are stocks and consols that have a positive expected income and an infinite maturity, Pt = Et(Y)/dt. Given that bitcoins are supposed to be monetary instruments, they must follow the preceding basic rules of finance. We clearly know who the bearers are (the lucky Easter egg hunters and the persons to whom they get sold) but who is the issuer? In other words who put the eggs in the forest and is willing to accept them in payments due to him or her. I can tell you the answer for Easter eggs: none of the persons who put them in the forest promised to accept them in payments. Therefore, they are not a liability, therefore they are not a financial asset, and therefore, they are not monetary instruments. They are real assets, commodities. The same applies to bitcoins. There are commodities and people are basically involved in trading a commodity on a world scale; with much of the craze coming from China (see here for a link to world map of current bitcoins transactions). Think of international bilateral trade of Easter eggs for other commodities; it is barter on a grand scale (remember people in the past who would sell their farm for a tulip‚Ä¶). We just established that bitcoins are not financial instrument, but let us, for the sake of argument, continue to assume that they are. This means that they must have a fair value. Now what is the fair value of a bitcoin? It does not provide any income (Y = 0), it has no maturity given that it is not a financial instrument. For the sake of argument, we might assume that their maturity is infinite because we are stuck with them forever once they are created. So their fair value as financial instrument is‚Ä¶A BIG FAT ZERO (you can use whatever unit of account you want). A BTC 1 coin should circulate at a 100% discount (BTC 0) if it was a monetary instrument, which means of course that it would not pass hands. This would have been different if there had been an issuer who took back bitcoins at face value in payments. As bitcoins would have come back to the issuer, they would have been destroyed (like any pizza restaurant destroys free-pizza coupons that are returned to make sure they are not stolen and reused to get another pizza). Unfortunately, nobody issued them (and they are not edible like Easter eggs) and so we are stuck with them. This was actually a mistake made throughout history. Kings would issue coins and never promise to take back them in payment! Private banks issued notes that they would not accept in payments! Fair value fell and coins would disappear as people melted them down to extract the gold and sell it as bullion. Bitcoins have not intrinsic value so their fair value would dropped to zero. The supply of monetary instruments needs to be elastic enough to change with the demand for them. They should be easy to create (bitcoins are) BUT ALSO easy to destroy if demand declines; that maintains the scarcity of the monetary instruments while making them responsive to the needs of the economy. Bitcoin supply fails on both sides, it is not demand driven; it is exogenous. Currently, the only things that give bitcoins value as commodities is their utility and their scarcity. People love the beauty, spiritual meaning, and taste of Easter eggs and so are willing to pay for them. Is there anything to love about bitcoins? People involved in illegal activities and money laundering, who have a phobia of Big Brother or who just hate the federal government, find utility in this means of payment because bitcoins allow to access the anonymous payment system. Other people who loves gambling also find utility in bitcoins. Both categories of people will be willing to pay top dollar for them given their scarcity. One may note that what gives value to bitcoins is not that there are redeemable in dollars. They are not redeemable (their quantity can‚Äôt be reduced by converting them into something else). What gives them value is that people are willing to pay a lot of dollars for them (or tulips if you see where I am going with this: people are trading virtual tulips that grow out of thin air and never die). The structure of the payment system, not bitcoins, is actually what makes the bitcoin project so successful. It is supposedly so secretive that you can trade a bunch of illegal stuff and evade taxes. Think Easter eggs (or tulips) for coke, Easter eggs for guns, Easter eggs for prostitutes, the sky is the limit and everything is priced in an Easter egg unit of account (EE). A pound of coke EE1000. Of course, there is a slippery slope. You can write contracts in a EE unit of account that promise to deliver Easter eggs, you can securitize these contracts, you can write contracts that bet on when the supply of Easter eggs will exactly run out. Heck! You can write any contract you want because there is no regulation. Contracts can have the most stupid (and hidden) clauses in them as long as someone will swallow them in expectation of huge returns. (You did not know? They love Easter eggs on Mars!) So there is a fixed supply of a commodity and a demand for that commodity (is it downward sloping? Probably not because speculation can easily overwhelm the use of bitcoins as anonymous payment method). A perfectly inelastic supply curve with a volatile demand curve is a recipe for wide price fluctuations of bitcoins in USD. If one takes chapter 17 of the General Theory, the bitcoin is an asset with no income (q = 0), no liquidity premium (l = 0), some carrying cost (c &gt; 0, because one needs a computer and electricity to use them, even if in physical forms), and an expected capital gain or loss (a &lt; &gt; 0), so their expected rate of return is: Rbc = abc ‚Äì cbc Put simply, Bitcoins are purely speculative assets. There are websites that help calculate if mining bitcoins is expected to be profitable, but, as one website notes: ‚ÄúExtrapolating bitcoin difficulty or price is pure voodoo.‚Äù Happy searching! You could make a lot of money in dollars by speculating on Easter egg value (you won‚Äôt get rich as an Easter egg picker, i.e. miner)! But don‚Äôt get lost in the woods! By the way, just for full disclosure, those who organized the hunt collected a bunch of eggs before the forest opened to the public. They made a killing as many people were waiting for them when they came out of the forest to buy the eggs at a steep dollar price. After all, who wants to go into this stinky wet forest‚Ä¶just give me the dammed eggs so I can go watch TV‚Ä¶or sell my drugs and guns, hopefully in total anonymity and security. Footnote:¬† Is all this consistent with MMT? Yes. MMT does not state that all monetary instruments are government issued or that every unit of account must have its origin in a government declaration. Monetary instruments can be created by anybody but their capacity to be widely used will vary with the capacity of the issuer to make others (willingly or forcefully) indebted to him. The state usually determines the major unit of account used and what the legal tender is but anyone can issue promises and use any unit of account they want (Easter Egg, Buckaroo, etc.).
Deutsche BankStocks have soared a staggering 26% this year, far outpacing earnings growth. And when stock returns outpace earnings growth, then the price-earnings (PE) multiple is expanding. "Year to date, 75% of the S&amp;P return has come from its PE expanding to 16.5x from 13.7x trailing EPS at 2012 end," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a recent note to clients. Forecasting what the PE will do is crucial since it is a huge driver of returns.† But it can be tricky because it represents the premium investors are willing to pay for profits, and it's always fluctuating (see chart). "Whatís the most common investor question?," asked Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker today. "Itís about the market multiple. The consensus view remains that there is less multiple expansion in front of us than behind us." But as much as the PE tends to revert to its mean, it also trends away from its mean for lengthy periods of time. Parker, who expects the S&amp;P 500 to hit 2,014 by the end of next year, thinks the PE could trend higher, giving stocks a nice boost. "The consensus view is also, however, that few risks appear imminent to derail this market rally, and therefore everyone is worried about the same thing, which is that no one is worried about anything," added Parker. "We think the multiple can still expand, which may actually be the most contrarian bull part of our call." Morgan Stanley"What happens following these periods of multiple expansion?" asked Parker. "Typically, the market continues to perform well in the 12 months following multiple expansion (Exhibit 2), though we admit we are assessing only three periods." Parker isn't alone in forecasting higher PEs in 2014. "While stock indexes like the S&amp;P 500 have hit all-time highs, the stocks are not currently valued at the levels that have marked the end of bull markets in the past," said LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop in his 2014 outlook.  "The PE for S&amp;P 500 companies using EPS over the past four quarters stands at about 16 as 2013 draws to a close," noted Kleintop. "This is below the 17 ñ 18 PE where every secular and cyclical bull market has ended since WWII (with the exception of the late 1990s that ended much higher). We expect the PE for the S&amp;P 500 to end 2014 around 16.5 ó a level last seen in 2005 and 2006. A rise of half a point seems reasonable based upon last yearís experience as risks receded and our expectation for growth to improve in the coming year." However, all of these forecasts are based on the assumption that the U.S. economy stays out of recession. "Alternatively, if economic growth falters and earnings do not move higher, we would expect a modest drop in the PE and a decline for the stock market, despite more bond buying from the Fed," said Kleintop.
Jessica Bal/NarrativelyOn the rooftop of a seventeen-story building in the middle of a public housing complex in the Bronx, two fighters were battling it out. The roof has no railings, so anyone could easily have fallen off. Wearing only shorts and mixed martial arts gloves, they punched, grappled and kicked each other until one of them was beaten into submission and fell to the floor unconscious. ìThat was the first rooftop fight Iíve ever seen,î said William H. Cavalli, an underground fighter, as he recounted the illegal bout that took place on a windy, wet day last February. ìI donít like heights. It was kind of creepy. I wouldnít fight on a roof.î With only fifteen people watching, the fight ended after a quarter of an hour, when one of the fighters went down hard, his head thudding into the buildingís roof. ìMind you,î said Cavalli, ìthere was no mat.î The fight had to be stopped. As Cavalli described the story later in a coffee shop in Brooklyn, he seemed in awe of the fighters. ìDude, there was no fear on that roof. They did the pre-fight protocol, warm up, and then they just went in there and fought.î [RELATED:†The Strange Life of a Teenage Pageant Host] At twenty-three, Cavalliís ambition is to one day compete in the Ultimate Fighting Championship, the worldís largest mixed martial arts promotion company, which is banned in New York State. Jessica BalWilliam H. Cavalli practices a kick in his gym. Mixed martial arts is a full-contact combat sport that uses a combination of different styles of fighting such as Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, Muay Thai, wrestling and kickboxing. Each fighter trains and develops his or her own fighting technique in several of the above disciplines, allowing them to become fully-rounded fighters. Most alarming to many spectators, in MMA, as opposed to in boxing or most other contact sports, a fighter is allowed to strike his opponent when he is already on the ground and continue to pound him. In 1997, the State of New York enacted a law making clear that it would not issue a license for ìprofessional combative sporting events,î which is how it described MMA fighting. However, MMA was never actually made illegal; there is a technical distinction between legal and sanctioned. Elsewhere, professional fights are usually sanctioned by the state and must be organized by an athletic commission, which provides referees, rules and insurance. It also administers blood tests to the fighters weeks before a fight. Since MMA is not licensed in New York, all fights that take place here are considered amateur, and thus are unregulated, because the state of New York tries not to interfere with amateur combative sports. Jim Genia, a NYC-based journalist and author who has been covering the fighting industry in New York for more than a decade, says, ìRegulating amateur stuff is expensive for the state. There are far more amateur competitions than pro (in every sport), and that would require a huge budget and staff that the state just doesnít have.î Jessica BalCavalli practices with a sword. The Ultimate Fighting Championship has now spent several years lobbying the New York State Legislature to overturn its 1997 ban on professional MMA. In November of 2011, the UFC sued the state of New York in Federal court in Manhattan, arguing that the State was unjust in banning some professional fighting sports and not others. ìIf some professional combative sports can be sanctioned by the World Kickboxing Association then why not all of them?î asks Barry Friedman, the lawyer who is representing the UFC in the court case, which has so far not succeeded in overturning the ban. In 2003, a fighter named Peter Storm took advantage of the loophole in the law that banned professional MMA leagues but left amateur ones untouched. At twenty-five, Storm created the amateur†Underground Combat League†(UCL). Even though the UCL is perfectly legal, it is not sanctioned by anyone. ìThe refs arenít trained, the fighters arenít insured, the rules arenít set in stone ó there are no medical personnel there,î says Genia. Now ten years old, the UCL has created an avenue for fighters to compete, including Storm himself. Cavalli was introduced to Storm by a fighter he faced at a tournament in Queens. Storm was impressed by Cavalliís skills and asked him to fight for his league. Storm calls him ìa real fighter,î and one with an interesting style, rooted in Chinese martial arts. Cavalli competed in the most recent UCL fight, held on April 28 in a secret location. He won his fight.† * † * † * On a chilly Monday evening in early February, I met Cavalli for the first time at a Chinese restaurant on Mott Street in Chinatown. A Brooklyn-born African-American with a lean physique and a quiet swagger, he wears only black. Cavalli is not his real name, but one he adopted while delivering parcels for Urban Express. The Italian fashion house Roberto Cavalli caught his eye. Jessica BalìI thought it was cool,î he says, laughing. The first name and middle initial that he goes by, William H., is inspired by Bill Gates, via†a Jay-Z song†in which the rapper does the same. That night, Cavalli wore a long black trench coat, and ordered bubble tea and fried chicken as he tried to explain the appeal of violent sport. His love for fighting started in public school in Brooklyn when he was five, and was constantly picked on by older kids. ìI couldnít keep running,î says Cavalli. ìI had to learn how to fight.î One day he grabbed a boy by his shirt ó ìI kicked this kid and hit his head on the gate.î In high school Cavalli learned kickboxing and trained with a teacher who kept beating him up. ìI just kept coming back,î he says. During his adolescence, he joined the notorious Crips gang. Members of the gang, including Cavalli, burned the letter ìGî on their arms by constantly rubbing an eraser against their skin until layers of it fell off. Fed up, his mother sent him away to a boarding school in Massachusetts to learn discipline and earn his GED, which he never got, although the change did get him out of trouble. He focused his energy and passion on Kung Fu, and began competing in MMA events in New York held by Manup Standup, an amateur, unsanctioned MMA league. I asked Cavalli what his mother thought of his fighting. ìAs long as Iím not selling drugs, sheís happy,î he says, adding, ìMy grandmother hates it. She doesnít like to see me get hit.î Unlike professional MMA, where health risks are taken into account and blood tests are administered to all fighters before a fight, UCL fighters go into the ring and risk being infected by diseases if they get cut and bleed during a fight. When I brought this to Cavalliís attention, he seemed stunned. ìI never really thought about it,î he said. ìI just go in there to fight.î [RELATED:†How a Free Airline Pass Changed This Guy's Life] The lack of payment or health screening is not of much concern to Cavalli and the other amateur fighters of the UCL. They are proving themselves in the ring, which is all they are after, and thatís enough to incite a highly competitive atmosphere. ìImagine a meth lab,î says Cavalli, describing what the underground fights are like. ìVery gritty, nasty, not pretty, very electric. Bunch of testosterone.î * † * † * Cavalliís training gym is located in a residential building at the end of an alleyway in Bushwick. When I visit, itís filled with a stench that seems to come from a turtle tank nestled on top of a dirty grey shelf. ìThis is my home away from home,î says Cavalli. Jessica BalWhere the magic happens: Cavalli's home gym.He lights incense sticks and puts on some í90s rap music: Biggie, Tupac and Jay-Z. Without stopping to digest the chicken fingers heís eating, he puts on his ankle weights and gloves. Then he straps on a gas mask, which helps him build stamina because it makes it harder to breathe. He starts doing lunges and pushups, followed by kicks and jabs to the punching bag as he twirls around and spins moves in the air. He seems to be struggling as he gasps for air under his†mask. Cavalliís Kung Fu moves are inspired by Bruce Lee, but his favorite movie is†Beauty and the Beast. ìI donít do things conventionally,î he says,†stopping to munch on his food between lunges. ìEverything I do is outta left field.î * † * † * A few weeks later, Cavalli was set to fight Desmond Nelson in an April bout. Nelson had beaten Cavalli at previous UCL event in November, and Cavalli was looking forward to the rematch. ìNow itís personal,î he said, promising to ìdo some damage.î ìNow Iím going to hurt that kid,î he vowed. A twenty-one-year-old, soft-spoken African-American from Harlem, Nelson developed a passion for MMA by watching it on TV at the age of sixteen. Nelson has never met his father, is not close to his mother, and was raised by his grandmother, who, at eighty, watches the UFC with him on TV. While entirely self-taught, he is well versed in all styles of MMA fighting, including kickboxing, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and wrestling. Since debuting with the UCL in July of 2012, he has already participated in five fights, which is quite an achievement. ìI donít have a gym, none of that. I go to a teen center in the Bronx, on 149th Street where I have this guy who helps train me,î says Nelson. He originally met Peter Storm while attending a fight in which his cousin was taking part. ìA lot of people have opinions about him and his league,î Nelson says of Storm. ìBut he still gives us the opportunity to fight and to test ourselves.î ìFor me, I think if youíre fighting in the UCL, youíre passionate because you donít get paid,î he continues. ìItís not really easy. You work with what you have when things are scarce.î [RELATED:†How a 'Kickstarter' for Rare Genetic Diseases is Saving Lives] While he enjoys the underground culture of the league, he also notes that its lack of testing allows people who take steroids to participate, knowing there is no way to get caught. ìThe people in New Jersey who test positive for steroids, all they have to do is come across the water and fight for the UCL,î says Nelson. Like Cavalli, Nelson has only recently thought about the health risks involved in underground fighting. ìI just thought about it a month and a half ago. I thought, ëHoly shit, itís a big risk,íî he says. ìIf Iím fighting someone that might have something like hepatitis, thatís a big fear. But without the UCL, I wouldnít get this exposure. Itís not like I have a gym or team to go to.î Also like Cavalli, Nelsonís dream is to be in the UFC one day. ìEvery fighterís dream is to be a champion,î he says. Cavalli dominated all three rounds of their fight. ìI remember getting hit once,î he says. ìI knocked him down more than once. I set the pace of the fight and I took control. Jessica BalìI showed more effort this time. I actually took advantage of every opportunity I had to hurt him. It felt good.î * † * † * One morning in mid-March, Cavalli went to watch the ìKings of New Yorkî show at†the Hammerstein Ballroom on 34th Street. It was the first large-scale amateur MMA show in NYC in about ten years, coming after the State admitted in court that†MMA is not actually illegal, as long as itís amateur. A crowd of diehard MMA fans waited in line, battling the blistering cold. Cavalli was approached by one of the promoters to see if he was willing to replace a fighter who dropped out at the last minute, but he replied that the weight class was too high for him and that he was not prepared. ìI feel rushed,î Cavalli said. [RELATED:†Getting Intimate With the Booming, and Busty, Business of Burlesque] After two hours, people began filling up the venue, and a singer made her way to the cage to recite the national anthem. The crowd rose to its feet. Soon after, the presenter announced the first fight of the night. A fighter, covered in tattoos, came out with his corner men and the half-naked ring girls. He made his way down to the cage while the DJ played his trademark song, and his opponent followed right after. The fighters were prepped by their corner men, who rubbed Vaseline on their faces to minimize tearing. Almost immediately, one of the fighters put his opponent in a headlock and beat him into submission. The crowd screamed, ìFinish him! Finish him!î Cavalli stood up, screaming and punching the air, so excited that he could not contain himself. One fighterís eye bled, blood dripping down to his mouth. People were out of their seats, huddled around the cage, drinks in their hands, screaming. During one of the fights later in the night, one competitor surrendered. His corner men ordered†him to continue to fight, but he kept saying, ìI canít.î He was clearly exhausted and could no longer go on. He was carried out of the cage. [RELATED:†The Secret World of Illegal Street Racing in NYC]† * † * † * A few weeks after winning his rematch against Nelson, I asked Cavalli how he felt about his victory. Nelson is a tough kid, says Cavalli. ìHe would just keep getting up every time I knocked him down. Heís very resilient.î In fact, Nelson was bleeding from his nose, but kept getting up until it was beyond clear that he was done. ìHe was beat the hell up. People were like, ëLook at his neck,' and I was like, ëOh shití,î says Cavalli. ìWhen you fight someone like me,î he adds. ìYou canít get tired.î * † * † * Dina Abdel-Haq†is a recent graduate of Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Her interests lie in international affairs and conflicts reporting. Dedication: For Ana Paula Justino, the mother of an MMA fighter and a champion during her life and in her fight against cancer. RIP Jessica Bal†hails from a two-stoplight town in Massachusetts and now resides in a city with too many lights to count, where she produces media for an arts education organization and looks for any excuse to write, photograph, and film stories that sheís curious about.
Mark Ralston/AFPChinese officials conducted "unannounced inspections" at two Bloomberg News bureaus at the end of November, Fortune's Peter Elkind and Scott Cendrowski†report. The inspections at the Beijing and Shanghai bureaus came after Bloomberg decided to spike a year-long investigate story on alleged government corruption. That decision, which Bloomberg News editor-in-chief Matt Winkler reportedly likened to media organizations attempting to preserve their ability to report inside Nazi Germany, was at best criticized as an attempt to stay in the good graces of Chinese leadership. But some have accused Bloomberg of ditching the investigative story because it might undermine revenue in China from the more profitable side of its business, terminal sales. Bloomberg has roundly rejected that argument, maintaining that the damning article was "delayed" because it wasn't ready (the reporter at the center of all this left the company). Fortune says the details of the inspections are "sketchy." Sources told them that officials came in for "security" or "safety" inspections, and Bloomberg reporters viewed the search "as an act of intimidation." During the visit, "at least one Chinese official asked the company for an apology from Winkler," according to the report. Read the full report at Fortune ª
Amazon Wal-Mart and Best Buy are making strides to compete with online behemoth Amazon this holiday season.¬† But Amazon will continue to gain market share in electronics and general merchandise, according to a recent report by Trefis.¬† The report lists a few reasons why Amazon will continue to dominate.¬†
Yet while the gap between the first half of the tale ó the resilience of bond markets ó and the second ó the state of the real economy ó has at least stabilised in the case of Spain and, to a lesser extent, Italy, it's still widening in the case of France. The economic and financial news out of France this morning throws this growing disconnect into sharp relief: while manufacturing output in November continued to contract, and is now at a 5-month low, the yield on benchmark French 10-year paper has fallen some 40 basis points since early September. It appears that the worse things get on the economic and political fronts in France, the more resilient the country's bond market becomes. The spread between French 10-year debt and its German equivalent is now some 50 basis points compared with nearly 60 in early September. We have long argued that talk of a sharp sell-off in France's bond market is misplaced. If France was going to go the way of Spain and Italy, the chances are it would have already happened. Simply put, France has a deep, liquid and relatively safe enough debt market to act as a second-best (or least-worst) alternative to even richer German paper. However, we have also pointed out on numerous occasions that the near-collapse of Italy's bond market in November 2011 shows that foreign investors can flee large and liquid debt markets that have long been perceived as being relatively safe. Make no mistake about it, France has been knee-deep in a crisis for the past few years, and one which has been exacerbated by President Fran<U+04AB>ois Hollande's tax-driven fiscal consolidation programme and his extremely weak leadership. Indeed, the ever bleaker economic data in France is now the most conspicuous example of the severity and protracted nature of the downturn in the eurozone. France, along with Italy, is the "sick man" of Europe. But those anticipating a bond market rout in France are barking up the wrong tree.
It's the holiday season, and that means cocktail parties, work functions, family reunions and more ó it means a bunch occasions that require a suit. Now, in a perfect world every gentleman would have a suit for every occasion. But the world is not perfect, and good suits do not come cheap, so it's important to find ways to make standard suits look fresh. For the most part, you've got a few standard black/navy work suits and maybe something sharper for special occasions. (If you are sharp at all, but that's another discussion). Despite that harsh reality, in a world of Instagram and Facebook, no gentleman wants to look like he's wearing the same thing in every snap shot. Enter your accessories. Business Insider reached out to Jesse Chao, founder of men's accessory line, Vittorio J. He gave us four ways to add tiny twists to your suit that will make it look different from wear to wear. Even better, you can get most of this stuff for less than $20. Since suits are coming in shorter these days, don't be afraid to show a little ankle, and make that ankle stand out. If you want to match your socks with your tie, shirt etc. feel free, but don't over do it. Vittorio J, Instagram They're easy, and they're everywhere in stores. Put a pocket square in your lapel (no, it doesn't have to match you tie... in fact, don't match your tie) and depending on the color, design and how your fold it, the square can make your entire look more fun or more serious. Go big here, or go home. Chao says you want vintage cuff links because they tend to be more interesting to look at than the plain ones that are on the market these days. "On eBay, you can find a ton of nice ones for less than $20. My favorites are the enamel ones as well as the snap-on ones. They really don't make snap-on cuff links that much anymore but they are so convenient - its so much easier to roll up a shirt when wearing these," Chao said. Vittorio J, Instagram Guys, this is the new hotness. Just check out the hashtag #flowerlapelpins on Instgram and you'll see that fashion heads all over the world are tacking these onto their suits to give them an elegant twist. Chao recommends checking out Etsy for a few cheap options. Vittorio J, Instagram
BlackBerry's interim CEO John Chen issued an open letter to BlackBerry customers today saying that the company is no longer for sale. BlackBerry tried to sell itself earlier this year, but couldn't find a good offer. Instead, a private equity firm called Fairfax Financial decided to invest $1 billion in BlackBerry. Its former CEO, Thorsten Heins, stepped down after BlackBerry failed to sell. Chen took over as interim CEO. In his letter, Chen promises to continue supporting current BlackBerry devices and focusing on enterprise customers. Here's the letter, which was posted as a JPEG image for some strange reason. Click for a larger view: BlackBerry
REUTERS/ Alfred Cheng JinIt's a big week for economic data with U.S. ISM manufacturing already beating expectations today and housing and GDP statistics coming later this week. The most important data point, though, comes Friday morning when the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) puts out the November jobs report. This is one of the most important reports to date due to its implications for Fed policy. The Federal Reserve is considering scaling back - tapering - †its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, but will only do so if the economy is improving at a moderate pace. More than any other statistic, the jobs report is the best indicator of the health of the labor market. In September, the Fed surprised the market by not tapering and led Fed watchers to revise their expectations for when the taper could come.†Right now, most analysts believe that it will happen in March, but better than expected job growth could push up that forecast.† The October job report beat expectations, adding 204,000 jobs and revised up the August and September numbers by 60,000 as well. This was despite the government shutdown and debt ceiling brinksmanship. With those improvements, lower mortgage rates and the likelihood of a future government shutdown low, the Fed could begin reducing its purchases in December, but a lot depends on Friday's report. Analysts expect 180,000 new jobs in November and the unemployment rate to drop back to 7.2%, after it rose last month due to the shutdown. If the data beats expectations, it will increase the odds that the Fed will taper in December. If the number is weak, it will almost surely rule out a December taper and could push it even further into the spring or summer of next year.
Mt.GoxMt. Gox, the largest Bitcoin trading site in the world, went down for at least 10 minutes today. Their Twitter site is basically a bot, so we likely won't know what went wrong until the site's back up and running.¬† The group behind the site, which is based in Japan but run by Americans, ran into some legal trouble earlier this year. In May, the Feds seized bank accounts worth $5 million registered in Maryland to Mt. Gox and its head Mark Karpeles.¬† That, along with trouble from Japanese banking regulators, has caused a huge delays in processing withdrawals to Mt. Gox customers. Wired's Robert McMillan and Cade Metz have a great new interview with the site's executives, in which we learn, among other things, that Mt. Gox originally stood for Magic: The Gathering Online Exchange. ¬† But it also includes an admission by Bitcoin millionaire and friend of Karpeles Roger Ver that Mt. Gox's difficulties should be making people way more suspect about trading on the site. ‚ÄúThey just think Mt. Gox is the biggest and the best, and they don‚Äôt know,‚Äù he told Wired regarding new customers.
Spain grew 0.1% in the third quarter, emerging from a two-year-long recession. But the country still has an impossibly high unemployment rate of 26%. Earlier this year, the European Court of Justice ruled against Spain's eviction laws that make it hard for homeowners to oppose an eviction by a bank. Soaring unemployment and a housing bust has seen a surge in evictions as borrowers are unable to pay their mortgages. Over 350,000 families have reportedly been evicted since the housing bust. Reuters photographer Susana Vera documented the eviction of Carmen Carmona and her family. Carmona was in a social rent flat ‚Äî a place in which a homeowner who has defaulted on mortgages in the past can stay in the homes for a social rent of 30% of their salary. Carmen Carmona and her lawyer stand in her home in Madrid, as the police enter and take down the identifications of the media before carrying out her eviction. REUTERS/Susana Vera Carmona had lived in the social rent flat with her mother Pilar Amador, two brothers, and nephew since 1998. REUTERS/Susana Vera Most of the adults in the family don't have steady jobs and fell behind with their rent payments. Carmona cries as she waits for her family to be evicted by the Municipal Housing and Land Company (EMVS). REUTERS/Susana Vera The family had managed to postpone its eviction on two previous occasions.REUTERS/Susana Vera Amador, Carmona's mother, screams, "this is shameful" at the police standing guard outside their apartment.REUTERS/Susana Vera Carmona stands next to her family's belongings on the street.REUTERS/Susana Vera
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueNeel Kashkari, the former Treasury official who administered the federal government's TARP program, looks up during a meeting at the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget Annual Conference in Washington, June 14, 2011. Neel Kashkari, who oversaw the government's bank bailout at the height of the financial crisis, will attempt to succeed Jerry Brown as Governor of California in 2014, Bloomberg's¬†James Nash¬†&amp;¬†Michael B. Marois report, citing a Kashkari rep. We'd previously reported that Kashkari was considering running for¬†something.¬†Now we know what it is. Appointed by Henry Paulson to oversee the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in 2008, Kashkari hopes to resume Republican leadership of Sacramento after Brown, a Democrat, took over in 2010. The state has only had four Democratic administrations in the past 40 years. Brown has represented two of them. Kashkari left Treasury in December 2009 to become an exec at Bill Gross' giant PIMCO investment fund. He stepped down in January of this year to begin assembling a team to run, Bloomberg says. So far he's signed up campaign advisers who have worked with both Mitt Romney and John McCain, and has met with nearly 700 potential donors from around the country. Nash and Marois add some details about Kashkari's life since a recent divorce:¬† "Kashkari lives in a rented three-bedroom home in Laguna Beach overlooking a cove by the Pacific Ocean. Neighbors in the Orange County town said they‚Äôve seen him walking his two Newfoundland dogs, Winslow and Newsome, but know little else about him. His home, built in 1920, was assessed this year at $245,120, according to property records. He owns two cars, a 2014 Jeep Grand Cherokee and a 2002 Chevy Tahoe."¬† Brown has not officially announced he's running for reelection, but his approval rating is the highest since he took office. He's credited with turning around the state's finances ‚Äî having, for instance, passed a major tax increase while cutting spending. Although he is 75, Brown told the FT in April that he has, ¬†‚Äú...no intention of walking off the stage here, now that I‚Äôm on it.‚Äù Click here to read the full story on Bloomberg ¬ª
REUTERS/Fred ProuserWillem Buiter, chief economist at CitigroupCiti has just published its massive 80-page outlook for the global economy in 2014. "As 2013 draws to a close, the global economy looks to be exiting the slowdown of the past three years and entering a new phase of modest recovery and growth," wrote Willem Buiter, Citi's Chief Economist. Buiter sounds decidedly optimistic. In the past, he's warned of the euro crisis escalating, even leading to the exit of Greece from the euro. "[W]hat is revolutionary about 2014 is that the likelihood of severe downside tail events, which could paralyze the global economy, seems to have diminished significantly (though not disappeared)," he said. "Granted, the euro-area is still work in progress, China presents meaningful question marks, Congressional gridlock in the US could still throw sand in the federal fiscal wheels and geopolitics can always surprise. But, enough progress has been made that all of these issues seem less threatening today than 12 months ago." Here are some numbers: We expect a modest reacceleration in global real GDP growth (at market exchange rates) from 2.4% in 2013 to about 3.1% in 2014, the best since 2010, with growth in advanced economies (AEs) up from 1.1% in 2013 to about 2.0% in 2014. Growth is likely to be around 3% in the US and UK in 2014-15. Japanís growth is likely to slow significantly during 2014 as the consumption tax hike bites," he added. "We expect that EM growth will continue to outpace AE growth in 2014, as in every year since 1999. However, the EM-AE growth gap in 2014 is likely to be the smallest since 2002 and we continue to revise EM growth forecasts lower on balance. Buiter's macro outlook is summed up in this three paragraph conclusion: It is almost never quite true that one year resembles the previous one. Still, we expect 2014 to resemble in many dimensions a slightly improved version of 2013. Global growth is likely to be somewhat higher with a better grounded recovery. We do not expect monetary policy to turn dramatically in advanced economies, nor is fiscal policy set to tighten to the point of threatening growth. Structural reforms are not likely to be earth shattering in 2014. Thus, we see the next year bringing a gradual return to normalcy. Of course, normal also implies surprises and some risks. Geopolitics can always surprise, though 2014 seems leaner as regards threats than has typically been the case in recent years. National politics, with presidential elections in several EM nations and a midterm contest in the US, could also throw a curve ball, but such shocks rarely are large enough to materially affect global economic performance over the course of a year. Sovereign accidents in Europe, a fiscal mishap in the US, or a bursting bubble in China are also possibilities, but seem either less likely than this year or, should they happen, of less global systemic significance. The initiation of tapering by the Fed and some macroeconomic vulnerabilities in a few systemically important EMs could create a bit of a jolt. But, once again, it is unlikely that 2014 will bring an EM crisis like those of yesteryear. Moderate risks, moderate recovery. The trademark of 2014 appears to be that of incremental improvements. Yet, consistent, marginal improvement is, for this day and age, revolutionary. "Moderate risks, moderate recovery," he says.
REUTERS/Gleb Garanich Protests in Ukraine have reached a new level. The New York Times reports that an estimated 1 million people took part in a rally Sunday, and thousands of people are still occupying Kiev's Independence Square today. Amazingly, the protests are believed to be even bigger than those that accompanied Ukraine's Orange Revolution in 2004; protests which also focused on opposition to President Viktor Yanukovych. However, exactly what will happen next is hard to predict and there has already been significant violence on the streets of Kiev. Here's what you need to know about the protests. REUTERS/Gleb GaranichStudents wave European Union flags during a rally in support of EU integration in Kiev November 26, 2013. The key issue here is President Yanukovych's decision to back away from plans that would have established free trade and furthered political cooperation between Ukraine and the EU, an agreement that was seen as a possible precursor to EU membership. Yanukovych has instead moved toward an agreement with the Russian-directed Eurasian Customs Union (ECU), which includes Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan at present. Observers have pointed out that President Yanukovych's decision may end up defining the Ukrainian civilization, and reveals a wider move away from Europe and into Russia. REUTERS/Valentyn Ogirenko Protesters clash with riot police during a rally to support EU integration in central Kiev November 24, 2013.  Protests began to gain steam a week after Yanukovych's reported decision on November 21. Twitter The name comes from the location of the protessts ‚Äî they took place in Kiev's central square Maidan Nezalezhnosti (Independence Square). The square was also the focus of the 2004 Orange Revolution. REUTERS/Stringer Wounded Reuters photographer Gleb Garanich, who was injured by riot police, takes pictures as riot police block protesters during a scuffle at a demonstration in support of EU integration at Independence Square in Kiev November 30, 2013.  This Saturday, Ukrainian security services stepped in to try to disperse hundreds of thousands of supporters in the Square. According to CNN, seven people were hospitalized and dozens arrested in frequently violent clashes. Police used stun grenades and batons in the dispersal, Reuters reports, and EU officials condemned an "excessive use of force."  One notable video from the scene shows them driving what appears to be a stolen bulldozer toward police. APDemonstrators gather during a rally in downtown Kiev, Ukraine, on Sunday, Dec. 1, 2013. As we noted before, The New York Times reports that some 1 million people headed to Independence Square on Sunday (other estimates are smaller, but still in the hundreds of thousands). Additionally, protesters were able to gain access to many key government buildings, including city hall. Some protesters have also attempted to break through police lines and get into the Ukrainian presidential building. Well, first let's look at a map. Google Maps As you can see, Ukraine quite literally sits between Europe and Russia. The distance between Moscow and Kiev is just a little more than 500 miles, yet four of the five countries on its Western border ‚Äî Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania ‚Äî are EU member states. The cultures of Ukraine and Russia have long been intertwined; almost half of Ukrainians say Russian is their first language, and many ordinary Russians will talk wistfully of the time when Kiev was the capital of a greater Kievan Rus' empire between the 9th and 13th centuries, an area which includes much of modern Ukraine, Belarus, and Western Russia. REUTERS/Stoyan NenovA general view shows Independence Square in Kiev during a demonstration in support of the EU integration November 29, 2013.  Ukraine was dominated by foreign powers for years, and much of the country has been absorbed into the Russian empire by the 18th century. In 1922 Ukraine and Russia became the two founding members of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (the USSR), though the country's politics and culture were ultimately dominated by Moscow. Additionally, Joseph Stalin's aggressive agricultural policies are believed to have led to millions of Ukrainians dying from famine, something many Ukrainians have not forgotten. After the fall of Communism and the break between Russia and Ukraine, things grew even more complicated. In particular, many oil and gas pipelines used by Russia to provide Western Europe ran through Ukrainian land. Since Vladimir Putin came to power in 2000, things have grown more tense, with Russia shutting down the Ukrainian gas supply in disputes over debts in both 2006 and 2009. In 2008 Putin reportedly threatened Ukraine with nuclear missiles if the country joined NATO. It's important to note, however, that not all Ukrainians have negative feelings about Russia. The Eastern part of Ukraine was a part of the Russian empire for centuries, and many people who live there have strong emotional ties to Moscow rule. REUTERS/Gleb GaranichUkrainian President Viktor Yanukovych speaks during a news conference in Kiev March 1, 2013.  One common idea here is that Ukraine is being "bullied" by its larger Eastern neighbor, who has threatened more sanctions against Ukraine if it sided with Europe. However, there's also another factor ‚Äî economic bribery. Russia's deputy PM has said that Ukraine may get cheaper gas if it joins the ECU, and President Yanukovych may well have been "shopping around" for whomever could give his country the most money to help schedule debt repayments of more than $8 billion next year. As an aside here, President Yanukovych himself plays an interesting role in the whole thing. The Orange Revolution of 2004 was aimed at stopping Yanukovych from becoming president after an election that was widely believed to be rigged. However, Yanukovych ‚Äî who speaks Russian and comes from eastern Ukraine ‚Äî had a comeback in 2010. At the weekend The Economist argued that Yanukovych's sudden decision to move away from the EU may well have been motivated by personal greed. Crucially,¬†Yanukovych has not responded to Western requests to free his Orange Revolution successor,¬†Yulia Tymoshenko, from jail. ‚ÄúYanukovych has decided it‚Äôs more important to keep Tymo¬≠shenko in prison than to integrate Ukraine closer toward Europe,‚Äù David J. Kramer, Freedom House president, said in a statement, according to the Washington Post. ‚ÄúHe has left his country vulnerable to Vladimir Putin‚Äôs threats and pressure.‚Äù APhis Sunday, March 4, 2012 file photo shows Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who claimed victory in Russia's presidential election, with tears running down his face up as he reacts at a massive rally of his supporters at Manezh square outside Kremlin, in Moscow. Putin once famously said that the fall of the Soviet Union was a "genuine tragedy." This may sound like he's longing for his days in Communist Russia, but really what he's talking about is something different ‚Äî a loss of an empire. Putin is famously a lover of Russian history, and he clearly longs for the days when Russia played a bigger role on the world stage. The ECU, which has also been called the "Eurasian Union," may be enough to give Russia the economic clout of the U.S., Europe, or China. Timothy Heritage of Reuters reports that some say Putin sees the project as his legacy. Russia has courted other potential EU-member states ‚Äî Armenia, for example ‚Äî but Ukraine would be a huge get for the ECU. The country has 45 million people, huge land mass, an important geopolitical position, and ‚Äî perhaps most importantly for Putin ‚Äî an important historical link to Russia. It's possible that the protests themselves may have peaked, though they aren't over quite yet: Protesters are still in Independence Square today. Importantly, the political movement appears to have momentum. High profile opposition politicians, such as boxer Vitali Klitschko, are helping to lead the protests, and a number of Yanukovych's supporters ‚Äî including multiple MPs and his chief of administration ‚Äî have quit and joined the opposition. Opposition leaders are calling for a nationwide strike and demanding Yanukovych and his government resign, Bloomberg reports. Yanukovych has proved to be a resilient politician before, and certainly has support from a large part of the country, and he does appear to be capitulating somewhat, saying today that he still favors "moving towards the EU" and promising no more violence.
Warren Buffett is arguably the greatest investor of all time. Unlike some other famous investors who swing for the fences and hit home runs every once in a while, Buffett is known for his low-volatility returns over a very long period. Indeed, an NBER paper shows that "Buffett's returns appear to be neither luck nor magic, but, rather, reward for the use of leverage combine with a focus on cheap, safe, quality stocks." In other words, he buys boring stocks that offer steady, low returns, but he amplifies those returns by betting with borrowed money. "We estimate that Buffett's leverage is about 1.6-to-1 on average," write authors Andrea Frazzini, David Kabiller and Lasse H. Pedersen. They've written about this before. So can you copy Buffett's investing strategy? The short answer is yes and no. Anyone can invest in boring stocks. But not everyone can borrow as cheaply as Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway. The authors identify at least four reasons why Buffett is able to borrow so cheaply (emphasis added): In addition to considering the magnitude of Buffett‚Äôs leverage, it is also interesting to consider his sources of leverage including their terms and costs. Berkshire‚Äôs debt has benefitted from being highly rated, enjoying a AAA rating from 1989 to 2009. As an illustration of the low financing rates enjoyed by Buffett, Berkshire issued the first ever negative-coupon security in 2002, a senior note with a warrant. Berkshire‚Äôs more anomalous cost of leverage, however, is due to its insurance float. Collecting insurance premia up front and later paying a diversified set of claims is like taking a ‚Äúloan.‚Äù Table 3 shows that the estimated average annual cost of Berkshire‚Äôs insurance float is only 2.2%, more than 3 percentage points below the average T-bill rate. Hence, Buffett‚Äôs low-cost insurance and reinsurance business have given him a significant advantage in terms of unique access to cheap, term leverage. We estimate that 36% of Berkshire‚Äôs liabilities consist of insurance float on average. Based on the balance sheet data, Berkshire also appears to finance part of its capital expenditure using tax deductions for accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment as provided for under the IRS rules. E.g., Berkshire reports $28 Billion of such deferred tax liabilities in 2011 (page 49 of the Annual Report). Accelerating depreciation is similar to an interest-free loan in the sense that (i) Berkshire enjoys a tax saving earlier than it otherwise would have, and (ii) the dollar amount of the tax when it is paid in the future is the same as the earlier savings (i.e. the tax liability does not accrue interest or compound). Berkshire‚Äôs remaining liabilities include accounts payable and derivative contract liabilities. Indeed, Berkshire has sold a number of derivative contracts, including writing index option contracts on several major equity indices, notably put options, and credit default obligations (see, e.g., the 2011 Annual Report). Berkshire states: We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates ... With limited exceptions, our equity index put option and credit default contracts contain no collateral posting requirements with respect to changes in either the fair value or intrinsic value of the contracts and/or a downgrade of Berkshire‚Äôs credit ratings.‚Äì Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Annual Report, 2011. Hence, Berkshire‚Äôs sale of derivatives may both serve as a source of financing and as a source of revenue as such derivatives tend to be expensive (Frazzini and Pedersen (2012)). Frazzini and Pedersen (2012) show that investors that are either unable or unwilling to use leverage will pay a premium for instruments that embed the leverage, such as option contracts and levered ETFs. Hence, Buffett can profit by supplying this embedded leverage as he has a unique access to stable and cheap financing. So, unless your a multibillion AAA-rated insurance conglomerate, you're not going to be able to invest like Buffett.
CoinWik.orgAt least 54 different digital currencies have been created in the past seven months. That's according to CoinWik.org, a Wiki site tracking digital currencies. The most recent is Asicoin, born on Sept. 11. It's advertised as a coin designed just for ASIC-mining hardware. ASIC chips are the most efficient types of chips for mining Bitcoin, and top of the line miners can retail for tens of thousands of dollars.¬†So in theory Asiccoin is designed to equalize the mining playing field. But the consensus seems to be that Asiccoin and the vast majority of the alternative cryptocurrency galaxy should be thought of more like penny stocks that are poised to go nowhere. Only a handful are worth more than a dollar, and not all the coins appear to be active. ¬† Still, because the software behind Bitcoin is open source, it requires little effort to co-opt it, give it your own spin, and advertise it as the next big thing.¬† "Bitcoin is the first, litecoin makes the mining more fair, ppcoin is suppose to be environmentally friendly using the proof of stake concept, namecoin is distributed dns system, primecoin finds prime numbers. And I think that's it for coins that have a purpose," Melvin Ng, co-founder of Canadian Bitcoin exchange site LibertyBit.com, told us in an email. "Because it's open source, anyone can take a copy and make their own coin, so the coins above are kind of the only coins that have value." We've talked about how these alternative digital currencies' prices have mostly moved in tandem with Bitcoin's movements, although on any given day one "coin" can buck the trend and scream higher. Today it's Colossus Coin, which is up 83%. Yesterday it was Quark Coin, which was up more than 200%. ¬† ¬† Wikipedia itself has a shorter list of Bitcoin clones, though there is not a one-to-one overlap between that list and CoinWik's. For instance, CoinWik does not list TagCoin, a currency designed for purchasing "rewards" from an online retail site called TagBond.com. There is now a site that explains how to make your own digital currency; we may or may not attempt to do so in the coming days...
Hilton Hotels Worldwide announced in an SEC filing this morning that it will seek to raise up to $2.4 billion in an initial public offering. The company is setting an IPO stock price range of $18-$20 a share. That means, more than anything, a major pay day for private equity firm Blackstone. Blackstone bought 81.5% of Hilton in a $26 billion deal back in 2007. Blackstone itself put in $6 billion of equity for the deal. If the stock price settles on a midpoint of $19.50 a share, Hilton will be worth $19.2 billion with Blackstone's 76.2% stake valued at $14.6 billion. Blackstone does not plan on selling any of its stake. Not bad for an investment that, during points of the recession, lost 70% of its value. It's been a solid turn around. In 2012, the company posted a net income of $352 million, up 39% from the year before. Blackstone and Hilton's CEO Chris Nasetta, who owns 7.6 million shares (about 0.008% of the company) increased the number of open rooms around the world by 34% since Blackstone' s investment. Bloomberg reports that revenue per available room will increase by 5.7% to 6% next year too, according to STR, a Hendersonville, Tennessee-based lodging data provider.So who else will make loads of cash off this IPO? Hilton Global Holdings owns 7.1% of the company right now, but unless they purchase additional shares, they'll end up with only 1.7% of the company after the deal is done. That's about 16,923,076 shares valued at about $330 million if Hilton IPOs at the midpoint of its range. Nasetta's 7.6 million shares are valued at around $148 million if Hilton IPOs at the midpoint of its range.The filing lists about 14 others with significant holdings less than Nasetta's.† About 16 additional directors, execs, and director nominees will own a 1.3% stake of the company worth $252 million at the midpoint of the IPO range. Singpore's sovereign wealth fund, the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, owns 49.5 million shares which are worth $965 million at the midpoint of the IPO range, according to Bloomberg. It's important to remember, amid all this high -fiving, that some of this cash will be used to pay off the $1.25 billion in debt Hilton has racked up. Don't let that ruin the fun though.
Harvard, Yale, Stanford and other elite universities may help shape some of the brightest minds in the country, but some of their endowment investment returns can look something less than brilliant. Harvard, Brown, Cornell, Stanford and Yale all under-performed a classic allocation of 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds and even benchmark returns for hundreds of other colleges and universities, according to a new ranking of five-year returns compiled by recruitment firm†Charles A. Skorina &amp; Co. Of course, such an analysis isn't perfect. Comparing complex, multi-billion dollar portfolios that attempt to balance risk management with strong performance is inherently difficult and much of the underlying structure of the endowment investments are kept private.† That doesn't mean the relatively crude analysis isn't interesting. via CNBC For example, Harvard's $30 billion endowmentóthe largest in the countryóperformed worst among the 12 schools ranked, which included all the Ivy League universities plus MIT, University of Chicago, Notre Dame and Stanford. (See chart above) One common trait among the various endowments is their use of so-called alternative investments like hedge and private equity funds, real estate and more. Those can diversify and help juice returns, but they call come at a high cost in terms of fees paid to third party managers. In short, they don't always improve returns. The Cambridge, Mass.-based endowment gained 11.3 percent over the 2012 fiscal year but only 1.7 percent annualized from fiscal year 2009 through June 30, 2013. That's 4.5 percentage points worst than a 60/40 portfolio of stocks and bonds (up 6.2 percent) and 2.1 percentage points worse than preliminary average returns for endowments of more than $1 billion (up 3.8 percent) compiled by the†National Association of College and University Business Officers. (Read more:†Columbia endowment up 11.5 pct, latest Ivy with strong returns) The best was $7.6 billion Columbia, which beat both the classic stock-bond mix and the NACUBO average with its five-year 6.8 percent annualized return. "While our results for the past fiscal year were excellent, the important story here is that over the past decade, our investment performance has consistently outpaced both the market and our peers, helping Columbia compete academically with other great universities that have far larger endowments," University President Lee Bollinger said in a statement. (Read more:†Harvard hires Xia from Morgan Stanley as chief risk officer) The Skorina report also notes that the head of Harvard's endowment, Jane Mendillo, made the most money of the 12 chief investment officers despite her relatively poor performance. Mendillo made $5.27 million in 2011, the most recently available data. The top performer, Nirmal Narvekar of Columbia, made the second most: $3.08 million. Cornell's A.J. Edwards made the least at $673,973 in total compensation. Spokesmen for Yale, Harvard and Cornell declined to comment. The press offices of the other schools in the report did not respond to a request for comment.
flickr, rkellandWho wouldn't want Tina Turner to be a citizen of their country? She, along with other members of the world's super rich, like LVMH head¬†Bernard Arnault (the richest man in France), have started shopping around for second citizenships.¬† It's a hot new trend called "jurisdiction shopping,"¬†according to a survey by¬†UBS and Wealth-X published¬†last month. Turner herself settled on Zurich, Switzerland. No surprise there, Switzerland, along with Singapore and Hong Kong are super popular second citizenship spots for super wealthy people looking for "friendlier" tax treatment.¬† From Wealth-X: Armand Arton, CEO of Arton Capital, a global financial advisory firm that provides custom-tailored financial services and Immigrant Investor Programs to UHNW individuals explains that: ‚ÄúMore and more high net worth individuals are enquiring into immigrant investor programs due to the increased financial flexibility and investment options they can offer to them.‚Äù Arton deals with various governments around the world who are trying to attract these wealthy Global Citizens through programs that offer an expedited pathway to residency and citizenship ‚Äì Arton says his clients seek a second residency for a variety of reasons including privileged resident status, family security, or in some cases, direct or fast tracked citizenship. Now, an interesting thing about this report is that these shoppers are mostly Western. China and India's newly minted wealthy are staying at home. Eighty-six percent of Chinese billionaires and 95 percent of Indian billionaires who have most of their business in China and India, respectively, also grew up there, according to the report.
Tell me, why do we even bother about EM anymore? I honestly didn‚Äôt know how to respond‚Ä¶ There are two ways of looking at the issue here. Due to my day-to-day occupation I will start with the glass-half-full one. I have been noticing a very peculiar divergence in various sets of data globally. On the one hand activity indicators are looking far stronger than anyone would have anticipated six months ago or so. The US is storming forward if one adjusts for the fiscal thrust, the Eurozone is out of the recession and Chinese 7%+ growth hardly looks like a hard landing. And yet the world is paranoid about deflation‚Ä¶ Yes, if you look through my previous posts you might notice that generally I used to be a proponent of loose monetary policies in the face of wide output gaps. But I don‚Äôt think this is valid anymore. I treat a lot of the current disinflation as a supply shock (have you seen food prices lately?) and I fully subscribe to Draghi‚Äôs ‚Äúyou can buy more stuff‚Äù view. Likewise, potential growth rates have shrunk dramatically so it is not entirely obvious it will take years to close the output gaps. All in all, I do see current low inflation as merely a reflection of the past rather than anything to be concerned about. If that pseudo-analysis is anything to go by then the current disenchantment with emerging markets is only temporary. Why? Well, because the market is confused like during each and every turn of the cycle in the past and therefore even the liquid stuff allows for decent volatility. And if nothing is trending (in fixed income at least) then why bother with extra, EM-specific issues. This is something that is a bit of my darkest nightmare to be honest. If I am wrong about the turn in the global cycle the period of trendlessness will continue unabated. And if so then the short-term players will naturally focus on punting in G3 markets while long term investors will make sure they don‚Äôt trail their benchmarks too much. This is already happening ‚Äì I track a lot of EM funds benchmarked to the JP Morgan‚Äôs Global Bond Index and I can‚Äôt remember the last time the tracking error was so small. And to be perfectly honest, I don‚Äôt blame them as indices like that are difficult to beat in an environment like currently and the upside is very limited. I like to think that not all is lost and once a medium term direction is established, investors will return to EMs en masse. After all, there‚Äôs some unfinished business to do ‚Äì rates in Brazil, Turkish lira, Russian ruble, Mexican Bonos, Polish zloty‚Ä¶ These are only a few examples of things that you don‚Äôt need vivid imagination to dub ‚Äúseverely mispriced‚Äù. But I guess for now we will be in a ‚Äútaper on / taper off‚Äù type of trading‚Ä¶
WAR IS PEACEFREEDOM IS SLAVERYIGNORANCE IS STRENGTH ‚Äì George Orwell, ‚Äú1984" SECRETS ARE LIESSHARING IS CARINGPRIVACY IS THEFT ‚Äì Dave Eggers, ‚ÄúThe Circle‚Äù Beauty is no quality in things themselves: It exists merely in the mind which contemplates them; and each mind perceives a different beauty. One person may even perceive deformity, where another is sensible of beauty; and every individual ought to acquiesce in his own sentiment, without pretending to regulate those of others. ‚Äì David Hume, ‚ÄúOf the Standard of Taste and Other Essays‚Äù (1748) I freely admit that the remembrance of David Hume was the very thing that many years ago first interrupted my dogmatic slumber. ‚Äì¬† Immanuel Kant, ‚ÄúProlegomena to Any Future Metaphysics‚Äù (1783) All that is required for this enlightenment is freedom; and particularly the least harmful of all that may be called freedom, namely, the freedom for man to make public use of his reason in all matters. But I hear people clamor on all sides: Don't argue! The officer says: Don't argue, drill! The tax collector: Don't argue, pay! The pastor: Don't argue, believe! ‚Äì¬† Immanuel Kant, ‚ÄúWhat is Enlightenment?‚Äù (1784) There's nothing to be afraid of. They were right. It's painless. It's good. Come. Sleep. Matthew. ‚Äì¬† Elizabeth Driscoll, ‚ÄúInvasion of the Body Snatchers‚Äù (1978) ‚ÄúAnd that‚Äôs my point,‚Äù Mae said, nodding to Stenton. ‚ÄúThe technology has never been there before.‚Äù ‚Äì¬† Dave Eggers, ‚ÄúThe Circle‚Äù (2013) I want to start this week‚Äôs note with an extended passage from Orwell‚Äôs 1984. Trust me, it‚Äôs worth it. ‚ÄúWhat are the stars?‚Äù said O'Brien indifferently. ‚ÄúThey are bits of fire a few kilometres away. We could reach them if we wanted to. Or we could blot them out. The earth is the centre of the universe. The sun and the stars go round it.‚Äù Winston made another convulsive movement. This time he did not say anything. O'Brien continued as though answering a spoken objection: ‚ÄúFor certain purposes, of course, that is not true. When we navigate the ocean, or when we predict an eclipse, we often find it convenient to assume that the earth goes round the sun and that the stars are millions upon millions of kilometres away. But what of it? Do you suppose it is beyond us to produce a dual system of astronomy? The stars can be near or distant, according as we need them. Do you suppose our mathematicians are unequal to that? Have you forgotten doublethink?‚Äù Winston shrank back upon the bed. Whatever he said, the swift answer crushed him like a bludgeon. And yet he knew, he knew, that he was in the right. The belief that nothing exists outside your own mind -- surely there must be some way of demonstrating that it was false? Had it not been exposed long ago as a fallacy? There was even a name for it, which he had forgotten. A faint smile twitched the corners of O'Brien's mouth as he looked down at him. ‚ÄúI told you, Winston,‚Äù he said, '‚Äùthat metaphysics is not your strong point. The word you are trying to think of is solipsism. But you are mistaken. This is not solipsism. Collective solipsism, if you like. But that is a different thing: in fact, the opposite thing.‚Äù If there is a better example of the overwhelming power of Common Knowledge than the Collective Solipsism of 1984, I have yet to find it. As O‚ÄôBrien patiently explains to Winston between torture sessions, Collective Solipsism is the voluntary abdication of empirical and independent thought by a large group of humans. It is the opposite of solipsism in its usual definition ‚Äì a pathological egocentrism where reality is defined by an individual‚Äôs mental perceptions and conceptions ‚Äì as Collective Solipsism annihilates the individual‚Äôs perception of reality in favor of some group perception of reality. This group perception is the foundation of a robust and equilibrium totalitarian state because everyone believes in the crowd-based reality they have constructed. In the end ‚Ä¶ Winston loves Big Brother. The modern dystopia of Dave Egger‚Äôs The Circle is similarly based on the voluntary nature of stable totalitarianism. It‚Äôs a fascist corporatist state with a giant smiley face, full of ‚Äúlikes‚Äù and ‚Äúfriends‚Äù and really good healthcare plans, but a fascist corporatist state nonetheless. What Eggers captures wonderfully is the insatiable hunger and constant aggrandizement of a collectivist philosophy ‚Äì any collectivist philosophy, even one with cool technology and efficient services ‚Äì that believes we know your self-interest better than you know your self-interest. The totalitarian worlds of 1984 and The Circle are so powerful in our imaginations because we have all heard the siren call of Common Knowledge and Collective Solipsism. It‚Äôs not only comforting to be part of the crowd watching the crowd in its experience of a social behavior ‚Ä¶ any social behavior, from a football game to an IPO ‚Ä¶ it‚Äôs fun. We like it. As social animals we are hard wired not only to participate in the crowd but also to believe in the crowd and enjoy the crowd. It‚Äôs our nature. But it‚Äôs also our nature to think for ourselves and try to do better than the crowd, to strive for some sort of personal advancement or success in whatever way we define it, and this is the behavioral foundation¬†of the two most powerful institutionalized social forces in our lives: the politics of liberal democracy and the economics of liberal markets. The ideas of small-l liberalism are a few hundred years old, but the way David Hume and Immanuel Kant expressed those ideas seem as fresh today as they did in the mid-18th¬†century. If you don‚Äôt know what Hume and Kant were all about ‚Ä¶ well, I can‚Äôt begin to do them justice here. Suffice it to say that they are two of the Mount Rushmore figures for small-l liberalism. Hume in particular is an intellectual hero of mine, and ‚Äì like Kant¬†‚Äì when I first read his essays I felt as if I were awakening from a ‚Äúdogmatic slumber‚Äù. Hume is the red pill. But Hume and Kant lived in a world that was blissfully ignorant of collectivism and media technology on a mass scale, a world that experienced tyranny and freedom in a ‚ÄúRed Dawn‚Äù sort of way, where tyranny is an occupying Russian army and freedom is a scrappy bunch of right-thinking Colorado teenagers.¬† ¬†There‚Äôs¬† ¬†no¬† ¬†question¬† ¬†here¬† ¬†about¬† ¬†identifying¬† ¬†the oppressors and the oppressed. There‚Äôs no conflict between the internal exercise of your freedom to think for yourself and your external ¬†behavior. ¬†There‚Äôs ¬†no ¬†omnipresent ¬†social ¬†media, ¬†no cacophony of commercial voices, no GPS chips, no algorithms that can predict your likes and dislikes better than you can yourself. It‚Äôs just faceless soldiers with AK-47‚Äôs trying to impose their will on Patrick Swayze‚Äôs external behavior. It‚Äôs a movie that would have made as much sense (more?) in 1784 as it did when released in 1984. Our world isn‚Äôt ‚ÄúRed Dawn,‚Äù it‚Äôs ‚ÄúInvasion of the Body Snatchers.‚Äù Control over our behaviors isn‚Äôt as¬†much physical as it is mental, not so much externally imposed as it is internally embraced. If you‚Äôre reading this note, the problem is not that you are in a dogmatic slumber and need to be woken up. The problem is that you know it‚Äôs in your best economic interest to act as if you‚Äôre still asleep. In a world overrun by pod people, the big losers are the people who can‚Äôt fake their pod-ness and ultimately get outed by Donald Sutherland. "Invasion Of The Body Snatchers" I don‚Äôt know anyone who believes that open-ended QE and ZIRP-forever monetary policy does much of anything for job creation, even though that‚Äôs the ostensible rationale. I don‚Äôt know anyone who believes that Modern Portfolio Theory and its quantifications are anything more than rules-of-thumb or guardrails for portfolio construction and risk management. Actually, let me qualify that a bit. I know lots of academic and institutional economists ‚Äì the clerics of our modern Church of Economic Science ‚Äì who believe wholeheartedly in all of this as some sort of received wisdom from on high. I don‚Äôt know any practicing money manager who does. But by the same token I also don‚Äôt know any practicing money manager who doesn‚Äôt genuflect to these beliefs, who doesn‚Äôt mouth the words of our modern market catechisms. We all believe in the market-moving power of the institutions that promote these ideas, whether it‚Äôs the Fed or a mega-asset management firm or a bulge-bracket bank; very few of us believe in the ideas themselves. But so long as ‚Äúeveryone knows‚Äù that these institutionally promoted ideas are the only thing that really matters for investment performance or asset allocations, nothing will change in our behaviors. We will continue to act as if we are true-believers, too. As much as it pains me to say this, Hume and Kant and Smith and the rest of the small-l liberal pantheon don‚Äôt have a whole lot to offer in our efforts to survive a pod people world. A voluntary acquiescence to the collectivist behavior demanded by the Common Knowledge game poses a huge problem for Hume and Kant and traditional liberalism. What if your independent use of reason and free will leads you to deny your independent use of reason and free will? What if the most effective way to act as if you believe that the Emperor is wearing beautiful clothes is to give yourself over to the crowd-generated reality and actually believe that the Emperor is wearing beautiful clothes? A problem for Hume and Kant is a problem for each and every one of us, because all of modern microeconomic theory ‚Äì ALL of it ‚Äì and by extension all of macroeconomic theory, too, is based on the liberal idea of independent self-interested decisions. The more that assumption is off base, the more that we are captured by the Common Knowledge game and act on the basis of a crowd-generated reality rather than our direct individual assessment of the world ‚Ä¶ the more our entire edifice of modern Economic Science becomes a false teaching, a dogma. By false I don‚Äôt mean that the equations are miswritten or simply need another mathematical term appended. I mean that the entire enterprise of economic theory becomes less useful, a collection of prayers that we recite by rote because we must in order to pass, not because they have any intrinsic meaning to us. Modern economics is becoming an institutionalized superstition rather than an effective toolkit for the pursuit of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And that‚Äôs a shame. Or at least it‚Äôs a shame from a liberal, individualist perspective. From the perspective of the institutions that promote these dogmas it‚Äôs all good. This voluntary and entirely rational participation in a crowd- generated reality makes the current social equilibrium even more stable, the ¬†current ¬†institutional control over the means of mental production (as Marx would call it) even more pronounced. Until some alternative conception of markets emerges that is more useful than current theory AND that alternative conception serves the interests of powerful institutions, nothing will change. The Copernican theory of a helio-centric solar system didn‚Äôt prevail because it was right; it prevailed because the secular powers of post-Reformation Northern Europe found it useful in their bloody fight with the Catholic Church. The good news, though, is that I think there are powerful financial institutions today that are in fact deeply dissatisfied with the status quo and are actively seeking an alternative conception of market behavior. Partly this is a function of the fact that institutions are led by actual human beings, many of whom are genuinely concerned about the long-term health of liberal institutions like markets as they are hollowed out from within by the cancer of Collective Solipsism. Partly (probably more so) this is a function of the fact that there is a significant business opportunity for financial institutions that can provide a more useful and effective vision of how to think about investing today. Regardless of the motive, I see this hunger for a new perspective on markets every day in the responses I receive to Epsilon Theory, including responses from the Powers That Be in the financial world. Something big is brewing here, and I truly believe¬† it‚Äôs going to make a difference. Help ‚Äì or at least a meaningful alternative ‚Äì is on the way. Where should we look to find this alternative? I think we need to think about markets from a biological or evolutionary perspective rather than the traditional perspective of liberal thought. Hume and Kant might not have much to say about how a pod people world develops and how a population of non- believers can thrive in that world, but Charles Darwin and E.O. Wilson sure do. The best game theory research today is found in the fields of linguistics and evolutionary biology, not economics, and over the past six months I‚Äôve written about how to use these ideas to understand better a wide range of market ¬†behaviors. Now I want to tie all this together in a concept that I call Adaptive Investing, a name that reflects the central dynamic of evolutionary theory, where populations of self-interested organisms take on persistent characteristics and behaviors in response to environmental challenges and opportunities. It‚Äôs a perspective that takes seriously both individual self-interest as well as collective imperatives, and I believe it will be useful for investors and allocators alike. My goal here is to find a third way, some other path than either sitting out these markets until they return to ‚Äúnormal‚Äù or falling asleep in a dogmatic slumber and becoming a pod person. I think the former path ‚Äì just sitting this out ‚Äì is both wishful thinking and a luxury that very few of us possess. Maybe a reckoning of sorts is just around the corner, but I doubt it. In H.G. Wells‚Äô War of the Worlds, the¬†Martian invasion peters out when the aliens catch a cold and die off. Somehow I think it unlikely that the pod people will fall prey to the same sort of deus ex machina, and I‚Äôm certain that CNBC and Twitter and ETF‚Äôs and high-frequency trading are not going to be un-invented. As for the latter path ‚Ä¶ sorry, once you choose the red pill there‚Äôs no going back. As Prisoner Six would say, ‚ÄúI am not a number. I am a free man!‚Äù But all of the great historical observers of the human condition ‚Äì whether it‚Äôs Gautama or Lau Tzu or Jesus or Marx or Hume ‚Äì need to be interpreted in the context of how we live today, not parroted as some sort of talisman from the past. Like it or not, we live in a mass society where the technological and social inventions of the past 200 years challenge the concepts of liberalism in ways that Hume et al did not foresee. Political and economic institutions have already adapted to these innovations (they always do!) in order to protect their core interests. Now it‚Äôs our turn. I think that game theoretic applications of evolutionary biology and population dynamics can help in that effort, with actionable insights for how to think about investing, and that‚Äôs where I‚Äôm taking Epsilon Theory. I hope you‚Äôll join me.
Flickr/stuartpilbrowI know†exactly†how you feel now - it's†so†close yet so far. You've worked hard for the past few months, revising and†doing tons of practice papers. You're exhausted,†stressed†and†tired. Worse of all, you don't know whether you're ready for the exam and whether you'll pass? The dream is to†ace the CFA exams in 18 months, if possible. First off,†take a super deep breath†- yup, give me a BIG inhale and exhale. Whatever stage you're in your studies now, there's always room to improve and make the most of your time left efficiently to†maximise your chances of passing the CFA exams. Here's our little guide for doing it right. Am I Prepared? Big question, a hard one to answer. However, you probably know by now that I'm one of those people that†prefer to take a view on tricky issues†like this, so here are my thoughts of what you should have done (or are in the process of finishing soon) by now: 1. Revised all your core CFA syllabus†at least once (shouldn't be hard if you strictly follow your†CFA study plan), 2. Did tons of practice questions, and†at least 4 practice papers†(preferably under timed, exam conditions). 3. Showed improving scores across the practice papers,†at least†65% and above is a good place to be. 70% is my preferred target gives sufficient buffer as it'd be a pain to be in Band 10! If you're not achieving these scores, fret now, there's still some time†to improve†on them. 4. Tracked your scores by topic area. Or at least†know which area you're weaker in†(and why). Have an objective assessment of this, there's no point lying to yourself. If you're extremely behind the schedule of achieving these 4 points above, I highly recommend adopting our†Cramming Strategy†for the best use of your remaining time. For others who are close to finishing the above 4 tasks in a few more days, please refer at the next section. †† Yay, What Should I Be Doing Now Then? First of all, well done for being so disciplined†and delivering consistent results so far! It's not the time to slack off though. You've done a solid base level preparation, now it's for the final push - all you have to do is†'plug the (knowledge) gap'. Here's how: 1. Based on your score tracking above, what are your top 3 weak areas? 2. More importantly, how do they compare to the CFA topic weightings below? This will tell you which to focus and prioritise your final preparation on. 300 Hours Once the key topics are identified, it's a matter of revising that particular sections, trying out practice questions, and repeating for all the weaker topics until you're rock solid ready to give the exams a kick in the ass!
REUTERS/Danish IsmailIndia posted Q3 GDP growth of 4.8%, up from 4.4% the previous quarter. This was largely driven by the industrial and agricultural sector.¬† India's industrial sector grew 2.4% on the year. The agricultural sector grew 4.6% on the year, the highest growth rate in two years. But Societe Generale's Kunal Kumar Kundu believes this data seems inconsistent with anecdotal evidence of the impact of heavy rains and floods on crops.¬† "The impact of cyclone Phailin was visible in most rice-growing areas in coastal Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, two states that account for 20-25% of India‚Äôs total rice production," writes Kundu. "According to experts, cyclones and floods in different parts of the country could result in losses of several million tons of rice this year."¬† Still, India's GDP growth has now been below 5% for four straight quarters. And experts remain pessimistic about the economic recovery. While external demand has surged, domestic demand continues to be weak.¬† A breakdown shows that "rural demand is fairly strong thanks to a better agriculture performance and continued social sector spending by the government (in light of the forthcoming elections)," said Kundu. But tighter monetary conditions and high inflation have hurt urban demand.¬† Capital EconomicsMoreover, investment conditions are also poor. "A whole host of investment projects are currently stalled because of bureaucratic issues," writes Miguel Chanco of Capital Economics. "Despite the government's repeated promises to clear the obstacles, which centre on the difficulty of land acquisition, it has made little visible progress." India's struggle to keep its fiscal deficit in check also suggests the government might not increase expenditure. India risks a downgrade from the lowest investment grade to junk if its fiscal deficit worsens. But a "major reduction in populist and wasteful expenditure," also isn't likely ahead of the 2014 general elections. Capital expenditure, which is the least controversial, is the most likely to be cut.¬† The government, for instance, plans to cut its education expenditure by Rs. 40 billion (approximately $643 million) even as it raises subsidies. This has prompted experts to wonder whether the government is serious about capitalizing on its demographic dividend (i.e. India has one of the world's largest working-age populations). And high inflation means policymakers will be unable to provide too much support. India's economic recovery looks bumpy at best.
REUTERS/ James FassingerEconomists Jared Bernstein and Dean Baker are out with a new book on how to get the economy back to full employment. Today, Bernstein, a former White House economic adviser, has a post up at the New York Times outlining five policy ideas to do just that. Here they are:
nathanmac87/flickrSmokestacks in ChicagoThe Institute for Supply Management said its November survey came in at 57.3. The employment sub-index surged to 56.5 from 53.2. Consensus expectation was for 55.2, down from 56.4 in October. Full release ¬ª We also just got a solid reading out of Markit's U.S. manufacturing purchasing manager's index, so things are looking alright in the sector.¬† Here's the full score for ISM: ISM Global PMI day has generally been going well, with some notable weaknesses among the BRICs but some surprisingly robust data out of Europe. Click here for updates ¬ª¬†
@JDowlingReports/TwitterConstruction spending increased 0.8% in October, which was stronger than the 0.4% increase expected by economists. This followed a 0.3% decline in September. Economists warned that their estimates may be way off because thanks to the government shutdown. "This makes the already revision prone construction data a particularly rough cut this time," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio.
REUTERS/Carlos Barria Participants run at the Bund near Huangpu River as they compete in the Shanghai International Marathon December 1, 2013. Seen in the background is the Oriental Pearl TV Tower at the financial district of Pudong. There was a decent amount of news and data out of Asia this weekend. Morgan Stanley's Hans Redeker wraps it up in one concise paragraph: Asian data mix. Stronger-than-expected Chinese PMI data (51.4) have supported Oceanic currencies, but the market ignored weak Korean trade data. The Korean trade surplus consisted of contracting imports (-0.6%Y) and a very split export performance (0.2%Y). While exports to the US and Western Europe continued to do well, there were weak regional exports, especially to China, warning that AXJ is economically on a weak footing. Chinaís equity market has come under severe selling pressure, with the Shenzhen index losing almost 5% today as the government suggested promoting fund- raising activities in the equity market through a variety of channels. Hence, the equity market declined due to supply and not due to growth fears. However, the weak Korean exports to China suggest that the risk for upcoming Chinese data releases is on the downside. Wall Street economists call South Korean exports the "canary in the coalmine" as it is one of the more reliable indicators of global economic activity.
A partridge in a pear tree? That'll be $199.99. At least according to PNC. The bank is out with its annual Christmas Price Index ("CPI"), which prices all of the gifts from the classic tune "The 12 Days of Christmas" compared with Yuletides of the past. PNC's CPI joins two storied American traditions ó holiday shopping and inflation grousing. All told, the gifts from the song total $27,393.17, $1,192 more than last year and 116% higher than 1984, when the bank launched the index. Although the "true cost of Christmas" ó the total cost of the items when you repeat all of the song's verses ó is $114,651.18. ìWhile there are exceptions in given years, whatís most interesting about the indexís history is that since the beginning, year-over-year increases have averaged 2.9 percent, which is exactly the same number as the U.S. inflation index,î PNC Wealth Management's Jim Dunigan said in a press release. Check out the graphic. PNC
Each month, we take the temperature of the global economy through the purchasing managers indices (PMI) for countries' manufacturing sectors. Anything above 50 is seen as healthy.¬† Today, we get manufacturing PMI data from around the world for November. The latest issue on everyone's minds is geopolitical risk, especially in the Pacific. Here's how a new note from¬†Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale¬†puts it: NEW GEOPLITICAL RISKS? HOPEFULLY NO.  China‚Äôs new airspace defence zone established last week proved the source of renewed tension in the region. US Vice-President Biden kicked off a week-long visit to Asia on Sunday and hope is that this will help alleviate some of the tension. Our concern as economists is that a new round of geopolitical tension in the region could have ramifications on trade at a time where momentum is already slowing in emerging economies.¬† Meanwhile in Europe, everyone is now wondering whether the region has begun backsliding, SocGens says: Our euro area growth outlook for 2014 at 0.6% remains below the consensus of 1.0%. Marketing our new Global Economic Outlook released last week, we were asked several times how much push back our euro area view is receiving. The answer is significantly less now than back in September, when fiscal drift helped boost GDP data and hope was that financial fragmentation¬†would see fast track repair. Rather, we sense concerns shifting again to the downside and what the ECB could do more. As we discussed in last week‚Äôs edition, the ECB has several tools left, but short of a renewed crisis we do not expect to see a big bazooka delivered. Rather, it is likely to be a succession of small and rather less impressive easing 5 steps. The real potential for a game changer lies with governments; but the political process remains too slow to make a real difference near-term. Here's the scorecard so far (all times U.S. Eastern Standard Time): Monday, Nov. 28 5:15 p.m. Japan: Markit/JMMA Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 55.1, up from 54.2 in October. Monday, Dec. 2 7 p.m. South Korea: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 50.4, up from 50.2 in October. 8:45 p.m. China: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 50.8, down from 50.9 in October. 9 p.m. Taiwan: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 53.4, up from 53.0 in October. 9 p.m. Vietnam: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 50.3, down from 51.5 in October. 10 p.m. Indonesia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 50.3, down from 50.9 in October. 12 a.m. India: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 51.3, up from¬†49.6 in October. 12 a.m. Russia: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 49.4, down from 51.8 in October. 1 a.m. Ireland: Investec Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 52.4, down from 54.9 in October. 3 a.m. Netherlands: NEVI Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 56.8, up from 54.4 in October. 3 a.m. Poland:¬†HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 54.4, up from 53.4 in October. 3 a.m. Turkey:¬†HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 55.0, up from¬†53.3 in October. 3:15 a.m. Spain: Markit Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 48.6, down from 50.9 in October. 3:30 a.m. Czech Republic:¬†HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 55.4, up from 54.5 in October. 3:45 a.m. Italy: Markit/ADACI Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 51.4, up from 50.7 in October. 3:50 a.m. France: Markit Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 48.4, down from 49.1 in October. 3:55 a.m. Germany: Markit/BME Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 52.7, up from 51.7 in October. 4 a.m. Eurozone: Markit Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 51.6, up from a flash estimate of 51.5. 4 a.m. Greece: Markit Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 49.2, up from 47.3 in October. 4:30 a.m. United Kingdom: Markit/CIPS Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 58.5, up from 56.4 in October. 5 a.m. Australia: Ai Group PMI ‚Äî 47.7, down from 53.1 in October. 7 a.m. Brazil: HSBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 49.7, down from 50.2 in October. 9 a.m. U.S.A.: Markit Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 54.7, up from 51.8 in October. 9:30 a.m. Canada: RBC Manufacturing PMI ‚Äî 55.3, down from 55.6 in October. 10:30 a.m. Mexico: HSBC Manufacturing PMI 11 a.m. Global: JP Morgan Manufacturing PMI¬†
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge fund hot-shots David Einhorn and Daniel Loeb's fund have had some solid gains in 2013, especially during the month of November. According to DealBook's Matthew Goldstein, Einhorn's Greenlight Capital posted a 4.7% gain in November. †Greenlight Capital is up 19.1% year-to-date. † Goldstein also reports that Loeb's Third Point gained 2.7% in November and is up 23.2% year-to-date. † Still, those numbers are below the S&amp;P, which has gained about 26% so far this year.†
Where have the stock market bears gone? With stocks near all-time highs, the bears have definitely been toning it down. Even the vocal bears are warning stocks will go up before coming down. Trader Steve Cortes tweeted this chart of Investors Intelligence's latest survey of bulls and bears. The percentage of bears in the market is at an incredibly low level. It's worth noting that this may be a contrarian indicator suggesting that the market is near a top. @CortesSteve
The U.S. manufacturing purchasing manager's index climbed to 54.7, up from 51.8 in October and beat analysts expectations for an unchanged reading.¬† It was the strongest improvement since January, although the three-month average remined broadly in line, with production continuing at an annualized growth rate of 2.5% a month. Output jumped the most in 20 months, and new order growth also accelerated sharply. ‚ÄúOne of the most encouraging trends we are seeing...is a surge in the production of capital¬†goods such as plant and machinery, which is growing at the fastest rate since the financial crisis, fuelled by rising domestic demand. This is a great sign that companies are feeling sufficiently confident to be boosting investment,‚Äù Markit Chief Economist Chris Williamson said. But the employment index slowed. "...While employment rose in SMEs, it is larger firms that are driving job creation," he said. Here's the full score: MarkitFull release ¬ª We've had a mostly positive run of manufacturing PMI data on global PMI day. Click here for updates ¬ª
Now these bears are saying that since the S&amp;P 500ís operating profit margin is at a record high of 9.7% (based on the trailing four-quarter average), it must inevitably revert to its mean, which is 7.6% using data available since 1994. Normalizing S&amp;P 500 forward earnings to this mean would reduce earnings by 22% and boost the normalized forward P/E to a bubbly 19.2, well above the conventionally measured current reading of 15.0. I think thatís their contention.  Since a cyclically high profit margin will always revert to its mean and fall below it during a recession, this normalization approach to valuation simply implies that stocks are overvalued relative to earnings if a recession is coming soon. Of course, since the perma-bears have been predicting an imminent ìendgameî scenario since the start of the bull market, their latest spin is clearly just a variation on their bearish theme. What has changed is that they arenít as strident about impending doom, so theyíve tactically switched to the notion that stocks are too expensive given that doom is inevitable, even if it isnít imminent.  Today's Morning Briefing: Bully!†(1) Are we all wild and crazy bulls now? (2) The bears have left the building. (3) A sell signal for contrarians? (4) P/E-led rally since summer 2011. (5) From depressed to normal valuation. (6) Bubble in angst. (7) More stocks are getting pricey. (8) Does it make sense to compare stock prices to ìnormalizedî earnings? (9) Record high profit margin in Q3. (10) Approaching bubble territory. (11) Fundamentals remain mostly upbeat. (12) ìThe Hunger Games: Catching Fireî (-). (More for subscribers.) Ed Yardeni
 Take a look at the photo above. †I took it at a "pharmacy" in a tourist-y district of Beijing, near Tiananmen Square. It's a photo of a box inside a glass display counter. In the box, there's a massive root.†That's a ginseng root.†According to the labels on the bottom right, the root is from a plant that lived for 65 years in the wild.†Also according to the labels on the bottom right, the root costs 3,580,000 RMB to buy. That's about $588,000 USD. Nuts, right? There are two reasons its so expensive. Some Chinese people believe ginseng roots are good medicine ñ even an aphrodisiac. They think roots that lived in a nature for a long time are much more potent than farmed ginseng, which costs a tiny fracture of this amount. It's an investment commodity. In January 2012, the WSJ's Dinny McMahon wrote "With Chinese stocks falling, real-estate markets flat and bank deposits offering measly returns, Chinese investors have been looking for help in strange places. Besides traditional medicinal products, they are plowing money into art-based stock markets, homegrown liquors, mahogany furniture and jade, among other decidedly non-Western asset classes." If you ever want to see expensive ginseng like this for yourself, look for this building off Tiananmen Square: 
Slate, Capital EconomicsThat almost looks like a negative correlation.Black Friday, or the day after, Thanksgiving may be the craziest day for shopping every year. Retailers offer deep, fleeting discounts and shoppers go nuts. According to the National Retail Federation, over 141 million unique shoppers went shopping during the Thanksgiving weekend. This is up from 139 million last year. This year, however, shoppers spent less than they did a year ago. "Low prices helped keep Americans‚Äô budgets in check this weekend: on average, shoppers spent $407.02 from Thursday through Sunday (planned), down from $423.55 last year," said the National Retail Federation. So what does this tell us about the economy? Well, nothing. "We would warn against reading too much into the performance of retail sales on Black Friday as there is little evidence that it will set the tone for sales during the whole holiday season,"said Capital Economics via Slate's Matthew Yglesias. According to Capital Economics, Black Friday sales almost have a negative correlation to total holiday season sales, which makes little economic sense. So, while we may get some fun anecdotes from the crazy weekend, we would be ill-advised to come to any macro conclusions based on a few days worth of sales.
The quiet period is over for the major banks covering Twitter.¬† As a result, all the big-name Internet analysts are releasing their research this morning. We have a wrap of some of the major banks' coverage of the stock. Overall, it's not great for Twitter, which is trading at $41.60 this morning, basically flat in the pre-market.¬† According to data on the Bloomberg terminal, Twitter has 8 buy, 8 hold, and 6 sell ratings, with an average price target of $39. Here's a round up of the coverage.
CNBCMorgan Stanley chief U.S. equity strategist Adam Parker is out with his stock market call for the year ahead: the S&amp;P 500 is going to 2014 in 2014. Parker's target is 11.5% above where the index sits today at 1805, and is driven by the bank's forecast for "6% operating earnings growth, a net 3% share repurchase, and modest further multiple expansion." "Low dispersion of price-to-forward earnings and higher company-specific risk lead us to conclude that a more concentrated portfolio is prudent for 2014," says Parker. "We are upgrading materials (driven by chemicals) from equal weight to overweight, downgrading industrials from overweight to equal weight, and lowering energy from equal weight to underweight." In a note to clients, the Morgan Stanley strategist explains the reasoning behind the call: Since last March, we have been sanguine on U.S. equities. Our logic has been driven more by lack of a bear case than the strength of the base case. We have seen 3 turns (12.0x to 15.1x) of multiple expansion in the last 2 years, only the 4th period with this level of expansion over the last 40+ years. Obviously, a sample size of three isn‚Äôt statistically significant, but the prior three periods were all followed by a continuation of the rally for another 12-24 months, as momentum typically persists. The only thing people are worried about is that no one is worried about anything. That isn't a real worry. In order to time the impossible, the inflection, we remain focused on what could cause fear about a materially lower earnings¬†trajectory, or even what could introduce volatility into the earnings estimates. The answer is ‚Äì not much right now. We need to see more capital spending, hiring, inventory, and M&amp;A in order to be more fearful of a material earnings decline as these costs get put in place and turn out to be imprudent. We would look for backlog extensions from the technology and industrials companies or increases in book-to-bill ratios as signs demand is improving and spending is imminent. The most pronounced risks remain EM (where CSCO and IBM among others have pointed to recent demand weakness), a policy error (i.e., the Fed can‚Äôt distinguish between tapering and tightening and rates materially back up), and Europe (particularly if the dollar strengthens). With a 2% dividend yield, a 3% percent net buyback, and mid-single digit earnings growth, calling for a big down market is akin to calling for a double-digit market multiple contraction. We don‚Äôt think that‚Äôs likely. We remain sanguine, and wouldn't be surprised to see the S&amp;P 500 remain robust. Our target of 2014 for 2014 will likely be above consensus. The dream of a steeper yield curve, a belief that the Fed can distinguish between tapering and tightening, and the lack of a credible bear case in earnings could drive further multiple expansion. Upside from economically stronger China and Japan could also help. In fact, it isn't preposterous to say that we could be in an environment of synchronous global economic expansion in 2014, and tapering or not, that isn't fully in today's prices. Parker's optimistic view on the stock market in the year ahead makes his forecast for the S&amp;P 500 the highest on Wall Street. The median price target of 15 strategists polled by Bloomberg is 1900. On September 4, Parker introduced a 12-month-forward price target of 1840. At the time, the index was at 1639, above Parker's previous 2013 target of 1600. Parker is not the only one who believes the index will rise to 2014 next year. Oppenheimer chief investment strategist picked the same number in his year-ahead outlook, published November 19. "The 2014 target reflects our expectation that the stock market will have opportunity to move higher over the course of next year, and turn in yet another double-digit increase ‚Äî¬†albeit around half the size of this year‚Äôs rally to date," wrote Stoltzfus in a note to clients. "Our price target is set using the mid-point between our dividend discount model and a price/earnings model. We expect these valuation projections to be supported by improving fundamentals. We continue to believe that U.S. economic growth has in effect been 'primed' by the Federal Reserve‚Äôs Quantitative Easing (QE) programs.¬†Recent improvements in the tone of U.S. economic data suggest to us that prospects are good for investors to see a continuation of the economic recovery that could drive earnings higher in the year ahead."
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichProtesters try to break through police lines near the presidential administration building during a rally held by supporters of EU integration in Kiev, December 1, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozPope Francis†has offered a sharp critique and challenge†to market capitalism and its proponents, focusing on materialist consumerism and†rising inequality within nations. While the popeís comments are excellent cause for reflection, they should not obscure the reality that innovative free enterprise is†the greatest wealth generator ever discovered and the economic system most supportive of human freedom and flourishing. In a new research note, JP Morgan Chase economist James Glassman doesnít mention Pope Francis by name, but clearly had his comments in mind as he addressed the record of market economies: Those concerned about global poverty have more to be thankful†today than to complain about. The commonly-heard complaints that todayís economic systems fail to address the plight of the poor ignore several fundamental facts. Poverty is not a modern phenomenon. Second, the developed economies are still recovering from deep recessions and in time will reach their full potential. That is, of course, why central bank policies remain so stimulative. Those hurt by the recession will be restored as the developed economies continue to recover. And third, despite the cyclical problems of the developed economies, the average global living standard is at a record highóthe highest known in the records compiled by economists†and still climbing, thanks to the support from the developed economies. In other words, market-oriented economic systems are doing more to cure global poverty than any other effort in the past. Ö via American Enterprise Institute Unflattering opinions about market-oriented economies see in the successes of some a system that rewards the survival of the fittest with benefits that only trickle down to others, glossing over the interdependence of economic actors that is fundamental to modern economic systems. Technological innovation often is portrayed as a destroyer of jobs rather than a creator of new†economic frontiers. The benefits that come in the form of new jobs and industries and higher living standards are usually too difficult to visualize. Technological innovation enables economies to do more with less. Itís the ìlessî that negative views about technology tend to fixate on. Yet, policy actions and new opportunities created by innovation create jobs for the displaced and it is the ìmoreî that at the end of the day lifts a nationís living standard. And because the distribution of income has widened in the last several decades, many assume this is an inevitable feature of free-market economies that calls for intervention from time to time. We who live in developed economies owe much to the hard work and sacrifices of our predecessors for the opportunities we have. For sure, times are challenging for many, owing to the trauma associated with our latest business cycle that thankfully is gradually passing, the rapid pace of technological change that has displaced many jobs, as it has for almost three centuries, and new competition from abroad as others attempt to replicate what the developed economies have†done. Nonetheless, in most cases, our hardships donít compare with those our predecessors faced even in the past century, recalling the stories of those who lived through the Great Depression or were uprooted by the chaos of war and social upheaval in Europe and Asia in the first half of the 20th century. We are fortunate. So are those who live and work in Western Europe, Canada, Japan, Taiwan, Israel, New Zealand, Australia, South Korea, parts of the oil-rich Middle East. Nonetheless, we account for only one billion of the worldís seven billion, or less than 15 percent of the worldís population. Now others have a chance, because their governments have embarked on aggressive development agenda and are able to move forward quickly by opening their borders to the international business community and stabilize their currencies to those in the developed economies. China and India, in particular, are an example that is indirectly benefiting their neighbors and inspiring others. The widening distribution of income in the US and other developed economies is attracting considerable attention. It would be unsettling, and destabilizing, if the global ìeconomic pieî were static and one group were benefiting at the expense of others. Instead, what likely is driving the distribution of income is the wealth of opportunity that is associated with an expanding global ìeconomic pieî and that because it is occurring at an eye-popping pace has uneven benefits. The global community has much to be thankful for and modern market-oriented economies deserve considerable credit for the battle against global poverty.
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoThis is from Nomura's Anthony Morris: Historians say that generals tend to fight the previous war. Investors may have a worse problemófighting what they mistakenly believe the last war was. An example of this may be perceptions of inflation risk and the presumed lessons of the 1970s. Some investors remain convinced that oil shocks caused the Great Inflation of that period, or that money supply growth always causes inflation. In this article, we try to identify and debunk some common mis-perceptions. There's a line you often hear about "hindsight being 20/20" as if everything is totally obvious if you're looking backward. Of course that's complete hogwash. People are terrible at hindsight. Their memories are clouded by specious correlations, incorrect inferences, political biases, and basically all of the common things that make foresight so difficult. Investors, like everyone else, love to talk about the importance of knowing history, but a lot of the time, leaning on history will lead you down a cul de sac, preventing you from assessing the completely new situation that's popped up before you. As for the misperceptions about inflation, Nomura points out that all the stories people tell about past inflationary episodes (including the growth of the money supply and the oil spike) don't stand up to scrutiny. And yet people keep trying to mis-apply those lessons today, only to fall into a ditch.
Gold is once again threatening to go down the tubes. It's nearing the $1200 level, which it very briefly breached in June. November was a terrible month for the yellow metal, and in the early hours of December, this month isn't looking good either. Kitco
Getty ImagesBEIJING (Reuters) -¬†China¬†has punished almost 20,000 officials in the last year for breaching rules to cut down on bureaucracy as well as pomp and ceremony, the government said on Monday. President¬†Xi Jinping¬†ordered the crackdown late last year when he became head of the rulingCommunist Party, seeking to assuage public anger at waste and extravagance, particularly officials seen abusing their position to illegally amass wealth. Xi demanded meetings be shortened, over-the-top welcoming ceremonies ditched and wordy, meaningless speeches be abandoned, as he sought to cut red tape and make the country's bureaucracy more efficient and less prone to graft. The party's anti-corruption watchdog, the¬†Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, said the officials found breaching these rules had mostly been given administrative or internal party punishments. It did not give details. More than 5,000 officials were found to have breached rules connected to the use of official cars, while 903 were guilty of organizing overly elaborate celebratory events, the watchdog said in a statement on its website. Others were singled out for being "mediocre" or "indolent", the statement said. Xi has said that endemic corruption threatens the party's very survival and has vowed to go after high-flying "tigers" as well as lowly "flies". (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Miral Fahmy)
Paul Krugman,¬†Brad Delong,¬†David Andolfatto,¬†Noah Smith,¬†Nick Rowe¬†and¬†Steve Williamson¬†are having quite the battle over the idea that QE might be deflationary and won‚Äôt cause raging inflation. ¬†Welcome to the party gentleman. ¬†You showed up over 3 years too late. ¬†In August of 2010¬†I mentioned that QE would likely be more deflationary than inflationary:¬† ‚ÄúWhat is equally interesting (in addition to the fact that QE is not economically stimulative) with regards to this whole debate is that this policy response in time of a balance sheet recession is not actually inflationary at all.¬† With the government merely swapping assets they are not actually ‚Äúprinting‚Äù any new money.¬† In fact, the government is now essentially stealing interest bearing assets from the private sector and replacing them with deposits.¬†¬†This might have made some sense when the credit markets were frozen and bank balance sheets were thought to be largely insolvent, but now that the banks are flush with excess reserves this policy response would in fact be¬†deflationary¬†-¬†not¬†inflationary.¬†¬†Why would we remove interest bearing assets from the private sector and replace them with deposits when history clearly shows that this will not stimulate borrowing?‚Äù Those of us¬†who understood how QE works¬†at an operational level were never worried about it causing high inflation. ¬†In fact, the threat of deflation or disinflation was always the bigger threat from QE. ¬†You didn‚Äôt need an economic ‚Äúmodel‚Äù to figure this out. ¬†You just needed to understand double entry bookkeeping, some banking basics and¬†a basic framework of the monetary system. ¬†It‚Äôs strange that it took so many smart people so long to figure this out‚Ä¶.
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra on Monday rejected the demands of anti-government protesters who are attempting to topple her, indicating she would not resign. In a defiant address to the nation, her first since peaceful protests turned violent late Saturday, she said demands to dissolve parliament and establish a "People's Council" were unconstitutional. Opposition leader Suthep Thaugsuban's call to shift power from the elected premier to the people "does not exist under constitutional law," Yingluck said. "Anything I can do to make people happy, I am willing to do... but as prime minister, what I can do must be under the constitution," she added. Critics say Suthep, who on Sunday issued a two day ultimatum to the prime minister to quit, is using increasingly violent street protests to engineer a military coup to replace Yingluck's elected government. Thailand has seen 18 actual or attempted coups since 1932, most recently with Thaksin's overthrow in 2006, but the military has appeared reluctant to intervene in the current standoff. "The armed forces will be neutral and I know they want to see the country in peace," Yingluck said, adding her immediate aim was to restore "peace" to the capital restive streets but vowed that "police will not use force against the people." Yingluck is the brother of Thaksin Shinawatra, the wildly divisive billionaire former premier who broadly draws support form the rural and working class poor but inspires hatred from the Bangkok middle class and elite.
Reuters/Suzanne Plunkett UK economic numbers continue to stun in how good they are. The latest example is the PMI manufacturing report, which just came out today. The headline number spiked from 56.4 to 58.5, roundly beating expectations. Some of the internal numbers are just stunning. Here's the stub summary from Markit: Markit See that? Production and New Order growth measures are at 19-year highs. The UK had a severe slump and a very mediocre recovery, in part due to the austerity measures of the Cameron government, and also in part because of its exposure to Europe. Now the UK has three cylinders going for it: The Eurozone recovery, the fading of the austerity, and a central banker who (Mark Carney) who is viewed as having a more robust approach for helping the country. Meanwhile, London is at the center of another real estate and financial boom, further helping the overall economy.
Here's a cool chart from Morgan Stanley. It shows where all of the major world economies are in their respective economic cycles. The country most closes to "peaking" right now is China. The US, Canada, New Zealand, and Kazakhstan are past the halfway point, but still have room to grow. Countries like India, Brazil, and Russia are troughing, while Australia, Malaysia, and Thailand are still on the way down, though getting close to the bottom of their respective cycles. Morgan Stanley
For the first time in more than four years, Greek manufacturing output has expanded. Overall, the manufacturing sector remains in contraction (barely) but after a brutal period, there's a legitimate light at the end of the tunnel. Here's the summary of what's going on, from Markit: November saw output at Greek manufacturers rise for the first time since September 2009, which in turn helped lift the headline Markit Greece Manufacturing Purchasing Managers‚Äô Index¬Æ (PMI¬Æ ) ‚Äì a composite indicator designed to provide a single-figure snapshot of operating conditions in the manufacturing economy ‚Äì from 47.3 in October to 49.2, its highest level in 51 months. New orders meanwhile stabilised after having fallen in the prior month and employment decreased at a slower rate, both developments also contributing to the PMI‚Äôs rise. Production levels at Greek manufacturers rose slightly during November, thereby ending a run of contraction that started in late-2009. Growth was confined to just the consumer goods sector, however, with intermediate and capital goods manufacturers recording lower output levels. Here's the chart showing that the overall manufacturing sector is very close to being in growth again. Markit
REUTERS/Rebecca Cook Germany just keeps doing its thing. It just keeps knocking the ball out of the park, economically-speaking. This morning we've received manufacturing reports from various European countries. Spain was much worse than expected. France continues to suck wind. Italy continues to keep a nostril above water. Germany? Solid as always. Per its latest PMI report, the manufacturing sector just registered its strongest month since the summer of 2011, for a nearly 2.5 year high. Here's the stub summary: Markit
France's manufacturing sector just hit a 5-month low. Per the PMI report that just came out, the index fell from 49.1 in October to 48.4 in November. Here's the stub summary from Markit. You can see it's pretty bad. Markit
Earlier Spain reported a very weak manufacturing number for November. But that weakness was not repeated in Italy. The PMI Manufacturing report just hit a 2.5 year high, rising from 50.7, to 51.4. Via Markit, here's the stub summary of the release. Markit
Flickr/CarbonNYCMorgan Stanley's Global Economics research team has a fascinating new note out looking ahead at 2014 titled Five Key Transitions. In it, they identify five big themes that characterize what the regions of the globe are going through right now: 1. US: From QE to credible forward guidance on interest rates. 2. Japan: From deflation to (moderate) inflation. 3. Europe: From financial fragmentation to a credible banking union. 4. China: From leverage-driven growth to reform-driven growth. 5. EM: From broken traditional to sustainable new growth models. As they see it, the more these transitions are accomplished in 2014, the more likely we'll see robust global growth. Some of these things aren't new or 2014-specific. For example, they've been talking about China changing its growth model forever. Same for the rest of emerging markets. And Japan has been trying to get out of its deflation trap for years. It's unlikely that all of this is going to come together in a meaningful way soon or at the same time. Yet these themes do provide a nice framework for thinking about the world, and who has what challenges. As for the US, transitioning from QE-based easing to forward guidance on interest rates is intriguing for monetary policy wonks, but is unlikely to be a huge gamechanger, the way the other transitions would be for the other regions. To some extent, that underscores the lack of concern for anything big or threatening happening in the US right now. Europe has come a long way since the darkest days of the crisis, but its prospects will be stunted if leaders there think the work is done. Morgan Stanley's transitions fit into a bigger theme for 2014 in that the year is expected to be characterized by idiosyncratic growth stories, rather than the end of the crisis (Nomura declared it the "end of the end of the world."). We're past the point of the world being in a big, rolling global crisis. Now everyone has their own stuff to deal with again. As for what it all means for global growth, Morgan Stanley writes: Successful transitions imply better growth: Our base case is that these transitions, while tricky, tough and testing, will be accomplished eventually. If so, we expect global GDP growth to accelerate from just below 3%Y in 2013 to around 3.5%Y in 2014 and into the 3.5-4%Y range in the following years.
This is a little bit worrisome. Spain's manufacturing PMI report for November just came in quite weak, dropping from 50.9 in October to 48.6. New Orders fell for the first time in 6 months. Via Markit, here's the quick snapshot: Markit
Leslie Mazoch/APGood morning and welcome back! We're at the start of the new month, and the start of what promises to be a very busy week for the economy. There's tons of economic data coming out this week, including a slew of manufacturing data out today. Sam Ro has a complete preview of this week's data here. In the meantime, markets have (not surprisingly) opened the week mildly higher. It's nothing huge anywhere, but European indices and US futures are modestly in the green ‚Äî more of those steady gains we've been seeing for months.
