The Japanese market was humming along, and then BAM. The rally has evaporated. Nikkei.com The culprit. According to Reuters, Japan has just raised the severity level of the latest leak at Fukushima (the nuclear power plant that's still not contained following the earthquake of March, 2011). FLASH: Japan raises severity of latest Fukushima leak to level 3 ("serious" radiation "incident") on international scale
The Kansas City Fed's annual Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming has become one of the hottest conferences for econ nerds around the world. It was at the 2010 Jackson Hole conference when Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke prepared the world for QE2, a second round of stimulative bond purchases. Bernanke spoke again in 2011 and 2012. This year, Bernanke will be a no-show. But that doesn't mean we should ignore the conference altogether. In case you forgot, Columbia Professor Michael Woodford basically changed the future of economics and stole the show from Bernanke with his Jackson Hole paper "Accommodation at the Lower Bound." "This paper ended up being on the leading edge of a general shift in thinking on the relative merits of forward guidance vs. QE," said Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey. This year, Dawsey's got his eyes on the work of another presenter: Arvind Krishnamurthy: ...While much of the focus this year will be on international dimensions of monetary policy, some papers will probably be directly relevant for the US monetary policy debate. Arvind Krishnamurthy (Northwestern University) is expected to present on "the Transmission of Unconventional Monetary Policy" on Friday morning. Past work by Krishnamurthy with Annette Vissing-Jorgensen found that QE1 and QE2 had large effects on highly-rated longer-term fixed income security prices, emphasizing two particular transmission channels: conventional rate path signaling and influencing the relative scarcity of safe assets. Perhaps more interestingly, they also found that MBS purchases had a disproportionate effect on depressing MBS yields, while Treasury purchases did not seem to have a similar benefit. This analysis was consistent with (and may have partly informed) past remarks from Fed Governor Stein, and Presidents Rosengren and Williams, who stated that MBS purchases may have more "bang for the buck" than Treasury purchases. General consensus on this point could reflect on the probability of disproportionate tapering of Treasury securities rather than MBS when the time comes. We think this is likely. A shift in academic sentiment in the other direction would be equally notable. Will Krishnamurthy have a Woodford moment? We'll find out. It's also worth noting that Fed Vice Chair and frontrunner to be the next Chair Janet Yellen will be moderating a panel. "[E}xpect Janet Yellen to make a play for the Chairmanship with a ìfriendlyî speech," said BTIG's Dan Greenhaus.
Reuters/ Mike Cassese Activist investor Bill Ackman continues to find himself in a deep losing position on his famous short of Herbalife, the maker of nutritional products and shakes, which Ackman argues are being sold via an illegal pyramid scheme. Ackman famously bet against the company last year, but a number of high profile investors have taken the long side against him, and in the absence of any regulatory action against the company, Herbalife remains quite profitable. Hence the losing trade. In a new letter to investors (which we found on Scribd) Ackman goes through what he says are signs that the company's fundamentals are deteriorating. Among the signs: The reported suicide of a top Herbalife salesman. Here's Ackman with the big picture on how this fits into Herbalife's business situation: Business Fundamentals The Company continues to suffer the departure of top distributors. In early January, a long-time President‚Äüs Team member, Anthony Powell, left for a competing multi-level marketer (MLM) called Vemma that markets "science-based‚Äü energy drinks to college students and young adults. On June 22nd, the New York Post reported that one of Herbalife's top distributors, Shawn Dahl, a so-called Chairman‚Äüs Club member, had left the Company to pursue an alternative MLM opportunity called Nutrie, also selling weight-loss and "health related‚Äü drinks. Dahl‚Äüs departure is particularly notable given that, as recently as April 30th on the first quarter earnings call, Herbalife management claimed that there was no merit to the rumors that certain Chairman‚Äüs Club members might be planning their departure, asserting that ‚Äúour Chairman's Club members are committed to the business, committed to working with their organizations [and committed to a] stronger Herbalife.‚Äù Last week, John Peterson, one of the top few distributors in the Herbalife system ‚Äì a so-called Founders Circle member who became a distributor in 1983 ‚Äì reportedly committed suicide. The stock declined 4.1% on the news potentially because of the impact on other distributors' confidence from his death and what it may suggest about top distributor business prospects going forward. In 2000, Herbalife nearly collapsed when the Company‚Äüs founder Mark Hughes died from an overdose of anti-depressants and alcohol. The Company was then sold to private equity, and new management was installed to save the business. The Company‚Äüs U.S. web page listing its Chairman's Club members has been down for several months ‚Äì for "maintenance,‚Äü according to Herbalife;s President Des Walsh ‚Äì raising questions as to whether there may be further changes in the Company‚Äüs top distributor ranks. Despite Herbalife‚Äüs above-expectations earnings per share growth this quarter, a careful analysis of Herbalife's second quarter financials suggests that business fundamentals are beginning to deteriorate, as operating earnings, an important measure of the Company's core economic performance, showed only a 3% increase, a dramatic decline in growth from previous quarters. We believe that Herbalife‚Äüs business fundamentals have just begun to be negatively impacted by top distributor departures and various distributor rule changes. Of course, ultimately Ackman's goal with Herbalife is for regulators to come in and shut it down, and he says progress is being made on that front, though he can't get into specifics: Over the past eight months, we have made material progress in attracting Federal, State and international regulatory interest in Herbalife. We are not at liberty to disclose the nature of these developments, but we believe that the probability of timely aggressive regulatory intervention has increased materially. Furthermore, we have learned of serious product quality issues from former Herbalife employees, information that is in the process of being provided to regulators. Based on what we have learned from these whistleblowers and other sources, we believe that serious product quality and safety issues continue to exist at the Company.
REUTERS/Dominick ReuterCrossing his Ts and dotting his lower-case Js.When it comes to the Federal Reserve's monetary policy meetings (Federal Open Market Committee), most of the important information is published at the end of the meeting in the form of a brief statement. However, ever since Chairman Ben Bernanke signaled in May that the Fed could soon taper its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, economists have been carefully combing through every last clue coming from the FOMC and its members. "While we still expect tapering to begin in Q4, with a ìpre-announcementî at the September 18 FOMC meeting, we expect the July 30-31 minutes to keep alive the debate about timing," said UBS's Maury Harris. Indeed, some Fed-watchers have noticed some subtle inconsistencies in the Fed's language about tapering and its timing. "Recall that the July 31 FOMC policy statement communicated no bias to taper asset purchases later this year," noted Credit Suisse's Neal Soss. "The omission was notable, given that just six weeks earlier, after its June 19 meeting, the Committee deputized Fed Chairman Bernanke to discuss its conditional plans to scale back the pace of asset buying, with a view to potentially ending its purchases altogether by mid-2014. With no mention of these tapering expectations, the July 31 policy statement was considerably more dovish than it would have been otherwise." So what was with that omission? "Our assumption is that most policymakers at the time still expected to taper QE3 purchases as soon as September, but they were reluctant to put these plans in writing, preferring instead to leave their options open," added Soss. However, if the markets assumed that the omission was a dovish signal, than they'll probably be taken aback if we do hear about tapering in the minutes. "The minutes are likely to sound more hawkish ñ recall that has been the case all year long, in part because they give a platform to more hawkish non-voters ñ which presents a risk that markets will again sell off on the minutes," warned Michael Hanson of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. We may have already gotten a tasted of that hawkishness from several Fed members who were happy to express their opinions through their various speeches, presentations, and interviews. "Recent public comments from various policymakers suggest that even notable doves, such as Bullard, Lockhart and Evans, are comfortable withóbut not yet committed toóa September taper," said Deutsche Bank's Carl Riccadonna."The lack of conviction largely stems from lingering uncertainty over the health of the labor market and the broader economy, so the August employment report (released on September 6) is likely to be the defining event." So, regardless of what is revealed in the July FOMC minutes, there will still be a month's worth of data before the Fed announces whether or not it will begin tapering in September. Nevertheless, economists will still be looking for new information. Here's some of what the market economists will be looking for:
It's nothing special, but for the moment things are a bit more stable on the world market stage, at least compared to the last two days. Japan is up modestly in early going. Nikkei.com
Warner Bros. / IMDBSe7enThese days, every Wall Street research department seems to have a favored measure of investor sentiment. Understanding sentiment is important because short-term swings in the markets tend to be driven by emotions rather than fundamentals. As such, extreme levels of sentiment are seen as contrarian indicators of what's next for the market. Some strategists even have their own proprietary indicators with their own colorful names. Here are three indicators that measure greed, fear, panic, euphoria, and VIGOR. 1) Morgan Stanley's Global Risk Demand Index (GRDI), which measures investors' hunger for risk, is basically at neutral. We should note that the GRDI is not an obvious contrarian indicator. Often times, greed is the fuel that'll drive asset prices higher. Morgan Stanley 2) Citi's Panic/Euphoria model, which is a blend of nine components of sentiment, has an extraordinary track record for predicting returns when it hit "euphoria" and "panic" levels. "Our Panic/Euphoria model dipped but remained in neutral territory this week," said Citi's Tobias Levkovich on Friday. "This week‚Äôs Panic/Euphoria reading was 0.25; versus last week‚Äôs revised number of 0.32." So basically, it's sending the same signal as the GRDI. Citi Research 3) VIGOR, is a measure of trading volume intensity. In a note to clients today, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier warned that some of the major sentiment indicators he followed were reflecting complacency in the markets. But the VIGOR measure was bullish. "VIGOR moved to new recovery highs and confirmed the new S&amp;P 500 highs," said Suttmeier. "The next step is regaining the highs from 2007. The July 12th low is key support on VIGOR and holding this support keeps the longer-term trend for accumulation relative to distribution positive." Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Twentieth century fox/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Think Active Management Could Make A Comeback (Investment News) Over the past five years money flooded into passive index-based funds and rushed out of actively managed funds. But financial advisors think active strategies could "navigate the next market cycle," reports Investment News.¬† "Right now, the head winds are certainly against active management because there isn't a big distinction being made among the investor class between good companies and bad companies," Chris Bouffard of The Mutual Fund Store told Investment News. "But we're starting to see some correlations go down, and when that happens, there is less focus on the macro risk-on and risk-off trades. When you have fewer of those all-or-nothing days, that's when active managers start to have some wind at their backs." How Advisors Can Help Athletes Prepare For Retirement (The Wall Street Journal) One of the things athletes miss the most when retiring is the team. Joe McLean of New York-based True Capital Management writes that advisors should help clients build a new team of financial professionals that can help with the transition.¬† He also writes that as athletes near retirement, it is important to help them repay their debt and prepare them so they don't outspend their investments. "The other thing that we often see at the end of an athlete's career: If they haven't have made the best financial choices, they may try to swing for the fences and take big investment risks to make up lost ground," he writes in a WSJ column. "That's something advisers have to help them shy away from by staying organized from the beginning with yearly savings goals." How To Retain Your Top Clients (Financial Planning)  Speaking at LPL Financial‚Äôs annual conference, focus13, John Rhodes of CNL Capital Markets said that often a firm's biggest clients don't get the attention they deserve. These clients usually account for 70% or more of a firm's revenue, but often advisors haven't even identified them. To retain these clients he tells advisors they should customize their services and do four key things. 1. Have internal rating systems to identify top clients, but "don‚Äôt use any system that hints at lower-quality clients -- such as an A/B/C ranking." 2. Learn about their other advisors i.e. lawyers, CPAs." 3. "Draw up a menu of related services that your firm offers -- with the associated fees." 4. "Keep records by sending letters, copies of which remain in the client‚Äôs file, of specific advice you gave at specific times ‚Äì and whether or not a client followed that advice. ¬†We See 5 Troubling Signs Of Complacency In The Stock Market (BofA Merrill Lynch) After hitting an all-time high of 1,709, the S&amp;P 500 has fallen over the past two weeks. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier writes that "market complacency suggests deeper downside risk." These include 1. Lackluster NYSE trading volume. 2. "The drop from the early August peak has not triggered any 90% down days." 3. "Daily ARMS (TRIN) remains complacent and below the 2.0 readings that would indicate near-term fear." 4. "The 5-day CBOE Total Put/Call ratio points to complacency and is bottoming off the lowest level since mid-September 2012." Bank Of America Merrill Lynch Investors Need To Fundamentally Rethink What It Means To Invest In The Emerging Markets (BlackRock) While emerging markets account for 51% of global GDP, they represent only 12% of global stock market capitalization, according to BlackRock. This means there's tremendous room for growth and opportunity for investors. BlackRock's Jeff Shen and Rodolfo Martell write that investors interested in emerging market stocks should realize the landscape has changed, and that "for investors who want to develop their portfolios, the developing world is an unmatched source of potential..""Investors may need to fundamentally rethink what it means to be an investor in emerging markets. The same methodologies that served them well since MSCI launched the first comprehensive EM index 25 years ago may not provide adequate risk-adjusted returns over the next 25. In fact, the MSCI EM Index represents only 4% of the stocks listed in the emerging world. The MSCI EM Small Cap Index covers an additional 9%. We're not suggesting it would be possible, or even desirable, to track all 18,000 listed EM stocks. But we strongly believe there is great opportunity to add value through in-depth research and security selection. We suggest equity investors re-examine their holdings both at the broad index level and the individual security level."
Flickr/inazakiraMoritz Erhadt, a 21-year-old Bank of America intern in London, was found dead last week in his dorm room. Media coverage has¬†fixated on rumors germinating on message boards that Erhardt, who reportedly had epilepsy, fell into an episode after working three straight all-nighters (at this point, those reports remain unconfirmed). And while grueling banking internships have been commonplace on Wall Street for a long time, this incident has introduced a new problem. As banks do more work with less manpower in the wake of the financial crisis, perhaps intern conditions have worsened. Survey any group of business students and you're sure to come by investment banking internship horror stories. One intern who spent last summer at a New York investment bank told Business Insider he worked grueling 7-day weeks, slogging on financials or other work. ‚ÄúIf you have a lot of sh‚Äît to do you could be there until 5 or 6 in the morning,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think I ever left before 10 or 11." On Saturdays and Sundays, he‚Äôd be lucky to leave by 5 p.m., but overall, ‚ÄúI think for the summer I had two days off." ‚ÄúThere are nights that you‚Äôre just not going to leave,‚Äù the source said. ‚ÄúMaybe you go home to take a shower and come back. But you‚Äôre not going to sleep.‚Äù In London banking circles, that's called "the Magic Roundabout" ‚Äî where the¬†taxi takes you home, waits outside while you shower, and then quickly shuttles you back to the office. Whether Erhardt ever made the Magic Roundabout before his tragic death remains to be seen. But the issue prompted Ben Lyons, the founder of intern-rights charity Intern Aware to¬†tell the Financial Times that banks need a ‚Äúchange in culture in HR procedures‚Äù to reduce the total number of hours interns are required, explicitly or otherwise, to work. Our intern source admitted his nightmarish experience was somewhat unique thanks to a particularly demanding boss. Still, his bank did hint at the formidable nature of the program. ‚ÄúThey don‚Äôt say you‚Äôre going to be working 100 to 120 hours a week, but it‚Äôs implicit in the interview process,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThey ask, ‚ÄòAre you prepared to work long hours?‚Äô‚Äù A Bank of America source¬†told the Mail Online that interns there are given "mentors" and "buddies" when they join the firm, and are monitored by HR. A spokesperson from Bank of America declined to comment on policies. At our source's former firm, apart from an occasional chat with an HR representative to gauge his overall experience, ‚ÄúThere wasn‚Äôt really anything making sure you were healthy or not downing 5-hour energy one after the other.‚Äù
One area where the U.S. has been lacking is infrastructure spending, which is needed for future growth. Many saw the last recession as an opportunity to put Americans back to work by employing them in infrastructure projects , which would've also made the U.S. much more efficient. "Even nations with higher GDP per capita are spending a much greater share of GDP on investment ‚Äì i.e., Qatar, Hong Kong," wrote J.P. Morgan's Tom Lee. "Even Eurozone countries like Spain, Italy, and France have higher levels of spending, as does Japan at 21.2% of GDP is spending." Lee's definition of fixed investment comes from the CIA which "records total business spending on fixed assets, such as factories, machinery, equipment, dwellings, and inventories of raw materials, which provide the basis for future production." According to Lee's work, the U.S. ranks #143 in construction spending, one slot ahead of of Greece. Lee, who sees the S&amp;P 500 surging to 1,775 by year-end, has argued that there is a lot of pent-up demand in the U.S. ¬†And he believes infrastructure is one are where demand could be unleashed and drive GDP growth higher. JP Morgan
Wikimedia CommonsAlaskan king crabFactSet has released its quarterly report on the stock holdings of America's 50 largest hedge funds. Dell ‚Äî which has received its share of press lately thanks to Carl Icahn's ploy to derail a takeover ‚Äî was the largest addition for the group of 50 funds. That's largely thanks to Icahn's massive purchase of the stock. Apple also saw large inflows last quarter, at $1.4 billion, after three straight quarters of outflows. On the other hand, Google, the most widely held stock (64% of funds), saw $1.4 billion worth of its shares sold by the 50 mightiest funds. We ranked the stocks by their aggregate value held by the top 50 hedge funds. We also include the number of funds holding the stock. And we start with #50.

REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidGoldman Sachs reportedly could lose $100 million after making erroneous trades today, the Financial Times reported. The bank told Bloomberg it is now "working with exchanges" to resolve faulty options trades from this morning. Trades in tickers beginning with the letters H through L during the first 17 minutes of trading today are being examined by NYSE Amex Options, Bloomberg also reported. From the Financial Times: The development came after a large number of trades outside the normal price range flooded US options markets in the opening minutes of trading, stemming from¬†NYSE Euronext¬†and spilling out to rival exchanges. A Goldman spokesman confirmed the error to Bloomberg news, saying that any losses "would not be material."
ShutterstockThere was no major economic news out of the U.S. today. But a couple of big retailers made some big moves after announcing their earnings. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
The Daily Front Row has published an anonymous interview with a Hamptons live-in nanny who said she was only fed rice and Ramen noodles. The New York nanny dished all about her Southampton employers, whose four children (all under 8 years of age) she is paid $250 a day to watch. The entire interview is worth a read, but the most insane claim is that her employers only buy her rice and Ramen to eat in the house. "All of the nannies in the past have been Filipino and they lump me in with them," she told interviewer Eddie Roche. It's not as though the couple can't afford to buy her other types of food ‚Äî the family also has their own live-in housekeeper who cooks the children's main meals, and the nanny says that the parents go out to dinner every night, either solo or together. Here are a few other allegations from the article: Red flags during the interview: "When I had my job interview the father pulled me aside and told me that when I worked for them I would have to make sure to babysit his wife, too, because she has no idea what she‚Äôs doing." The absent mother: "She just goes shopping, or to the gym. They have a home gym, but she still goes to the gym in Southampton just to get out of the house. She shops and hangs out with her friends and goes to dinner while her husband is in the city working and I‚Äôm home with the kids." The pervy father: "He has [hit on me], though I think it was unintentional ‚Äî or he said it was, at least. He was drinking a lot and his wife and I are very similar looking. We‚Äôre both petite brunettes. He thought I was her and came up behind me and slapped my butt. I turned around and he looked really scared for a second, but then he smiled." Read the rest of the interview at The Daily Front Row.
REUTERS/Anthony BolanteNEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors in marijuana-related stocks may see their profits go up in smoke, U.S. regulators said on Tuesday. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's industry-funded watchdog, warned that scammers have been targeting investors attempting to tap into the growing U.S. marijuana industry. Nearly 20 states permit the use of marijuana for medical purposes, and voters in Washington and Colorado recently made recreational use legal as well. FINRA said red flags for investors range from the classic "pump and dump" - in which con artists boost the price of thinly traded stocks by misleading investors about a company's potential, then sell their shares at a peak - to executives with criminal records. The chief executive of one company that says it is in the medical marijuana business spent nine years in prison for operating one of the largest drug smuggling operations in U.S. history, while the former head of another marijuana-related company was recently indicted for his role in a mortgage-based Ponzi scheme, the watchdog said. FINRA did not name the companies or the individual. The majority of marijuana-related companies are so-called penny stocks that trade on the over-the counter-markets, which do not have the liquidity and reporting requirements of major exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. Marijuana remains illegal under federal law, severely limiting the avenues for legitimate investments. But private equity firms, whose investors tend to be institutions or affluent individuals, have been buying medical marijuana companies in anticipation of federal law eventually changing. Seattle-based Privateer Holdings is thought to be the first firm to openly invest in the medical marijuana industry. It has raised a reported $7 million from investors. Major tobacco companies such as Phillip Morris have not announced any plans to sell marijuana in states where it is legal. (Reporting by David Randall; Editing by Linda Stern and John Wallace) SEE ALSO: FROM SEED TO STONED: How Legal Marijuana Gets In Your Joint
Wikimedia Commons/ Cynthia van Elk(Reuters) - A Dutch economist faces additional criminal charges in New York for allegedly stalking Citigroup Inc's (C.N) global chief economist, Willem Buiter. Heleen Mees, 44, was arraigned in New York City Criminal Court on Monday on an amended criminal complaint that contained further details of the alleged harassment. She had previously been charged in connection with the case in July, but prosecutors from the Manhattan district attorney's office added more charges on Monday. According to the amended complaint, Buiter told police Mees used a fake name to try to meet him at a hotel in Amsterdam in January, after trying to catch up with him at a Beijing hotel in 2010. All together, the revised complaint said, Mees sent Buiter more than 3,000 emails between November 7, 2009, and July 1, 2013. The emails ranged from the obscene to the threatening, Buiter told police. "I hope you die," read one email sent last September, according to the complaint. Another email allegedly contained pictures of dead birds. In a two-week stretch in May, Mees sent Buiter 55 sexually explicit emails, and between late May and late June Mees emailed him 68 times asking to meet for a drink, the complaint said. Mees now faces one count of menacing, two counts of stalking, four counts of aggravated harassment and one count of harassment, all misdemeanors. The most serious charges carry up to one year in prison. Mees' attorney, Ira London, was not immediately available to comment. Her previous court-appointed lawyer said at an earlier court appearance that Mees and Buiter had a "longstanding relationship," according to news reports. Mees' 2012 doctoral thesis, "Changing Fortunes: How China's Boom Caused the Financial Crisis," included the dedication, "For Willem." In the acknowledgements, Mees thanked Buiter for meeting with her in 2008 to discuss the paper. Buiter, 63, is married to Anne Sibert, an economics professor at the University of London, and has two children. He lives in New York. Mees is due back in court on October 24. (Editing by Dan Grebler)
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe cause of death remains unknown for Moritz Erhardt, the 21-year-old Bank of America intern who was found dead last week in the shower of his East London dormitory.¬† Unconfirmed message board rumors have made their way through the media saying that that Erhardt fell into an epileptic fit after three consecutive all-nighters as part of his internship (sleep deprivation and stress can trigger an episode). True or not, the chatter has prompted one charity lobbying for better intern treatment to speak out. From the Financial Times: Intern Aware, a charity campaigning for the better treatment of interns, hit out against what it called a 100-hour working culture for students spending their summer work experience at banks.¬† Ben Lyons, the charity‚Äôs co-founder, said there needed to be a ‚Äúchange in culture and HR procedures where employees are assessed not on the total number of hours they are able to grind out, but on the quality of work they are able to produce." Wall Street internships are among the most grueling (and, as a result, the most lucrative). Banking sources insisted to the FT that internships are used as recruitment tools and are not designed to be "sweatshops."¬†
Now Rybolovlev's soon-to-be ex-wife Elena Rybolovleva is suing him over the property, claiming that the fertilizer billionaire bought it to protect money that she could potentially win in the pair's ongoing Swiss divorce case, according to The Daily News. This is not Rybolovleva's first lawsuit against her husband. She has also sued¬†Rybolovlev over an $88 million NYC penthouse¬†he bought, purportedly for his daughter, as well as Donald Trump's $95 million Palm Beach mansion, also purchased with their daughters' trust. The Daily News reports that the trust in question has also bought a $300 million Monaco penthouse, players for Rybolovlev's Monaco soccer team, and two Greek islands for $156 million. Dmitry¬†Rybolovlev and his lawyers insist the purchases are legal since his children's trust was set up prior to the 2008 divorce filing. He defends the subsequent purchases, arguing that they were to secure the future of his two daughters, Ekaterina and Anna. Rybolovleva's lawyer, David Newman of Day Pitney,¬†told the New York Daily News that Rybolovlev "has been spending money like a drunken sailor." Newman says the real estate purchases violate the Swiss Supreme Court order that froze Rybolovlev's assets in an attempt to keep him from spending the billions he made during the marriage. "The Swiss order is limited to the jurisdiction of the Swiss courts,‚Äù and does not apply globally,¬†said Rybolovlev spokesman Sergey Chernitsyn. Tetiana Bersheda, Mr Rybolovlev‚Äôs lawyer, said, ‚ÄúSadly, now a divorce between the husband and the wife has turned into a war between the mother and her children. It is unfortunate that the children have become the target of their mother in her divorce proceedings.‚Äù Currently worth $9.1 billion and number 119 on Forbes' list of billionaires, the Russian tycoon is no stranger to controversy. In 1996 he was accused (and later acquitted) of plotting to kill a business partner, and spent 11 months in jail. He sold his stake Uralkali, a fertilizer company he started in 1990, in 2010 for $6.5 billion. Rybolovlev and his wife have been battling in Swiss courts since 2008 ‚Äî both show no sign of slowing down.
Sober LookCredit Suisse is ringing alarm bells on corporate earnings - both in the US and Europe. The Wal-Mart¬†negative earnings surprise¬†last week for example could be signaling a slower earnings trajectory for other firms. What CS is particularly focused on is not necessarily the stock market valuations in the US and Europe (which is a separate problem), but corporate default rates instead. So far default rates have been extraordinary low - around the levels seen during 2005-2007 "bubble" years. Sober Look Increasing numbers of middle market firms are having difficulties growing revenue or even losing money and yet obtaining all sorts of financing (see post). The current earnings situation is simply not consistent with the current level of default rates. CS: - ... the current levels of companies losing money on both sides of the Atlantic is rising. This is not yet a phenomenon in the largest companies ‚Äì which is why Wal-Mart might be very important ‚Äì more, it is a problem in the medium-capitalisation range. But it would normally be associated with a very much higher high-yield default rate and therefore much tighter financing conditions of which all markets, not just credit markets, would have to take notice. Sober Look As the percentage of money-losing firms rises, corporate default rates should follow. The chart below compares the two trends: "Current profit performance is consistent with a default rate of 6%, not¬†the current 2.8% in the US ‚Ä¶" Sober Look That is why Q3 earnings results will be vital. If the rise in the number of firms with poor or negative earnings continues, default rates are sure to pick up. And the catalyst could be the sudden spike in interest rates we've had - which has the potential to squeeze corporate margins. CS: - So we have a strong suspicion that the medicine applied to the financial sector has suppressed corporate defaults (the thematic ‚Äúzombie companies‚Äù argument.) Raising the awful possibility that we may be only part-way through a current default event dating all the way back to 2008/9, with the other foot to fall as we all realize that the new normal has to involve some sort of positive interest rate.
REUTERS/Gary CameronFederal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen addresses the 29th National Association for Business Economics Policy Conference in Washington March 4, 2013.Among economists, Fed Vice-Chair Janet Yellen is seen as the most qualified and deserving of getting the top slot after Ben Bernanke retires. But constant reports out of the White House keep suggesting that Larry Summers is the favorite. It's not surprising that Obama likes Summers, who has been a close, trusted advisor. But why might they be uncomfortable with Yellen? A primary reason, according to a report from Neil Irwin at Wonkblog, is that she's not enough of a team player or suited to their accustomed decision-making style. Sources "overwhelmingly spoke favorably of her intellect, diligence and approach to leadership," but she apparently has an independent streak that runs counter to what the White House wants. Irwin adds: "She is methodical, not manic. And the prevailing style of the White House insiders advising on the decision leans a bit more toward manic." There are a few parts to this feeling apparently. The first is that she doesn't simply follow Bernanke, but challenges him. "People dealing with her within the Fed have viewed her not so much as Bernanke‚Äôs emissary but as her own intellectual force within the organization," Irwin writes. The second was that she wasn't around during the most trying times when the Obama administration was battling the financial crisis, which created a close-knit team while Yellen was elsewhere (running the San Francisco Fed). Finally, Obama seems really into the ideas of pricking and preventing bubbles, and therefore doesn't think that the Fed should be leaning so hard into stimulating demand and improving employment through monetary policy. So basically: Yellen is too methodological, independent, and is too interested in fixing the current employment problem, rather than pricking bubbles which haven't even formed yet. Depressing. Read the full report at Wonkblog
REUTERS/Ray StubblebineMichael Bloomberg and daughter GeorginaNot all of the world's billionaires are dedicated to being extraordinarily altruistic ó many decide to spend their money indulging in fancy cars, planes, and yachts. But others want to spread as much of their wealth as possible before they die. A select few even want that last check to only cover the cost of their funeral. Of course, not everyone stands to gain from such selflessness ó namely, the children of these generous donors.† Though they will still have untold opportunities, advantages, and connections, to help them succeed, the children of these 15 tycoons won't be living large off their inheritances. Eric Goldschein also contributed to this story.
Shares of J.C. Penney got as high as $14.39 this morning, up 8.8% from yesterday's close of $13,22. Then they fell to as low as $12.81. And now they're back above $14, which means its up by around 6%. Just before 1:00 p.m. ET, CNBC's David Faber reported that Hayman Capital, the Dallas-based hedge fund managed by Kyle Bass, had accumulated 5.5 million shares of the company. Earlier today, the troubled department store reported Q2 sales that missed expectations and a net loss that was much wider than expectations. "Comparable store sales declined 11.9% in the quarter, and were negatively impacted by the Company`s failed prior merchandising and promotional strategies, which resulted in unusually high markdowns and clearance levels in the second quarter," said management in its earnings announcement this morning. Here's JCP's intraday chart via Bloomberg. Bloomberg
JOHNNIE WALKER / PRnewswireScotch lovers rejoice ó†Johnnie Walker has unveiled the new Platinum Label blended scotch-whiskey. Platinum Label will sell for $110, fitting squarely between the scotch maker's flagship Black Label and its top-shelf Blue Label. It will reach shelves this month. Forbes'†Larry Olmsted got a taste and had this to say: It is appreciably richer than the Black Label, my longtime standard for blended Scotch, with a fatter mouth feel. In many ways it drinks more like a light single malt than a blend, except smoother. It is not overly woody, and despite the tasting notes, has just a background edge of peat and smoke, very little compared to Islay malts, but definitely more than the Red or Black. Itís layered enough where I would drink it neat, as I do withal single malts (and as I sampled it), whereas I almost always drink blended Scotches, including Red and Black, on the rocks. It also has a great finish, and for some time after I tasted it, my tongue kept reminding me how much I enjoyed it. I have not tried Blue Label in quite a while but if memory serves me, the Platinum is even richer and more complex, as the Blue is light in color and exceptionally smooth. At its price point, the Platinum will actually be a cheaper option than some of its finer 18-year-old contemporaries Glenlivet and Macallan, which can run around $200 (though those brands are single-malt while the Platinum is a blend).
Today, during JCPenney's dismal Q2 earnings call, there was one ray of light, and it was all thanks to the most hated man in the JCPenney universe, hedge fund manager Bill Ackman. If you're an Ackman hater, just bare with us here. The store reported a revenue miss with numbers coming in at† $2.66 billion when analysts expected $2.78 billion. The company also reported a big net loss of $2.06 per share, worse than $1.07 loss analysts expected. But at least they've got Sephora ó anyone listening to the call was reminded of that over and over again. The high-end makeup store that Ackman insisted on introducing to JCPenney during his extreme makeover of the retailer is the only thing CEO Mike Ullman and company could point to as a success. See, while Sephora was introduced to JCPenney in 2006, its expanded presence really took center stage as part of† Ackman's plans for the store. JCPenney's current leadership has admitted as much before too. Back in June Ullman said that even though it was thought customers weren't "going to understand it. Now itís the most profitable part of the store.î Ackman said he knew it would be back in June of 2012, when he was talking about his JCPenney stake at CNBC's Delivering Alpha Conference. But none of this means Ullman wants to invest more in Sephora-like successes at JCPenney. How do we know this? Because his focus during the call was on regaining the Baby Boomer, bargain brand customers he lost ó not on gaining new hip Sephora-type customers Ackman was trying to attract. Those are the customers that are bringing energy into an otherwise tired business. You can see the disconnect here. The little capex Ullman said JCPenney would spend in 2014 (around $300 million compared to the over annual $700 million its spent over the last 5 years) is going to be spent on getting more Sephoras (sounds good) and making sure the old customers are happy (sounds like more of the same). So yes, Bill Ackman was right on this one. He just went about it the wrong way. As Brian Sozzi, CEO of Belus Capital Advisors pointed out, Macy's is modernizing ó getting hipper and cooler the way Ackman wanted JCPenney to do it ó but Macy's is doing this gradually. And more importantly, Macy's is making the hip new vendors pay for it. You win some, you lose some.
Flickr/Galdo TrouchkyTwo weeks ago, the S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 1,709. And since then, it has trended lower. It's trading at just above 1,650 today. In a new note to clients, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Stephen Suttmeier warns, "Market complacency suggests deeper downside risk." "The S&amp;P 500 completed a 1-month top last Thursday and quickly tested support at 1654-1650," he wrote. "However, we believe the risk is that sellers are not exhausted as several indicators point to complacency and not the near-term fear that often accompanies market lows. First, NYSE volume remains lackluster on this decline and is not at panic levels. Second, the drop from the early August peak has not triggered any 90% down days. Third, daily ARMS (TRIN) remains complacent and below the 2.0 readings that would indicate near-term fear. Finally, the 5-day Put/Call ratio (page 7) is coming off the complacency levels last seen in September 2012." Below is Suttmeier's chart of the Put/Call ratio. Puts are options contracts that protect the put buyer from falling prices.¬† Calls essentially do the opposite.¬†¬† When the ratio falls, complacency is theoretically on the rise. "The 5-day CBOE Total Put/Call ratio points to complacency and is bottoming off the lowest level since mid-September 2012," wrote Suttmeier. "This is a negative sign." Bank Of America Merrill Lynch
The worst thing to come out of JCPenney's long, rough slog of an earnings call this morning, is the confirmation that executives have no plans for what to do with the retailer when its core customers have all gone ó and they'll be gone soon enough, because they're all Baby Boomers. To review this morning's action ó not even the power of rival hedge fund manager Kyle Bass revealing a long position in the company could stop the carnage of JCPenney dismal Q2 earnings report. The stock's subsequent nose dive proved the market isn't convinced that the company has the recipe for a turnaround, whether hedge fund Bill Ackman is meddling with the store or not. But it was that meddling that JCP CEO Mike Ullman focused on from the beginning to the end of this morning's call. His argument was that Ackman and former CEO Ron Johnsons' plan for the future of the retailer disrupted its relationship with its core, brand loyal customers. This isn't anything new. "The obvious question," said Ullman at the beginning of the call, "is what do we stand for?" In Ullman's mind, the company stands for its past. He touted its return to brands like St. John's Bay and Arizona ó brands customers love that Ackman and Johnson tried to replace with a hipper vibe. Under Ullman JCPenney is refilling its stocks of these brands. "There's still that core Baby Boomer customer that will not change brands," said Brian Sozzi, CEO of Belus Capital Advisors. "They know their sizes, the way they fit and how they wash, and they don't want to drive to Kohl's." This is the customer JCPenney is desperately trying to get back. They know what these people want, and they know how to deliver it as a store. But Baby Boomers won't be around forever, and if you look at the numbers, JCPenney isn't investing in that fact at all, and at this point it's clear that they don't plan to. Look at it this way ó Ullman admitted that capital expenditures of $439 million are high for this quarter, but that it was all to get the company back to where it used to be. After that he promised capex would decrease, and that the company was looking at total capex of $300 million for 2014. To put that in perspective, as Brian Sozzi pointed out to Business Insider, for the past five years JCPenney has spent over $700 million on capex annually. That means Ullman is running in place. He said that $300 million in capex would be spent on things like making sure the stores are up to snuff and bringing in more Sephoras. Sephora is a relatively high end, boutique makeup store that the kids love. It is one of the few triumphs of the Ackman-Johnson era, and it's one of the few things that is working at JCPenney. You would think that Ullman would be figuring out ways to do more of that, instead he's cutting the store's capex in half. "Macy's meanwhile is remodeling their stores," said Sozzi. "They're putting in cool shops but the vendors are paying for it." In short, retailers have to modernize, and there is a right way to do it, but JCPenney simply hasn't figured it out yet at all. They're living one day at a time.
ReutersEuropean markets closed in the red today.¬† The London FTSE fell 0.5% today. France's CAC 40 closed down 1.5%.¬† The German Dax was off 0.9% The decline in the FTSE was led by BHP Billiton which missed earnings estimates and wrote down the value of its mining assets. The sell-off also followed on the sell-off in Asian markets, and concerns about the Fed tapering its asset purchase program. 
A cab reportedly jumped a curb at 49th Street and 6th Avenue in midtown Manhattan early Tuesday afternoon and hit several pedestrians. NBC New York reports that one woman, a 23-year-old British tourist, has been hurt, and police and emergency responders are on the scene near Radio City Music Hall. The injured woman's leg was severed in the accident, NBC reports. A nearby plumber used a belt to make a tourniquet for the woman before paramedics arrived. The cab driver hit the woman as he was swerving to avoid a bicyclist, according to NBC. Celebrity physician Dr. Oz was apparently on scene to help the woman as well, DNAinfo reports. Oz told NBC that the tourniquet was "very smart thinking" and likely saved the woman's life. This tweet from NBC News's Bradd Jaffy shows the scene: Looks like at least 3 people injured - person who looks most hurt is in the bushes pic.twitter.com/ay7JzLGR9Z
While emerging markets account for 51% of global GDP, they represent only 12% of global stock market capitalization, according to BlackRock. This means there's tremendous room for growth and opportunity for investors. But this also doesn't mean that the countries with the highest GDP growth offer the best returns.¬† BlackRock's Jeff Shen and Rodolfo Martell write that investors interested in emerging market stocks should realize the landscape has changed, and that "for investors who want to develop their portfolios, the developing world is an unmatched source of potential.." "Investors may need to fundamentally rethink what it means to be an investor in emerging markets. The same methodologies that served them well since MSCI launched the first comprehensive EM index 25 years ago may not provide adequate risk-adjusted returns over the next 25. In fact, the MSCI EM Index represents only 4% of the stocks listed in the emerging world. The MSCI EM Small Cap Index covers an additional 9%. We're not suggesting it would be possible, or even desirable, to track all 18,000 listed EM stocks. But we strongly believe there is great opportunity to add value through in-depth research and security selection. We suggest equity investors re-examine their holdings both at the broad index level and the individual security level. "We would also point out that EM investing entails more than investing in companies that are domiciled in developing countries. In an era of increasing globalization, many companies located in the developed world derive a significant portion of their revenue from the emerging world, while the reverse holds true for many companies headquartered in EMs. As companies expand their footprint globally, their revenues become more diversified. You need not invest in an EM-domiciled country to benefit from EM growth." In terms of emerging market debt they write that what was "once considered a high-risk, niche asset class, should be considered a prime candidate for inclusion in a diversified portfolio."¬† "In addition to the improved fundamentals, investors may also find that an allocation to EM debt helps to capture some of the exposure to GDP that is missing from their equity approach." The average investor is underweight EMs and has an allocation of only 5%. Shen and Martell think this should be closer to 18%. BlackRock
Tesla Motors/ScreenshotWhen Elon Musk announced the details of his magical Hyperloop last week, we eagerly awaited analyses of the plan by folks with expertise in infrastructure and engineering. And a transportation blogger named Alon Levy has posted an interesting critique. Levy ridicules the Hyperloop from top to bottom. He also ridicules Elon Musk--with such passion and disdain that his (Levy's) Hyperloop analysis becomes suspect. But Levy's criticism of the Hyperloop is still interesting. Here are his key points:
In the wake of the financial crisis, India decided to reduce public savings in favor of better growth. "The collateral damage has been persistent consumer inflation and declining corporate savings or profit share in GDP," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ridham Desai. And now five years on, India's debt load has shifted from the public sector to the private sector. It's the exact opposite of what has taken place in developed markets, where public sector balance sheets grew massively while the corporate sector delevered. Desai calls this massive change the "Great Debt Transfer." "Persistent inflation has†deflated public debt relative to GDP ñ but it has also punctured corporate profits (and, thus equity), causing corporate financial leverage to rise," Desai writes in a new note to clients. And the fall in public savings has dogged corporate profits. Morgan Stanley Here's the shift from public to private debt. Morgan Stanley "The worldís reserve currency is no longer interested in funding Indiaís external deficit (caused by the persistent fall in savings)," Desai writes. "Thus, it becomes imperative for India to reduce this deficit." Like in 1998 in India, real rates need to be held high at the expense of growth, Desai argues. Morgan Stanley "Indiaís macro construct threatens its relative gains against its most relevant peer group (the BRICs) in the 18 months preceding mid-July," said Desai.
Treasuries plummeted to end last week and continued a massive sell off in Monday trading. Bond yields, at†2.83% this morning, continue to hover at new highs. This chart (via John Brynjolfsson) puts it all in context, showing the 16-week percent change in 10-Year yields over the last few years. Remember, a surge in yields means a selloff in bonds. This selloff is unlike anything in ages. 2013: the year the long bull market in bonds ended. Twitter/John Brynjolfsson
Finance blogger Phil DeMuth of Forbes†shares the chart below from IPI. The chart shows the results of a survey of super-rich folks--families with $200 million or more--are currently investing their assets. The chart reveals, among other things, that those with $200+ million are: Here's the chart: Forbes, IPI Mr. DeMuth wisely gloms on to the fact that the $200+ millionaires have a big chunk of their assets (~30%) invested in the flavor of the day: Hedge funds and private-equity funds. Because of the massive fees charged by hedge funds and private-equity funds, most hedge funds and private-equity funds lag the market over the long term, especially after tax. These hedge-funds and private-equity funds, in fact, are spectacular at only one thing: Generating extraordinary wealth for their managers, while producing average (or worse) returns for their investors. (Some hedge funds also generate spectacular returns for their investors, but relatively few.) Hedge fund and private-equity fund investors haven't realized that yet, though, or don't care. So they're happy to pay hedge fund managers huge pots of money to generate lower returns than they could have gotten in exchange-traded, tax-efficient index funds. DeMuth observes that the $200+ millionaires earned an average return of 10% last year. He then observes that, had the same investors junked their hedge funds and private-equity funds and instead invested in similar exchange-traded funds, they would have earned an 11.7% return. In other words, DeMuth observes, each of these investors threw away $3.4 million last year in needless fees and lost returns, Yes, every year is different. Sometimes, funds that are "hedged" or "leveraged" or allocated to different asset mixes produce very different returns than the overall indices. And, sometimes, in a given year, some of these funds produce returns that are better than the market average (though not this year). But these funds also siphon off spectacular amounts of money each year just for creating the perception of diversification. Any investor who allocates money directly to different asset classes via low-cost vehicles can achieve this diversification for much less cost: Just open an account at Schwab, Vanguard, or Fidelity and buy the desired index funds. But good luck convincing the $200+ millionaires of that! They've been so persuaded by their advisors and managers that they're getting "special" funds that ordinary schmoes can't buy that they'll never even notice the missing returns. After all, these $200+ millionaires are used to the cost-quality equation that prevails in most other industries: When you pay more, you get better quality. They haven't yet figured out that, in the investment management industry, it's the reverse: When you pay more, you usually get less! Perhaps these $200+ millionaires should read a $10 book by John Bogle, which will explain it to them.† Or they can just start by reading Phil DeMuth's column, which is here.
It's easy to make blanket statements about hiring on Wall Street. In large part, the people that make it to high level positions in finance have all come from the same cities, the same schools, and yes, often the same families. So it isn't surprising to see so many people in and around the industry pooh-poohing the investigation into JPMorgan's hiring practices in China revealed this weekend. The bank is being probed for two specific deals that regulators suspect were given to JPM in exchange for the hiring of two "princelings" ó the offspring of China's ruling party. The news prompted just about everyone, including The New York Times' Andrew Ross Sorkin, to ask ó "When is a new hire on Wall Street scrutinized over possible bribery?" After asking the question, Sorkin goes into a long list of stellar, upstanding Wall Streeters and their connections. It's been happening for years, he argues; it's a gray area. Most of these people are qualified and talented anyway. And Sorkin is right. It is a gray area. That's why the government is probing two specific deals. Two specific relationships. When the area is this gray, we can't make blanket statements, it's time to think critically about hires on a case-by-case basis ó that's what this investigation is about. Where do you draw the line, you ask? There's a difference between hiring someone because you know their name carries weight in certain circles, and (in the alleged case of one JPM China hire) because your hire carries with it a $5 billion IPO deal in short order. That's the line, at least according to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. It doesn't matter if the hire in question can do the job either ó making a hire in order to do a deal is forbidden. There's no denying that this is a gray area on Wall Street, but just because it is, doesn't mean we don't investigate specific cases where it seems the gray may have slipped into black. So let's just wait and see how this all shakes out before we dismiss it as simply more of the same.
REUTERS/ Michael DalderA new report has shed light on a massive beer collusion scheme that has been brewing in Germany for two decades. The German magazine¬†Focus got ahold of documents related to an investigation of the scandal. According to a Federal Cartel Office memo, major German beer conglomerates have been price fixing for 20 years.¬†From Spiegel Online: During a Jan. 31, 2013 interrogation, head of the Veltins brewery, Volker Kuhl, told investigators that premium beer brands had agreed to raise prices via telephone or on the sidelines of industry meetings. They subsequently passed this information on to smaller producers. "Then it often came to a branch-wide beer price increase," he said. The Bitburger Brewery Group, which produces the¬†beer¬†that is an official sponsor of the Bundesliga, Germany's national soccer league, apparently revealed similar revelations in the investigation, as did leaders of the brewery association in the country's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia. Focus also reported that the companies will face fines in the hundreds of millions of euros.
China is set to launch a program to tackle its air pollution problem. And this is expected to require an investment of 1.7 trillion yuan over the next five years, according to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC). Morgan Stanley's Simon H.Y. Lee and his team think there are huge investment opportunities here. First, reducing coal consumption by 150-200 million tons in coastal areas in five years and switching to green energy in industrial boilers and power plants. This would likely be achieved by switching from coal IPPs (independent power producers) to gas IPPs. "Per our calculation below, gas IPPs would need to construct around 93GW of gas capacity to replace coal IPPs and the total investment would amount to Rmb371 billion given the construction cost of Rmb4 million per MW for gas-fired plants." Second, speeding up installation of deNOx (aimed at¬†reducing nitrogen oxides) in power plants. This investment is expected to total 350 billion yuan. Of this 73 billion yuan will be used to control Sulphur dioxide. 53 billion yuan will be used to control nitrogen oxides, 47 billion yuan will be used to control dust, and 40 billion yuan will be used to control VOC (volatile organic compounds). "The government estimates the social value from reducing the impact on the environment could be as much as Rmb 2,000bn." Third, use coal-to-methane gas as a primary supplementary natural gas source. The government is expected to approve more coal-to-gas projects in 2013, before commissioning the Datang Keqi project in the third quarter. The investment should total 119 billion yuan. Here's a quick look at the current coal to gas projects: Morgan Stanley In terms of investing in renewables, new capacity for wind farms could be sped up as could the development of solar farms. "Our channel checks suggest that the government is considering reinstating the approval process for in-land nuclear power plants, and may revise up its 2020 target. We estimate that the additional investment will be close to Rmb1trn." The biggest beneficiaries from this program are expected to be players in wind/solar, like Suntien, Longyuan and HNR. Upstream/downstream gas, like PetroChina, ENN, Towngas, China Oil &amp; Gas; and coal-to-gas, like Datang Power, Yingde Gases.
Reuters/Stephen Lam There's no shortage of reasons to call Elon Musk a badass. He's super-successful. He has a company that does private rocket launches that look like something approaching magic. He's made the best car of all time, according to Consumer Reports. And the latest news is that he's made the safest car of all time, as well. Here's another thing about him that goes overlooked: He's a tremendous communicator, on par or possibly better than Steve Jobs. Because while Steve Jobs was talking about the magic of gadgets, Musk is actually communicating about engineering concepts, which fly above most people's heads. Read this from Tesla's announcement today about its safety rating. It's a wonderful paragraph: The Model S has the advantage in the front of not having a large gasoline engine block, thus creating a much longer crumple zone to absorb a high speed impact. This is fundamentally a force over distance problem ñ the longer the crumple zone, the more time there is to slow down occupants at g loads that do not cause injuries. Just like jumping into a pool of water from a tall height, it is better to have the pool be deep and not contain rocks. The Model S motor is only about a foot in diameter and is mounted close to the rear axle, and the front section that would normally contain a gasoline engine is used for a second trunk. After you read that, you instantly grasp how Tesla's small engine block makes it safer. You also saw this in Musk's Hyperloop announcement. Read this section about the limitations of blasting a pod through a tube, and how Musk intended to overcome it. Again, it's just beautifully readable writing: Natureís top speed law for a given tube to pod area ratio is known as the Kantrowitz limit. This is highly problematic, as it forces you to either go slowly or have a super huge diameter tube. Interestingly, there are usually two solutions to the Kantrowitz limit ñ one where you go slowly and one where you go really, really fast. The latter solution sounds mighty appealing at first, until you realize that going several thousand miles per hour means that you canít tolerate even wide turns without painful g loads. For a journey from San Francisco to LA, you will also experience a rather intense speed up and slow down. And, when you get right down to it, going through transonic buffet in a tube is just fundamentally a dodgy prospect. Both for trip comfort and safety, it would be best to travel at high subsonic speeds for a 350 mile journey. For much longer journeys, such as LA to NY, it would be worth exploring super high speeds and this is probably technically feasible, but, as mentioned above, I believe the economics would probably favor a supersonic plane. The approach that I believe would overcome the Kantrowitz limit is to mount an electric compressor fan on the nose of the pod that actively transfers high pressure air from the front to the rear of the vessel. This is like having a pump in the head of the syringe actively relieving pressure. Most business writing is horrendously larded with jargon. The danger of that when talking about tech and engineering is especially high. Via excellent use of analogy, explanation, and imagery we're all familiar with (a syringe, a swimmer jumping into a pool, etc.) Musk succeeds in telling stories that grab the imagination.
The big story in global markets this week is the crash in Indonesia, which is already down about 10% for the week. Indonesia's troubles are part of bigger gyrations in emerging markets, which are getting clobbered for all sorts of reasons (Chinese weakness, the rise in US interest rates, etc.). In a note to clients, Morgan Stanley explains the fundamental economic problem facing the country: A deteriorating current account situation. Current account deficit worst than expected ñ back at levels seen in 1996: The monthly trade numbers already point to a current account deficit (CAD) which is likely to be materially worse compared to 1Q13 on the back of trade balance. We expected the 2Q13 CAD to come in the range of 3.5-4.0% of GDP. However, the numbers surprised to the downside at -4.4% of GDP (quarterly annualised) versus a downwardly revised -2.6% in 1Q13, and now stand at levels last seen in 1996 (see Exhibit 5). Most of the deterioration was in the goods trade balance, which has moved into deficit (-0.3% of GDP versus +0.7% in 1Q13; see Exhibit 6). Indeed, monthly trade data suggest that the non-oil &amp; gas trade balance had softened further even though the oil &amp; gas trade balance improved. Meanwhile, balances in services, income and current transfers also all weakened. In particular, income balance sank deeper in deficit (-3.2% versus -2.7% in 1Q13) as repatriation of portfolio investment income picked up. This deterioration of both trade and investment flows in at the root of why everyone's dumping Indonesian assets. Morgan Stanley
ReutersBill AckmanJ.C. Penney reported another horrific quarter of deteriorating sales and wide net losses. The troubled department store chain is currently struggling to stop the exodus of its customers. "Comparable store sales declined 11.9% in the quarter, and were negatively impacted by the Company`s failed prior merchandising and promotional strategies, which resulted in unusually high markdowns and clearance levels in the second quarter," said management in its earnings announcement this morning. They're referring to the "failed prior" work of former CEO Ron Johnson. Back in 2011, hedge fund manager and JC Penney investor Bill Ackman recruited Johnson, who at the time was responsible for the wildly successful Apple Stores. However, as Johnson rolled out his vision for JC Penney's stores, sales completely collapsed. Eventually, Johnson was ousted and Ackman resigned from the board. "In first paragraph, JC Penney takes shot at Ron Johnson...who is definitely reading the release," tweeted retail guru Brian Sozzi. For what it's worth, the stock is up by around 2% this morning.
ReutersKyle Bass, the hedge fund manager behind Hayman Capital Management, is betting on J.C. Penney, the troubled American department store chain. This is according to Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle. Bass, who focuses on corporate turnarounds, has accumulated a long position in Penney over the past two weeks by buying the companyís secured loans, said the person, who asked not to be named because the information is private. He has also sold a type of insurance called credit-default swaps to other investors that pays off only if the Plano, Texas-based company defaults on its debts, an event he considers unlikely, said the person. Penney has turned into a quite the hedge fund circus. It all began when Pershing Square Capital's Bill Ackman made a big investment in the company, securing a seat on the board of directors, and bringing in Apple retail guru Ron Johnson as CEO. However, as Johnson rolled out his new retail strategy, Penney's sales collapsed, and eventually Johnson was ousted. Earlier this summer, Ackman pushed the board to speed up the CEO search in an ugly public battle. But this only attracted the attention of other big fund managers like George Soros' fund, which backed the board. This eventually led to Ackman resigning from the board himself. Earlier this morning, J.C. Penney announced weaker-than-expected sales and wider-than-expected net losses in Q2. The stock is up by around 5% in pre-market trading.
flickr / Mike KalasnikBeleaguered department store chain JC Penney has just released its Q2 financial results, and the numbers are ugly. Revenue came in at $2.66 billion, missing analysts' expectation for $2.78 billion. It also reported a big net loss of $2.06 per share, which was much worse than the $1.07 loss expected. "Comparable store sales declined 11.9% in the quarter, and were negatively impacted by the Company`s failed prior merchandising and promotional strategies, which resulted in unusually high markdowns and clearance levels in the second quarter," said management in a press release. Here's CEO Mike Ullman: "Since I returned to jcpenney four months ago, we have moved quickly to stabilize our business - both financially and operationally - and we have made meaningful progress in important areas of the business. There are no quick fixes to correct the errors of the past. That said, we have identified the challenges, put solid plans in place to address them and have experienced and capable people in key roles to do so." "Moving forward, we`re focusing our efforts on regaining customer loyalty by offering trusted brands, award winning service and affordability that families can depend on. We are encouraged by our early performance this Back to School season, which reflects customers` growing confidence in the brands and styles we offer. Our associates across the country are working tirelessly to serve our customers and I am proud of their efforts." Shares are actually up by around 5% in pre-market trading.
GroklawThe editor of a well-respected legal site, Groklaw, has announced that she's going to stop producing the site because the government might be reading her emails. Groklaw is a collaborative site that explores the nuances of certain cases and legal decisions, including the recent Apple v. Samsung case. The editor of the site, Pamela Jones, says she can't operate the site without email. And the idea that faceless government spooks might be reading any email that she sends outside the U.S. is too much for her: [T]he conclusion I've reached is that there is no way to continue doing Groklaw, not long term, which is incredibly sad. But it's good to be realistic. And the simple truth is, no matter how good the motives might be for collecting and screening everything we say to one another, and no matter how "clean" we all are ourselves from the standpont of the screeners, I don't know how to function in such an atmosphere. I don't know how to do Groklaw like this. Jones isn't just worried about being wrongly accused of crimes. For her, there's the ickiness factor of having her personal privacy violated--a feeling that she says is similar to the feeling she had when her apartment in New York was robbed and the burglar went through all of her underwear. (She threw the underwear away, unused, and moved to a different apartment). Jones also doesn't sound like a privacy zealot who rails about 4th Amendment violations without ever addressing the purpose of government surveillance programs--namely, to protect the country from very real threats. Jones knew someone who was supposed to have been in the Twin Towers on 9/11, and she doesn't rationalize that attack as having been a one-off that could never happen again. Unlike Edward Snowden, she also doesn't condescendingly suggest that those of us whose privacy was spectacularly violated on 9/11 and in Boston in April worry too much about terrorism. In other words, Jones doesn't sound like a crusader who has decided to put one personal mission above all others. She sounds like the sanctity of her personal space is more important to her than it might be to others (other people might just have washed their underwear, instead of throwing them away, for example, or, like Jones's neighbors, been resigned to the fact that New York apartments get robbed from time to time.) But, in any event, Jones is pulling the plug on Groklaw. So the government's surveillance programs have cost us another small but tangible loss. You can read Jones's farewell note here &gt;
Remember Best Buy? That's the big box electronics retailer which was basically left for dead last year. The stock is up 10% in the pre-market after earnings beat expectations. What's amazing is the medium-term chart. Since the beginning of 2013 ‚Äî when the stock hit its bottom ‚Äî the company is up nearly 3-fold. And this chart doesn't even have this morning's big gain. Stockahrts.com Here are the three paragraphs from today's earnings report which speak to why optimism in the company is growing: Hubert Joly, Best Buy president and CEO, commented, ‚ÄúIn November at our investor meeting, we talked about the two problems we had to solve: declining comparable store sales and declining operating margins.¬†Since that time, the resolution of these two problems has become our Renew Blue rallying cry and the organization‚Äôs goals and objectives have been prioritized accordingly.¬†While we are clear there is much more work ahead, we have made measurable progress since we unveiled Renew Blue last year, including near flat comparable store sales, substantive cost take outs, and better-than-expected earnings in the past three consecutive quarters.‚Äù Joly continued, ‚ÄúAs expected, Domestic comparable store sales were down 0.4%. But this was driven by short-term disruptions caused by the retail deployment of the Samsung Experience Shops, Windows Stores, and floor space optimization, as well as our continuing rationalization of non-core businesses. Excluding these impacts, Domestic comparable store sales were flat to slightly positive for the quarter. In addition, we delivered a better-than-expected non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.32.‚Äù Joly concluded, "During the second quarter, we continued to make substantial progress on our Renew Blue priorities. This progress included (1) driving a more than 10% increase in Domestic comparable online sales; (2) improving our Net Promoter Score; (3) enriching our retail customer experience through the rollout of our Samsung Experience Shops and Windows Stores; (4) piloting our ‚Äúbuy online - ship from store‚Äù initiative in 50 stores; and (5) eliminating an additional $65 million in annualized costs ‚Äì bringing our ‚Äúnine-month‚Äù total of annualized cost reductions to $390 million toward our target of $725 million.‚Äù
REUTERS/Edgard GarridoAn activist dressed in costume waves in front of riot police officers after a political meeting organized by Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD) to present a proposal to the energy reform bill outside the Senate of the Republic building in Mexico City, August 19, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Tesla MotorsHere's another extraordinary accomplishment by Tesla and its CEO Elon Musk. The electric car company announced yesterday evening that its famous 'Model S' sedan has achieved the best safety rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) of any car that's ever been tested in history. The company says it received 5 stars in every possible category (something that's awarded to just 1% of cars) and that the Model S set a new record for lowest likelihood of passenger injury. Here's the full press release from Tesla: ------------------------------------------------------- Palo Alto, CA ‚Äî Independent testing by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) has awarded the Tesla Model¬†S a 5-star safety rating, not just overall, but in every subcategory without exception. Approximately one percent of all cars tested by the federal government achieve 5 stars across the board. NHTSA does not publish a star rating above 5, however safety levels better than 5 stars are captured in the overall Vehicle Safety Score (VSS) provided to manufacturers, where the Model¬†S achieved a new combined record of 5.4 stars. Of all vehicles tested, including every major make and model approved for sale in the United States, the Model¬†S set a new record for the lowest likelihood of injury to occupants. While the Model¬†S is a sedan, it also exceeded the safety score of all SUVs and minivans. This score takes into account the probability of injury from front, side, rear and rollover accidents. The Model¬†S has the advantage in the front of not having a large gasoline engine block, thus creating a much longer crumple zone to absorb a high speed impact. This is fundamentally a force over distance problem ‚Äì the longer the crumple zone, the more time there is to slow down occupants at g loads that do not cause injuries. Just like jumping into a pool of water from a tall height, it is better to have the pool be deep and not contain rocks. The Model¬†S motor is only about a foot in diameter and is mounted close to the rear axle, and the front section that would normally contain a gasoline engine is used for a second trunk. For the side pole intrusion test, considered one of the most difficult to pass, the Model¬†S was the only car in the "good" category among the other top one percent of vehicles tested. Compared to the Volvo S60, which is also 5-star rated in all categories, the Model¬†S preserved 63.5 percent of driver residual space vs. 7.8 percent for the Volvo. Tesla achieved this outcome by nesting multiple deep aluminum extrusions in the side rail of the car that absorb the impact energy (a similar approach was used by the Apollo Lunar Lander) and transfer load to the rest of the vehicle. This causes the pole to be either sheared off or to stop the car before the pole hits an occupant. The rear crash testing was particularly important, given the optional third row children's seat. For this, Tesla factory installs a double bumper if the third row seat is ordered. This was needed in order to protect against a highway speed impact in the rear with no permanently disabling injury to the third row occupants. The third row is already the safest location in the car for frontal or side injuries. The Model¬†S was also substantially better in rollover risk, with the other top vehicles being approximately 50 percent worse. During testing at an independent facility, the Model¬†S refused to turn over via the normal methods and special means were needed to induce the car to roll. The reason for such a good outcome is that the battery pack is mounted below the floor pan, providing a very low center of gravity, which simultaneously ensures exceptional handling and safety. Of note, during validation of Model¬†S roof crush protection at an independent commercial facility, the testing machine failed at just above 4 g's. While the exact number is uncertain due to Model¬†S breaking the testing machine, what this means is that at least four additional fully loaded Model¬†S vehicles could be placed on top of an owner's car without the roof caving in. This is achieved primarily through a center (B) pillar reinforcement attached via aerospace grade bolts. The above results do not tell the full story. It is possible to game the regulatory testing score to some degree by strengthening a car at the exact locations used by the regulatory testing machines. After verifying through internal testing that the Model¬†S would achieve a NHTSA 5-star rating, Tesla then analyzed the Model¬†S to determine the weakest points in the car and retested at those locations until the car achieved 5 stars no matter how the test equipment was configured. The Model¬†S lithium-ion battery did not catch fire at any time before, during or after the NHTSA testing. It is worth mentioning that no production Tesla lithium-ion battery has ever caught fire in the Model¬†S or Roadster, despite several high speed impacts. While this is statistically unlikely to remain the case long term, Tesla is unaware of any Model¬†S or Roadster occupant fatalities in any car ever. The graphic below shows the statistical Relative Risk Score (RSS) of Model¬†S compared with all other vehicles tested against the exceptionally difficult NHTSA 2011 standards. In 2011, the standards were revised upward to make it more difficult to achieve a high safety rating. Tesla
Steven Pavlov, Wikimedia CommonsFrom Carolyn Said at the San Francisco Chronicle: Bay Area rental pendulum swings to condos Some condominium complexes opened at the worst possible time - in the depths of the real estate downturn when home buyers were few and far between. They coped by becoming for-rent apartment buildings instead. But now, as the housing recovery accelerates, several East Bay and South Bay developments are switching back to for-sale condos. ... For instance, the 125-unit Broadway Grand in Oakland, developed by Signature Properties, first opened as a condo complex, sold 17 units, and then switched to rentals as the market tanked ... Last year it went condo again, and now has sold all but 11 of its units. Similarly, the Skyline in San Jose with 121 units is now switching to condos after opening as rentals during the downturn. In Emeryville, the 424-unit Bridgewater is switching from rentals to condos. The current phase II, which started in June with 174 homes ranging from $185,000 to $450,000, is finding a receptive audience, said Alan Mark, president of the Mark Co., which is marketing the complex. The conversion of these condo projects¬†to apartments was an interesting story during the housing bust (and a way to take excess "for sale" inventory off the market)¬†- and¬†now they are converting back to condos (taking advantage of the lack of "for sale"¬†inventory). This is similar to a story by Cale Ottens at the LA Times last week: Condo conversions inch up in Los Angeles.¬†
‚ÄúGold is definitely money. Remember, anything that is accepted as a means of final payment can serve as a form of money (see my paper on the monetary system for more on this). Gold is definitely accepted as a means of final payment so it serves as a reliable medium of exchange. But gold has a number of characteristics that make it a bad form of money. First, gold isn‚Äôt accepted for payment in many places. So that‚Äôs a big problem. It‚Äôs also very difficult to transport. So gold is money, but it‚Äôs a crappy form of money.‚Äù That‚Äôs the quick and dirty view. ¬†Obviously, gold has some inherent value as a commodity and it‚Äôs money because people will still accept it as a medium of exchange (in some places) and a store of value (central banks in particular). ¬†So I would never say gold is not money. ¬†But I think Dylan Grice made a good example in his story when he asked: ‚ÄúBut inhabitants of Norway can‚Äôt use Japanese Yen to buy things either. Does that mean Yen isn‚Äôt money?‚Äù Yen is definitely money. ¬†Even in Norway. ¬†But it‚Äôs a crappy form of money for most Norwegians because it has to be converted into Krone before it can be used to buy most goods and services. ¬†Gold is similar. ¬†Yes, it‚Äôs money in the USA and in any other country, but it has to be converted into notes, coins or deposits before it can be used to buy goods and services. ¬†So it‚Äôs money, but it‚Äôs a crappy form of money for all practical purposes.
Emerging markets on the whole are weak these days, but Indonesia has seen a special level of pain lately. It's now fallen 5% on two consecutive days. So what's going on? Morgan Stanley's James Lord and Kritika Kashyap recently give the big picture overview, coming at the question from the perspective of Indonesia's plunging currency, the rupiah. We have been bearish on IDR (Rupiah) for some time, due to Indonesiaís deteriorating current account balance, its commodity exposure to China and vulnerability to external funding shocks, given the high foreign participation in its domestic markets. Recent data have only confirmed our bearish stance on the currency, showing that the countryís macro variables have deteriorated more than we had earlier anticipated. The 2Q13 current account deficit surprised to the downside at -4.4% of GDP (quarterly annualised) versus a downwardly revised -2.6% in 1Q13, and now stands at levels seen around the Asian Financial Crisis (see our economist Deyi Tanís comment following this strategy section). At the same time, foreign investor sentiment has deteriorated, causing investors to pull out from the domestic equities and bond markets, destabilising IDR further. Here's the chart that shows investor money whooshing out of Indonesia. Note that the "flows" are year-to-date, so the recent negative levels haver completely erased months of positive inflows. Morgan Stanley And here's the chart showing the current account deficit falling to levels not seen since the mid-90s. Morgan Stanley
Skyscraper CenterNow this is an ugly day. And we'll get right to the big story: Indonesia. The Jakarta market has been getting absolutely wrecked. For the second day in a row it has fallen more than 5%, as it's the latest focal point for the big story of the year, which is the rush of money out of emerging markets. Nearby, the Thai market (the SET) lost 3%. Other losers: Meanwhile, US Treasuries have finally caught a little bit of a bid on the flight to safety, as the yield on the 10-year drops to 2.81%. Meanwhile, even commodities are getting smoked. Gold and silver lower. So the big themes right now are a general risk offishness, with real pain focused on emerging markets.
