APSenate aides confirmed Friday that Republicans are coalescing around an alternative to the sequester that would keep the lower spending levels in place, but give federal agencies greater flexibility to determine where the cuts are implemented. The exact details of the Republican proposals are unclear.¬†A GOP Senate aide told Business Insider that Republicans are considering a plan that would fund the government at the levels dictated by the sequestration ‚Äî which amounts to about $85 billion in spending cuts for fiscal year 2013 ‚Äî while giving the Obama administration the flexibility to reprogram the cuts at their discretion, provided that the balance remains between defense and non-defense discretionary spending cuts. As TPM's Brian Beutler points out, the plan ‚Äî which has gained traction among prominent conservative commentators, including the National Review editorial board and Karl Rove ‚Äî is politically savvy for several reasons. First, it deals with the biggest problem of the sequester, namely its meat-cleaver approach to spending cuts. This undercuts the White House's main argument against the sequester, which is that the cuts are arbitrary, and therefore threatening. In reality, $85 billion is a relatively small number when it comes to the federal budget. The Department of Transportation, for example, only needs to find $1 billion in cuts this year, or about 2 percent of its $55 billion budget. If the cuts are not applied uniformly to every program, it's hard to imagine that the DOT could not cut $1 billion from the department with marginal impact to its workforce and to everyday Americans. The second benefit to the GOP plan is that it allows Republicans to avoid the political pitfalls of proposing their own budget cuts, and forces the Obama administration to determine ‚Äî and take ownership ‚Äî of the spending cuts.¬† The one problem with the GOP plan, however, is that it is unlikely to mitigate the effect of the spending cuts for the Defense Department, a key concern among Republicans.¬† "We prefer to have some more latitude, but at this stage in the game, the cuts are going to be painful no matter what," Lt. Col. Elizabeth Robbins, a spokesperson for the Pentagon, told Business Insider.  The budget cuts, Robbins explained, would apply to fiscal year 2013, but because the federal fiscal year begins in September, they would have to be condensed over just seven months.¬† The White House is likely to use this as political cover against the Senate Republicans' flexibility proposal.¬†One Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider that Democrats are ready to reject the Republican plan, and will continue to insist that any sequester replacement include both spending cuts and new tax revenues. Moreover, House Republicans are also unlikely to provide much support for a plan that gives the Obama administration the authority to determine the spending cuts.¬† The more likely solution, according to administration officials and Senate aides, is that the White House will continue to fight the sequester battle, and use the upcoming fight over the Continuing Resolution to gain the additional flexibility in determining how to implement the cuts.  In the meantime, however, Republicans may have found a way to gain some ground in a debate they have been losing for months.¬†
David Paleino / FlickrGoldman Sachs' Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report takes a close look at what the world's biggest hedge funds are trading. The report includes the Very Important Short Positions (VISP) ‚Äî stocks in which have the most short interest outstanding. It's interesting to note that while the largest company by market value (Apple) is high on the list of stocks loved by hedge funds, the second largest company (ExxonMobil) ranks #2 on the list of stocks being shorted. We pulled the 50 stocks on Goldman's VISP list and ranked them by the total dollar value of short interest ‚Äî the extent to which investors have been betting against the stock. Also included are the short interest expressed as a percentage of float cap, the YTD return, and the stock's ticker and sector.
This is a minor indicator that I follow. This index has been very strong following the dip in October due to Hurricane Sandy. From ATA: ATA Truck Tonnage Index Posts Best Ever January The American Trucking Associations‚Äô advanced seasonally adjusted (SA) For-Hire Truck Tonnage Index increased 2.9% in January after jumping 2.4% in December. ... Tonnage has surged at least 2.4% every month since November, gaining a total of 9.1% over that period. As a result, the SA index equaled 125.2 (2000=100) in January versus 121.7 in December. January‚Äôs index was the highest on record. Compared with January 2012, the SA index was up a robust 6.5%, the best year-over-year result since December 2011. ‚ÄúThe trucking industry started 2013 with a bang, reflected in the best January tonnage report in five years,‚Äù ATA Chief Economist Bob Costello said. ‚ÄúWhile I believe that the overall economy will be sluggish in the first quarter, trucking likely benefited in January from an inventory destocking that transpired late last year, thus boosting volumes more than normal early this year as businesses replenish those lean inventories.‚Äù Note from ATA: Trucking serves as a barometer of the U.S. economy, representing 67% of tonnage carried by all modes of domestic freight transportation, including manufactured and retail goods. Trucks  hauled 9.2 billion tons of freight in 2011. Motor carriers collected $603.9 billion, or 80.9% of total revenue earned by all transport modes. Here is a long term graph that shows ATA's For-Hire Truck Tonnage index. The dashed line is the current level of the index.The index is fairly noisy, but is up solid year-over-year. Calculated Risk
Reporting From: Sovereign Valley Farm, Chile † ViaMat, a Swiss logistics company that has been safeguarding precious metals since 1945, is literally the gold standard in secure storage. They have vaults from Switzerland to Hong Kong to Dubai, and they count among their clients some of the largest mining companies in the world. They know what theyíre doing. And now theyíre dumping US citizens. ViaMat does a great deal of business within the United States. As such, the company is heavily exposed to the insane US regulatory environment. As an example, the 2010 Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act turned into more than 500 pages of regulation! The costs and risks associated with compliance simply became too much for ViaMat to bear. This matter-of-fact letter from ViaMat management explains their decision: ìWe are currently experiencing rapid and substantial changes in the general regulations within this business. The changes mainly relate to the tax structures and taxation systems of various countries. As a consequence of these changes VIA MAT INTERNATIONAL has taken the decision to stop offering this service at its vault [sic] outside of the US to private customers with potential US-tax liability.î This is huge. I canít possibly overstate the potential ramifications. For one, the big gold depositories like Gold Money and Bullion Vault ALL use ViaMat as a primary secure storage provider. So itís only a matter of time before ViaMatís decision cascades across these other firms. I have written extensively about this to subscribers of our premium service, Sovereign Man: Confidential; most gold storage firms are all essentially different varieties of the exact same product. They are retail marketing channels that ultimately use ViaMat to store their gold bars. If ViaMat has US exposure, THEY have US exposure. Itís the same risk. Now, if youíre in the United States in particular, one of the most important (and cost effective) steps you can take in international diversification is to store precious metals overseas. Gold remains the most effective ëanti-currencyí out there, a bet against a corrupt financial system and debt-laden sovereign governments. But rememberñ governments have an unblemished track record of plundering their citizensí wealth. So if you store your gold in the US, you might as well ask Barack Obama to keep it under his mattress. If history is any guide, storing gold abroad is critical. And itís one of those things that you wonít be worse off for doing. The thing is, itís equally critical to work with a service provider that has no US exposure. There are very few options out there. Again, most of the big boys use ViaMat, which has heavy US exposure. Or Brinks, which is a US company. For nearly a year, Iíve been encouraging our premium subscribers to store their gold with a Singapore-based company that has the most advanced, transparent operation on the planet. They are 100% Singaporean, and their US regulatory exposure is effectively zero. Theyíre also one of the only firms on the planet that actually tests the gold it sells (and stores) through three different methods, including X-ray and ultrasound. This way you know that your gold is, in fact, goldÖ and not tungsten. Best of all, theyíre launching a new service to receive your existing gold at their facilities in Singapore. So if youíve just been shut out of ViaMat, or you want to transfer your gold from another facility that has heavy US exposure, these guys will be able to do it. They are, without a doubt, the best solution out there. And Sovereign Man: Confidential members have received unprecedented discounts and exclusive access to new services offered by this firm. Storing gold overseas makes sense no matter what happens. And itís critical to choose a reputable partner with no US exposure. If you agree with this premise and are serious about taking action, Iíd encourage you to get started right away with a†premium membership. Get the actionable intelligence you need, all backed by our risk-free guarantee. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ª
El Frito via FlickrDecember home prices were up 11.8 percent year-over-year, the largest gain since 2006, according to RadarLogic's latest RPX monthly housing market report.¬† But this isn't a "real and sustainable" recovery according to Quinn W. Eddins, Director of Research at RadarLogic. For that, we need a rise in home prices that are driven by job growth and improving consumer confidence.¬† In the absence of this, Eddins says rising home prices will impact demand, cause a rise in supply and then reduce the pace of rise in home prices or even reverse it. Eddins expects home prices to temporarily decline again this year, but a decline will prompt speculative demand cool housing starts and sales. "Home prices are likely [to] follow such a saw-tooth pattern for a number of years, until consumer demand increases and inventories of distressed homes return to historical norms," writes Eddins. Though Eddins does warn that the impact of investors on this saw-tooth pattern is hard to estimate.¬† Corporate investor transactions (purchases) increased 62 percent year-over-year in November 2012, driven by financial institutions building their portfolio of rental homes. These purchases accounted for 12 percent of all transactions in 2012, up from 8 percent the previous year.¬† What's more, all transactions were up just 8 percent, while non-corporate investor purchases were up just three percent.¬† "While the overall RPX transaction count may suggest a healthy gain in sales activity, most of that gain took the form of purchases by corporate investors. When we look only at non-investor purchases, the year on year gain is much less remarkable." Sales last year were driven by investor activity, low interest rates, and a shift in sales mix and none of this is expected to have a lasting impact on home prices.
NewseumAs President Barack Obama and Congressional Republicans trade barbs over the looming sequester, towns and cities are starting to brace for the potentially devastating consequences that the cuts will have at the local level.¬† Public schools in New York City, the Department of Agriculture's meat inspection program, and various military bases across the country could all be affected. We took a look at 19 local newspapers that made the sequester a focus on their front pages Friday.
APAnother one bites the dust: The UK is no longer AAA, at least according to Moody's. The primary irony, of course, is that this happened under a government committed to fiscal consolidation. David Cameron was praised for promoting austerity by commenters in the US who urged Obama to do the same. Now both the US and the UK are downgraded. Main difference is that the UK economy is going into a triple dip recession. Of course the downgrade isn't likely to have a big impact, except it may accelerate selling on the already weak British pound. And there's the real story. There's a big confluence of negativity towards the UK right now. It's seen as being in a similar boat to the US, except with more exposure to the slumping Eurozone, and no domestic energy boom. In fact its trade deficit is widening thanks to a worsening energy balance.
When my grandfather started working at Sears in 1965, it was America's greatest retailer.¬† "Sears was where everyone shopped and I knew my customers well," my grandfather, Carl Schweinfest, told me. "Many times when I would be at a restaurant or movie, one of them would come up to me and start a conversation because they knew me from¬†Sears." Sears has been in an irreversible decline since around the time my grandfather retired from selling appliances, in 1992. In the early nineties it started laying off tens of thousands and closings stores around the country. More recently it's been widely discussed as a bankruptcy target and has closed hundreds more stores. Last year, it reported a $3.1 billion loss.¬† Sears management has¬†blamed many factors for its distress. There's the changing retail landscape, the advent of e-commerce, and the expense of maintaining thousands of retail stores.¬† But one aspect of Sears' core culture has undeniably changed over the years.¬† Customer service.¬† According to Consumer Affairs, 86 percent of customers are unsatisfied with Sears' customer service. That gives it a worse rank than competitors like Macy's, Kohl's, and JCPenney.¬† The lack of customer service could put Sears in trouble, consumer service expert and bestselling author Grant Cardone told us.¬† "Right now, it's easier to steal something from Sears than to buy something," Cardone told us.¬†"The lack of customer service is putting Sears in big trouble." Part of the problem could be compensation.¬†When my grandfather worked for Sears, he was awarded a commission-based payscale and benefits.¬† "I made an average living, but for retail, I made a good living," my grandfather told me. "I was motivated to sell, because if you didn't sell, you didn't make a living."¬† Today, Sears just "isn't compensating or training people to move product," Cardone said. "If you don't invest in your people, you're not going to make a sale."¬† My grandfather also described Sears' culture. He started working there because his friend, an employee, described the benefits of working there. He was loyal to the brand.¬† Cardone points out that today, Sears' corporate culture is lacking.¬† Sears chairman and CEO Eddie Lampert has a hedge-fund background, which could contribute to why the company has "lost its personal touch," Cardone said.¬† "I get better service at Starbucks with 17,000 locations and a $4 product because Howard Schultz leaves his ivory tower to go into stores and see what's working," Cardone said.¬† Lampert¬†has added iPads for salespeople and wireless service in stores in an attempt to improve customer service in recent years. Still,¬†it would take a serious customer service shift to save Sears. "When my parents used to go to Sears, it was like a picnic," Cardone said. "Everyone knew them, everyone approached them, and the customer still wants that."¬† Even my grandfather, a 27-year-veteran of the chain, only shops at Sears for major purchases, like appliances.¬† "They don't have the selection or level of customer service that they used to," he told me.¬† Cardone says that the lack of customer service is "breaking up the company."¬† "Any company that sells at the lowest price with no customer service is going to fail," Cardone said. "This situation equals Borders and Circuit City."¬†
Douglas EllimanThe CEO of international insurance broker Willis Group Holdings, Joseph Plumeri, is selling his Fifth Avenue apartment and this place is just unreal (h/t Curbed). For $32 million you can get the entire 15th floor of 995 Fifth Avenue, 8,000 square feet, 8 bedrooms, ten bathrooms, a massive 42 foot long living room (flanked by a library),and a custom wine cave. Yes, wine cave. Sabrina Saltiel at Douglas Elliman has the listing.
Bloomberg News reported that Judge Richard Sullivan granted Greenlight's motion to block an Apple shareholder vote. "This is a significant win for all Apple shareholders and for good corporate governance.† We are pleased the Court has recognized that Appleís proxy is not compliant with the SECís rules because it bundles different matters in Proposal 2.† We look forward to Appleís evaluation of our iPref idea and we encourage fellow shareholders to urge Apple to unlock the significant value residing on its balance sheet," Greenlight said in a statement.† Greenlight said Apple is attempting to bundle three reforms, two of which he would normally support, into one provision and†Einhorn thinks that violates the SEC's proxy rules. † Einhorn was in court on Tuesday and it was reported that the judge was leaning in his favor. The closely-followed hedge fund manager, whose fund owned about 1.5 million Apple shares (275,000 in call options) at the end of Q4, has been taking aim at the tech giant's massive cash reserves. He's been urging other shareholders to vote "No" on Proposal 2 in Apple's proxy that would eliminate the company's ability to issue preferred stock. Apple's CEO Tim Cook called Greenlight's lawsuit a†"silly sideshow"†at Goldman's tech conference earlier this month.† SEE ALSO: David Einhorn's Massive Presentation On What Apple Should Do &gt; Now Watch: How Herbalife Became A Battleground Stock For Two Wall Street Heavyweights
GettyJust minutes ago, Moody's downgraded the U.K.'s sovereign credit rating to AA1 from AAA ñ outlook stable ñ in a classic (yet historic) Friday night, after-hours announcement. The British pound fell from around 1.525 against the U.S. dollar to around 1.518 on the news. Below is the full text from the Moody's release: 22 Feb 2013 London,†22 February 2013†-- Moody's Investors Service has today downgraded the domestic- and foreign-currency government bond ratings of the†United Kingdom†by one notch to Aa1 from Aaa. The outlook on the ratings is now stable. The key interrelated drivers of today's action are: 1. The continuing weakness in the†UK's†medium-term growth outlook, with a period of sluggish growth which Moody's now expects will extend into the second half of the decade; 2. The challenges that subdued medium-term growth prospects pose to the government's fiscal consolidation programme, which will now extend well into the next parliament; 3. And, as a consequence of the†UK's†high and rising debt burden, a deterioration in the shock-absorption capacity of the government's balance sheet, which is unlikely to reverse before 2016. At the same time, Moody's explains that the†UK's†creditworthiness remains extremely high, rated at Aa1, because of the country's significant credit strengths. These include (i) a highly competitive, well-diversified economy; (ii) a strong track record of fiscal consolidation and a robust institutional structure; and (iii) a favourable debt structure, with supportive domestic demand for government debt, the longest average maturity structure (15 years) among all highly rated sovereigns globally and the resulting reduced interest rate risk on†UK†debt. The stable outlook on the†UK's†Aa1 sovereign rating reflects Moody's expectation that a combination of political will and medium-term fundamental underlying economic strengths will, in time, allow the government to implement its fiscal consolidation plan and reverse theUK's†debt trajectory. Moreover, although the†UK's†economy has considerable risk exposure through trade and financial linkages to a potential escalation in the euro area sovereign debt crisis, its contagion risk is mitigated by the flexibility afforded by the†UK's†independent monetary policy framework and sterling's global reserve currency status. In a related rating action, Moody's has today also downgraded the ratings of the†Bank of England†to Aa1 from Aaa. The issuer's P-1 rating is unaffected by this rating action. The rating outlook for this entity is now also stable. RATINGS RATIONALE The main driver underpinning Moody's decision to downgrade the†UK's†government bond rating to Aa1 is the increasing clarity that, despite considerable structural economic strengths, the†UK's†economic growth will remain sluggish over the next few years due to the anticipated slow growth of the global economy and the drag on the†UK†economy from the ongoing domestic public- and private-sector deleveraging process. Moody's says that the country's current economic recovery has already proven to be significantly slower -- and believes that it will likely remain so -- compared with the recovery observed after previous recessions, such as those of the 1970s, early 1980s and early 1990s. Moreover, while the government's recent Funding for Lending Scheme has the potential to support a surge in growth, Moody's believes the risks to the growth outlook remain skewed to the downside. The sluggish growth environment in turn poses an increasing challenge to the government's fiscal consolidation efforts, which represents the second driver informing Moody's one-notch downgrade of the†UK's†sovereign rating. When Moody's changed the outlook on the†UK'srating to negative in†February 2012, the rating agency cited concerns over the increased uncertainty regarding the pace of fiscal consolidation due to materially weaker growth prospects, which contributed to higher than previously expected projections for the deficit, and consequently also an expected rise in the debt burden. Moody's now expects that the†UK's†gross general government debt level will peak at just over 96% of GDP in 2016. The rating agency says that it would have expected it to peak at a higher level if the government had not reduced its debt stock by transferring funds from the Asset Purchase Facility -- which will equal to roughly 3.7% of GDP in total -- as announced in†November 2012. More specifically, projected tax revenue increases have been difficult to achieve in the†UK†due to the challenging economic environment. As a result, the weaker economic outturn has substantially slowed the anticipated pace of deficit and debt-to-GDP reduction, and is likely to continue to do so over the medium term. After it was elected in 2010, the government outlined a fiscal consolidation programme that would run through this parliament's five-year term and place the net public-sector debt-to-GDP ratio on a declining trajectory by the 2015-16 financial year. (Although it was not one of the government's targets, Moody's had expected the†UK's†gross general government debt -- a key debt metric in the rating agency's analysis -- to start declining in the 2014-15 financial year.) Now, however, the government has announced that fiscal consolidation will extend into the next parliament, which necessarily makes their implementation less certain. Taken together, the slower-than-expected recovery, the higher debt load and the policy uncertainties combine to form the third driver of today's rating action -- namely, the erosion of the shock-absorption capacity of the†UK's†balance sheet. Moody's believes that the mounting debt levels in a low-growth environment have impaired the sovereign's ability to contain and quickly reverse the impact of adverse economic or financial shocks. For example, given the pace of deficit and debt reduction that Moody's has observed since 2010, there is a risk that the†UK†government may not be able to reverse the debt trajectory before the next economic shock or cyclical downturn in the economy. In summary, although the†UK's†debt-servicing capacity remains very strong and very capable of withstanding further adverse economic and financial shocks, it does not at present possess the extraordinary resilience common to other Aaa-rated issuers. RATIONALE FOR STABLE OUTLOOK The stable outlook on the†UK's†Aa1 sovereign rating partly reflects the strengths that underpin the Aa1 rating itself -- the underlying economic strength and fiscal policy commitment which Moody's expects will ultimately allow the†UK†government to reverse the debt trajectory. The stable outlook is also an indication of the fact that Moody's does not expect further additional material deterioration in theUK's†economic prospects or additional material difficulties in implementing fiscal consolidation. It also reflects the greater capacity of theUK†government compared with its euro area peers to absorb shocks resulting from any further escalation in the euro area sovereign debt crisis, given (1) the absence of the contingent liabilities from mutual support mechanisms that euro area members face; (2) the†UK's†more limited trade dependence on the euro area; and (3) the policy flexibility that the†UK†derives from having its own national currency, which is a global reserve currency. Lastly, the†UK†also benefits from a considerably longer-than-average debt-maturity schedule, making the country's debt-servicing costs less vulnerable to swings in interest rates. WHAT COULD MOVE THE RATING UP/DOWN As reflected by the stable rating outlook, Moody's does not anticipate any movement in the rating over the next 12-18 months. However, downward pressure on the rating could arise if government policies were unable to stabilise and begin to ease the†UK's†debt burden during the multi-year fiscal consolidation programme. Moody's could also downgrade the†UK's†government debt rating further in the event of an additional material deterioration in the country's economic prospects or reduced political commitment to fiscal consolidation. Conversely, Moody's would consider changing the outlook on the†UK's†rating to positive, and ultimately upgrading the rating back to Aaa, in the event of much more rapid economic growth and debt-to-GDP reduction than Moody's is currently anticipating. COUNTRY CEILINGS The†UK's†foreign- and local-currency bond and deposit ceilings remain unchanged at Aaa. The short-term foreign-currency bond and deposit ceilings remain Prime-1. IMPACT ON OTHER RATINGS Moody's will assess the implications of this action for the debt obligations of other issuers which benefit from a guarantee from the†UKsovereign, and will announce its conclusions shortly in accordance with EU regulatory requirements. Moody's does not consider that the one-notch downgrade of the†UK†sovereign has any implications for the standalone strength of†UK†financial institutions, or for the systemic support uplift factored into certain†UK†financial institutions' unguaranteed debt ratings. PREVIOUS RATING ACTION Moody's previous action on the†UK's†sovereign rating and the†Bank of England†was implemented on†13 February 2012, when the rating agency changed the outlook on both Aaa ratings to negative from stable. For the†UK†sovereign, the actions prior to that were Moody's assignment of a Aaa rating to the†UK's†government bonds in†March 1978†and the assignment of a stable outlook in†March 1997. For the†Bank of England, the action prior to the one from†February 2012†was the assignment of a Aaa rating and stable outlook in†March 2010. The principal methodology used in these ratings was Sovereign Bond Ratings published in†September 2008. Please see the Credit Policy page on www.moodys.com for a copy of this methodology. REGULATORY DISCLOSURES For ratings issued on a program, series or category/class of debt, this announcement provides certain regulatory disclosures in relation to each rating of a subsequently issued bond or note of the same series or category/class of debt or pursuant to a program for which the ratings are derived exclusively from existing ratings in accordance with Moody's rating practices. For ratings issued on a support provider, this announcement provides certain regulatory disclosures in relation to the rating action on the support provider and in relation to each particular rating action for securities that derive their credit ratings from the support provider's credit rating. For provisional ratings, this announcement provides certain regulatory disclosures in relation to the provisional rating assigned, and in relation to a definitive rating that may be assigned subsequent to the final issuance of the debt, in each case where the transaction structure and terms have not changed prior to the assignment of the definitive rating in a manner that would have affected the rating. For further information please see the ratings tab on the issuer/entity page for the respective issuer on www.moodys.com. For any affected securities or rated entities receiving direct credit support from the primary entity(ies) of this rating action, and whose ratings may change as a result of this rating action, the associated regulatory disclosures will be those of the guarantor entity. Exceptions to this approach exist for the following disclosures, if applicable to jurisdiction: Ancillary Services, Disclosure to rated entity, Disclosure from rated entity. The ratings of rated entity†United Kingdom, Government of were initiated by Moody's and were not requested by the rated entity All rated entities or their agents participated in the rating process. The rated entities or their agents provided Moody's access to the books, records and other relevant internal documents of the rated entity. Please see www.moodys.com for any updates on changes to the lead rating analyst and to the Moody's legal entity that has issued the rating. Please see the ratings tab on the issuer/entity page on www.moodys.com for additional regulatory disclosures for each credit rating. Click here for the full release &gt;

Mohamed Al-Sayaghi/ReutersProtesters climb a fence surrounding the U.S. embassy in Sanaa September 13, 2012. The misery index, a crude economic measure created by Arthur Orkum, sums a country's unemployment and inflation rates to assess conditions on the ground (the higher the number, the more miserable a country is).¬† The reasoning: Most citizens understand the pain of a high jobless rate and the soaring price of goods. Business Insider¬†totaled the figures for 197 countries and territories ‚Äî from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe ‚Äî to compile the 2013 Misery Index. Note: Results are based on CIA World Factbook data, which estimates figures for countries and territories that do not have reliable local reporting agencies. The CIA World Factbook was last updated on February 11, 2013.
Bloomberg TV just aired a segment on the city's "coolest museum," the Museum of Math, where Tom Keene got to interview supermodel Heidi Klum.† MoMath was founded by former Renaissance Technologies hedge funder Glen Whitney. All that aside, we were amazed by Keene riding this tricycle: † Bloomberg TV screenshot Check out the video below: 
First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,000, +119.9 pts, +0.8 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,515, +13.1 pts, +0.8 percentNASDAQ: 3,161. +30.3 pts, +0.9 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Tejvan at FlickrOxford University's most infamous private society, the Bullingdon Club, is making headlines again after a student reported to be a member set off fireworks in a nightclub. The incident took place last week at a Oxford nightclub called "The Bridge", popular with Oxford students. One witness described the incident to Oxford university's independent newspaper, the Cherwell:  ì[I saw] a flare-like firework fall into the corridor towards Anuba [an adjacent ëpre-barí to Bridge]. It fizzed for a bit and then zipped off ñ there was lots of smoke but I didnít hear anything. I then saw two guys dragged out and interrogated by who I think was the owner of Bridge.î One of the men was later identified as Oxford university undergraduate Orme Alexander Clarke, according to reports. In a new twist this week, the Oxford Student has identified Clarke as a member of the Bullingdon Club, which is almost certainly the most infamous student society in the UK, and seen by many to represent the most worst of the UK's class system. Some history: the club is rumored to have existed since the 18th century. Today it is known to be extremely small (reports say no more than a dozen members at any one time) and exclusively male. While there is no membership fee, being a member is incredibly expensive because of the club's two calling cards; formal, tailor-made uniforms, and the ritual of trashing expensive restaurants after extravagent, booze-fueled feasts (the group pays for the damage on the spot). The society became a household name in the UK after a photo of three of the country's most important people ó Prime Minister David Cameron, London Mayor Boris Johnson, and Chancellor George Osborne ó wearing the Bullingdon Club's elaborate uniforms appeared in the press a few years ago. Clarke's recent fireworks display seems to be par for the course for the club. However, the Oxford Student offered a fascinating glimpse into the club's initiation process with a quote from an acquaintance of Clarke. ìHe described them as involving him having to burn a £50 ($75) note in front of a tramp (homeless person)," the acquaintance explained.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Mark Keisel Tells Us How To Identify 'Diamonds In The Rough' (Advisor Perspectives) PIMCO's Mark Keisel told Advisor Perspectives that there are still opportunities for yield and total return in the credit markets. He said housing and energy are poised for above average growth and explained how to identify these 'diamonds in the rough'. "A 'diamond in the rough' is a credit that is under-covered, or not actively followed or researched by many investors. It can also be a company where few see near-term upside. "At PIMCO, we identify these opportunities through our top-down and bottom-up investment process. We drill down, looking for countries, industries and companies with above-average growth potential. We ask ourselves: What‚Äôs driving a country‚Äôs growth? Is that growth sustainable? Which industries are poised to grow faster than their overall economies? And finally, which companies are likely to be the fastest growers within their industries? In a low-growth environment, we‚Äôre looking for companies that grow free cash flow to pay down debt." Finra Panel Rules That Regulator Can't Block Charles Schwab's Arbitration Clause In Customer Agreements (The Wall Street Journal) Part of Finra's complaint against Charles Schwab has been dismissed. A hearing panel ruled that the regulator can't prevent the brokerage from requiring that its clients settle disputes through arbitration and make require them give up their rights to participate in class-action lawsuits.¬† The panel said Schwab's provision violates Finra's rules, but it can't enforce it because it clashes with federal arbitration laws. Missing A Few Good Days In The Stock Market Can Really Cost You (Fidelity Investments) Often when things get rough investors run to the sidelines. A new report from Fidelity Investments says this is possibly one of biggest mistakes an investor can make. Fidelity's Steve DuFour says, "If you focus on fundamentals rather than noise, you can use volatility to your advantage".  Fidelity Investments  Tom Lee Says There Are Three Reasons To Avoid Stocks In The Short-Term (JP Morgan) JP Morgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee is typically bullish on stocks, but now, he says there are three key reasons to move to the sidelines. 1. The headlines are turning negative and macro risks are on the rise. 2. Investor sentiment is too high. 3. The choppy trading in corporate bonds is "providing less support for rising equity prices". He also tells clients not to buy more stocks until the S&amp;P 500 falls 50 - 100 points. Marc Faber Thinks The Stock Market Has Peaked (CNBC) Marc Faber said the stock market has peaked and that bonds may be on their way to a rebound. "I think we have made an intermediate top, and it could be a longer-term top. ...I don't think the market is as overbought as it was in '87, so I don't expect a crash. But I think for the time being, the market has peaked out, and I think in the meantime, bonds, which are extremely oversold, could rebound. "...But I think that the market has now become quite overbought and that is very significant or overextended, bullish sentiment. Everybody says, 'Sell bonds, buy equities.' And when everybody thinks alike, one has to be careful."
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderAllow me to enlighten you... 1. Nobody is trading stocks anymore, all of the most aggressive and vocal traders are doing options. This is how a slip of 1.5% on the S&amp;P can feel and sound like there's some sort of major move afoot. These people you're listening subjected to are 10X leveraged currencies, triple long ETFs or they trade out of the money front month calls, LEAPs whatever. If you were slingin' around 50 grand in play money all day, you'd be doing the same thing, it's fine. 2. Cassandras get the most attention - pretty much the only thing they want anyway. There's very little attention paid to everyone else who is simply going about their business or who remembers the fact that stocks are supposed to go down once in awhile. 3. Guys talking about being all-in or all-out can and will change their opinions quickly. If someone can and frequently does go from fully invested to all cash to fully invested over the course of a few days, is there any particular reason that you should be paying attention to them? Will they personally be calling you to give you the second half of their trade? Well, most of you don't realize this so when someone says "ALL IN" or "ALL OUT", it gets you talking, thinking, retweeting, sharing etc. 4. There is not much real news so in its absence our imaginations are running wild.¬† We do this as a species, its okay. Gotta have something to talk about, right? A down day for stocks quickly becomes a crash these days given the state of our modern communications capabilities. 5. People selling a service need you to believe that it is in your best interest to manically hop from foot to foot are everywhere these days. If you're engaged in this kind of thing, I'll just assume that it's your profession or your hobby. That's cool, I have unprofitable, expensive hobbies too - golf, trying new restaurants, auto-erotic asphyxiation, etc. Anyway, this is why people are acting the way they are. Do what the real wealthy people do - put it into context, be aware of it, and focus on the bigger picture of how you're going to accumulate more wealth and businesses and friends and art and experiences. Not on how you're going to avoid a 7% temporary drawdown in a stock portfolio. Read Also: All In and All Out (TRB)
Chris Krueger, the plugged-in political analyst at GS Washington Research Group, gives his best guess on how the sequester will play out: Once the media begins pumping out human-interest stories on the impact of sequester (imagine USA Today and People Magazine articles on Air Traffic Controllers and meat inspectors being furloughed, etc.), Washington will very likely fold on the sequester fight, find enough change in the government sofa cushions, and patch together something to either replace or dilute some or all of FY13ís ~$85B in sequester cuts. And here are three possible endgames: 1. Gimmicks (An Obama win): There are plenty of revenue gimmicks still available, including reviving last summerís Pension Funding Stabilization, User Fees (TSA fees or fees pertaining to the Inland Waterways Trust Fund), and higher PBGC premiums. In terms of cuts, the ATRA model can be used again or the Senate Democratic spending cuts (defense cuts starting in FY15 and ~$30B in farm subsidy cuts) could come into play. It costs approximately $12B per month to replace sequester, which is not a big number by Washington budget standards ñ particularly when you have the 10-year budget window. 2. A highly modified continuing resolution (Pick ëem): The lack of an FY13 budget and FY13 appropriations bills makes everything more complicated as the government is being run by the CR. However, the CR expiration gives you a vehicle to tweak sequester. In the new FY13 CR, lawmakers could insert language giving the agencies greater flexibility on sequestered cuts. Senate Appropriations Chair Mikulski (D-MD) is advocating a full omnibus that would fund all the government agencies for the remainder of FY13. They could also pass a ìmini busî of FY13 appropriations bills for the national security agencies (Homeland Security and Department of Defense) that would remove some of the anxiety and downside brewing for the Pentagon. At a bare minimum, the eventual CR (or Omnibus or Minibus) provides a legislative vehicle to attach some sequester tweaks. 3. Put away the meat ax for defense (A GOP win): The primary objection to the FY13 sequester is the ìmeat axî approach to the cuts and their across-the-board nature. Senate Armed Services Ranking Republican James Inhofe (R-OK) has floated a proposal that would keep the meat-ax in place for the non-defense cuts, but to give the Pentagon flexibility on the ~$42B in FY13 sequester cuts to defense. This proposal ñ if applied to all the cuts ñ could be a ìfail safeî option if all other solutions fail. The sequester dollar amounts would remain, though instead of applying to every agency program, the agency chiefs would cherry pick the cuts. The Obama Administration opposes this because their agency chiefs would in effect ìownî the cuts and the resulting public/media outcry. The kick-the-can options could create a situation where the sequester continues to hang around, a new version of the AMT Patch and Doc Fix. Krueger: ìOur base case remains a series of endless policy cliffs. Short-term extensions of these cliffs could result in an endless game of kick the can ó until the can kicks back.î
Often times, when bad news hits the economic fan, investors will dump stocks and run for the exits. And this is just about the worst thing an investor can do, according to a new report from Fidelity Investments. ‚ÄúThe old adage says that day to day the market is a voting machine, but over time it‚Äôs a weighing machine,‚Äù said Fidelity's Focused Stock Fund manager Steve DuFour. ‚ÄúIf you focus on fundamentals rather than noise, you can use volatility to your advantage.‚Äù Weathering volatility, or simply doing nothing is a pretty solid strategy, said the report.¬† And buying when everyone is selling might be even more effective.¬† When expectations are low, any improvement in the global economic outlook can drive strong market gains, said the report. Indeed, some of the strongest days in the market occur during these periods of high volatility.¬† And missing out on just a handful of these days can be devastating to your long-term returns. Here's a chart from Fidelity that shows how much an investor risks losing when they miss just a few good days in the market. Fidelity Investments
B Tal/FlickrConcluding Thoughts on Personal Finance Math... Or, why everyone needs to know this, beyond getting rich or avoiding poverty. Please see my earlier posts Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school?, Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì Pension Buyout Example Part V ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì Annuity Example ¬† A further reason why we need to learn discounted cash flows as a society Are the US government‚Äôs assumptions about future social security obligations reasonable? Or are they instead unrealistic, or based on a Ponzi Scheme, as Peter Schiff and Ron Paul claim? If you could do discounted cash flow calculations you could begin to form an answer.¬† You can see how the federal government would calculate exactly what the present value of those obligations is. But ‚Äúdiscounted cash flows‚Äù sound so esoteric to the average citizen ‚Äì since we never learned it in junior high ‚Äì that pundits and politicians with conspiracy theories who casually throw around words like ‚ÄúMadoff‚Äù and ‚ÄúPonzi‚Äù begin to sound reasonable in comparison.¬† Which is really not a helpful direction for us to go in, as a society. ¬† It is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing. ¬† Conclusion  I would love for Bankers Anonymous readers to explain to me[1] why the most powerful mathematical formulas in the universe, compound interest and discounted cash flows, never get taught to junior high students, then high school students, then college students.¬† And then again to anyone applying for a credit card, or mortgage, or car loan, or annuity, or pension, or saving for retirement.¬† Or arguing about the growth of federal debt ‚Äì or the rise of future social safety-net obligations. We‚Äôre blind people stabbing each other in the dark without these formulas. All of the consumer financial protection bureaus in the world can‚Äôt help if consumers have no tools to do their own thinking. All the fiscal cliff negotiations and partisan point-scoring amount to a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing, if we as citizens cannot see how money grows in the future or how future obligations get valued today. ¬† ‚ÄúTomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, Creeps in this petty pace from day to day To the last syllable of recorded time, And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle! Life‚Äôs but a walking shadow, a poor player That struts and frets his hour upon the stage And then is heard no more: it is a tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.‚Äù ‚ÄìMacbeth, Act V, Scene 5 Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school?, Part II ‚Äì Compound Interest and Wealth Part III ‚Äì Compound Interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì Pension Buyout Example Part V ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì Annuity Example [1] I‚Äôm searching for some explanation better than 1. Math teachers don‚Äôt get it and 2. The Financial Infotainment Industrial Complex doesn‚Äôt want you to know about it.¬† And by the way, I don‚Äôt really ‚Äòblame‚Äô math teachers, just like I don‚Äôt necessarily think there‚Äôs a vast conspiracy of the ‚ÄúFinancial Infotainment Industrial Complex.‚Äù¬† But I do like saying that phrase, as it sums up nicely the financial crap we get inundated with all day long. Post read (1253) times. Tags: compound interest, conspiracy theory, discounted cash flow, Macbeth, peter Schiff, ron Paul
Milan, Italy ‚Äî There's something really strange about the Italian election, which is taking place this coming Sunday and Monday. The man who is considered the frontrunner in the election is a complete afterthought. On the other hand, the two men who are the outsider protest candidates are getting all of the attention. In conversations here in Milan, discussions about Beppe Grillo (the populist comedian that's making bankers very nervous) outnumber discussions about any other candidate by at least 2-to-1. The next most talked about candidate is Silvio Berlusconi, who is trying to get back into power. He's running a close (but consistent) 2nd place. If he has a poor showing, it could be the end of an era. The next most talked about candidate is Mario Monti, who was Prime Minister starting in late 2011, up until the beginning of this election. He's widely disliked for being an unelected technocrat who raised taxes and instituted pension reforms. Most controversially, he passed a small property tax that hits anyone who owns a home (which is about 80% of Italians). Berlusconi has seized on that issue, promising to refund the entire tax, and he's made it the centerpiece of his campaign (literally in his brochure, it's his #1 promise). And then finally, the least talked about candidate is Pier Luigi Bersani, who is in the lead in the polls, and who leads the center-left party. He seems to have no clear message or personality type other than being a competent guy, who the elites generally trust, except that he's from the old school of Italian politics, and basically another same-old. He won a primary to lead his party, but many think that the other guy (who was younger) would have been a better candidate. Earlier today staffer on Berlusconi's campaign wondered why it was that Bersani hasn't many public trips to other countries, introducing himself. And he noted that, unusually, Bersani has a philosophy degree -- not a background in business or economics, which is more standard. It's not that unusual -- especially in Europe -- to see a battle between an establishment guy and a populist (like in the case with Greece last year), but usually the establishment guy is just, you know, standard establishment. Here in Italy, he seems almost absent. Meanwhile, here's a poster we saw today at Berlusconi's Milan HQ. It's from his very first race in 1994. The bottom reads: For a new Italian miracle. Joseph Weisenthal, Business Insider
 A popular stock market guru, Dennis Gartman, made a black and white call earlier this week, telling subscribers to his market newsletter that he was selling his stocks and rushing to the sidelines. The implication? You should do the same thing unless you want to get creamed. So is that what you should do? Jettison all your stocks and rush to the sidelines? Not unless you have such overwhelming faith in Dennis Gartman's powers of prophecy that you're willing to bet your hard-earned savings on him. Although Dennis Gartman is a perfectly respectable market pundit, he doesn't know anything that a lot of other market gurus don't know. And some of them, including CNBC's Jim Cramer, economics professor Nouriel Roubini, and Ray Dalio, the manager of a massive hedge fund called Bridgewater, think stocks are a great buy right now. Mr. Gartman may ultimately be proven right. The stock market may crash. Mr. Gartman also has plenty of company in thinking that. But the point is that no one knows what the market will do. No one. That's why the best strategy for most individual investors is to tune out the daily predictions offered by a host of very smart people whose business is to make such predictions. Tune this out, except for curiosity's sake, and invest in a diversified portfolio of assets (stocks, bonds, cash, real estate) that will do okay no matter what happens. You won't get rich overnight this way. And it won't be particularly exciting. But over the long haul, unlike many investors who try and fail to time the market's every move, you'll come out okay. Yahoo's Aaron Task and I discuss this issue in the video above.
Milan, Italy ó This afternoon I got coffee with an economist at an Italian investment company, who told me the #1 thing her clients fear is Beppe Grillo. Grillo is a comedian-turned-politician who is doing shockingly well the Italian elections (coming up this Sunday and Monday) by running on an aggressive anti-bank, euro-skeptic platform. He's capitalizing on the deep frustration that exists in Italy due to the weak economy, and the perception that the current government is too corrupt and cozy with banks. His support spans the political spectrum, though he seems to be drawing a bit more heavily from the left. Were he to gain a sizable block in the upcoming parliament, he represents a pretty serious threat. to the current efforts at reform (the Brussels approved government is eager to liberalize the economy, reduce the deficit, reform the labor market, and so on). Financial markets have loved the efforts made over the past year or so, even if the public and the real economy have not. Italian media is in a polling blackout, so there isn't much data made public on the actual numerical state of the race. However, bankers have access to private, secret polls during this time. Today we got to see one of these private tracking polls. Here's what we'll say about it. It resembles this Google Trends chart, which shows search volume for the four main candidates: Berlusconi (conservative), Mario Monti (center), Pier Luigi (center left), Bepe Grillo. Now, the order of the candidates is not what to watch. The order here does not resemble the actual order of the tracking polls. What to watch here is the direction of each line. That very much resembles the trends in this race. And we're talking trends that have manifested themselves just in recent days. Google Trends The banker who showed me the chart said that a month ago he would have optimistically said that after the next election, a nice center-left coalition would rule with stability and continue on with reforms. Today he is worried. For more on Beppe Grillo, see here &gt;
Courtesy of Corcoran RealtyThe Hamptons have always been a hot summer rental market. But this year, the biggest checks are being written earlier than ever, Jason Sheftell at the New York Daily News reports. One developer, who rented a home to Jay-Z and Beyonce last August for $400,000, has already turned down a $400,000 offer for a similar home this year. And homes that regularly lease for $85,000 a month or more are moving quickly. It's not just the lure of the beaches, A-Listers, and parties that are driving the mad dash, according to Sheftell. One reason for the rush of early offers is that there are fewer homes for sale out east. This means that people who want to summer in the Hamptons have to rent, which pushes rental prices sky-high. Wealthy renters also want to minimize the hassle and stress of finding the perfect summer home, and the earlier they start their search, the more options that are available to them. The bottom line: if you want to rent a house in the Hamptons this summer, start looking now and expect to shell out.
We're in the final hours of trading this week, and stocks are ramping higher after selling off in the last two sessions. The S&amp;P 500 is currently trading at its highest levels of the day. At the moment, it's up 0.7 percent, right around the 1513 level. The basic materials sector is leading the way, up 1.1 percent. Technology is up 1 percent. Health care is the biggest lagger, but it's still up 0.3 percent. Below is an intraday chart of the S&amp;P 500 futures: Thinkorswim
Here's what we knew about Apple's stock: It fell because everyone was selling it. Here's what we aren't 100 percent clear about: Why everyone sold it. Tom Marsico, of Marsico Capital Management, explained why he sold Apple shares last year in an interview with Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Basically, he thinks Apple peaked last year: The penetration level for the iPhone is approaching a limit, the company‚Äôs profit margins have probably reached a peak, and when we looked at the major new products they could introduce, we didn‚Äôt think anything could be as substantial as the iPhone. The main driver of Apple‚Äôs profit is the phone. I‚Äôve been following the cellular telephone industry ever since the spectrum was created and divided among the Bell systems. We saw the penetration of the iPhone had reached a level that you knew the growth rate would have to slow. The competition also has improved. Samsung has really come on with very competitive products. We looked at what further opportunities are there for the iPad. We‚Äôve never seen a product being adopted as fast as the iPad, but the profit margins are not at the same level as the iPhone. We also started looking at other market opportunities for Apple, such as what an iTV market would look like. We came away thinking the market wasn‚Äôt as large as the cellular phone market and would not have the same profit margins. He says he bought into Apple six years ago and made a billion dollar profit on his Apple investment. Read the whole thing at Bloomberg BusinessWeek &gt;
China Photos/Getty ImagesThe Shanghai Composite had its largest weekly decline in 20-months on concerns that the government could get more aggressive in its efforts to contain rising home prices.¬† Fearing a property bubble, the government has been trying to contain the market through tight policies. However, new data shows that on a month-over-month basis home prices were up in 53 of 70 cities in January. Just ten cities saw price declines and seven saw prices stay flat. So does this mean the government will get even more aggressive? Background Back in November we reported that Beijing was considering expanding an experimental property tax program. More recently there were rumors that down-payment ratio for homes was expected to go up to 70 percent. This was followed by an official statement earlier this week at a State Council meeting that was chaired by outgoing premier Wen Jiabao. Officials called for improvement in and stricter implementation of housing market tightening measures.  Cities that already have such measures in place were asked to maintain their "grip", while local governments will be asked to put in place measures in cities where home prices have surged too fast. Local governments have also been asked to make controlling home prices an "annual objective" and "establish a system to assess officials‚Äô performance in stabilizing prices," according to Caixin Online. The State Council also promised to increase supply of land and housing, and speed up the planning and construction of affordable housing. Moreover, the People's Bank of China let 910 billion yuan exit the interbank market this week and returned to using longer-term forward repos to drain cash from the market for the first time since June, according to CNBC. While some thought this monetary tightening had to do with reducing liquidity to keep speculation in check, others have argued that this was just the central bank's way of offsetting its record injection ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday. The combination of monetary tightening and property curbs sent investors into a panic but Bank of America's Ting Lu writes that the State Council's announcement "pretty much reiterated existing measures instead of declaring new one". This he says is because 1) the call to expand property tax trials has been mentioned before, including in the new income distribution plan; 2) almost all big cities already have "implicit" home price targets; and 3) increasing land supply and speeding up social housing have been mentioned since 2010. Policymakers Are Unlikely To Act Lu also believes that because of the low transaction volume during the Chinese New Year holiday, policymakers are unlikely to act right away. And because of the over-supply in lower tier cities and under supply in bigger cities, new curbs will target a few specific cities. And it's important to remember that China is pushing urbanization as a way to drive economic growth. "With the push of urbanization, new leaders could choose to focus on increasing home supply rather than curbing demand to seek the final solution to the property market," according to Ting.
It‚Äôs hard to describe how happy I am to see Walmart facing a slump. I‚Äôm delighted ¬†to see that the cause of Walmart‚Äôs problem is the 2% increase in Social Security withholding taxes. It‚Äôs not just Walmart that is feeling the pinch from higher payroll taxes. According to today‚Äôs WSJ¬†(link)¬†damn near every company that has a retail sales base is getting nicked. Bruce Krasting ¬† ¬† Bruce Krasting We are witnessing what happens when tax rates go up. There is (new) definitive evidence that raising taxes decreases consumption. That notion is an old one, but I think the reality that is now being proven out in real time has to make a difference in how people think about taxes, government spending and the real economy. Who is responsible for the increase in payroll taxes that is causing all the damage? Don‚Äôt blame the evil Republicans for this one. The liberal wing of the Democratic Party¬† INSISTED¬† that payroll taxes had to go up on January 1. Want to blame someone for the slump in retail?¬†Blame Harry Reid¬†(D-NV). Why would liberal Democrats want to whack their base with higher taxes? Easy answer.¬† Because they love Social Security more than anything else.¬†They would sacrifice anything, including the economy and their political base, to protect SS from the criticism that it was no longer¬†‚ÄúOff budget and self financed‚Äù. What an idiotic position. And now those who fought to get the full 12.4% tax reinstated are going to have to pay the price. The evidence is overwhelming; higher payroll taxes hurt the economy. I‚Äôve felt alone the past 4 years while writing articles on a weekly basis trying desperately to make the point that SS is at the heart of America‚Äôs economic problems.¬†I have been vindicated.¬†The ranks of those who will point fingers at SS is going to swell. Those apposed are now going to include all of the big retailers (and their shareholders). That will be a tremendous boost for those who are crying for substantial changes in America‚Äôs biggest entitlement program. I can‚Äôt wait for ‚Äòthem‚Äù to publicly come on-board to the opposition. We are living with a program that was designed 75 years ago. Everything has changed ‚Äì but not SS. The assumptions that were used in the 1930‚Äôs are no longer valid today. The ratio of workers to beneficiaries has fallen by 70%. The ratio of worker‚Äôs income to GDP has fallen steadily (the rise of the robots). We have substantial changes in expected life. The most significant challenge to SS is the Baby Boomers. Not one of the Boomers was a twinkle in the eye when SS was created. America is driving a 77-year-old car. The car is dangerous. It has none of the modern safety devices; it burns leaded gas and has asbestos brake pads. It weighs twice as much as a new car, and only gets 8 miles to the gallon. Yet a small portion of the Deciders in D.C. have blocked any chance of bringing SS up to date, and making it safe to drive for the next 20 years. The Social Security Trust Fund has said that to ‚Äúfix‚Äù SS would require an immediate and permanent increase in PR taxes of 2.2% (above the 12.4% today). Based on the evidence of the past few months it‚Äôs easy to conclude that a tax increase of that magnitude would push the economy into a recession ‚Äì Once in a slump, the economy would be hard pressed to recover. Not only would higher PR taxes¬† kill the economy, it would hurt lower paid workers the hardest.¬†The evidence from Walmart reconfirms the fact that SS taxes are very regressive.¬†They hurt the base of people that the liberals claim they are trying to protect. How can Senator Reid defend that outcome?¬†He can‚Äôt. Bruce Krasting¬† There is an alternative. It would mean that we would have to junk the old clunker and get new, safe, energy efficient car. The new car would be expensive, but the payoff would be worth it. SS taxes can‚Äôt be eliminated. The program is too big and very hard to unwind and¬†IT IS¬†needed. But SS taxes could be reduced by 3% if changes were made (Employer taxes would remain the same, worker‚Äôs payroll tax would fall from 6 to 3%). The changes required to achieve the reduction in taxes have been discussed for years. There has to be changes in age eligibility over a longer period of time. Changes to inflation adjustments have to be made. There has to be an immediate means tax on benefits to fill the Baby Boomer bucket. The means test HAS to be based on both income AND assets. You can‚Äôt be a multimillionaire and get SS checks. That has to stop.¬†Now. SS is, and always has been insurance. If you don‚Äôt need the insurance, you don‚Äôt get paid. IMHO if individual payroll taxes were cut 50% from the current level, the economy would prosper. Unemployment would fall, incomes would rise. Federal tax revenues would increase, in the process, the deficits would fall. A permanent reduction in payroll taxes is the only chance I see for a sustained expansion of the economy. So to the Execs at Walmart, and all of those other retailers that are feeling the SS pinch, I say¬†‚ÄúWelcome to the club‚Äù.¬†You can be the wind behind the sails for the changes that are needed. Just this once I will say that what is good for Walmart, is also good for America. Note:¬†Stan Druckenmiller (ex Duquesne Capital) was on TV last night with Maria Bartiromo . Stan is a very sharp guy. He said the same as I have. It‚Äôs idiotic that he gets a check from SS. The $200k he might get back in his life is not going to change his spending one bit. But it would make a world of difference to those who are making $40k a year. The Zero Hedge link to the Druckenmiller interview:¬†Link
Worldcrunch is a new global news service that for the first time delivers the best foreign-language journalism in English. Disgraced former IMF boss Dominique Strauss-Kahn is back in the spotlight in France. A former lover has just published an explosive tell-all in which she describes him as ìhalf man, half pig.î† The book ñ called ìBeauty And The Beastî ñ was written by Argentinian-born Marcela Iacub, a lawyer, philosopher and writer who writes a column for daily newspaper Liberation. She doesnít explicitly name Strauss-Kahn in the book, but told news weekly Le Nouvel Observateur that she started the book from the beginning of their eight-month affair in 2012, mixing fiction with reality. ìThe steps of the affair, the locations, the words reported, everything is true,î she told Le Nouvel Observateur in what she says would be her only interview on the subject. Le Nouvel Observateur, has published excerpts from the book, which will be released in France on Feb. 27, the latest blow to the former head of the International Monetary Fund whose 2011 encounter with a maid in a New York hotel room destroyed his chances to be French President. A few choice cuts: - The man-pig: ìWhat is creative, artistic in Dominique Strauss-Kahn, what is beautiful, belongs to the realm of the pig, not man. Man is horrible, while a pig is wonderful, even though he is a pig. He is an artist of the gutter, a poet of the abject and of dirt,î Iacub told Le Nouvel Observateur. In the book, which is penned like an open letter, she writes: ìYou were old, fat, small and ugly. You were a vulgar macho, without culture.î - Women, all women, ugly women: ìThe list of your mistresses, your one-day conquests, your successive and simultaneous whores showed a moving aspect of your life as a pig. These women were ugly and vulgar,î she writes. ìYou reminded me of dogs I had, who liked all the dogs in heat ñ without distinction.î She adds: ìThere was a generous side to you, that you would show to any woman, as long as she had the appropriate organs to accommodate you.î ìI would think, ëthe uglier, the more vulgar the woman, the more he is attracted to them.í Iím sure that If you had the choice between Angelina Jolie and an ugly woman, you would chose the ugly woman.î - Turning the French presidential palace into a swingersí club: ìYou said that you were ready to give your blood for the nation, when in truth, you would have used the nation to spread your endless supply of sperm. You would have turned the Elysee Palace into a giant swingersí club, you would have used your assistants, your collaborators, your employees as touts, organizers of orgies, experts in the art of satisfying your darkest urges.î - What happened at the New York Sofitel: ìTo understand what happened in this room, you have to put yourself in the mind of an authentic pig. A pig who believes the cleaning lady is Catherine Deneuve in ëBelle de Jourí (the 1967 movie in which she plays a bored housewife who works in a brothel).î She adds: ìOnly a pig would think it is normal for a poor African immigrant to give him a blow-job without any compensation, just to make him happy, just as a humble tribute to his powerful being. And the poor woman came back to the room to see if you had left her some sort of a tip, but there was nothing. Not even a note or a flower. The cleaning lady was horribly shocked but she was not raped. This is how I see things.î - On his rich wife, Anne Sinclair: ìNot many people know that she turned you into her poodle. Not because she had so much money. You simply couldnít leave. You couldnít imagine leaving her because it was impossible for you to give up this life of luxury. You became her poodle, a macho who felt like a miserable poodle. And the more she tried to pretend she didnít see that you were chained to her because of her money, the more she owned you, humiliated you, turned you into a whore.î ìShe dreamed of being the wife of a president.î In her interview with Le Nouvel Observateur, Iacub says Anne Sinclair told her: ìThere is nothing wrong with getting a blow-job from a cleaning lady.î Reactions: In an open letter written to Le Figaro and addressed to one of the co-founders of Le Nouvel Observateur, Strauss-Kahn writes he is ìdoubly disgusted,î taking aim at ìthe behavior of a woman who seduced (him) to write a book, pretending to be in love to exploit an fantastic and unreal story.î† Anne Sinclair, head of the French Huffington Post, also penned a letter to Le Nouvel Observateur, to criticize what she called ìa move by a perverse and dishonest woman, who is motivated by sensationalism and greed.î This post originally appeared at Le Figaro.  This story was originally published by World Crunch.
If you want your child to grow up to be a billionaire, you should do what it takes to get him into Harvard University. The elite Boston school has minted more billionaire alumni than any other university ‚Äî 52, who are worth a total of $205 billion, according to a new report from research firm Wealth-X. That's almost twice as many as the University of Pennsylvania, the school with the second most billionaire alumni. Penn has 28 billionaire graduates, worth a total of $112 billion. Harvard also has far more ultra-high net worth alumni (worth $30 million or more) than any other school, at 2,964. Penn has 1,502 alumni in that category, and Stanford University has 1,174. Harvard's wealthy grads aren't just a bunch of lucky heirs and heiresses. Nearly three-quarters of Harvard's billionaires are self-made. "It shows the power of networks," Wealth-X president David Friedman told CNBC's Robert Frank. "Harvard has this entrenched, powerful network that extends across so many sectors and is incredibly pro-active about connecting its alumni. You get a great education, but you also get access." Of the 20 universities with the most UHNW alumni, only three are located outside the U.S. The University of Virginia was the highest ranking public university, coming in at #11 with 499 UHNW graduates worth a total of $31 billion. Check out some other data about the wealthiest college grads, courtesy of Wealth-X: Global Universities with the most UHNW ($30 million+) alumni: Courtesy of Wealth-X Universities with the most billionaire alumni: Courtesy of Wealth-X UHNW ($30 million+) alumni by gender and source of wealth: Courtesy of Wealth-X
Wikimedia CommonsEvery day thousands and thousands of transactions are done between investors around the world, but lets face it, most of them will never be remembered. For that reason, among others, the trades that do become a part of history have to be incredibly epic. And it can't just be that they netted someone an incredible amount of money, great trades are even more than that. A really great trade is something that happens when a trader uses all their cunning and intuition to find just the right moment to strike ‚Äî sometimes when everyone else thinks they're out of their mind. Think about it: John Paulson shorted the U.S. housing market when almost everyone else on Wall Street was bullish. Jim Chanos held on to his Enron short even as the stock was shooting up. That takes intelligence, conviction, and grit. Business Insider has compiled a list of traders throughout history who've used all those qualities to execute some of the greatest trades of all time. Get inspired.
Encana YouTube ScreenshotCanadian energy giant Encana is trying to get an embarrassing audio clip removed from the Internet, according to The Globe And Mail. During a February 14 earnings call,¬†Canaccord Genuity analyst Phil Skolnick asked whether new investment guidelines would "prohibit a company like Encana from being acquired." Encana CEO Clayton Woitas replied: ‚ÄúThe answer would be no.‚Äù That's when some unidentified person muttered "f------ a------" ‚Äî presumably directed at Skolnick. An audio clip of the call was uploaded to Chirbit, an audio sharing website, by a Globe and Mail reporter. You can listen to the clip here &gt; Encana is seen by some as a mismanaged company ‚Äî it's long been the subject of criticism from investors, and the US Department of Justice has investigated to it in relation to illegal actions involving Chesapeake. Skolnick, who has long been cool on the company, was asking specifically if Canada's new investment rules would prohibit Encana's takeover by foreign state-owned entities, Reuters reports. His question was timely ‚Äî Canadian energy companies have recently seen a number of takeovers by foreign companies keen to get in on the oil sands business.  Encana has apologized for the outburst, but the evidence isn't going away. Encana contacted the owner of Chirbit on Thursday, claiming that the company owns the copyright of the recording and thus it should be taken down. Chirbit has, so far, refused to take the recording down. While Encana may have the legal high ground here, the reality is that once something is on the internet, it's there to stay. For example, here is a Soundcloud recording of the call. You can bet if the Chirbit file is taken down, the clip will reappear somewhere else.
Daily Ticker NYU economist Nouriel Roubini ñ known to many by his nickname, "Dr. Doom" ñ is getting bullish. Roubini has been pretty negative over the past few months, despite the rally in asset prices and a general turn in sentiment toward the economy and markets on the Street. Now, it seems like Roubini is finally coming around to the consensus view. In a way. Coincidentally, his latest interview ñ with Yahoo! Finance's Aaron Task ñ comes hot on the heels of the biggest sell-off this year, and as Task notes, people like Dennis Gartman are now rushing for the sidelines. Roubini told Task in the interview: It's not going to be that we are going to get a rout in the bond market, because the Fed knows that when they exit, they have to exit slowly ñ and they can hold to maturity. So, if you're not going to have goods inflation ñ if you're not going to exit fast enough ñ then the risk is like during the cycle of 2003-2006, where we're exiting very slowly. It was a measured pace ñ 25 basis points every six weeks, and we got what? An asset bubble. A credit bubble. A housing, a sub-prime bubble. So, like Jeremy Stein at the Fed says, we are at the beginning of another credit bubble, because we are going to exit so slowly that the financial excess is not going to go into goods inflation; we're not going to have a bond market rout. Of course, a financial asset bubble implies good news for stock prices, at least until it bursts. "Off camera, Roubini sums up his analysis of all this as 'short-term bullish, long-term catastrophic,'" writes Task. The bottom line for Roubini: "The outcome of it could be a credit bubble that's bigger than the one we had in 2007." Click here to watch the full interview &gt;
Europe had a huge rally today. England's FTSE 100 was up 0.7%. France's CAC 40 was up 2.1%. Germany's DAX was up 1.0%. Spain's IBEX was up 1.6%. Italy's FTSE MIB was up 1.6%. This comes ahead of the huge Italian elections this weekend. The rally comes even after the EU slashed its euro area growth forecast for the year to -0.3 percent from +0.1 percent. Then again, the IFO institute told us business confidence jumped to a 10-month high in Germany, the largest economy in Europe. Here's an intraday look at the EURO STOXX 50 index via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
Bloomberg via YouTubeTom LeeJPMorgan's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist Tom Lee says it's time to move to the sidelines following the biggest sell-off in the stock market this year that has taken place over the past two days. Lee is known as typically bullish on equities ñ and he remains positive over a longer time frame ñ but for now, he tells clients in a note, "it is challenging to see the elements to support a big lift in equity prices from these levels. Thus, we recommend investors turn cautious and defer incremental purchases." In the note ñ titled "Stepping Aside Short-Term; Fade Strength and Look for Better Entry Point Around 1400-1450; Big Picture Constructive" ñ†Lee gives three reasons why now is the time: On the other hand, Lee warns, "Equities are likely to rebound in coming days given two heavy days of selling and it is possible equities could rebound without a deeper pullback with M&amp;A and performance anxiety being the drivers (managers buy this dip and reverse recent losses)." Lee expanded on this idea ñ that there could be no correction ñ in his last note. To read more about that, click here &gt;
Wikipedia Beef eaters in the U.K. and Europe have been horrified to learn that some of the beef in their food is in fact horse meat. Yes, in a variety of cheap, supermarket-sold lasagnas, burgers, and pastas, the beef has been found to contain traces of horse meat and sometimes even†100 percent horse meat. Of course, many countries in Europe will eat horse meat happily and see little problem with the mix-up. However, Britain, much like the US, has traditionally shown a strong aversion to eating horse. Now there's no suggestion that the horse meat scandal has reached American shores, but it does raise the question ó why don't we eat horse meat? Because of Religion It's believed that humans have eaten horse meat since prehistoric times, but a modern distaste for eating horse dates back to 732 A.D. That's the year that Pope Gregory III sent a letter to his buddy Boniface that said the ritual consumption of horse meat was a pagan practice that had to be abolished. Wikimedia CommonsThe Viking god Odin riding his horse on the Tja®ngvide image stone.He may have been referring to the Vikings, who sacrificed and ate their horses for rituals to the god Odin, or Germanic tribes. In fact, most of Eurasia and Asia ate horse meat, and the practice had been common throughout the Copper, Bronze, and Iron ages ó probably since horses existed and there were humans to eat them. According to Frederick J. Simoons in "Eat Not This Flesh," Christianity was not the first religion to ban the consumption of horse meat. Islamic and Jewish communities had long been in the practice of avoiding horse meat under Mosaic Law, and even the Greeks and Romans had a strict ban on eating horse flesh. But the reason the 732 A.D. date is so important was that it was more than just an effort to stigmatize and reform a pagan religion ó some scholars believe it was also an official state effort to preserve horses for warfare instead of food. Moreover, we know the papal ban was highly effective since there was still evidence centuries later of European confessor handbooks requiring horse eaters to do penance for upwards of three years. Because of the Wild West Horses became a sort of mythological creature in America's national consciousness. When they were first brought to North America by the Spanish in the mid-16th century, Native Americans highly valued horses for hunting and warfare. There are even stories of European captives being traded in exchange for horses by certain tribes. Horses were also integral to frontier exploration, and the image of cowboys traveling across America ó which was eagerly spread by magazines and newspapers ó was propagated around the world. Time & Life Pictures/Getty ImagesButcher happily carving horse meat in June of 1943.The media message was clear: Horses in America were our companions, beasts of burden, and means of transportation. They were definitely not our food.But We HAVE Eaten It That is not to say that Americans have never eaten horse in times of desperation. There's ample evidence that when food ran out during the Civil War and even World War II, eating horse meat became a common (and cheap) solution. In fact, it became so popular that by 1951, Time Magazine was reporting it was an important meat in Oregon cuisine, with recipes included at the end of the article for horse meat fillets. In 1973, a similar food shortage occurred that sent butcher shops reaching once more for the horse meat. That same year, however, a Republican Senator from Pennsylvania sponsored a bill to ban the sale of horse meat and make it illegal for horse slaughter houses to operate. It was the first time eating horse meat was legally questioned on a federal level in America. Horse meat was effectively banned in the United States in 2007, when†Congress stripped financing for federal inspections of horse slaughter, but this was reversed by Congress under Obama in 2011. (Though many states continue to have their own specific laws regarding horse slaughter and the sale of horse meat.) PaolaZatta.comWill America Eat It Again? Nowadays there is no practical reason not to eat horse, and there are a variety of arguments for why we should be eating it. It's cheaper than beef, leaner, and even something of a delicacy in some corners of the world. However, the idea of horse meat becoming widespread in the U.S. still horrifies many. When we reached out to Marion Nestle an expert in public heath at NYU and writer of the popular Food Politics blog, she balked at the idea. "We are Americans," Nestle wrote. "We donít eat horses. We consider them pets and inappropriate as food. We donít eat dogs or cats either.† And we donít let dogs and cats eat horses. Never mind the inconsistencies or contradictions. This is a cultural issue." When we asked if it's an option we should be considering, Nestle responded, "Iím not aware that Americans are meat-deprived. We have plenty of other options. You could argue, I suppose, that all those horses are now going to waste but itís not an argument I care to get into."
cycreation / Shutterstock.com I flew into London the morning of my interview, only to find that my luggage was on the next flight. Normally not too much of a problem, except that a) I had to start a final round of interviews for a banking position in two hours and b) as it was a 12 hour trip, I was wearing sandals and shorts. The original plan had been to hit a shower at the airport, shave, put on a clean shirt and spend the train ride in, plus an hour, polishing answers for the coming barrage of questions over the next 4-6 interviews. Instead, I spend half an hour waiting in line to be told that the airline will pay for ancillaries, and to fill out a form to have my bag shipped to me. Forms completed, I hustle to the Heathrow express and cram two hours of polish into a 20 minute ride. Hit a Boots in the Tube and get to the station near my final target, I see a mall two blocks in the other direction. Avoiding the 'clubby' shops, I find a TM Lewin, walk up to the guy on the floor and say "are you on commission?, cause I'm going to make your morning". I pick a suit, shirt, belt, and the cheap silk cuff links, always thinking back to the idea that you really shouldn't wear cuff links until you earn more per hour than a McDonalds shift manager. Then I find out they don't sell shoes. Ok, I get them to steam the shirt and put a temporary hem in the pants so I can get moving. Downstairs, first shoe store I walk into, decent shoes, fine, get the girl's attention, can I see these please. Oh, you don't have socks, s---. Next store, do you sell socks? s---. Next store, do you sell stocks? s---, who sells socks. Try the Banana Republic upstairs. Now we're down to 30- 45 minutes and I still haven't shaved. Run to Banana republic, people looking at the funny guy in sandals and shorts running. Boom, got socks, back down stairs, boom, shoes, back to the main floor to get my suit. "That'll just be another ten minutes", great, I've got 15-20. Outside, looking for a bathroom, f--- it, shave on the street by a fire exit. More people looking at me funny. Not worried everyone I'm interviewing with should be working anyway. Go in to grab my suit, in the change room I look in the mirror and see I've made a bloody massacre of my face. Bleeding heavily from at least eight spots. Oh F---. Use the shirt I'm wearing to wipe up the blood. Pants, socks, shoes on. Wipe the blood again. Get all my other stuff put away nicely so it'll fit in in my¬†carry¬†on bag in the interview room. Wipe the blood again. Finish reading the rest of the post at Wall Street Oasis &gt;
Featureflash / Shutterstock.comCara Delevigne, the Burberry model who is NOT Prince Harry's girlfriendYesterday, the story broke that Prince Harry is dating British socialite/actress/model Cressida Bonas. Google ImagesCressida Bonas, the British socialite Harry is dating.That's an impressive rÈsumÈ for a 24-year-old college grad. The only problem is, it doesn't appear to be true. The Daily Mail, The Christian Post, The Telegraph, and The Mirror UK have all reported that Bonas was a Burberry model and fledgling actress. †But when we reached out to the luxury brand, a representative for the company told us that "Cressida has never been associated Burberry." The confusion most likely stems from July 2012 when The Daily Mail reported that Prince Harry was seen leaving London nightclub Salon with actual Burberry model Cara Delevingne. But The Mail got it wrong: The woman leaving the club (and the picture accompanying the article) was none other than Cressida Bonas. It's an honest mistake. The British socialite and French model look eerily similar, and it's unsurprising they were confused for one another. Both women are gorgeous 20-somethings with pale skin, dark eyebrows, and long blonde hair. But just to be clear: Cara Delevingne is a Burberry model. Cressida Bonas is not. Cressida isn't much of a serious actress either ó the only acting experience we could find was when she performed the role of Desdemona in Othello while attending Leeds University. Her half sister Isabella Gough-Calthorpe, however, is a fairly well-known British actress.
Just passing along an out of consensus view.† This was one of David Rosenbergís tail risks mentioned the other day and is obviously a big driver of global growth.† While China appears to have landed softly, Nomura analysts still see risks to the downside: ìWe reiterate our out-of-consensus view that growth will surprise on the downside in H2. We expect GDP growth to slow to 7.3% y-o-y in H2 from 8.1% in H1, for a full-year 2013 average of 7.7%, while the consensus expects the growth recovery to sustain above 8% throughout 2013.ÖFirst, there are increasing signs that the government is concerned about financial risks. The China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) has asked banks to control the risks in the ìfund poolsî practice, which allows banks to pay back maturing wealth management products by issuing new products.ÖSecond, another round of energy/utilities price reform appears to be in the pipeline. On 20 February, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the Ministry of Railway (MOR) raised the rail freight tariff by 13.0%, from RMB0.1151 per ton-km to RMB0.1301, the largest hike since 2003. The tariff hike suggests that the government may move to lift other administratively suppressed prices, such as electricity and other public utilities, which will exert upward pressure on inflation.ÖThird, the property price rebound ñ the composite property price index of 70 cities has risen for seven consecutive months ñ may force the government to tighten credit supply/M2 growth, which should also act as a drag on growth, since property investment is a large component of fixed asset investment.ÖFourth, local governments have lowered their growth targets for 2013 by an average of 0.5pp from 2012.ÖLastly, the severe air pollution reported throughout China could act as a wake-up call for Chinese leaders, and may spur them to rethink the current growth model.î
Astrid Stawiarz/Getty Images JCPenney may have a glossy new exterior, but inside the 111-year-old retailer, there is a major culture clash. There's widespread anxiety, fear, distrust, and resistance to CEO Ron Johnson within the company, according to several JCPenney executives. Rumors have spun out of control, even among the executives at headquarters, and they have trickled down to the front line workers in stores, the execs told us. We've corresponded with dozens of JCPenney¬†employees throughout its transformation over the past year. Some are executives at the company's headquarters in Plano, TX. Others are regional coordinators and managers. We've also heard from store managers, associates, and stylists who deal directly with customers and receive their marching orders from far above. The latest numbers also reveal that the company is in a tailspin. The stock price is down a whopping 46 percent in the last year.¬†Same-store sales have been abysmal every quarter.¬†Some analysts are even worried that the company may be approaching a cash crisis. That said, there are signs that¬†JCPenney may survive this transition. CEO Ron Johnson's vision of reinvigorating the retail experience with his "shop" concept has gone well so far, yielding numbers that dwarf the rest of the department store's bazaar-like floor space. Johnson is certainly capable of thinking up brilliant new ideas that have the potential to turn entire industries on their heads, as he did with the Apple Store. It's his strongest attribute. But this time, he's transforming an entire company ‚Äî not just a retail experience. Scott Olsen / Getty Images To do this, he has to manage a period of rapid change across JCPenney, including its mission, structure, brand, operations, and technology. The types of changes he's making will have an unavoidable impact on the organization's stability, and they must be managed carefully. The employees, who have all asked to remain anonymous for fear of being reprimanded or fired, have provided a look under JCPenney's hood. JCPenney did not respond to a request for comment. Where communication goes to die When the new management team was installed at JCPenney, the internal culture became one of opacity ‚Äî not transparency. "Corporate culture is very different than it was one year ago," a current exec who had worked in the previous era explained. "There is no protocol or process in the company anymore. The direction given on product changes very frequently." "There are no memos or written directives anymore," another JCPenney home office executive said. "Last one I saw was almost eight months¬†ago. Everything gets communicated verbally and without too much detail." "They do not leave any opportunity for anyone to ask questions," the exec continued. "While working at home office, we do not get any insight to store operations and changes." The murkiness plants the seeds of distrust.¬†Johnson has cagey work habits, according to insiders. It's likely a symptom from his extended time at Apple, which has a notoriously secretive environment. Johnson commutes by company jet from his home in Palo Alto, California, to JCPenney's Plano headquarters. When he's in town, he reportedly stays in the glitzy Ritz-Carlton hotel in Dallas. Johnson rarely works a full week at the office, according to a report from the NY Post. ‚ÄúWhat does [Johnson] do the rest of the time?‚Äù one former exec said to the Post. ‚ÄúIf he‚Äôs doing this huge transformation, why isn‚Äôt he there 12 hours a day helping everybody get things done?‚Äù Johnson is surely working around the clock at JCPenney. He's a professional, and he and his team have made an incredible amount of change in a very short period of time.¬† Still, it makes him look conspicuously uninvolved and uncommitted. Perception matters and there are real consequences to the apparent disconnect. Several JCPenney execs we talked to said that they simply did not trust Johnson. If he doesn't trust his own people, they say, then why should they return the favor? Aimee Groth / Business Insider"Ron doesn't trust any information to be given except to his inner circle," said the first exec, who specified that Johnson's cadre of most-trusted confidants only includes four or five people at the top rungs of management. "For example, no one but Ron and his team can view sales [numbers]," a veteran regional exec noted. "Store Managers can only view their store's sales and their district. They can't see how anyone else is doing." The never-ending rumor factory Rumors "run rampant" at JCPenney, according to insiders. There seems to be a new one every day.¬† "There is always a lot of speculation about when the next big change will be," one of the home office execs told us. ¬†"The rumors of more layoffs have been going on for two months." Last month, employees at JCPenney's headquarters were talking about chief merchant Liz Sweeney's status at the company. The rumor "went viral," according to an insider. Some heard that she would be fired on the first of the year. Others heard she was merely on the shortlist to go. There are rumors about entire divisions disappearing, store departments being shut down, positions being eliminated, major strategy shifts, and much more. Part of the problem is that employees aren't told about significant firings. Another round of firings hit JCPenney yesterday, and 300 workers are being sent packing, insiders told us. All information involving the layoffs has been vague and employees have been dreading the beginning of another set of cuts ever since the Post reported that another 10 percent of JCPenney headquarters staff would be laid off ‚Äî something employees called the¬†‚ÄúSt. Valentine‚Äôs Day Massacre." "Every termination is surrounded by a trail of rumors ...¬†No official announcement should be expected,"¬†said one of the home office execs. Worse, nothing is being done to slow down the rumor mill.¬†Johnson himself admitted it on live television. "There's a lot of rumors. We have like a rumor a day,"¬†Johnson said in an interview on CNBC. "Today there is a rumor about layoffs at headquarters. I would never talk about that, but you have to separate the fact from the rumor." And yet, the only people who would have the ability to separate fact from rumor ‚Äî Johnson and his team ‚Äî aren't saying anything. The rumors fester. "Ron loves rumors," the regional exec told us. "JCPenney¬†loves rumors. The belief is, 'you'll know when you need to know it.'" As a result, employees experience constant uncertainty. Then comes the angst and fear. They worry about the company's health, they worry about their colleagues, and they worry about whether their bosses are doing the right things. Most importantly, they worry about their own livelihood, explained the execs.¬†There are few ways to destroy employee morale faster than letting them work in constant fear.¬† In Plano, it's worst for high-level employees who worked in the previous regime. Johnson¬†forced out the entire c-suite from JCPenney's old senior team, and the purge crept down to the EVP and VP levels over time. Wikimedia Commons "Everyone is afraid for their jobs," explained the exec who had also worked under the previous regime. "Much time is wasted on discussing, so not a lot of work gets done." JCPenney recently addressed one rumor directly, but it wasn't necessarily for the benefit of its own employees ‚Äî it was to clear things up for a different set of stakeholders.¬†After an¬†accusation from bondholders who claimed that the company had defaulted¬†on some of its debt, JCPenney CFO¬†Ken Hannah and Johnson himself firmly denied any wrongdoing in statements, which helped placate investors. As bad as the communication issues are at the upper management tiers, the problem is worse¬†down in the stores, employees said. The front lines Retail workers are generally left in the dark about corporate changes, often to avoid strategic initiatives from being leaked. While this occurs at many major retail companies, it's particularly true at JCPenney. "Instructions from top are to ensure nothing gets out," an insider noted. He added that because of this, he doesn't blame managers for having "secret" meetings with their workers. "It seems a lot of misdirection and bad communication that starts with corporate filters its way down to management, and ultimately dumps on us employees at the foot of the hill," a JCPenney associate told us. "It has become a horrible place to work at, and feeling trapped there is not a good feeling." ¬† Cutbacks have also become a major problem on the ground level.¬†Mass firings are a necessity for an organization that's attempting to trim costs, but with so many of them happening in waves, they have taken a devastating toll on morale. Management hasn't been able to keep ground-level employees looking forward, or get many of them to buy into the vision. "I have never seen the company in such disarray," a 5-year veteran JCPenney associate said. "Sure we had our share of problems during this time but nothing like this ...¬†Now all hope seems lost." "I hate it. I hate the disorder and I hate having my customers give me that look, that 'you don't have any idea what you're doing and I hate this place and I'm never coming back' look," said another associate. "I hate having to explain why there aren't any more [expletive] coupons, why the stickers to the 'everyday' prices are wrong or why a supposed clearance item is not clearance." Without the base of the business on board, it's impossible to get anything done. The good news is that JCPenney does have some store employees working hard to make Johnson's vision a reality. AP "It will be a good step for the future of our salon," a salon worker told us after the mass elimination of salon receptionists. "Without change there will be no reward. Time will tell!" But JCPenney needs to do more to get its workers aligned. It's a key factor as the organization goes through a period of profound change. For instance, accessibility is always a hot topic for low-level employees in gigantic corporations. They want to be heard ‚Äî just look at the recent uproar at the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart. A store employee told us that he recently sent a letter to upper management complaining about various issues at JCPenney and he was quietly reprimanded later. The worker said that he'd never do it again, widening the distance between the everyday worker and the tiers of management up in the clouds. Do you work at JCPenney (at headquarters or in a store)? Contact me at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
Bloomberg put together a list of the most accurate U.S. economic forecasters, polling 69 bankers around the world. Now the results are in, and it turns out that five of the top 8 forecasters are outside the United States. For the most part, they attributed their success to an outsider advantage coupled with a global perspective. The most accurate of all the bankers was Christophe Barraud, of Market Securities-Kyte Group in Paris. He's never been to the United States. From Bloomberg: ‚ÄúI think that being in France helps me be more objective,‚Äù said Barraud, 26, who earned a doctorate in economics from the University of Paris-Dauphine. He said he‚Äôs more prone to getting the French economy wrong, and has ‚Äúunderestimated French economic fundamentals,‚Äù reflecting his countrymen‚Äôs pessimism about their own economy. ‚ÄúOn the U.S., I have no bias.‚Äù Other overseas forecasters whose U.S. outlooks have been among the most accurate include Bernd Weidensteiner and Christoph Balz, with Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt; Gregorio De Felice, with Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) in Milan; Rudolf Besch and Marina Luetje with DekaBank in Frankfurt; and Thomas Lam, with OSK-DMG in Singapore. Overall, non-U.S. economists represented 24 of the 69 who submitted forecasts to Bloomberg. It's a small world after all. Read the full piece at Bloomberg&gt;
APLast night, Bloomberg broke the news that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke sought to downplay concerns over monetary policies creating asset bubbles at a meeting with primary dealers (the biggest banks on Wall Street who trade directly with the Fed) earlier this month. That's to be expected ‚Äì Bernanke obviously isn't running around trying to do the opposite. What were the primary dealers worried about, though? Bloomberg's Rich Miller reports the two biggest concerns expressed to Bernanke at the meeting: The Fed chairman brushed off the risks of asset bubbles in¬†response to a presentation on the subject from the group, one¬†person said. Among the concerns raised, according to this¬†person, were rising farmland prices and the growth of mortgage¬†real estate investment trusts. Falling yields on speculative-grade bonds also were mentioned as a potential concern, two¬†people said. Farmland prices are a pretty common concern. The map below illustrates why that's the case. Kansas City Fed Mortgage real-estate investment trusts (REITs) have been getting slammed since the Fed started intervening heavily in mortgage bond markets last year. They have rallied in 2013, though. Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein recently highlighted these REITs in a speech posing the question of whether or not credit markets were overheating. Stein explained the business model, which shows why mortgage REITs are problematic: Continuing on with the theme of maturity transformation, the next brief stop on the tour is the agency mortgage real estate investment trust (REIT) sector. These agency REITs buy agency mortgage-¬≠backed securities (MBS), fund them largely in the short¬≠-term repo market in what is essentially a levered carry trade, and are required to pass through at least 90 percent of the net¬†interest to their investors as dividends. As shown in exhibit 7, they have grown rapidly in the past few years, from $152 billion at year¬≠end 2010 to $398 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2012. One interesting aspect of this business model is that its economic viability is sensitive to conditions in both the MBS market and the repo market. If MBS yields decline, or the repo rate rises, the ability of mortgage REITs to generate current income based on the spread between the two is correspondingly reduced.¬† In other words, REITs are getting squeezed because the interest rates they pay on the money they use to fund their investments are rising, while at the same time the coupon payments they receive from the bonds they invest in are falling. Stein also expressed concern over speculative grade ‚Äì or high-yield ‚Äì corporate debt in his speech, which was also the final concern expressed by the banks, according to the report. Perhaps the biggest concern in that market right now is the lack of liquidity and the prospect of forced selling by large mutual funds in the event of a rise in rates. To read more on the liquidity problems and what could happen, click here &gt;
Bad news for hedge funder David Einhorn: Apple is likely to jack its dividend, says Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty. Huberty met with Apple's CFO. After the meeting she wrote that Apple will "likely increase cash return to shareholders." She writes: Apple could return more cash to shareholders given its cash balance is $40B higher vs. March 2012. Our analysis suggests Apple can match the S&amp;P IT sector‚Äôs average FCF payout of 68% if it returns $28B in FY13, implying a 6% total yield. High mix of international cash limited flexibility in the past but raising low-interest debt can help address this issue, in our view. Apple's currently has a 2.3 percent dividend yield, so this would be a big bump. Einhorn had a big presentation yesterday about why Apple shouldn't just do a dividend bump. He thinks it wouldn't help Apple's PE. He wants to see Apple do preferred shares that deliver a dividend in perpetuity. His plan would have a 4 percent annual yield.
The verdict: Shareholders are still upset about the way Citi is calculating executive pay, despite assurances that a new calculation method would attach a larger portion of executive bonuses to bank performance. Shareholder reaction here is more important than at any other bank on Wall Street. You may remember that last April, Citi's board voted against then-CEO Vikram Pandit's pay package totaling about $15 million. These votes are non-binding, but they send a pretty serious message either way. Pandit (despite having take $1 as compensation for one year), was a pretty well-paid CEO. According to Bloomberg, Pandit was paid about $261 million in the five years since he became CEO, including profits the sale of his hedge fund, Maiden Lane, to Citi. The board was hoping that with a new CEO, and after the agitation of the past year, there would be some change at Citi ó and there was some change, but it doesn't sound like enough. From Dealbook: Nell Minow, a shareholder advocate at GMI Ratings, said the new approach was ìfar from perfect, or even good, but itís less terrible than it used to be.î Citiís board members will continue to approve base salaries, cash bonuses and deferred stock given to top Citi executives, the same way they were in the past. But now a new segment of the pay, called performance share units, will be linked to the new metrics. For 2012, Mr. Corbat was awarded $3.1 million in performance share units. That amounts to 27 percent of his total $11.5 million pay package. †A spokesperson for the huge pension fund, CalPERS (California Public Employeesí Retirement System) didn't sound jazzed either. ìWeíd like to make sure that the incentive structures arenít focusing on revenues and returns without thinking about risk, because thatís how we got ourselves into the financial crisis,î said Ms. Simpson. Read the full story at Dealbook
Usually, Wall Street's top lobbyist are chosen from the creme de la creme of business and politics, so if that's any indication, the job requires considerable talent. According to a quick blog post from DC non-profit Public Citizen, however, you actually only need three magic words to do the job ‚Äî "innovation", "complexity" and "liquidity" (h/t Politico's Ben White). Here's how you can do it. Three examples: Reformers say: ‚ÄúWall Street behaved relatively well until 1999, when Congress repealed the 1933 Glass-Steagall law separating commercial and investment banking and commerce.‚Äù You say: ‚ÄúFinancial innovation overran the anachronism of Glass-Steagall. Today‚Äôs economy isn‚Äôt your father‚Äôs Buick.‚Äù Reformers say: ‚ÄúDerivatives that were intended to manage risk actually magnified it through such products as credit default swaps.‚Äù You say: ‚ÄúDerivatives are highly complex. Congressional efforts to address this arena will have unintended consequences and disadvantage American firms who must compete in the global arena.‚Äù Reformers say: ‚ÄúBanks shouldn‚Äôt be gambling, but return to sound lending that serves Main Street. We need the Volcker Rule, which prohibits gambling.‚Äù You say: ‚ÄúThe Volcker Rule will threaten needed liquidity.‚Äù Public Citizen invites you to mix and match these words to maximize their potential. No too hard right? For the full post head to CitizenVox&gt;
We're looking for a hardworking individual with strong quantitative and analytical skills to join a growing team of analysts at¬†Business Insider Intelligence.¬† What Is BI Intelligence? BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from Business Insider that provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the tech industry.¬†We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends.¬†The service, launched in 2012,¬†has experienced rapid growth and is now expanding to analyze all things social media. This complements our existing focus on the mobile industry. We plan to expand further in the near future.¬†Check out BII¬†here.¬† What's The Job?¬† The ideal Data Analyst will have a deep interest in tech news and feel comfortable analyzing a wide range of tech-related topics, including social and mobile. The Data Analyst will support the research team in data-related tasks. These will include: creating charts, curating and updating data sets, researching/sourcing data, and managing data and document production. Desired Skills &amp; Experience: The candidate will complement their strong data-processing ability with good writing skills. The ideal candidate would have an interest in visual data presentation‚Äî charts, graphics, etc.¬†After a training period, the candidate will be expected to independently produce research reports of value to our members.¬† If this role is for you, here are some of the other traits you possess: Skills: This role offers a unique opportunity to straddle the media and business/consulting worlds. It would be an excellent way to sharpen your skills for 2-3 years, before heading off to business school, or launching a career in digital media or business journalism.¬† If interested, please email a short cover letter, writing samples, and resume to Marcelo Ballv√© (mballve@businessinsider.com). Thank you in advance.
We recently learned that the hedge fund industry's new favorite stock is AIG, the beleaguered insurance behemoth that was at the center of the financial crisis. At the end of the fourth quarter, 117 funds were holding the stock, and it was a top-10 holding for 80 of those funds, said Goldman Sachs in a new report. Retail investors, however, have shied away from the stock. But the ballsy bets laid down by the hedge fund industry seem to be paying off.¬† Yesterday, AIG announced an unexpected Q4 operating profit, and now the stock is up. Here's AIG's chart from MarketWatch, which captures all of the moves since yesterday's close: MarketWatch
Hedge fund manager David Einhorn delivered a big presentation on why Apple needs to stop being so conservative with its giant pile of cash yesterday. He was fairly convincing! He made a good case for Apple to try an "innovative" new markets product that he calls, "iPrefs." They're not actually new or innovative. But, you could argue that the iPod wasn't new or innovative. It was just a better MP3 player. The iPref is just preferred stock, a security that delivers a perpetual dividend. He gave them a silly name to be more Apple-y. Einhorn believes they are a more creative way to return money to shareholders. He also believes they could unlock billions in value for Apple. Whether or not iPrefs are a good idea is open for debate. And it seems like Einhorn has had the debate with Apple's management. Apple CEO Tim Cook has said he would take a look at Einhorn's proposal. But, he also called Einhorn's lawsuit against Apple a silly sideshow. He says that Apple's "proposal 2," which is what Einhorn is suing Apple about doesn't stop Apple from doing what Einhorn wants.† In fact, Cook says proposal two is actually better for shareholders because it takes away power from Apple's management. If Apple wants to do anything radical, like iPrefs, then it needs approval from shareholders. Right now, under Apple's current governance, it could just issued iPrefs without shareholder approval. In Einhorn's call, he didn't deny this was true. Instead, he tried to change the conversation around proposal 2. Einhorn has made proposal 2 into a giant referendum on Apple's cash management. He wants all shareholders who would like to see Apple do something other than pile up cash to vote against proposal 2. (Yes, Apple has approved some dividends and buybacks, but not enough for Einhorn.) Now, what's interesting about this is that it's feels like a sneaky move. Because, if what Cook says is right ó prop 2 would give shareholders rights ó then voting against prop 2 is a way for shareholders to feel like their voicing their opinion while at the same time taking away their rights in the long term. Einhorn said on the call that people could vote next year for better governance. He thinks Apple is being sneaky bundling a lot of stuff into this one vote. Regardless of who is right, Einhorn has set up a big showdown with Apple's management. If shareholders want to see Apple get more creative with its cash, they can vote on it February 27 at the shareholder's meeting. 
Stephane de Sakutin/AFP The judge in the Oscar Pistorius trial just released the sprinter on bail. The judge laid the groundwork for his decision very carefully, going into an extreme amount of detail on almost every conceivable issue. His was presumably fully aware of how controversial it will be. The judge, Nair, said he was not fixated on determining now whether Pistorius committed "premeditated murder," the crime he has been charged with. The judge said what is important is for state to put forth facts that establish a reasonable possibility of premeditated murder. And the judge believes the state has done that. This statement seemed at many points to lay the groundwork for the judge to refuse bail. The judge took a 5-minute break in the middle of reading his verdict. The judge said that if the defense had shown the case to be weak, this would call for Pistorius to be granted bail. The judge also addressed the clumsy investigator who gave incorrect answers on the stand (later challenged by the defense) and missed evidence at the scene. This investigator has since been dumped from the case. The judge blasted the investigator for his mistakes. He ran through a list of stupid decisions the investigator made, as well as ideas and concepts the investigator should have followed up on at the scene. The judge further said it was only the defense's aggressive questioning of the investigator that forced him to concede that he had made mistakes. The judge defended the investigator on one count: The judge said that there may be other reasons for the bladder of the victim, Reeva Steenkamp, to have been empty other than that she voluntarily and normally went into the the bathroom to go to the bathroom. He also said the investigator should not be considered an expert on that. Importantly, the judge said that, while the investigator had to admit mistakes, the investigator is not the state's case. The judge pointed out that the state quickly appointed a more senior officer to take control of the case. The judge said he did not agree with the defense position that because the investigator was clumsy, the state's case is weak. The judge said he considered many factors in his bail decision in addition to the evidence that has thus far been presented (and had no choice but to do so.) The judge cited "improbabilities" in Pistorius's story. He said he had difficulty understanding why Pistorius did not try to verify who was in the toilet, along with many other aspects of Pistorius's story. For example, the judge said he has difficulty understanding why Pistorius would have slept on the opposite side of the bed that night than he normally does. The judge cited many other problems he has with Pistorius's story. "The defense has failed to show this court that there's a weakness in the state's case [that rises to the level required] to show an exceptional circumstance," the judge said. Similarly, the judge said, the state has not shown that the case against Pistorius is rock solid. The judge also said the state has not shown enough evidence to prove that Pistorius had a pre-existing propensity to commit violence. In the end, the judge decided that Pistorius's case represented "exceptional circumstances" and granted the sprinter's bail request. Here's a live feed of the hearing: 
American International Group lost $4 billion in the last three months of 2012 as the insurer absorbed costs related to damage caused by Superstorm Sandy and the sale of its airplane leasing unit. AIG posted an operating profit that was better than analysts were expecting, however, and its stock rose in after-hours trading. It was the first financial report for the bailed-out insurer since the government sold off the last of its stake in the company in December. The New York-based company became a household name after it received a $182 billion bailout package from the government at the height of the financial crisis in 2008. The company nearly imploded by making huge bets on mortgage investments that later went wrong. Last month the company refused to join a lawsuit being brought against the U.S. government by its former CEO Maurice "Hank" Greenberg. The lawsuit claimed that the terms of the taxpayer-funded bailout were too onerous. AIG has repaid the government's bailout funds over the years. It has also undergone a massive restructuring that cut its size in half as it turned its focus to its core business of writing insurance. For the three months ended Dec. 31, AIG reported a loss of $4 billion, or $2.68 per share. That compares with net income of $21.5 billion, or $11.31 per share, in the prior-year quarter, when AIG benefited from a tax-related accounting gain of $19.2 billion. AIG's property casualty segment bore the brunt of the impact from losses related to Superstorm Sandy, which made landfall on Oct. 29, spreading a swath of devastation that affected New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and eight other states. All told, AIG booked an after-tax loss of $1.3 billion due to the storm. That led to a fourth-quarter operating loss of $945 million in its property casualty unit. It recorded operating income of $367 million a year earlier. AIG's latest results also included a $4.4 billion loss related to its agreement to sell International Lease Finance Corp. The deal reduced AIG's per-share book value by $2.97. AIG's operating income for the quarter was $290 million, or 20 cents per share. That's down from $1.5 billion, or 77 cents per share, in the prior-year period. Analysts, on average, had expected a loss of 7 cents per share, according to FactSet. For all of 2012, AIG reported net income of $3.4 billion, or $2.04 per share, compared with net income of $20.6 billion, or $11.01 per share, in 2011. AIG shares ended regular trading down 29 cents at $37.28. The stock added $1.53, or 4 percent, to $38.81 in after-hours trading. It's up about 6 percent this year. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
The email specifies that potential participants must be: 'Fit and well, have no past medical history and not be users of recreational drugs A prestigious London university has asked for volunteers to take part in an experiment where they will be required to take cocaine. An email sent by a professor at King's College London asks for 'healthy male volunteers, 25 ‚Äì 40 years of age, to take part in a clinical study involving nasal administration of cocaine.' The email, which was sent on Thursday afternoon to hundreds of postgraduate and undergraduate students at the university, is in seven sections, each titled with a question. Under the section, 'What will happen?', the email states: 'After cocaine administration, repeated biological samples (blood, urine, hair, sweat, oral fluid) will be taken to compare and investigate how cocaine and its metabolites are spread through the human body.' The email specifies that potential participants must be: 'Fit and well, have no past medical history and not be users of recreational drugs. According to reports the project has been approved by London Westminster Research Ethics Committee and "contributes to the College's role in conducting research, and teaching research methods". The email also tells students: "You are under no obligation to reply to this email, however if you choose to, participation in this research is voluntary and you may withdraw at anytime." A spokesperson for Kings College London said today, "This is an important scientific study to investigate how cocaine and its metabolites are spread through the human body. All the relevant ethical approvals were received for this study. The study will be conducted under the highest level of medical supervision in a dedicated clinical research suite." The Email: HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Who are we looking for? Healthy male volunteers, 25 ‚Äì 40 years of age, to take part in a clinical study involving nasal administration of cocaine. Medical and dental students will not be enrolled to this study. What will happen? After cocaine administration, repeated biological samples (blood, urine, hair, sweat, oral fluid) will be taken to compare and investigate how cocaine and its metabolites are spread through the human body. What are the requirements? Potential participants must be fit and well, have no past medical history and not be users of recreational drugs. They must be happy not to cut or dye their hair for 120 days during the study follow up period. How long will it take? During the first visit we will check your suitability for the study. The second visit (main experiment) will be around thirty days later and will take most of the day. We would then like to see you 5 more times over a 90 day period so that some repeat biological samples can be taken. Will you benefit from taking part in this study? There is no direct benefit from taking part. Reasonable financial compensation will be made for your time, effort and expenses incurred from completing the study. Who is overseeing the study? The study will be supervised by the Clinical Toxicology department from St Thomas' Hospital, London. The research team includes a medical doctor (registrar or consultant) who will be present at all times. What now? All participant information will be anonymised and held confidentially. All participant information will be anonymised and held confidentially. If you are interested in taking part and would like to find more information please primarily address any enquires to the Chief Scientific Officer) at [email address deleted] were¬† you will be provided with a full participant information sheet. 
Astrid Stawiarz/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Europe looks set to limit bank bonuses LUXURY-CAR dealers in London and posh estate agents in Paris must be spluttering. It looks increasingly likely that demands by the European Parliament for a limit on bankers' bonuses will become law. The parliament wants bonuses to be no higher than their salaries (or double their salaries, if three-quarters of a bank's shareholders agree). That limit may yet be watered down in negotiations between the parliament and the EU Council, which consists of European governments. But the principle of a specified cap seems to have been accepted, despite opposition from Britain. Other European governments are keener to ensure new capital rules get passed--the bonus proposals have been appended to the directive implementing the Basel 3 rules--than to stand up in public to defend bankers' pay. "The British government understands they are walking a fine line between appeasing the masses and chasing business out of town," says a senior investment-bank executive. "Unfortunately they have to toe the line" if the statute passes. The logic of capping bonuses looks appealing. Lavish payouts may create an asymmetric bet for bankers. If they take a big gamble that pays off, they get a huge bonus. If it goes horribly wrong, they face only limited downside. Sony Kapoor, a former banker who now runs Re-Define, a think-tank, says the cap will "help tackle the culture of excessive risk-taking and the bending of rules that has now become endemic to banking". In fact, there is surprisingly little evidence to show that big cash bonuses lead to increased risk-taking or that capping the ratio of bonus to basic pay would reduce it. Rather, a cap on variable pay risks driving up fixed salaries as European banks seek to compete for talent with foreign and non-bank rivals. A higher fixed-cost base would weaken the link between pay and performance. It would also limit banks' ability to cut costs in a downturn. Pay has come down sharply since the financial crisis, partly because higher capital ratios have reduced the profitability of banks. CEBR, a consultancy, reckons that the total bonus pool paid out to London-based bankers in the current pay round will fall to about ¬£1.6 billion ($2.5 billion), down from a peak of ¬£11.6 billion in 2008. That sort of flexibility is useful if you want banks to preserve capital in a crisis. Bankers also argue that a lot has been done to pay structures to align the interests of employees and shareholders. The deferred portion of bonuses is much bigger than it was; this money can be "clawed back" if the bank subsequently does badly. Some firms are rewarding employees with subordinated debt in their own institutions, meaning they will take a hit if the bank goes bust. Unsurprisingly, the politicians in Brussels are paying little attention. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager David Einhorn had some sharp words on Thursday for both Dell Incand founder Michael Dell on his plan to take the company private. Einhorn, who has mounted a campaign to get Apple Incto share more of its $137 billion cash pile, used the leveraged buyout of Dell as an example of a cash policy that is shareholder unfriendly. Michael Dell has struck a deal to take private the No. 3 personal computer maker he created in a college dorm room in 1984. The founder is partnering with private equity house Silver Lake and Microsoft Corpbut the $24.4 billion deal is being opposed by some of Dell's major shareholders, including Southeastern Asset Management, which said the deal substantially undervalues the company. Now, Einhorn - an influential voice on Wall Street - is expressing his disgust. "Dell's go-private effort shows the disingenuous nature of hoarding cash," he said during a conference call where he detailed the benefits of distributing perpetual preferred stock - his favored way of rewarding shareholders of Apple. The 44-year-old hedge fund manager, who made his name and fortune by predicting the collapse of Lehman Brothers, said his firm was a large shareholder of Dell last year but sold the shares after he found the company's capital allocation strategy "unappealing." Einhorn said he made the decision to sell after he was told Dell's foreign cash couldn't be repatriated and domestic cash was needed for strategic acquisitions and other operational moves. Attributing the slide in Dell's shares to the frustration of shareholders, he said the depressed price of the stock created an opportunity for Michael Dell. "Michael Dell probably didn't mind the stock falling," he said. "Now he wants to take Dell private and, voila, the balance sheet will be fully utilized to finance his purchase of the company." Einhorn said, "At least some of the untouchable foreign cash - take a deep breath - is set to be repatriated," adding that Dell's cash-rich balance sheet will become highly levered with the buyout deal. A Dell spokesman did not have immediate comment. Memphis-based Southeastern Asset has offered several alternatives to the deal that it said would produce a better outcome for public shareholders, including borrowing money to make a major share repurchase or breaking up the company and selling the units separately. While Michel Dell and his investment firm are contributing $750 million in cash toward the $24.4 billion purchase of Dell along with $1 billion from Silver Lake, the PC maker is also targeting the repatriation of $7.4 billion of cash now parked abroad to help finance the deal. A hefty tax is usually levied on cash brought back from overseas. "In other words (Dell) management actions show that when it is our money, it needs to be held conservatively and reserved for strategic flexibility," Einhorn said. "But when it is their money, they don't need so much rainy day cash and they would like to see the balance sheet working harder to generate the maximum return on equity." (Reporting By Poornima Gupta; Editing by Kenneth Barry) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The euro just fell to its lows of the day. According to Bloomberg, the ECB is saying that European banks will be repaying just ‚Ç¨61.1 billion worth of loans from the second tranche of the long-term refinancing operations (LTRO). These are the loans that were offered starting in 2011 to troubled eurozone banks to boost liquidity in the banking system. Estimates for repayment were for around ‚Ç¨122.5 billion, reports Bloomberg's Mike McKee. Here's a chart of the euro against the U.S. dollar from Finviz: Finviz
According to Zillow, U.S. home prices rose again in January.† In fact, we're witnessing the fastest pace of price growth since July 2006, which was during the housing bubble. From Zillow: Zillowís January Real Estate Market Reports, released today, show that national home values rose 0.7% from December to January to $158,100 (Figure 1). January 2013 marks the 15th consecutive month of home value appreciation. On a year-over-year basis, home values were up 6.2% (Figure 2) from January 2012 ñ a rate of annual appreciation we havenít seen since July 2006 (when the rate was 7.5%), before the peak of the housing bubble. Rents are up 4.3% on a year-over-year basis (Figure 3). The Zillow Home Value Forecast calls for 3.3% appreciation nationally from January 2013 to January 2014. Most markets have already hit a bottom ñ with only 9 out of 260 not projected to hit a bottom within the next year ñ and 78 out of the 260 markets covered are forecasted to experience home value appreciation of 3% or higher. Zillow † Zillow
The Treasury Department came out with some proposals on how to fund infrastructure investments. Nothing new; an infrastructure bank that would borrow money outside of the government using government guarantees, and a newfangled debt instrument called: America Fast Forward Bonds I love the name. AFFs will be the Street name. AFFs will be structured like BABS (Build America Bonds). This is a hybrid security that will be issued by a Muni. It will be taxable (unlike regular muniís), it will therefore have a premium yield to non-taxable muni paper. The Federal government will pay (1/3) of the interest due on the bonds. There will be no direct Federal Guarantee on the bonds, but there will be a perception that the Feds are behind the notes. The Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) will be expanded and it will provide ñ ìloan guarantees, and lines of credit to regionally or nationally significant transportation projectsî. Loan guarantees and lines of credit are off balance sheet financing. (Note: What is TIFIA? Never heard of it) The infrastructure bank the President wants is also going to be involved with raising money outside of the Federal budget and debt limits. According to the White House the new bank will ñ ìinvest through loans and loan guarantees.î All of the proposed borrowing will be outside of what is defined at the Debt Limit. These new debts will not be included in the calculation of Debt to GDP.† The Presidentís proposals are gimmicks to hide debt. The description provided by the White House on how the infrastructure bank would work tells it all. I think there are at least two lies in this statement: The Bank will operate as an independent, wholly owned government entity outside of political influence. This language is very similar to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. F/F were supposed to be independent. They were quasi government entities, but politics dictated what they did. The liabilities and guarantees of the proposed infrastructure bank, and the AFF bonds will be off of the federal balance sheet ñ identical to what happened with F/F. Every bond that F/F issued said in bold print on the front page: This Bond is not an Obligation of the USA. Of course the USA was forced step up and assume all $6 Trillion of F/F debt that was issued before 2008. The outcome for the infrastructure bank will be no different. Who was it that said that repeating the same mistake over and over, and expecting a different outcome each time was the true definition of insanity?
The stock market has "peaked out" and bonds may be on their way to a rebound, Marc Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom &amp; Doom Report, said Thursday on CNBC. "I think we have made an intermediate top, and it could be a longer-term top," he said on "Fast Money." "I don't think the market is as overbought as it was in '87, so I don't expect a crash. But I think for the time being, the market has peaked out, and I think in the meantime, bonds, which are extremely oversold, could rebound," he said. The S&amp;P 500 closed at 1,502.52 Thursday. A level of 1,530 could prove to be a longer-term high, Faber said. "What I maintained in earlier interviews is that either we have a correction now, and then we go up further or we go straight up high in July-August, from where we could crash, so I welcome a correction here," he said. "The question will be, after this correction, we have to watch the market's rebound, whether it can make a new high or not." Faber's holdings are 25 percent gold, 25 percent equities, 25 percent corporate bonds and cash, and 25 percent in real estate. Why should investors believe his bearish prognostications? "There was a correction between March, April 2012 and actually June 2012, so we had a correction, and then from September onward, when the S&amp;P reached 1,474, we also had a correction into November, at which stage I said that the market would now rally. So I don't think I've been so totally wrong about the moves of the market, especially since 2009, and I can document those with the performance of my portfolio. "But I think that the market has now become quite overbought and that is very significant or overextended, bullish sentiment. Everybody says, 'Sell bonds, buy equities.' And when everybody thinks alike, one has to be careful."
Arenamontanus / FlickrThe European Union now expects GDP growth in the euro-area to fall 0.3 percent in 2013. Previously it estimated 0.1 percent growth. The EU is also forecasting 1.4 percent growth fro 2014. Markets, which have been up all day, aren't reacting significantly to the report.
Brian GiesenA Japanese city devastated by the 2011 tsunami disaster remains mystified more than two weeks after receiving anonymous gifts of gold bars worth over $300,000. A fish market in Ishinomaki, some 350 kilometres (220 miles) northeast of Tokyo, received a parcel containing gold bars weighing a total of two kilograms (4.4 pounds) in early February, about a month ahead of the disaster's second anniversary on March 11. Kunio Sunow, president of the Ishinomaki Fish Market which was destroyed in the disaster, said he casually opened the mystery parcel addressed to him. "I was stunned because... in there was 24-carat gold in two plates," he told AFP on Friday. "We don't have to identify this person of goodwill... but we want to let them know we are grateful. If possible, I want to invite him or her to the completion of a new market" set for early 2015, he added. More gold bars were sent to other area organisations. They were mailed from Nagano, northwest of Tokyo, in packages which contained only the word "assistance" on the inside. "We couldn't be more grateful," said Seitaro Omori, who works for Manbow, a pubic-private company helping rebuild Ishinomaki. Omori said handwriting on all the parcels appeared to be the same, suggesting one good Samaritan was behind the gifts. Some of the bars were wrapped in pages from a health magazine for seniors, he added. Over at the Ishinomaki Revival Support Network, the shiny gift sparked disbelief. "I opened the mail half-worried as it was heavy... and then everybody in the room said 'Wow!'," said Yoshie Kaneko, who heads the non-profit group. Ishinomaki was devastated by the 9.0 earthquake and massive tsunami it generated on March 11, 2011. The disaster killed nearly 19,000 people, including more than 3,000 in Ishinomaki, and sparked the world's worst nuclear accident in a generation. At current market prices, the total of six kilograms of gold bars could be worth more than $300,000. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Wikimedia CommonsPier Luigi Bersani, the favorite of the Italian election.Italy goes to the polls Sunday to select a new government. The stakes are this: Elites and Europe want to see a stable government, primarily made up of the liberal party (head by Pier Luigi Bersani) and the coalition lead by Mario Monti, the PM since 2011. What would introduce major uncertainty is if the Berlusconi coalition did very well, alongside upstart populist Beppe Grillo, whose anti-bank, anti-Euro movement is surging in the polls. The expectations are that the liberals/centrists will win. But. There are two big concerns related to the polling, which we've heard from multiple conversations. One is that the party structure is new. You have a lot of new parties and movements in this election, including the Monti coalition, and Beppe Grillo's 5-Star Movement. When you're doing polling on new parties that people aren't used to, you can't be quite as confident in the polling results, they worry. And secondly, some polls have shown up to a 30% block of undecideds, even still! If that's the case, then there really is a lot of uncertainty going into Sunday.
It's the last trading day before Italy goes to the polls on Sunday and Monday. And stocks are rallying nicely. FTSE MIB
Getty Images / Alexandra BeierGermany's business confidence numbers from the IFO Institute are out, and they're better than expected. The headline number came in at 107.4, up from 104.2 in January.¬† This was also better than expectations for a reading of 105.0. According to Bloomberg, this is a 10-month high. The report included stronger-than-expected gains in both current assessments and expectations, according to Bloomberg's Mike McKee. Germany is the largest economy in Europe.¬† Today's numbers are welcome news as concerns continue to be high that the problems of the peripheral euro zone economies are seeping into the core countries.
By Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGoogle is the new Apple. Well, not necessarily, but while Apple's stock continues to grind lower, Google's stock is on a tear. And now analysts are jumping over themselves to get more bullish on Google. Just yesterday, two separate analysts put $1,000 price targets on the stock. What gives? Well, of course people can make up all kinds of stories about the momentum of either company, and their products and so forth. But there's a bigger macro-market story as well. Throughout recent years, Apple has basically been an asset class on its own: Gold, commodities, stocks, bonds, and Apple. If you were in Apple, your portfolio did great. If you weren't, you almost certainly lagged the market. End of story. At a time when people were uncertain about markets, Apple was a solid store of value. A company growing at abnormal speeds at a good price. Even if the economy were to slow, there was Apple, which you know would still be crushing it. But things have shifted in recent months. There's a sense that the economy's recovery is a bit more durable, and safe havens all around the world have faded as investors have grown more comfortable venturing back towards risky waters. We've seen big declines in gold, German Bunds, the Swiss Franc, and the yen ‚Äî all assets that did very well during the crisis. So if you're going to get a downdraft in safe-haven assets, as people rush towards riskier assets, then it makes sense that Apple would get caught up in that too. People are looking to see what else is out there. The switch from Apple to Google (in the stock market) is as much a story about the big macro-economic shift as it is about two tech companies. SEE ALSO: David Einhorn's big presentation on how to fix Apple &gt;
