Bloomberg TVOn Wednesday, Goldman Sachs strategists published a note advising clients to outright short gold, predicting it would fall to $1450 an ounce by the end of the year. Since then, gold has fallen more than 9 percent. This evening alone, since futures markets reopened to begin the week, the shiny yellow metal is down 4 percent, to $1440 an ounce. Below is the call Goldman's Damien Courvalin and Jeffrey Currie made on Wednesday: We see risk to our updated forecast as modestly to the upside in the short-term should US data continue to disappoint but increasingly to the downside as we move through 2013. With investor conviction in holding gold waning and aggregate net long positions across COMEX futures and physically backed ETFs near record highs, we suspect that if our forecast for lower gold prices proves correct, the fall in prices could end up being faster and larger than we expect. In addition, a break through the $1,535/toz base to gold prices over the past eighteen months could further accelerate such a decline in prices.  Given our forecast for lower gold prices and the downside risks to our forecast later in 2013, we recommend initiating a short COMEX gold position as our ECS Top Trade #8, implemented through an S&amp;P GSCI¬Æ front-month rolling index to further benefit from the contango in the COMEX future curve (1% per year). We are targeting a move to $1,450/toz compared to the current price of $1,585/toz with a stop at $1,650/toz. While we may be end up too early in entering this trade, we prefer that to being late given our belief that the¬†skew to prices is to the downside. Courvalin and Currie expect gold to fall to $1200 an ounce by 2018.
A bunch of fresh economic data out of China, and all of it is a slight miss. Here are some tweets summarizing the data. Data: China Retail sales for March+12.4% y/y (vs. +12.6% expected) bit.ly/YobxGd Aaand that's a miss. China Q1 GDP misses f'casts for 8%, comes in at 7.7%. Let the selling begin... Data: China March Fixed Asset investment excluding rural20.9% (vs. 21.3% expected) bit.ly/YVRSRZ The data really isn't doing what #China gov't wants. GDP, industrial output, FAI miss f'casts. Q1 RE invtmnt looking strong at +20.2%
One of the big stories from last Friday was the sharp decline in gold and silver. And that's continuing today. Here's gold. It's now below $1460/oz. kitco And here's silver. It's fallen below $25/oz. Kitco
APLarry Summers has a great piece in the Washington Post, commenting on the much-maligned Washington DC "gridlock" that's supposedly been an impediment to progress in the United States. First he notes that gridlock is nothing new. But more powerfully he observes what tremendous progress the U.S. has made on a number of fronts over the past five years during this famous gridlock. The great mistake of the gridlock theorists is to suppose that progress comes from legislation, and that more legislation consistently represents more progress. While people think the nation is gripped by gridlock, consider what has happened in the past five years: Washington moved faster to contain a systemic financial crisis than any country facing such an episode has done in the past generation. Through all the fractiousness, enough change has taken place that, without further policy action, the ratio of debt to gross domestic product is expected to decline for the next five years. Beyond that, the outlook depends largely on health-care costs, but their growth has slowed to the rate of GDP growth for three years now, the first such slowdown in nearly half a century. At last, universal health care has been passed and is being implemented. Within a decade, it is likely that the United States no longer will be a net importer of fossil fuels. Financial regulation is not in a fully satisfactory place but has received its most substantial overhaul in 75 years. For the first time, most schools and teachers are being evaluated on objective metrics of performance. Same-sex marriage has become widely accepted. It's hard not to be moved by all of that, especially compared to ‚Äî as he notes ‚Äî the stasis in Europe and Asia during this time. Read the full piece here &gt; ¬†
The weekend is over, and things are fairly quiet after the gold/silver/commodity carnage from Friday. Notably Japan is down about 100 points. It's not too dramatic. Via Nikkei.com, here's the Nikkei (top chart) and USDJPY (dollar vs. yen). Nikkei.com Meanwhile, U.S. futures are down just modestly.
InstagramIn a note titled 'The stage is set' Nomura wrote that the economic data from recent days confirms the idea that the economy is set to slow down, after a strong Q1. In just a few weeks the incoming data have tilted decidedly downwards and that point was driven home this week by a reported drop in March retail sales as well as a sharp drop in early April consumer sentiment . To be fair, March retail sales data were impacted by temporary factors such as adverse weather conditions, delayed tax refunds, and a reversal in gasoline prices. But there were plenty of signs, which included downwardly revised sales in the previous two months that lead us to believe the data indicate the consumer adjustment to lower disposable income at the start of the year has begun. Retail sales tend to track changes in disposable income, and typically with some lag.¬† One of the most pertinent questions this year: ‚Äúwhy hasn‚Äôt there been a pullback in consumer spending in response to higher taxes?‚Äù appears to have been answered. We had expected it to take US households time to adjust spending priorities in the wake of 1 January tax increases, but we had expected the adjustment to begin in February. It appears we were one month early in that expectation.¬†
en.wikipedia.org On Friday, when the price of gold plunged we said it was "great news." That crash is continuing, with gold now below $1400/oz. The idea behind saying the gold news "great news" is basically this: The last few years have seen a major ideological battle take place. On one hand you have established economists, who believe the government has tools at its disposal to address a crisis. These tools include deficit spending and a violent expansion of the Fed's balance sheet. Conversely you have critics who slam the arrogance of economists and central planners, and who have predicted that all of this economic acrobatics would result in an economic collapse, hyperinflation, and an explosion in the price of gold. Gold is important to their worldview, because it represents a quasi-money that's not tied to any government or central bank. Investing in gold is a rejection of government money and finance. Money flowing into gold-related assets represents a belief that rocks (however shiny they are) are a better place to invest than human endeavors (like stocks). Here's a chart of the S&amp;P vs. gold going back a few decades. FRED You can see that even with the recent upturn in stocks, relative to gold, gold has crushed stocks since 2000. Arguably, 2000 represented a peak in belief in the capabilities of humans. The internet inspired all kinds of crazy optimism about how humans would re-shape the world for the better. The ebullience spread beyond the net. There was, for example, optimism about new ways of transporting humans: Fuel cells! Segway! Of course, the bubble crashed. Then we had 9/11. Then we had two wars. Then we had the housing implosion. Then we had the financial crisis. Then the horrible recession. Then the European crisis and the debt ceiling and everything else. In other words, we had a series of a events that, for good reason, shook our faith in humanity. During this time, people thought about history on a large scale. And gold, having been used as a money for thousands of years, did pretty well, especially relative to stocks, which represent companies made up of humans. If we zoom in on the above chart, we see that stocks vs. gold (red line) actually bottomed in Summer 2011. Stocks themselves bottomed in early 2009 (blue line). FRED The nadir of the red line came immediately after the US debt ceiling struggle, which is when it looked like the U.S. ‚Äî weary of crisis and angry about everything ‚Äî might do the unthinkable and blow itself up by not paying its debt. That didn't happen (fortunately) but if you want to pinpoint a time when it made the most sense to believe in rocks over humans, that was probably the moment. Since then, the fever has begun to break. Washington is fractious, but not like it was in 2011. Housing, which was central to America's national malaise, has begun to turn around for real. Note that the XHB (homebuilder ETF) made its bottom right around then, and then began to turn around for real (via Stockcharts.com). Stockcharts.com ¬† So ultimately, the decline of gold and the rise of stocks is a big trend that everyone should cheer. The huge corpus of economic research, which has informed the US' efforts to stimulate the economy, is not a pile of garbage. You can do a lot without blowing things up, as the goldbugs claimed would happen. And more broadly, this represents a breaking of the fever, and perhaps a return to thinking that humans aren't such a horrible disappointment.
Flickr / samgroverFriday's sell-off in gold sent the yellow metal into a bear market.¬† In other words, the value of gold is down 20 percent from its recent high. At least some of this elevated volatility can be attributed to the fact that it's just easy to sell gold. This is apparent in the dumping of Gold ETFs by investors. "Prior to the introduction of Gold ETFs, investors seeking exposure to the metal were limited to gold mining stocks, bullion, coins and futures contracts, which carry among them extra risks including mining company fundamentals, bid and ask spreads, valuation, storage costs, liquidity constraints and futures expiries," said Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus in an interview with Business Insider last December. "We surmise that the introduction of the U.S.-traded Gold ETF (GLD) on November 18, 2004 has been in no small part responsible for the persistently good performance of the precious metal for close to 8 years since." This chart from Stoltzfus perfectly illustrates that point.  In a phone call on Friday, Stoltzfus told Business Insider, "Liquidity cuts both ways." As prospects for interest rates to rise down the line, Stoltzfus notes that investors have to ask themselves "What is my best choice here?" "Combined with extreme liquidity, it's easy to respond to that thought," he said. ETFs have allowed investors and speculators to easily rush into gold.¬† And that same investment vehicle is allowing them to rush for the exits.
Flickr / Rob IretonThe year started off with a slew of stronger-than-expected economic numbers that had many economists forecasting a return to trend growth. But more recently, we got hit with disappointing jobs, retail sales, and manufacturing reports. This has economists warning about a "spring swoon," which is something that the U.S. economy has experienced in recent years. "One long-running theory is that the severity of the recession in the final quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009 has distorted the seasonal adjustments made to the major economic indicators," writes Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics. "As a result, the adjustments now 'expect' the data to be worse than they actually are in those quarters and consequently create an upward distortion." But Ashworth argues that the actual data doesn't support this. Here are a few of their points: "We are not convinced this weakness has anything to do with seasonal adjustment problems," they write. "The most likely explanations for the weakness of the March data are the unseasonably cold weather and/or a delayed response to the expiry of the payroll tax cut a few months ago." For the most part, the recent spring slowdowns are largely due to non-recurring shocks.¬† Here's Ashworth: What explains the mid-year slowdowns Along with some bouts of unusual weather, the more likely explanation is that growth in activity and employment has been hit by a succession of one-off shocks over the past few years. In 2010, we had the emergence of the euro-zone crisis with the first Greek bail-out in May 2010, which sent markets into a renewed tailspin. The Japanese earthquake and tsunami hit in March 2011, resulting in supply problems for US manufacturers. The euro-zone crisis flared up again, with the Portuguese bailout in May of 2011 and the second Greek bailout in July. The latter coincided with the first debt ceiling stand-off in Congress that nearly led to a Federal government shutdown. All of these factors conspired to slow US growth in mid-2011. Activity in the first few months of 2012 was boosted by the record warm weather, which developed into a serious drought that reduced crop yields during the summer months. Hurricane Sandy hit fourth quarter activity and employment, with the clean up spending probably spilling over into the start of 2013. Having said all of that, Ashworth is optimistic that the slowdown won't stick.¬† Among other things, he notes that gas prices have come down notably, which is good news for the American consumer.
The EconomistCentral banks in the rich world may have been too successful in subduing price pressures IT TOOK an iron will (and a handbag) to beat the inflation of the 1970s. Under Margaret Thatcher the British government squeezed the economy with high interest rates until the beast submitted. The Federal Reserve, then led by Paul Volcker, followed suit. Such displays of fortitude convinced markets that governments were serious about keeping inflation low. Expectations of future price increases converged around central-bank targets, touching off an era of long expansions and mild recessions. Yet relative price stability may now be adding to the rich world‚Äôs economic woes. Deep recessions like the recent global contraction would normally be expected to send inflation tumbling. Workless labourers ought to reduce wage demands to find employment; firms with unsold goods should slash prices to clear inventories. There was every reason to expect that inflation would go to zero or even enter negative territory in recent years. In April 2009 the International Monetary Fund forecast that inflation in that year would be -0.2% for advanced economies. Instead it has barely budged across the latest business cycle (see left-hand chart). Deflation has been the "dog that didn‚Äôt bark", notes the IMF in its new "World Economic Outlook"*. When America‚Äôs unemployment rate jumped between 1980 and 1982, by 4.5 percentage points to 10.8%, core inflation plummeted from 12.0% to 4.5%. The jobless rate in America rose even more steeply between 2007 and 2009 but inflation dropped by less than one percentage point, from about 2.4% to 1.7%. Where inflation rates rose above central bankers‚Äô targets, as in Britain, or below them, as in Japan, expectations of future rates still stayed close to the targets. Some economists argue that stable inflation is a result of some big changes in the labour market. Wages and prices did not fall by much in recent years because jobless workers exited the labour force for good--a result of over-generous welfare benefits and obsolete skills. Such people do not compete with others for jobs and therefore cannot drag down inflation. Another view is that stability reflects central banks‚Äô credibility. When central banks whipped inflation in the early 1980s and adopted low targets for it, they firmly anchored beliefs about future growth in prices and wages. This credibility is self-reinforcing. Workers who expect prices to rise only slowly tend not to push as hard for higher wages. That helps firms to keep costs and prices down. When the crisis struck, this process also helped avert deflation. If prices are not expected to drop, workers are less likely to accept wage cuts. Anticipating stable wage demands, employers are more reluctant to cut prices. This second story seems a better fit for the data, argues the IMF. Since 1990 expected rates of inflation have inched ever closer to central-bank targets. And over the same period short-term gaps between actual inflation and the official target had ever weaker effects on people‚Äôs expectations. Markets seem to trust central banks to return inflation to target, and that trust itself helps keep it in line (though the dispersion in expected inflation rates seems to have widened lately). As inflation has become more anchored, its links with other economic indicators have weakened. In a study of 21 rich countries since the 1960s, the IMF shows that changes in unemployment now influence inflation much less than in the past (see right-hand chart). Without the breakdown in this relationship, America‚Äôs economy would have faced deflation rates approaching 3% in the wake of the recent recession, the IMF notes. That is small comfort to inflation hawks, who fear that expectations may well prove less anchored during the next boom. After all, firms could easily be more enthusiastic about raising prices than cutting them. Yet experience before the financial crisis suggests that boom times may not be so different. In the decade before the crisis unemployment in Britain, Ireland and Spain dipped below its estimated "natural rate" (the lowest sustainable rate) for years at a time. Actual inflation and expectations of it hardly budged. What could cause inflation expectations to break free again, as in the 1970s? Contrasting the experience of the American and German economies, the IMF reckons that central-bank independence makes all the difference. Both the Federal Reserve and the Bundesbank mistakenly saw 1970s-era unemployment as mostly temporary. But the Bundesbank managed to resist its government‚Äôs calls for looser monetary policy. The Fed, under its then chairman, Arthur Burns, was more responsive to Richard Nixon‚Äôs demands. Only in the late 1970s, when public opinion no longer saw unemployment but inflation as the chief economic evil, was it politically possible to give the Fed licence to stamp out inflation. Low inflation may be central bankers‚Äô proudest achievement but it comes with its own set of economic risks, argues the IMF. The economic stability of the pre-crisis era may have fuelled the excess borrowing that led to the financial crisis. And a 2012 IMF working paper suggests that reining in inflation can increase income inequality by compressing wages while allowing asset prices to soar. More worryingly, the weakening link between inflation and unemployment could breed complacency about rising joblessness. Central bankers weaned on tales from the 1930s and 1980s, when soaring unemployment produced tumbling inflation, may have underestimated recent economic troubles because of stable inflation. An outbreak of deflation might have prompted them to act sooner and even more resolutely to battle the recession. Central banks are victims of their own success. With inflation no longer a reliable indicator of demand, they must look elsewhere to keep economies from running hot or cold. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
On April 3rd, a college student in Greeley, Colo., Alexander Heit, lost control of his car and plunged over an embankment. Heit¬†survived the crash, but died later at a nearby hospital. Before he crashed, Heit had a flawless driving record. According to witnesses, in the last seconds of his life, Heit had his head down. His car drifted across the road into the left lane, causing an oncoming car to pull over in alarm. At the last moment, Heit saw what had happened and jerked the wheel to correct his mistake. He over-corrected, however, and his car swerved off the road and rolled. Police found Heit's cell phone in the wreck. They later determined that he had been texting while driving. His last words were preserved on his phone: Greeley Tribune Sherrie Peif of the Greeley Tribune reports that Heit's mother Sharon has released the following statement, which she hopes will persuade others not to make the mistake that tragically killed her son: ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt bear the thought of anyone else having to go through something like this,‚Äù Heit wrote in the release. ‚ÄúPlease, vow to never, NEVER text and drive. In a split second you could ruin your future, injure or kill others, and tear a hole in the heart of everyone who loves you.‚Äù Read more at the Greeley Tribune &gt;
There are several countries included where sovereign holdings in Q3 2012 are a smaller part of bank assets than in Q1 2006. ¬†Greece stands out, but that is a consequence of the restructuring of the government's debt (that was in private hands, though ABN AMRO, in the Netherlands is a notable exception). We suspect that in several core euro zone members, like Germany, France and Belgium, the reduction is a function of reducing peripheral exposures faster than domestic sovereign debt was accumulated. ¬†Similarly, the increase in Portugal, Spain, and Italy's ratios are a function of the use of the LTROs to purchase domestic sovereign debt. Europe still does not appear to have severed the link between sovereigns and banks, but the causal connection runs in both directions. ¬†Sometimes a weak sovereign can aggravate the bank challenges. ¬†If, for example, the political situation cannot be resolved in Italy and the sovereign yields rise precipitously, Italian banks will suffer. Similarly, the banking woes in Cyprus and Slovenia exacerbate the sovereign challenges. Elsewhere, the increased sovereign holdings of Australian and New Zealand banks seems surprising. ¬†There seemed to be strong international interest, especially for Australian paper, given the relatively high yields and healthy banking system. U.S. banks have also increased Treasury holdings on their balance sheets, which is partly a function of strengthening their balance sheets and the slower increase in lending to the private sector. Japanese banks had the highest percentage of sovereign bonds on their balance sheets in 2006 and increased it further in the subsequent period.¬† Private sector lending in Japan has risen for nearly 18 months now, mostly for reconstruction efforts, though there has been some lending related to foreign direct investment as well. ¬†However, lending to the private sector is still relatively slow. It will be interesting to see if Japanese corporations try to fill the gap created by the BOJ's plans to purchase 70% of the new JGBs this year and next, by issuing more corporate bonds.  Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a momentum oscillator that measures the speed and change of price moves. The RSI moves between zero and 100 and is considered overbought with a reading above 70 and oversold when below 30. ¬†Note the RSI can sustain an overbought (oversold) reading in a strong up (down) trend. Global Macro Monito ¬† (click here if chart is not observable) ¬† Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ¬ª
Julie Zeveloff/Business InsiderA new genetic test can reveal whether runners are likely to be able to complete a marathon in a good time. If months of marathon training fails to deliver the kind of finishing times you were hoping for this year, there is no need to beat yourself up - you were not born to do it. Scientists have discovered that to run a marathon in a good time requires the right combination of genes and that nearly a fifth of the population lack this special mix. For runners with the right genes, it means their bodies can quickly adapt to carry large amounts of oxygen to their muscles, allowing them to run faster and for longer. Those who lack these genes, however, will never improve, no matter how much they train, and their performance may even get worse the harder they push themselves. It may help to explain why some overweight runners can go streaking past other apparently fitter competitors. A new DNA test developed by the researchers behind the study could now help tell anyone hoping to achieve a decent marathon finishing time whether their efforts will be worthwhile. Professor Jamie Timmons, head of systems biology at Loughborough University, has found more than 100 genes responsible for determining how the human body responds to stamina training. He and his colleagues have found they can use 30 of these key genes to predict whether someone is capable of running a marathon well. Professor Timmons said: ‚ÄúIf someone‚Äôs ambition is to do a marathon in a decent manner, we can tell them if they can based on their baseline fitness and their potential for responding to training. ‚ÄúFrom our work, we know that 20 per cent of people do not respond at all to training and in fact can get worse. They push themselves as hard as everyone else, but their muscles do not extract the same amount of oxygen. ‚ÄúAbout 15 per cent have the genes that mean they will respond highly to training. But of that number, only those with a good inherited baseline fitness and good resistance to injury will ever become elite marathon runners, so that is an even smaller percentage.‚Äù The test works by looking at genes that are responsible for remodelling muscle fibres to allow small blood vessels to grow in between. These help to carry as much oxygen as possible to the muscles during exercise. Those that have the right mix of these genes can grow new blood vessels and remodel their muscles effectively in response to regular intense aerobic exercise such as long distance running. Roughly 20 per cent of the population have genes that do not do this remodelling effectively under the kind of regular high intensity training runners use to prepare for marathons and it can even reduce their body‚Äôs ability to get oxygen to their muscles effectively, resulting in a reduction in performance. Anyone falling into this category would be better tto give up on their dream of completing a marathon and turning their attention to a different sport, said Professor Timmons. He said: ‚ÄúIt is plausible that by pushing it though training, they get a maladaptation. What is clear is that there is no one recipe that fits all. ‚ÄúThese low aerobic responders would be better going to the gym to build up their strength and muscle tissue or taking up other competitive sports like martial arts or strength related sports.‚Äù The findings may come too late for those who have signed up to this year‚Äôs marathons, with the season already under way and the country‚Äôs biggest, the London Marathon, due to take place next weekend. Hundreds of thousands of competitors take part in marathons around the country each year and Professor Timmons has now set up a company with his colleagues at Pennington Biomedical Research Centre in Louisiana and the Medical Prognosis Institute in Copenhagen to offer runners the chance to have their DNA tested. They hope the test, called XRPredict+, will help people decide how hard to push themselves when training. Last year one marathon runner collapsed and died less than a mile from the finish line. An inquiry later revealed she had taken a drink containing a performance enhancing stimulant as she strove to beat her personal best of four hours. For some marathon hopefuls, the intensive training they do to prepare for the race can result in them not taking part at all. Of the 48,323, accepted applicants for this years London Marathon, just 36,000 are expected to start. Roughly 600 of those who started the race last year did not finish while the St John‚Äôs Ambulance estimates that it helps around 4,000 runners each year before, during and after the event. Professor Timmons also hopes to conduct new research to understand how the genes he has identified play a role in runner‚Äôs susceptibility to injury. He said: ‚ÄúThe genes that underpin the development of the oxygen transport system also play an important role in ligaments and tendons as well. ‚ÄúThere may be a link between people who respond poorly to this sort of training and susceptibility to injury, but that still needs a lot of work. ‚ÄúWe are still early in the life of this kind of use of genomics, but hopefully we will get better at being able to understand how genes determine people‚Äôs performance and be able to offer them advice. ‚ÄúThis is important not just for those involved in sport for fun, but also from a health point of view ‚Äì we want to be able to tailor the exercise people are doing so it is right for them.‚Äù 
 Late last week, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos published his latest letter to shareholders. This year's letter, like most of Bezos' letters, should inspire most companies to change the way they do business. Specifically, it should inspire companies to do business the way Amazon does business ó sacrificing this year's profits to invest in long-term customer loyalty and product opportunities that will create bigger profits next year and for years thereafter. The way most companies do business is to focus primarily on today's bottom line: The prevailing ethos in corporate America, after all, is that companies exist to make money for their owners ó and the more and the sooner the better ó so every decision should be made in the context of that. The result of this is that many (most?) companies scrimp on things like long-term investments, customer service, product quality, and employee compensation, in the interest of delivering a few more pennies to this quarter's bottom line. FRED/Business InsiderAmerican profit margins just hit an all-time high.This obsession with short-term profits has helped produce the unhealthy and destabilizing situation that now afflicts the U.S. economy: The profit margins of America's corporations are now higher than they ever have been in history, while the employee wages paid by America's corporations are the lowest they have ever been in history. Meanwhile, a smaller percentage of America's adults are working than at any time since the late 1970s. Since the wages that America's corporations pay Americans become revenue for other American companies (most consumers spend pretty much every penny they earn), this fire-your-way-to-prosperity mentality is myopic short-term thinking at its worst. Business Insider, St. Louis FedAmerican wages just hit an all-time low.So it's inspiring to see a striking example of success from a company that has never put short-term profits ahead of long-term investment and value creation. Over the course of its spectacular 17-year history, Amazon has always put customers, and investing for the long-term, first. Time and time again, for example, Amazon has voluntarily and proactively cut prices to increase its value to its customers. It has invested in technology and customer service practices that startle and delight customers and create long-term loyalty. It has made big, bold bets that had relatively low odds of paying off. In so doing, Amazon has frequently and brazenly disappointed the short-term investors who tend to dominate Wall Street, investors who forever grumble that Amazon should be "making more money." And, in so doing, Amazon has built one of the most dominant, enduring, and valuable†enterprises that the Internet boom has yet produced. Meanwhile many other promising companies that rode the Internet wave have stumbled, in part because they put too much emphasis on short-term profitability and failed to invest enough in long-term value creation. (Think AOL, Yahoo, eBay, Microsoft, and, most recently, Apple.) America's obsession with short-term profitability has become so pervasive in our culture that even outside observers ó journalists, for example ó often snicker about Amazon's relatively low profit margins. They should not be snickering. They should be applauding. And they should be encouraging other American corporations to follow Amazon's inspiring lead ó to invest more of today's profits in tomorrow's opportunities, product development, customer loyalty, and dedicated employees. Yes, if more corporations choose to do this, their stocks might temporarily drop. But over the long haul, their stocks should do better than they would have done if the main mission of their enterprise remained to pile up more cash on the balance sheet. (See Apple's stock if you don't believe this.) Bezos explains it this way: Our heavy investments in Prime, AWS, Kindle, digital media, and customer experience in general strike some as too generous, shareholder indifferent, or even at odds with being a for-profit company. ìAmazon, as far as I can tell, is a charitable organization being run by elements of the investment community for the benefit of consumers,î writes one outside observer.  But I donít think so.  To me, trying to dole out improvements in a just-in-time fashion would be too clever by half. It would be risky in a world as fast-moving as the one we all live in.  More fundamentally, I think long-term thinking squares the circle. Proactively delighting customers earns trust, which earns more business from those customers, even in new business arenas. Take a long-term view, and the interests of customers and shareholders align. "Take a long-term view, and the interests of customers and shareholders align." That's the money quote. That's the philosophy that has made Amazon so successful. That's the philosophy that more American corporations need to embrace and understand. Bezos's full letter is below. (Note: An early reader of this letter, Peter Kafka of All Things D, pointed out that, much to my surprise, Bezos actually quotes an article I wrote that praised a small Amazon customer-service investment that benefitted me personally. I have linked the quote to the original article†below. Jeff Bezos also recently invested in Business Insider, which was very exciting for us. Given this, if you want to dismiss this article as just mutual back-scratching, I understand. But I have made the same argument for years. And it is true regardless.) † †  To our shareowners: As regular readers of this letter will know, our energy at Amazon comes from the desire to impress customers rather than the zeal to best competitors. We donít take a view on which of these approaches is more likely to maximize business success. There are pros and cons to both and many examples of highly successful competitor-focused companies. We do work to pay attention to competitors and be inspired by them, but it is a fact that the customer-centric way is at this point a defining element of our culture. One advantage ñ perhaps a somewhat subtle one ñ of a customer-driven focus is that it aids a certain type of proactivity. When weíre at our best, we donít wait for external pressures. We are†internally†driven to improve our services, adding benefits and features, before we have to. We lower prices and increase value for customers before we have to. We invent before we have to. These investments are motivated by customer focus rather than by reaction to competition. We think this approach earns more trust with customers and drives rapid improvements in customer experience ñ importantly ñ even in those areas where we are already the leader. ìThank you. Every time I see that white paper on the front page of Amazon, I know that Iím about to get more for my money than I thought I would. I signed up for Prime for the shipping, yet now I get movies, and TV and books. You keep adding more, but not charging more. So thanks again for the additions.î We now have more than 15†million items in Prime, up 15x since we launched in 2005. Prime Instant Video selection tripled in just over a year to more than 38,000 movies and TV episodes. The Kindle Ownersí Lending Library has also more than tripled to over 300,000 books, including an investment of millions of dollars to make the entire†Harry Potter†series available as part of that selection. We didnít ìhave toî make these improvements in Prime. We did so proactively. A related investment ñ a major, multi-year one ñ is Fulfillment by Amazon. FBA gives third-party sellers the option of warehousing their inventory alongside ours in our fulfillment center network. It has been a game changer for our seller customers because their items become eligible for Prime benefits, which drives their sales, while at the same time benefitting consumers with additional Prime selection. We build automated systems that look for occasions when weíve provided a customer experience that isnít up to our standards, and those systems then proactively refund customers. One industry observer recently received an automated email from us that said, ìWe noticed that you experienced poor video playback while watching the following rental on Amazon Video On Demand: Casablanca. Weíre sorry for the inconvenience and have issued you a refund for the following amount: $2.99. We hope to see you again soon.î Surprised by the proactive refund, he ended up writing about the experience: ìAmazon ënoticed that I experienced poor video playbackÖí And they decided to give me a refund because of that? WowÖTalk about putting customers first.î [Here's the original article.] When you pre-order something from Amazon, we guarantee you the lowest price offered by us between your order time and the end of the day of the release date. ìI just received notice of a $5 refund to my credit card for pre-order price protection. . . What a great way to do business! Thank you very much for your fair and honest dealings.î Most customers are too busy themselves to monitor the price of an item after they pre-order it, and our policy could be to require the customer to contact us and ask for the refund. Doing it proactively is more expensive for us, but it also surprises, delights, and earns trust. We also have authors as customers. Amazon Publishing has just announced it will start paying authors their royalties monthly, sixty days in arrears. The industry standard is twice a year, and that has been the standard for a long time. Yet when we interview authors as customers, infrequent payment is a major dissatisfier. Imagine how youíd like it if you were paid twice a year. There isnít competitive pressure to pay authors more than once every six months, but weíre proactively doing so. By the way ñ though the research was taxing, I struggled through and am happy to report that I recently saw many Kindles in use at a Florida beach. There are five generations of Kindle, and I believe I saw every generation in use except for the first. Our business approach is to sell premium hardware at roughly breakeven prices. We want to make money when people use our devices ñ not when people buy our devices. We think this aligns us better with customers. For example, we donít need our customers to be on the upgrade treadmill. We can be very happy to see people still using four-year-old Kindles! I can keep going ñ Kindle Fireís FreeTime, our customer service Andon Cord, Amazon MP3ís AutoRip ñ but will finish up with a very clear example of internally driven motivation: Amazon Web Services. In 2012, AWS announced 159 new features and services. Weíve reduced AWS prices 27 times since launching 7 years ago, added enterprise service support enhancements, and created innovative tools to help customers be more efficient. AWS Trusted Advisor monitors customer configurations, compares them to known best practices, and then notifies customers where opportunities exist to improve performance, enhance security, or save money. Yes, we are actively telling customers theyíre paying us more than they need to. In the last 90 days, customers have saved millions of dollars through Trusted Advisor, and the service is only getting started. All of this progress comes in the context of AWS being the widely recognized leader in its area ñ a situation where you might worry that external motivation could fail. On the other hand, internal motivation ñ the drive to get the customer to say ìWowî ñ keeps the pace of innovation fast. Our heavy investments in Prime, AWS, Kindle, digital media, and customer experience in general strike some as too generous, shareholder indifferent, or even at odds with being a for-profit company. ìAmazon, as far as I can tell, is a charitable organization being run by elements of the investment community for the benefit of consumers,î writes one outside observer. But I donít think so. To me, trying to dole out improvements in a just-in-time fashion would be too clever by half. It would be risky in a world as fast-moving as the one we all live in. More fundamentally, I think long-term thinking squares the circle. Proactively delighting customers earns trust, which earns more business from those customers, even in new business arenas. Take a long-term view, and the interests of customers and shareholders align. As I write this, our recent stock performance has been positive, but we constantly remind ourselves of an important point ñ as I frequently quote famed investor Benjamin Graham in our employee all-hands meetings ñ ìIn the short run, the market is a voting machine but in the long run, it is a weighing machine.î We donít celebrate a 10% increase in the stock price like we celebrate excellent customer experience. We arenít 10% smarter when that happens and conversely arenít 10% dumber when the stock goes the other way. We want to be weighed, and weíre always working to build a heavier company. As proud as I am of our progress and our inventions, I know that we will make mistakes along the way ñ some will be self-inflicted, some will be served up by smart and hard-working competitors. Our passion for pioneering will drive us to explore narrow passages, and, unavoidably, many will turn out to be blind alleys. But ñ with a bit of good fortune ñ there will also be a few that open up into broad avenues. I am incredibly lucky to be a part of this large team of outstanding missionaries who value our customers as much as I do and who demonstrate that every day with their hard work. As always, I attach a copy of our original 1997 letter. Our approach remains the same, and itís still Day 1. † 
Flickr via makelessnoiseSeniors looking for a big cash payout from a reverse mortgage will have to look elsewhere for needed funds. A small but increasing number of defaults on the loan product has prompted a crackdown by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) on the biggest payout loan to homeowners. The basic theory behind reverse mortgages ‚Äî you must be 62 or older to apply ‚Äî is that instead of making payments to a lender like in a traditional mortgage, the borrower receives non-taxable money from the lender, which does not have to be paid back for as long as the person lives in the home. Borrowers are now restricted in how they get one type of reverse mortgage known as the standard fixed rate Home Equity Conversion Mortgage Loan, or HECM. The HECM has been the most popular with borrowers because it yields the greatest amount of money ‚Äî often in the hundreds of thousands of dollars ‚Äî in one lump sum. HECM loans are still available ‚Äî but instead of having fixed mortgage rates, they are offered only with variable rates, which yield less immediate cash.¬† "The standard HECM loans have proven to have an unusual number of defaults," said Delores Conway, associate dean and professor of real estate at the University of Rochester.¬†(Read more:¬†Obama's Budget Could Cap More IRAs in Future Years) "By taking so much cash up front, homeowners have less money in later years to keep up with property taxes and other housing expenses they have to pay even with a reverse mortgage," Conway added. "That, and falling property values, have increased defaults." The FHA insures some 90 percent of reverse mortgages purchased from private lenders. It says about 58,000 loans ‚Äî or nearly ten percent of its reverse mortgages ‚Äî were in default in 2012. That's up from 2 percent ten years ago. The FHA says it faces some $2.8 billion in losses from the defaults, which could force it to seek a bailout from the federal government next year. By halting the fixed rate standard HECM, the FHA said in testimony before Congress late last year that it hopes to prevent more defaults in the future. "This does limit an option for people thinking about reverse mortgages, but you can understand why the FHA is doing this," Conway explained. "There's some real concern about people spending their cash too soon and defaulting." Reverse mortgages are often thought of as a financial lifeline for seniors, especially with medical costs rising for an explosion of retiring baby boomers. (Read more:¬†US Should Mandate Higher 401(k) Savings: Fidelity Exec) The amount of the loan is based on the equity or sale value of the house, as well as the type of interest associated with the loan. Payments to borrowers are monthly for a specific time or as long as the borrower lives in the house. The borrower retains title of the home, but the loan does have to be repaid when the person dies, sells the property or no longer uses the home as their primary residence. Borrowers still have to pay property taxes, home owners and mortgage insurance and any other home maintenance fees. Before applying, potential borrowers must meet with a government approved housing agency for counseling. Critics of reverse mortgages say they come at too high of a price. Interest rates can be steeper than traditional loans ‚Äî current rates are between 4 and 12 percent. There's also closing costs and up front fees, which can average anywhere between $2,000 and $15,000 depending on the lender and type of loan. "Reverse mortgages are not a one-size-fits-all product," said Steven Weisman, an elder law attorney and professor at Bentley University. "For people who are cash poor and house rich and need the money to stay in their homes, the product may be helpful," Weisman explained. "However, reverse mortgages are a very expensive way to borrow money and should not be used as a first option when perhaps there are other, better options," argued Weisman. "Reverse mortgages are touted as a financial planning tool for seniors, however, I do not recommend them for my clients," said Tara Wilson, general counsel at Wilson LF, a law firm specializing in estate planning. "Not only are the transaction fees excessive, but they are usually a stopgap that leave seniors in a mush worse financial position when they are exhausted of their funds from the loan," Wilson said.¬† Industry insiders say those critical of the loans don't really understand them or the potential benefits they provide. "Reverse mortgages are very popular and have something for everyone," said Greg Smith, president of ORM, a reverse mortgage firm which handled some 5,000 reverse mortgage loans last year. "These loans are no more complicated than any other type of loan. It's a mainstream program and should be part of someone's financial planning," said Smith, whose firm uses actor Henry Winkler as its spokesman on TV commercials. "They are a great cash flow tool even with the new restrictions. More people will take them out in the future," Smith said. Lending for HECM's was down 25 percent in 2012. Only 54,591 loans were issued ‚Äî the third straight year of falling loan volume and far below the peak year of 2009, when 115,000 loans were originated. But more seniors are expected to apply for the loans in the years ahead. Seniors who need cash for health care and other expenses as they face limited retirement funds or job losses. (Read more:¬†Social Security Cuts 'Not Humane') The bottom line for Delores Conway is to proceed with caution. "There could be better options but seniors should look at everything including reverse mortgages," said Conway. "For some people they are great. They get a monthly payment, get to stay in their home. It could improve their financial situation. It just depends on what they want to do."
Wikimedia CommonsDisorganization across the federal government has led to billions of wasted tax dollars spent on redundant federal programs, from $30 million worth of catfish inspections performed by two separate agencies, to $66 million in contracts awarded by two different arms of the Department of Homeland Security unknowingly research the exact same thing. These are just two examples from the Government Accountability Office‚Äôs third annual report to Congress identifying overlapping programs and inefficiencies across the federal government. This year, the agency watchdog found 31 new areas of overlap, which, if addressed would equal about $95 billion in potential cost savings. That‚Äôs $10 billion more than the sequester cuts that took effect last month. ‚ÄúInstead of preventing furloughs, reopening air traffic control towers and restoring public access to the White House, Congress and the administration continue to defend billions of dollars in duplicative programs that are little more than monuments to the good intentions of career politicians in Washington,‚Äù said Sen. Tom Coburn, R-OK, who sponsored legislation requiring the annual report. Congress mandated that GAO conduct this report in an effort to cut back on wasteful spending. So far, the government has been slow to respond to the GAO‚Äôs suggestions. Since the first report in 2011, the government has only addressed 16 of the 162 redundant wasteful areas that GAO has identified. Meanwhile, 87 have been partially addressed and 27 were left completely ignored. Unless real reforms are taken, the auditors don‚Äôt expect much to change. During a congressional hearing last week, U.S. Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, head of the GAO, emphasized the government‚Äôs sloth-like response to the agency watchdog‚Äôs suggestions for reforms: ‚ÄúMy term goes to 2025.¬† I hope that I won‚Äôt be reporting all these same issues in that year. But I can tell you that it won‚Äôt change unless the Congress gets involved in this process with active oversight.‚Äù President Obama, who vowed early on in his first term to¬†eliminate wasteful spending, is making another attempt at streamlining the federal government. On the heels of the GAO report‚Äôs release, Obama unveiled his fiscal 2014 budget, which proposes to cut and consolidate programs, including eliminating two catfish inspection programs that would achieve $25 billion in savings. Of course, Obama‚Äôs budget will likely not be enacted into law and even if it was, many experts say fundamental change in the federal government will only be achieved through a massive overhaul of the system. ‚ÄúA number of overarching trends, such as fiscal sustainability and debt challenges‚Ä¶underscore the need for a fundamental reconsideration of the role, operations, and structure of the federal government for the 21st century,‚Äù Patricia Dalton, GAO‚Äôs chief operating officer noted during congressional testimony last year on government reorganization. For now, the GAO is ramping up its pressure on the federal government by launching a new website feature where federal workers can identify and track wasteful spending within their agencies.¬†See the website here.¬† Here are 10 examples of redundant programs across the federal government: Catfish inspections:¬†¬†The federal government currently spends $30 million to fund two different catfish inspections programs through the Federal Drug Administration and the National Marine Fisheries Service and is in the process of implementing a third through the U.S. Department of Agriculture under the 2008 Farm Bill. GAO recommends streamlining the catfish inspection responsibilities to one agency could save the government $14 million. Military Uniforms:¬†¬†¬†Four different branches of the U.S. military are spending millions of dollars on seven different combat uniforms that differ only in the color of their camouflage patterns. According to the GAO, if the military streamlined its combat uniform acquisition process, it could save the Pentagon $82 million. Currently, none of the services collaborate to manage their inventories or find other ways to standardize their uniforms, the report says. Foreign Language Service at the DOD:¬†¬†¬†The DOD is spending more than $1 billion a year on foreign language support including translation and interpretative services. The GAO found that the Pentagon has hired more than 159 contracting organizations to provide similar language services for 10 different areas within the Defense Department. If DOD scaled back those contracts, it could save $50 to $200 million a year. National Technical Information Service:¬†¬†The National Technical Information Service, which is part of the Commerce Department, sells federal reports that can be found online for free. Regardless, government agencies continue paying for these reports. In 2011, NTIS earned $1.5 million in revenue, by charging $50 for a CD or $99 for a printed document. The GAO says about 75 percent of the reports sold today can be found online for free - just by doing a simple web search. Drug abuse prevention and treatment programs:¬†The federal government currently funds 76 different drug-abuse prevention and treatment programs‚Äî59 of which, overlapped responsibilities. Training Programs for Veterans:¬†¬†The Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs operate six different programs that employ and train veterans in virtually the same way. The programs cost the government $1.2 billion in 2011. Department of Homeland Security Research and Development¬†: Last year, two separate arms of the Department of Homeland Security were researching the exact same thing and nobody noticed. According to GAO, DHS awarded 50 different contracts to research the detection of the same chemical, which cost approximately $66 million. Renewable Energy Initiatives¬†: Auditors found extensive overlap across 679 renewable energy initiatives implemented by 23 different agencies across the federal government, including 82 initiatives for wind energy alone, which cost agencies about $2.9 billion and provided tax subsidies totaling at least $1.1 billion. In one instance, one company received funding from seven wind energy programs for the same project.¬†Higher Education Assistance:¬†¬†Four federal agencies run 21 separate college aid programs that cost more than $140 billion a year, including eight targeted tax breaks, four subsidized loan programs, two grant programs and six others run by the Veterans Administration and Defense. Still, nothing has been done to evaluate "the effectiveness of this assistance,‚Äù the GAO says. Broadcasting Board of Governors' Language Services:¬†The Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) spends 20 percent of its annual budget on 69 different language services‚Äîof which, 49 provide roughly the same responsibilities.
The private equity industry's capacity for leveraged buyouts continues to decline. Here are some reasons for this trend: Monetizations of portfolio companies have been talking longer in recent years. That traps investors' capital, reducing capacity for redeployment in new funds or in some cases for recycling in existing funds. Newly launched buyout funds - even from established managers - are having an increasingly difficult time raising the same amounts of capital they did in earlier funds. Large institutional investors have been cautious on private equity due to liquidity constraints they encountered in 2008 as well as poor return expectations for the whole sector. Many pensions and endowments are staying away from some of the mega-funds with the belief they are too bulky to achieve superior returns. And in cases where major investors do come into large LBO funds, they often demand to directly co-invest with these funds on buyout deals. These co-investments, on which pensions do not pay fees, become a significant portion of investors' private equity allocations. Pensions holding company shares directly on their books limits the amount of capital available for LBO funds. Some years back when deals were too large for a single fund, LBO firms would call each other to club on transactions. Now they call their investors to present co-investment opportunities. soberlook.com Another trend causing a slowdown in institutional demand for LBO equity funds ‚Äî the largest among private equity products ‚Äî has to do with the ongoing rebalancing in retirement funding. Increasingly employers are shifting from defined benefits to defined contribution pensions. Defined contribution accounts are managed by individuals rather than pension funds and do not have access to alternative investments such as private equity. The slower growth in defined benefits accounts (as well as the ageing population of employees with these benefits) limits the overall demand for private equity, making fundraising for LBO shops enormously challenging in an already competitive environment.
The success of Amazon these past 16 years would come as no surprise to anyone who subscribes to the idea that you take the best care of the customer and everything else falls into place. Amazon is perhaps the single best embodiment of this ideal in Corporate America today. Jeff Bezos is beginning attain an aura about him, a halo around his head handed down to him from the recently departed Steve Jobs. We are approaching a moment of near-universal agreement that Bezos can do no wrong. It is fascinating to watch - especially given the high degree of skepticism that once dogged his every move and initiative. Jeff's letter to shareholders - in which he reaffirms the company's focus on it's customer and not them - is a fantastic piece of mission statement-craft. It will educate you as to how the company is and always has been oriented, it may even inspire you to think about some of these ideas for your own business or daily practices. Read it here:
We in the United States, the Euro-zone, and Japan are already past peak oil demand. Oil demand has to do with how much oil we can afford. Many of the developed nations are not able to outbid the developing nations when it comes to the world‚Äôs limited oil supply. A chart of oil consumption shows that oil consumption peaked for the combination of the United States, EU-27, and Japan in 2005 (Figure 1). ourfiniteworld.comFigure 1. Oil consumption by part of the world, based on EIA data. 2012 world consumption data estimated based on world ‚Äúall liquids‚Äù production amounts. We can see an even more pronounced version of this pattern if we look at the oil consumption of the five countries known as the PIIGS in Europe: Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain. All of these countries have had serious declines in oil consumption in recent years, as high oil prices have impeded their economies. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 2. Oil consumption for Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain, based on EIA data. Oil consumption for the PIIGS in total hit its highest level in 2004, before the decline began. Peak oil consumption by country varied a bit: Portugal, 2002; Italy, declining since 1995; Ireland, peak in 2007; Spain, peak in 2007; Greece, peak in 2006. Peak demand is very much related to jobs.¬†Peak oil demand occurs when a country is not competitive in the world market-place, and because of this, loses industry and jobs. One reason this happens is because the country‚Äôs energy cost structure is not competitive in the world market-place. With the run-up in oil prices starting about 2003, oil is by far the most expensive of the traditional energy sources we have available today. Countries that use a large percentage of oil in their energy mix can be expected to have a hard time competing, because of oil‚Äôs higher cost. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 3. Oil consumption as percentage of energy consumption for selected countries, based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. Anything else that is done which raises costs for businesses will also have an impact. This would include ‚Äúcarbon taxes,‚Äù if competitors do not have them, and if there is no tariff on imported goods to reflect carbon inputs. High-cost renewables can also have an adverse impact, regardless of whether the cost is borne by businesses, consumers or the government. This importance of competitiveness holds, no matter how worthy a given approach is. If costs were ‚Äúexternalized‚Äù before, and are now borne by the local system, it makes the local system less competitive. For example, putting in proper pollution controls will make local industry less competitive, if the competition is Chinese industry, acting without such ¬†controls. One issue in competitiveness is wage levels. Wages in turn are related to standards of living. In a global economy, countries with higher wage levels for workers, and higher benefit levels for workers (such as health insurance and pensions) will be at a competitive disadvantage. Countries that use coal as their prime source of energy will be at an advantage, because workers‚Äô wages will tend to ‚Äúgo farther‚Äù in heating their homes and buying electricity. Countries that are warm in the winter will be at a competitive advantage, because homes don‚Äôt have to be built as sturdily, and don‚Äôt have to be heated in winter. Workers can commute by bicycle even in the coldest weather. Energy usage (all types combined, not just oil) is far higher in cold countries than it is in warm wet countries. Countries that extract oil also tend to be high users of energy. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 4. Per capita energy consumption for selected countries for the year 2010, based on EIA data. The difference in per capita energy usage among the various countries is truly astounding. For example, Bangladesh‚Äôs per capita energy consumption is slightly less than 2% of US energy consumption. This difference in energy consumption means that salaries can be much lower, and thus products made in Bangladesh can be much cheaper, than those made in the United States. This is part of our competitiveness problem, even apart from the energy mix problem mentioned earlier. In my view, globalization brought on many of our current problems. Perhaps globalization could not be avoided, but we should have foreseen the problems. We could have put tariffs in place to make a more level playing field. ¬†See my post,¬†Twelve Reasons Why Globalization is a Huge Problem. Inadequate world oil supply isn‚Äôt exactly the problem.¬†The issue is far more that the price of oil extraction is rising.¬† The price of oil extraction is rising for a variety of reasons, an important one being that we extracted the easy to extract oil first, and what is left is more expensive to extract. Another issue is that oil exporters now have large populations that need to be kept fed and clothed, so they don‚Äôt revolt. This is a separate issue, that raises costs, even above the direct cost of extraction. There is no reason to believe that these costs will level off or fall, no matter how much oil the US produces using high-priced methods, such as fracking. When oil prices rise, wages don‚Äôt rise at the same time. In fact, in the US there is evidence ¬†that wages stagnate when oil prices are high, partly because fewer are employed, and partly because the wages of those employed flatten. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 5. High oil prices are associated with depressed wages. Oil price through 2011 from BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy, updated to 2012 using EIA data and CPI-Urban from BLS. Average wages calculated by dividing Private Industry wages from US BEA Table 2.1 by US population, and bringing to 2012 cost level using CPI-Urban. The countries that are most affected by rising oil prices are the countries that use oil to the greatest extent in their mix of energy products. In Figure 3, that would be the PIIGS. The rest of the US, EU-27, and Japan would be next in line. When oil prices rise, consumers need to balance their budgets. The price of oil products and food rises, so they cut back on discretionary items. ¬†Their smaller purchases of discretionary goods and services means that workers in discretionary sectors get laid off. Businesses find that the price of oil used in manufacturing and shipping their products has risen. If they raise the sales price of the goods to reflect their higher costs, it means that fewer people can afford their products. This too, leads to cutbacks in sales, and layoffs of workers. Sometimes businesses decide to outsource production to a cheaper country, or use more automation, as a way of mitigating the cost increases that higher oil prices add, but automation or outsourcing also tends to reduce US wages. The net effect of all of these changes is that there are fewer workers with jobs in the countries with high oil usage. This reduces the demand for oil in the high oil usage countries, both from business owners making goods and from the consumers who might use gasoline to drive their cars. This price mechanism is part of what leads to the oil consumption shift we see in Figure 1. We are dealing with is close to a zero-sum game, when it comes to oil supply.¬†The amount of oil that is extracted from the ground is almost constant (very slightly increasing for the world in total). If prices stayed at the low level they were in the past (say $20 barrel), there would not be enough to go around. Instead, higher prices redistribute oil to countries that can use it manufacture goods at low overall cost. Workers in factories making these goods are then able to afford to buy goods that use oil, such as a motor scooter. Citigroup recently released a report titled, ‚ÄúGlobal Oil Demand Growth, ‚Äì the End is Nigh.‚Äù Its subtitle says, The substitution of natural gas for oil combined with increasing fuel economy means oil demand is approaching a tipping point. This is out-and-out baloney, for a number of reasons: 1. There are way too many of ‚Äúthem‚Äù compared to the number of ‚Äúus,‚Äù for energy efficiency to make even a dent in our problem. 2. When we look at past oil consumption, changes in vehicle energy efficiency did not make a big difference. 3. Substituting natural gas for oil still leaves cost levels for the US, Europe, and Japan very high, compared to those for the rest of the world, where little energy is used. 4. There are really separate markets in many parts of the globe. Our market is collapsing because of high price. Perhaps increased efficiency and natural gas substitution will help low-cost producers until they reach a different limit of some sort. Let‚Äôs look at these issues separately. There are way too many of ‚Äúthem‚Äù relative to us, for energy efficiency to even make a dent in our problem. If we look at world population, this is what we see: ourfiniteworld.comFigure 6. World population split between US, EU-27, and Japan, and the Rest of the World. Using a ruler, we could probably make fairly reasonable projections of future population for each of these groups. If we look at per capita oil consumption for the two groups separately, there is a huge disparity: ourfiniteworld.comFigure 7. Per capita oil consumption separately for the group US, EU-27, plus Japan, and for the rest of the world, based on BP‚Äôs 2102 Statistical Review of World Energy, and population statistics from EIA (since 1980) and Angus Maddison data. (earlier dates).¬† Per capita oil consumption for the EU, US, and Japan group peaked in 1973‚Äìa very long time ago. In recent years, it has been drifting down fairly rapidly, just to keep up with a slight per capita rise in oil consumption of the Rest of the World. Even with recent changes, per capita oil consumption of the EU, US and Japan group is more than 4.5 times that of the rest of the world. If cars were made more efficient, more people could afford them. The market for cars is unbelievably huge, compared to today‚Äôs market, if costs could be brought down. Furthermore, gasoline accounts for less than half of US oil consumption. Even if efficiency were improved to allow cars to use half as much fuel, it would save a little less than one-fourth of current oil consumption. How far would this oil go in satisfying the needs of 6 billion other people‚Äìand growing every year? When we look at past oil consumption, changes in vehicle energy efficiency did not make a big difference. If we look at per capita oil consumption in the US, split between gasoline and other oil products, we see that the big drop in oil consumption came from the drop in other oil products‚Äìthat is the commercial and industrial part of US oil consumption. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 8. US per capita consumption of oil products, split between gasoline and other. Total consumption from BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. Gasoline consumption from EIA. (Amounts include biofuels.) Difference by subtraction. The amount of fuel used for gasoline has stayed in the 10 to 12 barrels a year per capita band, since 1970, in spite of huge improvements in vehicle efficiency. I recently wrote a post called¬†Why is US Oil Consumption Lower? Better Gasoline¬†Mileage?¬†In it, I looked at the decrease in US oil consumption between 2005 and 2012. I concluded that the majority of the decrease in consumption was due to a drop in commercial use. Only 7% was due to an improvement in miles per gallon for gasoline powered vehicles. Substituting natural gas for oil still leaves the US (as well as Europe and Japan) very high priced, compared to the rest of the world, that doesn‚Äôt use much energy. Living in the US, Europe or Japan, it is ¬†hard to get an idea of the cost structure of the rest of the world. We are so far above the cost structure of the rest of the world that substituting natural gas for oil would do little to fix the situation. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 9. Photo of an auto-rickshaw I took while visiting India in October 2012. A total of 10 of us (including driver) traveled for several miles in a three-seated version of one of these. Those of us on the edges held on tightly to the frame, because there was not room for all of us.¬† We can also debate how much substitution of natural gas will actually do, and in what timeframe.¬†In the US, natural gas is temporarily very cheap. But it costs more to extract shale gas than the market currently pays, in many areas. Also, a recently University of Texas study showed that Barnett Shale was past peak production, if prices do not rise. There are really separate markets in many parts of the globe. Our market is collapsing because of high price. Perhaps increased efficiency and natural gas substitution will help low-cost producers, until they reach a different limit of some sort. When a country is not competitive, it is not just oil consumption that drops, but consumption of other energy products as well. ¬†If we look at the per capita energy consumption of the US, EU-27, and Japan combined, we see that non-oil energy consumption per capita¬†reached its peak in 2004, and is now declining (Figure 10, below). ¬†If consumers are too poor to buy oil products, they are also too poor to buy products made with other types of energy. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 10. Per capita consumption for the sum of the EU-27, US, and Japan, based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. The Rest of the World followed a very different pattern of energy consumption. Non-oil consumption soared, on a per capita basis. Oil consumption also increased on a per capita basis. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 11. Per capita energy consumption for the Rest of the World, based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. More detailed data shows that the big increase in non-oil consumption was a huge rise in coal consumption, after China was admitted to the World Trade Organization in December 2001. How does peak oil demand work out in the end? I would argue that lack of competitiveness in world markets is a limit that the US, EU-27 and Japan are hitting right now, but at slightly different rates. EU-27 now seems to be ahead in the race to the bottom, partly because its combined currency. I wrote a post in March 2012 called Why High Oil Prices Are Now Affecting Europe More Than the¬†US, explaining the situation. It seems to me, though, that a big piece of the problem with lack of competitiveness gets transferred to the governments of the affected countries. This happens because collection of tax revenue lags, because not enough people are working, and those who are working are earning lower wages. At the same time increased payouts are needed to stimulate the economy, and to provide benefits to the many without jobs. Governments increase their debt to meet the revenue shortfall. They reduce interest rates to record-low levels, to stimulate the economy. ¬†They also use Quantitative Easing, or ‚Äúprinting money‚Äù to try to lower long-term interest rates, and to try to make their exports more competitive. Unfortunately, these actions do not solve the basic structural problem of high and rising world oil prices, and the fact that these rising prices make their economies increasingly less¬†competitive in the world marketplace. One possible way I see of the current situation working out is that the total energy consumption (including all types of energy products, not just oil) of the EU, US and Japan will continue to fall, as high-priced oil continues to erode our competitive position in the world marketplace. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 12. One view of future energy consumption for the EU-27, US, and Japan. Historical is based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy.¬† The slope of the decline is based on the type of decline experienced by the Former Soviet Union, in the years immediately following its collapse. This pattern might reflect a combination of different patterns for different countries. Greece and Spain, for example might continue to fall quite quickly. The US might lag the EU in the speed at which problems take place. The likely path seems downward, because any action taken to fix the government gap between income and expense can be expected to have a recessionary impact, and thus have an adverse impact on energy consumption. The Rest of the World is now growing rapidly, but at some point they will start reaching limits. One of these limits will be lack of an export market. Another will be lack of spare parts, because businesses in the US, Europe and Japan are failing for financial reasons. Some of these limits will relate to pollution and lack of fresh water. The effect of these limits will also be to raise costs. For example, a shortage of water can be worked around through desalination, but this raises costs. Lack of spare parts can be worked around by building a new plant to make the spare part. Pollution problems can be mitigated by pollution controls, but these add costs. These higher costs, when passed on to consumers will also lead to a cutback in demand for discretionary goods, and the same kinds of problems experienced in oil exporting nations. Thus, these countries will also have ‚ÄúPeak Demand‚Äù problems, because of rising prices, related to limits they are reaching. I don‚Äôt know exactly how soon the Rest of the World will hit limits, but given the interconnectedness of the world system, it would seem to be within the next few years. Figure 13 shows one estimate of how this may occur. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 13. One view of energy consumption for the Rest of the World. Historical data are based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. Here again, individual countries may do better than others. Countries with little connectedness to the world system (for example, countries in central Africa) may have fewer problems than others. Of course, their energy consumption (of the type measured by the EIA or BP) is very low now. They may use cow dung and fallen branches for fuel, but these are not counted in international data. Figure 14, below, shows the sum of the amounts from Figures 12 and 13. Thus, it gives one estimate of ¬†future world energy consumption based on Peak Demand considerations. ourfiniteworld.comFigure 14. One view of future energy consumption for the world as a whole. History is based on BP‚Äôs 2012 Statistical Review of World Energy. If there is a silver lining to all of this, it is that world CO2 emissions are likely to start falling quite rapidly, because of Peak Oil Demand. World CO2 emissions could quite possibly drop below 20% of current levels before 2050. In the scenario I show, energy consumption drops faster than forecasts such as those put out by the Energy Watch Group. Such forecasts do not take into account financial considerations, so are likely overstated. The downside of Peak Oil Demand is that the world we live in will be very much changed. Population levels will likely drop, indirectly because of serious recession, job loss, and cutbacks in government benefits. The financial system will need to be completely revised, because debt financing will make sense much less often than today. In fact, in a shrinking world economy, money can no longer act as a store of value. There no doubt will be some people who survive and prosper, but their lives will likely be very different from what they are today. Filed under: Financial Implications, peak oil Tagged: CO2 emissions, competitiveness, energy consumption, oil demand, peak oil, peak oil demand  Read more posts on Our Finite World ¬ª
The St. Louis Fed has published two maps showing state averages for overall amount of student debt and delinquency rates on repaying it. A high delinquency rate¬†is bad news because it makes it harder for the student to get credit in the future, which leads to a higher likelihood of the student defaulting on other kinds of debt. Here's the map for highest average student debt. St. Louis Fed ¬† And here are delinquency rates: St. Louis Fed The redder states in the second map are probably facing a tough future.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderThat's me at the the NYSE Restaurant Bar on the 7th floor.The storied New York Stock Exchange in Manhattan's Financial District is a beacon of American capitalism. You've probably seen the facade of the "Big Board" and images of the trading floor on financial television, but there's a lot more to the historic building. We took an exclusive tour of the parts of the exchange that you won't get to see on TV. We also got to view the stock exchange's extensive archive collection, which we will share with you soon.† In the meantime, let's explore the NYSE beyond the trading floor. †
Now, nothing speaks to me like data. Iím a numbers person myself. So I appreciated the many graphs†and long term data series Granthamís argument are based on. But Iíve also come to the conclusion that heís wrong. In doing the research that led to my new book, The Infinite Resource: The Power of Ideas on a Finite†Planet, I pored over a huge wealth of data on energy, environment, and natural resources. What that†data tells me is that we do indeed have very serious problems to tackle. But it also reveals that we have†the resources to tackle them, if weíre sufficiently clever. Indeed, if we make the right decisions, we may†very well be on the verge of an explosion in global wealth, coupled by a reduction in our depletion of the†planetís resources. Hereís why: Population Growth is Ending Grantham starts his piece by invoking Malthus and commenting on the incredible growth of global†population. And itís true ñ population has bloomed. But that population explosion is almost over.†Around the world, fertility rates are plummeting. In 1950, the average woman would have 5 children†over the course of her life. Today a woman will have, on average, fewer than 2.5 children over the†course of her life. 2.1 children is the magic ëreplacement rateí, below which population growth stops.†Weíre on track to get there in the next few decades. World BankFigure 1 - Fertility rates around the world are plunging. World population growth is near to ending. Source: World Bank And weíre not headed for a population of 10-12 billion. More likely, weíll top out at around 9.5 billion.†Thatís still a hefty 35% growth of population from today. But, by contrast, since Malthusís time weíve†grown the population by about 600%. Since just the 1960s weíve grown it by 100%. Most of the†planetís population growth is behind us. Only a small fraction of it is ahead. Affluence is the Driver Grantham suggests that food supplies are what will limit population growth. But in reality, itís the other†way around. Where thereís poverty and hunger, thereís high population growth. As countries get†richer their population growth drops. Women, in particular, armed with greater education and greater†opportunities, tend to start having children later in life and have fewer of them in total. Wealth, not†poverty, is the brake on population growth. CIA World Fact BookFigure 2 - As countries rise in GDP per capita, birth rates plummet. Almost no country above $10,000 GDP per capita has a birth rate above replacement rate. Wealth acts as a brake on population growth. Source: CIA World Fact Book Plenty of Food Speaking of food production, itís true that food prices soared, and are still high. But we have the capability to grow much more food. This year we may see record wheat, rice, soy, and corn crops. And most importantly, thereís a huge potential for further growth in global food output ahead. The†FAO estimates that by 2050 weíll need to grow 70% more food to feed the planet. But just bringing the†planet up to the yield levels achieved in the US would double the amount of food the world grows, more†than meeting that goal. Food and Agriculture Organization of the UNFigure 3 - Farm yield in the US and other developed nations are already higher than are needed to feed the whole world in 2050 - if those yields can be spread worldwide. † And of course, farm yields in the US keep rising, at a compound annual rate largely unchanged since the†late 1940s. By the time we reach 2050, at this rate, US yields will be twice as high as are needed on a†global basis to feed the world. USDAFigure 4 - Total US farm output (in terms of crops and livestock) has risen at a fairly steady compound rate of growth since 1948. Source:USDA Growing Food Takes Less Energy Grantham also mentions the immense use of fertilizer to achieve these yields. Thatís absolutely true.†Yet weíve been able to do that because weíve made the process of making fertilizer so much more†energy efficient. The energy required to make a ton of nitrogen fertilizer has dropped by nearly a factor†of ten since the process was invented. The combination of lower energy cost for fertilizer and higher yield per acre means that the US actually†uses less energy than at any other point in history for each calorie grown. USDAFigure 5 - We've cut the energy used on farms per calorie grown in the US by half since 1948. Source: USDA † Thatís in stark contrast to the idea that weíre ìeating oilî or that weíve been able to feed the world†only because of heavy fossil fuel use. And on the horizon are ways to create fertilizer using wind power,†without using any fossil fuels at all. Even more exciting, on the horizon are biotech projects funded by the Gates Foundation and others†that could boost wheat and rice yields by 50% and could create grains that can fertilize themselves from†nitrogen in the air. Those technologies could boost yields dramatically, particularly in poor areas that†canít afford large amounts of fertilizer. Tons of Energy Available What about the worldís energy supplies? Energy, as the late economist Julian Simon said, is the ëmaster†resourceí. With enough energy you can solve a tremendous number of other problems. The flip side is†also true. Spikes in the price of oil cause recessions. Fortunately, energy is available in huge quantities. The total amount of energy we use every year ñ from†coal, oil, natural gas, hydro, nuclear, and everything else ñ is dwarfed by the amount of solar energy hitting the planet each year. How dwarfed? The solar input is 5,000 times greater than the amount we†use from all those sources, combined. In fact, it would take only about 0.3% of the Earthís land area to meet all of humanityís energy needs†through 2030 via solar power. Land Art GeneratorFigure 6 - Only 0.3% of the Earth's land area is needed to meet human energy demands via solar. Image: http:// www.landartgenerator.org Thatís a large chunk of land, but itís also just 1/100th the amount of land we use to grow food, and 1/60th†of the available land in the planetís deserts. Doubters complain that solar power is too diffuse. Does†that matter when thereís so much more land available than we need? The real problems with solar power have been the cost of collecting it and the cost of storing it. But†both are plunging. Department of EnergyFigure 7 - The cost of solar power is plummeting and is on the verge of dropping below coal and natural gas electricity prices. Solar panel prices are at all-time lows, less than half the cost they were two years ago, and a quarter†of the price they were in the mid-2000s. Solar prices are falling at an exponential rate, in a sort of†minor version of Mooreís Law, the observation that the price of computing power falls by half every 18†months. Solar powerís price decline isnít that steep ñ but itís still extremely impressive. Over the last†few decades the cost of solar power has been halved every 10 years. And lately itís happening far faster†ñ every two to three years. The remarkable thing about this decline in this cost of solar power is that itís been going on since the†invention of solar cells in the 1950s ñ roughly 60 years now. If solar keeps dropping in price (even at its†slower, long term pace) for another 10 years, weíll have solar power as cheap as fossil fuels ñ but with†available energy thousands of times greater. If the trend continues for another 20 years, or even 30†years, weíll have solar power a half or a quarter the price of current fossil fuels ñ a resource that would†boost economic growth worldwide. Thatís a big if, but it does look as if weíll at least achieve parity with†fossil fuel prices in the next decade. The cost of storage also needs to come down, but weíve done it before, with lithium-ion batteries,†where prices dropped by a factor of 10 between 1991 and 2005. In those same 15 years, the amount of†energy that a given weight of battery could store roughly tripled. David Anderson and Dalia Patino-EcheverriFigure 8 - The price of batteries plunged by a factor of 10 over a 15 year period, and the amount of energy that could be stored in a given weight of battery tripled in the same timeframe. Source: David Anderson and Dalia Patino-Echeverri Raw Materials Grantham devotes the largest chunk of graphs to looking at the prices of commodities. He finds that†commodity price spikes since the beginning of 2008 have lifted the cost of the GMO Commodities Price†Index to all-time highs, erasing all the price declines that have happened over the last century. Everyone agrees that prices have spiked since 2008. Grantham is right in diagnosing the cause of the†spike ñ itís being driven entirely by a rapid surge in demand as China and the rest of the developing†world surge in wealth. The rise in commodity prices has almost exactly tracked the rise in demand. But whatís interesting here ñ and counter to the idea that weíre running out of resources ñ is that global†supply has surged as well. High prices have led (with some lag) to new investment. USGSFigure 9 - The supply of metals and other commodities on the market is rising, not dropping. High demand and high prices have triggered a rapid surge in production, at a rate not seen in the last 60 years. Indeed, the surge in metals production is faster than any weíve seen since 1950. Demand is making†itself known through higher prices, and that, in turn, is driving up supply. Thereís no signal in these†umb ers that resources are anywhere near exhausted. And eventually, as new supply in development†comes online and demand growth slows, supply will catch up, and prices will drop once more. Not So Expensive Thereís one more problem with Granthamís argument. Grantham argues that the commodities price†spike in 2008 wiped out a century of price declines. But other long-running data sets donít agree†with that at all. By most estimates, even after the commodity price spike, commodities today are still†incredibly cheap compared to their historical levels Consider the Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index, which shows that the price spike in 2008 actually†brought prices only back to their levels in the early 1980s, and that overall, prices are still in long term†decline. Global Financial DataFigure 10 - In the long run, commodities prices are dramatically down, not up. Graph from Mark J. Perry. Data from Global Financial Data. Or consider the very long term price trend of The Economistís industrial commodity index, continually†maintained since 1871. The price series shows that the price spike of 2008 only took us back to prices†seen 20 or 30 years ago. Thatís roughly what the Dow Jones-AIG commodity index says as well. The†long term price trend, according to both sets of data, is towards cheaper and cheaper prices. And the†2008 price spike doesnít even look that †remarkable in the grand scheme of things. Itís certainly quite a†bit smaller than the price spike of the 1970s, which the world recovered from. The EconomistFigure 11 - The Economist magazine's long term price series also shows a long-term drop in prices, with a relatively mild spike in 2008 through now. Source: The Economist Special Report: World Economy † This is hardly the stuff that disasters of biblical proportions are made of. Real Problems, Real Solutions None of this is to say that we donít have problems. We do. The rise in the price of oil, food, and other commodities has had a tremendous negative impact on people around the world. We need to†invest in research and development to boost crop yields, to speed the price decline and deployment†of renewable energy, and more. Other problems that the market doesnít even factor into its numbers†also loom: Climate change, dwindling fresh water supplies, ocean overfishing, and deforestation, just†to make a few. Those are very serious challenges. We shouldnít trivialize them. We shouldnít stand by†and watch them happen without responding. But neither should we given in to fatalism. Weíve solved†such problems in the past. Weíve solved them, in every case, by innovating ñ by coming up with new solutions that grew the global†pie of resources. In fact, weíve done it again and again and again, from the dawn of humanity until†today. And those times that societies have failed and collapsed, you can draw a connection directly to†their failure to innovate. I talk in greater length about all of these resource and environmental problems that we face, the things†we did to overcome similar challenges in the past, and the course of action we need to embark on now†to supercharge innovation in my new book: The Infinite Resource: The Power of Ideas on a Finite Planet. In the end, our minds and their ability to create new ideas are the ultimate source of all human wealth.†Thatís a resource nearly without limit. 
