More concerning headlines between Japan and China. According to Kyodo, 3 Chinese ships have entered Japanese territorial waters near the Senkaku islands, which are disputed. The Nikkei, which had opened higher, has turned negative, and is now down nearly 1%. 
Monday might be a quiet day, since the US is on holiday. But the week has begun in Asia, and the yen is falling (again). USDJPY is above 90 again. There wasn't too much news over the weekend. Via FinViz: FinViz
I don‚Äôt totally agree here, but this is is a nice macro overview of the current landscape via BlackRock: Fiscal Cliff:¬†A huge policy blunder has been averted (for now), but fiscal tightening will take place. With additional negotiations to come, markets will be volatile, but long-term investors could find buying opportunities. US Economy. The United States will maintain slow but positive growth, much like in 2012, but should not enter a new recession. Look for stronger growth as the year progresses. Interest Rates and Inflation. The 10-year US Treasury yield should gradually rise through 2013 to 2.25%. Inflation should remain in the 2% range unless growth or oil prices spike. Europe. The European Central Bank (EC B) changed the game by taking the risk of banking collapse off the table. But key reforms are likely a year or more away. In the meantime, growth is elusive. China and Emerging Markets. China and emerging markets regain their growth trajectories in 2013, helping cushion any weaknesses in the United States and Europe. Risk-On/Risk-Off Redux?¬†Markets are likely to remain volatile early in the year, but should respond more to fundamentals as clarity emerges. US Stock Market.¬†While risks are elevated and valuations are relatively high, we still see opportunities, particularly in US mega caps. Global Stocks. Emerging markets offer faster growth, cheap valuations, lower inflation and relatively muted volatility. Fixed Income. What used to be ‚Äúrisk free‚Äù (i.e., Treasuries) has actually become risky. Over the long-term, we suggest migrating toward credit sectors. High Yield Bonds. Investors should consider diversifying their exposures in high yield to include loans and secured credit. The asset class continues to offer compelling yield and return potential, and default rates remain low. Municipal Bonds. Municipal bonds offer compelling taxable equivalent yields in the face of higher taxes. Munis are unlikely to lose their taxexempt status. Volatility. Alternative asset classes and strategies are increasingly mainstream and offer the opportunity to enhance portfolio diversification.
CBS's Rebecca Jarvis had a brief profile on billionaire Warren Buffett this morning. Among other things, they discussed the history of inequality in America and the world. "The womb from which you emerge determines your fate to an enormous degree," he said.† "I was born in 1930.† I had two sisters that had every bit of intelligence I had.† Every bit the drive.† But they didn't have the same opportunities.""Because you were a man," said Jarvis."And I was white," added Buffett.† "So, if I'd been black, my future would've been entirely different.† If I'd been a female, my life would've been entirely different." "What about our debt?" asked Jarvis.† "$16.4 trillion." "It's a lower percentage of GDP than it was when we came out of World War II," said Buffett. "You've gotta think of it in relation to GDP.† It is not a good thing to have it going up in relation to GDP.† That should be stabilized. But the debt itself is not a problem." The took a drive to his regular McDonald's, his old elementary school, and his current home. Check out the whole segment here: † 
1.6 billion people in the world don't have access to electricity, says the founder of a company called "MPOWERD." These folks and another 1.5 billion people on lousy electrical grids often use kerosene-powered lamps to see at night. The problem with kerosene lamps is that kerosene is expensive, and the lamps pollute the air that these folks breathe. So kids grow up with clogged lungs, etc. So a company called MPOWERD has invented a cool little solar-powered lantern called "Luci." The lanterns charge 6 hours of sunlight and then provides 6-12 hours of light. They're light and flexible. You can buy them for $15.95 apiece. (Expensive if you only make $2 a day, but that cost will presumably drop.) MPOWERD MPOWERD MPOWERD
President Barack Obama was officially sworn in for a second term in the White House Blue Room Sunday morning.¬† The ceremony was short and sweet ‚Äî Obama will repeat the oath publicly tomorrow during his ceremonial Inauguration on the National Mall.¬† In a cute moment after his swearing-in today, Obama turned to his youngest daughter Sasha and said "I did it."¬† Sasha replied: "Good job Daddy."¬†
In 2009, Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCO ñ the world's biggest bond fund manager ñ coined the term "new normal" to describe the period of economic malaise the U.S. would experience in the wake of the biggest recession of a generation. The "new normal" was characterized by below trend growth, high unemployment, and ultra-low interest rates as the U.S. suffered the economic consequences of the crisis. On Thursday, El-Erian told CNBC that the "new normal" may soon be over. He wasn't quite ready to call the end of period, but he was getting close. Bigger picture, a lot of analysts are now calling The Big Turn. SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale economist Aneta Markowska agrees, and she thinks it could happen in the first half of 2013 ñ even sooner than most expect. In a note to clients Friday ñ titled "Preparing for the end of the 'new normal'"†ñ†she wrote: It has been our view for some time that 2013 will see an inflection point on growth, and we expected the watershed moment on growth to come during the second half of the year. The risks are shifting, however, and we could get there sooner. Recent data suggests that after a very weak Q4, Q1 GDP could print well above trend, despite the fiscal drag coming from tax increases. Recent indications on employment and housing demand reinforce the positive message.  On the Fed, we are still leaning toward a year-end termination of asset purchases. However, as the markets try to front run the Fed, the watershed moment could come long before then. Consequently, we are revising our forecast for the 10-year Treasury yield and now look for a 2.2% target at the end of Q1, and a year-end target of 2.75%. The 10-year Treasury yield is currently at 1.84 percent, so Markowska expects a sizable backup in yields in the first quarter of 2013. Markowska says the reason is because even despite the weakness that will be revealed in the Q4 GDP report, the first quarter of 2013 should be much better: However, if our beancounting is correct, it implies much more ëjuiceí in Q1. Ironically, despite the fiscal drag from higher tax rates, Q1 GDP may print in high 2s or perhaps even as high as 3%. Thatís because the lifts from business investment, housing, inventories and trade may more than offset the expected hit to consumption from higher tax rates. It also appears that real consumer spending ended the year on a strong note with real PCE rising up 0.3% m/m in December. This would put the December level 1.5% annualized above the Q4 average. This positive momentum will also help absorb some of the fiscal drag. All of this coincides with increasing evidence that the U.S. is escaping from the "liquidity trap" that has made monetary policy so ineffective in the crisis era. It's not out of the woods yet, but even with all of the negativity surrounding the upcoming budget battles in Washington expected to unfold over the first quarter ñ and barring any shocks ñ the U.S. economy may be closer to the end of the "new normal" than even El-Erian will admit. DON'T MISS: The 18 Best Charts Of The Week &gt;
 The hottest idea in monetary policy circles over the last couple of years has been the notion that the Fed could induce a better recovery by stating a target for Nominal GDP. The idea (which has been endorsed by economists like Scott Sumner, David Beckworth, Michael Woodford, Christina Romer, and others) is premised on the idea that if the Fed can set aggressive expectations for its actions, and commit to letting inflation run "hot" for periods of catch-up Nominal GDP growth, then economic participants will adapt to this forecast. Although the idea is very buzzy in academic circles, it hasn't quite broken through yet to the Federal Reserve itself, although the Fed did to a lot this year in terms of experimentation with guidance and easing, most notably adopting "Evans Rule" which commits to low rates until unemployment hits 6.5%, or inflation expectations surpass 2.5%, at which point the Fed may re-assess. But in a new note out today, Goldman's Jan Hatzius and Jari Stehn say that one Fed official has already endorsed Nominal GDP targeting in all but name, and that nobody has really realized it yet. That official is SF Fed Chief Janet Yellen, who is thought to be one of the top contenders for Bernanke's replacement. Hatzius and Stehn write: ...Fed officials appear to be contemplating an even bigger shift. This is evident from a series of speeches given by Vice Chair Janet Yellen in 2012 that presented simulations with the Board staff‚Äôs large-scale econometric model, FRB/US, using an ‚Äúoptimal control‚Äù approach to monetary policy. Under such an approach, the central bank chooses a path for the federal funds rate which best meets its objectives over the next several years as a whole, even if this means committing to a policy that may appear suboptimal at certain points along the way. For example, the chosen path may imply that in 2013, the Fed expects inflation in 2015 to be above its target but nevertheless commits to refraining from an aggressive monetary tightening at that point. Economist Paul Krugman has referred to this approach, approvingly, as ‚Äúcredibly promising to be irresponsible.‚Äù ... So far, no sitting Fed official has publicly called for an NGDP target. But Yellen‚Äôs optimal control approach is equivalent to a specific form of such a target. To our knowledge, nobody has pointed this out yet, although it is at least implicit in the academic literature on this issue. In a highly stylized model, Woodford has shown that the optimal policy at the zero bound is an NGDP target. In a simulation that also uses FRB/US‚Äîas does Yellen‚Äôs optimal control work‚ÄîSan Francisco Fed President John Williams and Fed economist David Reifschneider have shown that the optimal policy at the zero bound responds not only to current inflation and unemployment gaps but also their cumulated history. In other words, the optimal policy at the zero bound in FRB/US does not look like a Taylor rule but resembles an NGDP target. The basic gist is: A nominal GDP target commits to periods of overly-hot inflation (irresponsibility) in order to get to a certain target. And according to Goldman, Janet Yellen has basically endorsed the same thing, with the same economic consequences. For more on how NGDP targeting works, see here &gt;
Statigram/LucyBuzzzThe New York Times set out to define what "middle class" means in Manhattan. It points out that Manhattan is one of the only places in the world where a housing project can sit next to a luxury penthouse. What does a middle class citizen in NYC look like? According to NYT: If you make more than $790,000 in Manhattan, you're considered part of the 1%. "The wealthiest fifth of Manhattanites make 40 times more than the lowest fifth," says NYT.
Arthur BermanNot everyone believes the U.S. is capable of becoming energy independent thanks to its shale oil and gas reserves, as the International Energy Association suggested recently. The math just doesn't work out, they say ó America consumes too much.† But some are even more skeptical than that. Arthur Berman, an oil analyst with Labyrinth Consulting Services, says the promise of America's shale reserves have been vastly overstated. His main argument: Shale is too expensive to drill, and shale wells usually don't last longer than a couple of years. Last year, he laid out his case at a gathering of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas in Austin Texas. With his permission, we've reproduced it here.
The GOP said on Friday that it would agree to a 3-month debt ceiling hike. Although this is just a short-term hike, it pretty much takes it off the table, since this means that the next hike will come after the sequester/budget debates, and the presumption is that if they can agree on those things, then the debt ceiling can get folded in. The GOP just has one demand as part of its debt ceiling hike. The party says that in order to get the 3 month hike, the Senate must pass a budget, which is something the Senate hasn't done since 2009. As Grace Wyler explained here, Budgets are basically just expressions of how each body of Congress thinks spending should be done broadly. The House GOP has passed the so-called "Ryan Budget" but the Senate hasn't done the equivalent (in the mean time, the government has stayed funded using an ongoing string of Continuing Resolutions, which fund the government along existing trajectories. So the GOP's demand is that in exchange for a debt ceiling hike, Senate Dems lay out their vision of where taxes and spending should be. The hope is that this can be used as political cudgel, to show that the Democrats support big deficits and high taxes. So will Democrats agree to pass a budget? That's not set, but on Meet The Press today, Senator Chuck Schumer said that Democrats do plan to pass a budget in 2013, which would be its first in four years. Here's Schumer's communications director: On @meetthepress, Schumer says it makes sense for Senate to do a budget w/ reconciliation instructions for tax reform that raises revenue If Schumer's comments are reflecting of where other Democrats are, it doesn't sound like this will be a dealbreaker. Meanwhile, Mitch McConnell's spokesman Don Stewart snarked, re: Schumer: This may come as news to most of you // Sen. Schumer on @meetthepress: "We Democrats have always intendedto do a #budget this year."
During the financial crisis and its aftermath, we were always really fond of looking at Doug Short's Mega-Bears charts, which overlayed the great crashes of 1929, the Nikkei, and the US crash, which started in 2000. For a long time, the charts moved similarly, indicating that perhaps, great big crashes shared common rhythms. But no more. Doug has updated his Real Mega-Bears chart (real, because they're inflation adjusted indices) to show that the US market now bears no resemblance to either the 1929 bust or the Nikkei bust. Doug Short
Instagram/itslaurafrancesMonday is a holiday in the US, but the preparation for the re-opening of markets has begun. Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along some of the stories that are catching traders' eyes this weekend. We summarize and sample them here:
APIf you'd founded a tech company worth billions of dollars, what would you do with your cash? That's a high-class problem faced by the moguls on this list. Naturally, many of them buy expensive things, like cars, houses, planes‚Äîeven islands. But even if you're Larry Ellison, with a seemingly endless appetite for that stuff, there comes a time when you want to do more. Maybe it's solving the world's problems, or just indulging in a geeky fantasy.
ABCThe big news in the debt ceiling world is that the GOP basically folded on Friday. The story isn't over yet (things can always go wrong) but the party offered to hike the debt ceiling for three months, so that it would come up after the sequester (automatic spending cuts) and continuing resolution (the budget) debates were dealt with. Even though this is just a 3-month hike, this is basically a total fold on debt ceiling brinksmanship, since the real battles will come before it, and they're not going to come up with a deal on the sequester and the budget, without also coming to a deal on the debt ceiling. In a blog post, Paul Krugman admits he called it wrong. When you‚Äôre wrong, you‚Äôre wrong. I thought that by ruling out any way to bypass the debt limit, the White House was setting itself up, at least potentially, for an ignominious cave-in. But it appears that the strategy has worked, and it‚Äôs the Republicans giving up. I‚Äôm happy to concede that the president and team called this one right. Paul Krugman has been pretty spot on with respect to politics, and the tactics taken by Republicans, so why did he call this wrong? And what does it mean? Dave Weigel at Slate has a great report on the 3-day retreat that the House Republicans went on last week that's very illuminating about where the mind of the GOP is: According to participants in the three-day retreat, the party‚Äôs first real all-hands meeting since the election had a resigned, realistic tone. Members were assigned to read articles like Ramesh Ponnuru‚Äôs post-election wrap, ‚ÄúThe Party‚Äôs Problem.‚Äù Ponnuru had debunked a warm-blanket Republican theory that Mitt Romney‚Äôs cartoonish elitism had cost them the election. ‚ÄúRomney was not a drag on the Republican party,‚Äù wrote Ponnuru. ‚ÄúThe Republican party was a drag on him.‚Äù ... As the discussion veered into ‚Äúmessaging,‚Äù guests and nonessential staffers were asked to leave the room. Ryan strolled over to the media room, where he said members were being educated on ‚Äúthe consequences of all the deadlines that are coming.‚Äù ‚ÄúWe have to recognize the realities of divided government that we have,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWe‚Äôre discussing the possible virtue of a short-term debt limit extension so we have a better chance of getting the Senate and the White House involved in discussions in March.‚Äù In other words, this week the GOP came to grips with the fact that Kamikaze spending and debt strategies don't play well in the real world. Washington's ice age is thawing out. The fact that Tea Party approval has fallen to a record low in the short history of the movement also furthers the cause of Washington starting to function with some semblance of normalcy. Nomura economist Lewis Alexander -- who has generally been on the more pessimistic side of the fiscal questions lately -- wrote on Friday [The] announcement does suggest that policymakers are being somewhat more proactive than they have been in the recent past. That may suggest that the process of resolving the uncertainty over the course of fiscal policy will be less disruptive than previously expected. Bottom line: It looks likely that Washington is over the hump, and has passed peak dysfunction.
We've run this chart a million times, but we're not getting bored of it. The S&amp;P 500 vs. weekly initial jobless claims continues to be a beautiful chart, as the two lines have moved in virtual lockstop through the last five years. When Jobless Claims improve, stocks improve. When the opposite happens, stocks down down. The primary takeaway from the chart: The market rally is based on fundamentals of the economy. Forget headlines or great rotations or the Fed. It's still all about the economy. 
Everyone has descended on Munich for the DLD conference. The conference hotel, the Bayerischer Hof, is overwhelmed, and no rooms are ready. So we're all jet-lagged in the lobby with nothing to do but drink caffeine and pace. I was doing the latter when I noticed the complimentary dog bowls (see below). Is this a trend? Henry Blodget, Business Insider In context: Henry Blodget, Business Insider SEE ALSO: There Was Only One Lousy Thing About My Lufthansa Business Class Flight
In August 2007, Jim Cramer got on TV and yelled "THEY KNOW NOTHING." It was an earthshaking rant, arguing that Wall Street was in horrible shape, and that the Fed was asleep at the wheel. We've long maintained that it was a great moment. Of course, we already knew that he was totally right about how bad the situation was about to get. And now we know that he was right about how clueless the Fed was about how bad things were getting. John Carney at CNBC has a great post keying off the 2007 Fed transcripts, which shows that as of August 2007, there was concern inside the Federal Reserve about the economy and the financial system, but nobody was predicting doom. And one Fed chief even elicited laughter when talking about Cramer. Carney found this quote from Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart: In the past few days, I have had substantive conversations with some well-positioned credit market observers, including managers of large investment portfolios, suggesting that the skittishness of financial markets is not likely to abate until later this fall. They have suggested that the choppiness in financial markets will be the rule in the near term and, very important, that the threshold for what constitutes a shock is now much lower than usual. I believe that the correct policy posture is to let the markets work through the changes in risk appetite and pricing that are under way, but the market observations of one of my more strident conversational counterparts ‚Äî and that is not Jim Cramer [laughter] ‚Äî are worth sharing. This party sees problems in the subprime structured debt market spreading to the CLO leveraged-loan market and, in a knock-on effect, to repo and commercial paper markets as well as to investment-grade corporate credit. This party points to nonprice rationing, commercial paper rollover risk, and general CDO contagion caused by the damaged credibility of rating agencies and contraction of collateral values. This party argues that treating the widening of credit spreads as normalization ignores substantial subsurface potential dislocations as evidenced by the collapse of American Home Mortgage Corporation. All that said, another counterpart noted a large pool of money now on the sidelines that is ready to provide financing for reasonable deals if prices fall low enough. Importantly, a large portion of this money comes from reliable long-term sources of investment, pension funds and insurance companies. Notwithstanding some descriptive rhetoric, this is not the credit crunch of the late 1980s, when the traditional financial intermediaries were strained for capital. The traditional investors are still out there with substantial liquidity, and they are just temporarily on the sidelines for understandable reasons and, barring further shocks, should return to the markets in force later this fall. The dislocations in the financial markets call for a posture of vigilant monitoring of developments but nothing more for now. So Cramer was right. The financial crisis was going to be horrible, and they knew nothing. Here's the key transcript (via Carney) of what Cramer said: I have talked to the heads of almost every one of these firms in the last 72 hours and he has NO IDEA what it's like out there. NONE! And Bill Poole, he has NO IDEA what it's like out there. My people have been in this game for 25 years and they're LOSING THEIR JOBS and these firms are gonna GO OUT OF BUSINESS and it's nuts. They're NUTS! They know NOTHING! This is a different kinda market. And the Fed is ASLEEP. Bill Poole is a shame, he's SHAMEFUL! He oughta GO, and READ the Accredited Home document, at least I READ the darn thing. Here's the famous video. 
Instagram/smcpherson1Earlier this week, Goldman Sachs came out with a note that said by 2018, gold would likely fall to $1200. A lot of people chuckled at the idea of a 2018 outlook, as they wondered what, exactly was the point of such a call. Indeed, anyone holding gold right now might be more interested in a note from the bank that came out later in the week which said gold might spike in the coming weeks, thanks to debt ceiling/fiscal cliff fears. But for those interested in the actual dynamics of how gold behaves, the 2018 call was actually extremely important. Goldman's key line in its analysis was: "Assuming a linear increase in US real rates back to 2.0% by 2018, as proxied by the 10-year US TIPS yield, we expect that gold prices will continue to trend lower over the coming five years and introduce our long-term gold price of $1,200/oz from 2018 forward." As Eddy Elfenbein has done a great job showing, the primary driver of gold is low real interest rates. When real interest rates are very low or negative (as they have been in the US) gold rises. When the opposite is true, gold falls. Now, finally, people are talking about the eventual return to rate normalization, and an increase in real interest rates in the US. The US economy isn't totally out of the woods, but it's looking more normal all the time. And that normalization has the potential to be bad news.
When it comes to projecting the deficit (or anything, really) forecasters have a tendency to overweight what's happening right at the time they're making the forecast. So for example, during the late 90s, the CBO imagined ongoing surplus, and the eventual end of the national debt. Now a phrase you hear a lot is "trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see." But some of the best economists are predicting a rapid diminishing of the deficit. In his 10 Questions For 2013 note, Goldman's Jan Hatzius wrote: By 2015, we expect the federal deficit to be down to $500bn, or just under 3% of GDP. If this forecast is correct, concerns about the federal deficit are likely to diminish over the next few years. Why will the deficit fall in half like this?¬† Because of what we've been writing about a lot, lately: Deficits aren't about spending and taxes. They're about growth or lack thereof. For decades deficits as a % of GDP have been closely correlated with economic improvement.¬† This chart of deficits as a % of GDP (red line) vs. the unemployment rate (blue line) is uncanny, holding tight across multiple fiscal regimes.  Bill McBride of Calculated Risk put together a deficit projection that's pretty closely in line with Hatzius'. If it plays out, America will be shocked. Calculated Risk
Business InsiderI'm in Munich this morning, jet-lagged to all hell (so I apologize in advance for any giddiness). I came to do a panel at the DLD conference.¬† The DLD folks were kind enough to airmail me over last night via Lufthansa Business Class through Dusseldorf. Well, it's always fun to catch up on what life is like up in the front of the bus. And in case you haven't flown Lufthansa Business Class lately, I thought you might be curious, too.
This is a very interesting comment from Bary Knapp at Barclays in his latest equity strategy note: We believe it is too early to focus on Fed normalization/exit strategies; like each of the last three years, the Fed portfolio balance channel will remain wide open in 1Q. Still, by 2Q either it will be apparent that the fiscal multipliers on the recent tax hikes were greater than expected, leading to an equity market stall, or market participants and the Fed will both be reassessing whether it will be ìappropriate to slow or stop purchases well before the end of 2013.î In other words, the rally is running into one of two inevitable problems. Either the real economy will drag it back down. Or people will really start talking about the Fed heading to the exits, and the very early days of the tightening cycle. Either way, stocks could be in trouble. Of the two risks, Knapp is more concerned about the former, economic contraction. He notes that not only have taxes just gone up, at a time when GDP estimates have slowed, but that we're in for another round of possible fiscal contraction, and that any "big deal" could include new revenues as well. As it is, we're already due for a very weak Q4 GDP print. Barclays Bigger picture, we're getting past the crisis era that defined 2007-2012. This doesn't mean that stocks will be fine. It just means that stocks will see new kinds of risks that aren't associated with tail-risk/collapse.
December monthly data reported this past week included housing permits and starts, both up to new 4 year highs. These are important long leading indicators and, needless to say, quite positive. Producer prices declined slightly, and consumer prices were flat. Retail sales were up significantly. The only negative news was the continuing decline in consumer confidence, especially expectations. Both housing permits and consumer expectations are components of the LEI which will be reported this week.  Let's start this look at the high frequency weekly indicators by checking out how the increase in tax withholding may be affecting consumer spending. Consumer spending ¬† ¬† Gallup remains blazingly positive, with spending up sharply compared with January last year, and remaining close to holiday season levels. The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012. Johnson Redbook is also in its generally YoY growth range from 2012. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and have averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY for the last year, so this is a particularly positive reading.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: ¬† ¬† Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012, and have recently shown somewhat more YoY strength. Mortgage applications ¬† ¬† Purchase applications have been going sideways for 2 years, and this week's reading was at the top of that range, the best reading since April 2011. Refinancing applications were very high for most of last year with record low mortgage rates. With the recent increase in rates, these declined substantially in the several months, but have turned back up in the last two weeks. Interest rates and credit spreads ¬† ¬† Interest rates for corporate bonds have been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. Treasuries have fallen from about 2% in late 2011 to a low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. That makes the credit spread this week exceptionally positive. Money supply M1 ¬† ¬† M2 ¬† ¬† Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. This week's YoY reading is a new low since then. Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. Both are still quite positive in absolute terms. Oil prices and usage ¬† ¬† Gas prices remain seasonally low. Usage continues to run negative YoY as it has for most of the last year plus. Employment metrics Initial jobless claims ¬† American Staffing Association Index Daily Treasury Statement tax withholding ¬† Initial claims made a new 5 year low this week. The increase in the ASA Index is normal in early January. In the second half of 2012 the index's performance compared with 2011 declined significantly, although the absolute index was higher. Next week is probably the last week for any seasonal influence to dominate. Tax withholding was very weak this past week, which may be an anomaly. Please note I am adjusting my YoY figures to reflect the increase in personal withholding tax rates since the first of the year. Transport Railroad transport ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Shipping transport ¬† Rail transport has been whipsawing between very positive and very negative readings over the last month. This may well be the aftermath of the dock strikes. Hopefully it will return to less volatile readings in the next week or two. The Harpex index is near its 3 year low of 352, but the Baltic Dry Index is well above its 52 week low of 52, although far off its 52 week high of 1100. Bank lending rates ¬† The TED spread is near its 52 week low. LIBOR is at a new 52 week low and is close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices ¬† Very little was negative this week. The Daily Treasury Statement was barely positive YoY. Gasoline usage continues to run negative YoY. Money supply was less positive than it has been recently. Consumer confidence, especially expectations about the future, continues to decline.  Almost everything else was positive to extremely positive. Consumer spending, especially as measured by Gallup, remains quite strong, despite the increased tax withholding in their paychecks. Initial jobless claims are quite positive. Bank lending rates and interest rate spreads are also very positive. Gas prices remain accommodative. House prices, loans, and mortgage applications are all positive, suggesting that the positive housing trend reflected in starts and permits will continue. Shipping rates are up slightly.  I remain most interested in when or whether the 2% increase in withholding tax rates will have an effect on consumers, although it certainly hasn't shown up yet! Right now, the high frequency indicators show continued economic expansion.  Have a nice weekend.
