Part of the joy of Scotch is that it's simple. You put it in a glass with some ice, maybe water, and you're done. Ready to enjoy. So when Desmond Payne, head distiller at Beefeater Gin, offered to let Business Insider taste test a new gin he was brewed up called 'Burrough's Reserve'; he pulled us in with this quote: "We don't expect to see this on every bar up and down the street, It's a high end gin. We recommend it for sipping." Shots fired ‚Äî Gin without a twist, not dirty, not with tonic. Neat. The 'Burrough's Reserve' gin (named for Beefeater founder James Burrough) follows the same recipe the distillery has been using since the 1800s except for one thing ‚Äî after the gin is steeped with 9 botanicals and then distilled, it is placed in a wood cask. Bottles hit American stores this fall. To get the taste just right, Payne played with the size of the cask (think: the more surface area the gin touches the more the wood seeps into the taste) and the type of wood its made from. It gives the gin a slightly golden brown tint. Now, it's impossible not to notice that there are distilleries popping up everywhere these days, and there are even other gin distilleries doing the cask thing ‚Äî St. George Spirits in the San Francisco area has one, so does Few Spirits in Chicago, and Citadelle Reserve to name a few ‚Äî but no one has been more open about how their casked gin is supposed to be served than Beefeater. "Rather than just have a high end, high priced in a nice bottle, I wanted to explore the occasions in which people drink gin," said Payne. It's his polite way of trying to say that he's trying to disrupt the occasions in which you drink gin. As for the taste after our test? Yes, Burrough's Reserve is unquestionably sippable. Citrusy and light, it's obviously not the same taste as scotch, but that's not the point ‚Äî it goes down so smoothly you won't be reaching for tonic at all. If you do dare to try it, there's a chance you might be converted. Very scary. And here's what it'll look like in U.S. stores: Beefeater
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoThe weekend is over, and Asian markets are drifting lower on the open. Japan's Nikkei is off -1.20%. Australia's ASX 200 is -0.03% lower. And Korea's Kospi index is down -0.011%. Tomorrow, ISM will announce its latest "non-manufacturing" data print.¬† Plus Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher will speak.¬†
For awhile now, we've (unfortunately) followed up every non-farm payroll report with the "scariest jobs chart ever." Furnished by Calculated Risk's Bill McBride, it shows how far below current employment levels remain from their pre-recession peak. Bill McBride/Calculated Risk As it happens, McBride also publishes a similar chart tracking how far industrial production has recovered. Unfortunately, like employment, we remain a decent way off from pre-recession levels. McBride: Industrial production was off 16.9% at the trough in June 2009, and was initially one of the stronger performing sectors during the recovery. However industrial production is still 1.7% below the pre-recession peak.¬† This indicator might return to the pre-recession peak in in 2014. And here's the chart: Bill McBride/Calculated Risk It's further evidence that talk of a recovery in manufacturing remains suspect at best. And for context, here's McBride's chart for real personal income ex-transfer payments, which has basically completely recovered: Bill McBride/Calculated Risk
REUTERS/ Rebecca Cook Research firm Morningstar has highlighted a potential discrepancy in Detroit emergency manager Kevyn Orr's bankruptcy filing.† The firm's report was first spotted by Bond Buyer and reported by the Detroit Free Press' John Gallagher Orr has pegged the size of the shortfall in the General Retirement System and Police and Fire Retirement System at $3.5 billion. He arrived at that figure in part by estimating the funds' expected annual return on assets at 7%. The city's actuary, meanwhile, says the size of the gap is actually $977 million, based in part on an expected annual return of 8%. Morningstar's Jeff Westergaard, Elizabeth Foos, and Rachel Barkley write that both of those are actually within the norm for the rest of the country. Barkely told us that based on data from the National Association of State Retirement Administrators, the 10-year return on state plans was 7.5%, and 8.9% †for 25 years. As you can see, the lower the expected return estimate, the larger the funding gap is today. Orr's contention that a 30-year amortization period exacerbates the hole is also off base, they say. The discrepancy helps explain why the two funds sued to prevent the bankruptcy filing in the first place ó they contended they were not in danger of defaulting. The figure also has implications for how much money unsecured debt holders can expect to get back. Orr has signaled entities holding unsecured notes may only see pennies on the dollar. So the question is, what other assumptions is Orr using to arrive at a figure more than twice the size the of the city's? Where Detroit is outside accepted practices is in the seven-year period they use for smoothing out returns, Morningstar said. That is a bit long, they note, especially given wild fluctuations in investment returns in recent years. Last year brought in -0.4%, while 2011 saw a +18.7% gain. And Gallagher notes recent research has shown funds must go above-and-beyond industry norms to remain fiscally sound, and that Orr would likely use such findings in court. Freep reported Friday the city now hopes to submit a restructuring plan by the end of the year.
The July jobs report was broadly disappointing, which offset some of the enthusiasm that came in the wake of the bullish June jobs report. One trend that has emerged has been the rise of part-time (i.e. those working less than 35 hours per week), low-paying (i.e. those getting paid below the median wage) jobs. "Through March, employment growth was about as fast in high-wage industries as in low-wage industries," noted UBS's Maury Harris. "But over the three months through July, low-wage industry employment has gone up at a 2.7% annual rate and high-wage industry employment only at a 1.3% annual rate‚Äîa relatively large 1.4 pct pt differential." Some economists attribute some of this shift to Obamacare, which will eventually force companies to offer health care to full-time workers or face a penalty. Still, it's unclear how bad this is for the economy assuming its bad at all. "What doesn't really add up with this focus on part-time employment is what the payroll data are telling us about labour income, which is now on a discernible uptrend," said economist David Rosenberg in a note to clients last month. For now, the trends in part-time, low-paying jobs are something economists will continue to flag and debate.  UBS
REUTERS/Eric GaillardAs earnings season continues, some companies have highlighted the impact of "unusual weather patterns" on their second quarter results. According to Goldman Sachs economist David Kostin, "A cool, wet season in parts of the US and Europe dampened some consumer activity, while business in other regions benefitted from an exceptionally hot summer." In a new report for clients, Kostin pulled statements from various weather-dependent companies to show how climate was a theme of this earnings season. Coca-Cola Co. On top of this, we were faced with unusually widespread wet and cold weather conditions across multiple regions, including North America, across Northern Europe and India, all of which impacted the entire industry.  Unfortunately, we experienced an extremely wet and cold second quarter, with more rain in the U.S. in June than we've seen in 50 years; and 44% more precipitation than in June of last year.  Additionally, historically wet and cold conditions across Europe, including the coldest spring for Germany in 40 years, further dampened already weak consumer sentiment and industry trends, and contributed to volume declining 3% in Germany in the quarter. Walgreens As with other retailers, the weather had a negative impact on seasonal sales in the third quarter. CMS Energy Corp Later in the year, we benefited from a hotter than normal summer and put this upside to use by investing substantially more in tree trimming, generating plant maintenance and system hardening. The benefits are showing up in our present reliability performance during prolonged hot and humid weather. Costco Fortunately, we are in, I think, 41 or 42 states in Puerto Rico in the U.S. if you will. And so when the weather was bad in one part of the country it wasn‚Äôt bad in the other part of the country.¬† For companies like United Technologies Corp., which deals in air conditioning, a hot summer is a great thing. Their orders were up nearly 20% this quarter.
After an incredibly busy week that ended with a weak jobs report, this coming week has almost no major U.S. economic events scheduled. However, some members of the Federal Reserve will be speaking.¬† And all market participants will be interested to hear what they have to say about the direction of monetary policy in the wake of the latest data dump. From Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna: ... This week‚Äôs data docket is relatively light and the main focus will likely be the first round of post-FOMC Fed-speak. St. Louis Fed President Bullard already indicated last Friday that he would favor waiting for more H2 data before tapering QE. It will be interesting to see if his views are shared by fellow committee members. Dallas Fed President Fisher (non-voter) speaks on the economy on Monday, and given his hawkishness, it is doubtful he shares Bullard‚Äôs sentiment. In contrast, Chicago Fed President Evans (voter) is scheduled to give a press interview on Tuesday and given his dovishness, it is likely he too will want to see further confirmation that the labor market is on a sustainable path to recovery. On Wednesday, Cleveland Fed president Pianalto (non-voter) will be speaking on the economy, and as one of the more moderate Fed participants, she has indicated in previous speeches that she would rather see asset purchases begin to slow sooner rather than later. It will be interesting to see if her view has changed at all in light of the recent data. On Tuesday, we will get the latest Job Openings And Labor Turnover Survey report. While this is not generally considered a major market-mover, we know that it is closely watched by Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen.
CAMBRIDGE ‚Äì The battle is on to replace current US Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. One might expect the Fed chairmanship ‚Äì arguably the second most powerful official position in the United States, and certainly the world‚Äôs most powerful financial position ‚Äì to be determined by a conclave of central bankers. In fact, the choice is largely at the discretion of the US president. So let us consider two of the leading candidates, Lawrence Summers, a former US treasury secretary, and current Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen. Both Summers and Yellen are brilliant scholars with extensive experience in public service. Whereas the mainstream press seems intent on exploring their candidacies as a contest of contrasting personalities, the fact is that both candidates are extremely well qualified. Moreover, both have a reputation for believing that the Fed should not place excessive weight on price stability relative to unemployment. Normally, this dovish bias would be a handicap; nowadays, it is an advantage. The importance of technical competence in monetary policy has been proved repeatedly by central banks around the world. According to research published in 2003 by the economists Christina Romer and David Romer, the quality of monetary policy depends critically on whether central bankers have a clear and nuanced understanding of policy making and inflation. The 1920‚Äôs, 1930‚Äôs, and 1970‚Äôs are replete with examples of central bankers who did not understand the basics, and whose economies paid the price. What this means is not just competence in setting interest rates, but also competence in regulatory policy. Some are criticizing Summers‚Äôs ardent pursuit of financial deregulation during the 1990‚Äôs, when he headed the US Treasury under President Bill Clinton. But these critics overlook his role in helping to fight that decade‚Äôs sovereign-debt crises, and his insistence that the US begin issuing inflation-indexed bonds. In a complex and ever-changing policy setting, it is almost impossible to get every call right, and the important thing is to learn from one‚Äôs mistakes. Winston Churchill famously regretted overseeing the United Kingdom‚Äôs catastrophic return to the gold standard in 1925, when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer. His performance, needless to say, improved in later years. As for Yellen, it is true that she was President of the San Francisco Federal Reserve during the last years of the massive US housing bubble ‚Äì which was particularly acute in her district. But Yellen‚Äôs speeches on financial risks showed more foresight than those of most of her peers. Typically, one looks to the head of the central bank to serve as a bulwark against political pressure to push down interest rates and raise inflation. My own research in 1985 on inflation and central-bank independence showed that, in normal times, one generally wants a central banker who places greater emphasis on price stability relative to unemployment than an ordinary informed citizen might do. Installing a ‚Äúconservative‚Äù central banker helps to keep inflation expectations in check, thereby holding down long-term interest rates and mitigating upward pressure on wages and prices. For the past 25 years, the mantra of ‚Äúinflation targeting‚Äù (introduced in my 1985 paper) has served as a mechanism for containing inflation expectations by reassuring the public of the central bank‚Äôs intentions. But excessive emphasis on low inflation targets can be counterproductive in the aftermath of the worst financial crisis in 75 years. Rather than worrying about inflation, central bankers should focus on reflating the economy. The real problem is that they have done such a good job convincing the public that inflation is the number-one evil that it is difficult for them to persuade anyone that they are now serious about reflation. That is why appointing a ‚Äúdove‚Äù would not be a bad thing at all. Yellen has already developed a reputation as a dove within the Fed, with speeches consistently showing strong concern about today‚Äôs high unemployment. And, though many on the left regard Summers as suspiciously conservative, that is hardly the case when it comes to inflation. His 1991 paper on monetary policy is widely cited as among the first to make the case for avoiding very low inflation targets, in part to give the central bank more room to lower interest rates. Back then, Summers clearly viewed himself as a monetary-policy dove: ‚ÄúI would support having someone in charge of monetary policy who is more inflation-averse than I.‚Äù But now Summers‚Äôs dovishness is not a problem. In the face of downward nominal-wage rigidity, higher inflation would facilitate sectoral adjustment and achieve a small but useful impact on reducing debt burdens. If normal times call for a conservative central banker who helps to anchor inflation expectations, now is the rare time when we need a more unorthodox central banker who will fight deflation expectations. A central-bank version of the Vatican‚Äôs papal conclave would have a hard time deciding whether to send up the fumata bianca for Yellen or for Summers ‚Äì or perhaps for someone else (another former Fed vice chair, Donald Kohn, now appears to be in the mix) with similar inclinations.
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Ever since activist investor Bill Ackman publicly declared he's shorting Herbalife, he has become the target of the biggest names in the hedge fund community.† The tall, handsome, silver-haired billionaire founder of Pershing Square Capital Management has a reputation for being extremely confident.† However, some rival fund managers have described him as "sanctimonious"†and they view going long Herbalife as an opportunity to squeeze Ackman on his short position. †† "If Ackman gets squeezed I'm not going to feel sorry..." Carl Icahn said in†an interview with CNBC, adding,†"The fact that I don't like Ackman you could say is the strawberry on top of the ice cream." "Making money when Bill Ackman is losing money is like a ride at the circus,"†Bob Chapman of Chapman Capital said on CNBC this week. So far, fund managers who have piled on by going long Herbalife include Carl Icahn, Daniel Loeb and most recently George Soros.† Loeb exited his Herbalife position in the second quarter for a nice profit. Soros hasn't made any comments publicly about his Herbalife position or Ackman. †He reportedly asked to withdraw hundreds of millions from Ackman's Pershing Square earlier this year, though.† Since everyone's been picking on him, let's get to know Ackman better.
"[T]he role of an independent central bank is different in inflationary and deflationary environments. In the face of inflation, which is often associated with excessive [government borrowing and] monetization of government debt, the virtue of an independence central bank is its ability to say ‚Äúno‚Äù to the government. [In a liquidity trap], however, excessive [government borrowing] and money creation is unlikely to be the problem, and a more cooperative stance on the part of the central bank may be called for. Under the current circumstances [of a liquidity trap], greater cooperation for a time between the [monetary] and the fiscal authorities is in no way inconsistent with the independence of [...] central bank[s], any more than cooperation between two independent nations in pursuit of a common objective [or, for that matter, cooperation between central banks and fiscal authorities to facilitate war finance] is consistent with the principle of national sovereignty.‚Äù Governor Ben S. Bernanke The United States and much of the developed world are in a liquidity trap‚Ä¶. A liquidity trap is a circumstance in which the private sector is deleveraging in the wake of enduring negative animal spirits caused by the bursting of joint asset price and credit bubbles that leave private sector balance sheets severely damaged. In a liquidity trap the animal spirits of the private sector cannot be revived by a reduction in short-term interest rates because there is no demand for credit. This effectively means that conventional monetary policy does not work in a liquidity trap‚Ä¶. Deleveraging can be rational for an individual household. It can be rational for an individual corporation. It can be rational for an individual country. However, in the aggregate it begets the paradox of thrift: what is rational at the microeconomic level is irrational at the community, or macroeconomic, level. This is not to say that the private sector should not deleverage. It has to. It is a part of the economy‚Äôs healing process and a necessary first step toward a self-sustaining economic recovery. However, deleveraging is a beast of a burden that capitalism cannot bear alone. At the macro level, deleveraging must be a managed process: for the private sector to deleverage without causing a depression, the public sector has to move in the opposite direction and re-lever by effectively viewing the balance sheets of the monetary and fiscal authorities as a consolidated whole. Fiscal austerity does not work in a liquidity trap and makes as much sense as putting an anorexic on a diet. Yet, ‚Äúdiets‚Äù are the very prescriptions that fiscal austerians have imposed (or plan to impose) in the U.S., U.K. and Eurozone. Austerians fail to realize, however, that everyone cannot save at the same time and that in liquidity traps, the paradox of thrift and depression are fellow travelers that are functionally intertwined.
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoA view of waste heaps at the Belaruskali potash mine near the town of Soligorsk, some 130 kms (81 miles) south of Minsk, March 17, 2013. For decades two export groups, Belarus Potash Company (BPC), which represents producers in Russian and Belarus, and Canpotex, its North American equivalent, have set identical prices in key markets such as China and India and have often curbed output simultaneously. Potash is the key ingredient in fertilizer. It would very difficult to grow food without it. Like oil, there is a finite supply of potash, which contains potassium.† And like oil, the a major portion of the potash market has been controlled by a cartel of Russian, Eastern European and Canadian firms. Until this week. Uralkali, the world's biggest potash supplier, announced it was leaving Belarus Potash Co, the European side of the potash cartel. The move sent shares in potash suppliers tumbling. The Toronto Globe and Mail's Michael Babad says there's an outside chance Urakali is bluffing to force fellow cartel member Belaruskali to get in line. But if it proves to be true, the price of potash is going to collapse ó which would be brutal for the industry, but great for consumers. Babad quotes Joel Jackson of BMO Nesbitt Burns' price estimate: Our analysis is preliminary, but our initial bear case is that global price estimates could fall by $100/tonne (down closer to marginal European costs), which will impact all producers, though companies such as [Potash Corp. and Uralkali] have the most spare capacity to partially offset lower prices and might relatively fare the least worse. Besides shareholders of potash firms, the other big loser would be the province of Saskatchewan, where Potash comprises 18% of all exports, Babad says.†
What in the world is going on?! As I write this letter from the Maine woods, the S&amp;P 500 has just cleared 1,700 for the first time. The German DAX continues to set all-time highs above 8,400. The United Kingdom‚Äôs FTSE 100 is quickly approaching its 1999 record high of 6,930, and its mid-cap cousin, the FTSE 250, just broke through to its all-time level above 15,000. And last but not least, Japan‚Äôs Nikkei 225 is extending its gains once more, toward 14,500. This weekend I am sitting around with some of the smartest economic and trading minds in the country. At Leen's Lodge, where we're fishing and eating where our phones don‚Äôt work, the question on our minds is, how long can this run go on? The debates can get intense in a room full of strong opinions. So, with a little help, I did some research on what our forward-looking prospects are for the markets. Let me take this opportunity to introduce a new name to readers, one that will become familiar over the next few years. I have gotten to know Worth Wray, a young economist (though I should say that, as I stare 64 in the face, a lot of people are looking young these days) who has really impressed me with the breadth of his knowledge and insights. He was the former portfolio strategist for my good friends at Salient down in Houston, and they were kind enough to let me entice him to come to Dallas to work with me. This is a big move for both of us, and I am finding that it's one I should have undertaken a long time ago. Worth is really going to help me expand my abilities to do research and present my thoughts to you. I asked him a few questions, and he helped me tee up this week‚Äôs letter. Plus, we'll look across the Pacific, and I'll share some though ts I‚Äôve had about an interesting black swan that could be developing in the Korean Peninsula. Let‚Äôs get started! To many investors, developed markets appear healthier and stronger than they have in years. Major equity markets are rallying to record highs; corporate credit spreads are tight versus US Treasuries and getting tighter; and broad measures of volatility continue to fall to their lowest levels since 2007.  This kind of news would normally point to prosperity across the real economy and call for a celebration ‚Äì but prices do not always reflect reality. Moreover,¬†the combination of high and rising valuations, low volatility, and a weakening trend in real earnings growth is a proven recipe for poor long-term returns and market instability. Let‚Äôs take the S&amp;P 500 as an example. It returned roughly 42% from September 1, 2011, through August 1, 2013, as the VIX Index fell to its lowest levels since the global financial crisis. Over that time frame, real earnings declined slightly (down about 2% through Q1 2013 earnings season), while the trailing 12-month price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio jumped 44%, from 13.5x to 19.5x. That means the majority of the recent gains in US equity markets were driven by multiple expansion in spite of negative real earnings growth. This is a clear sign that¬†sentiment, rather than fundamentals, is driving the markets higher.  Of course, the simple trailing 12-month P/E ratio can be misleading at critical turning points if you are trying to handicap the potential for long-term returns. For example, the collapse in real earnings during the global financial crisis sent the S&amp;P 500‚Äôs trailing P/E multiple through the roof by March 2009. So, while trailing P/E is a useful tool for understanding what has already happened in the market, the ‚ÄúShiller P/E‚Äù is far more useful for calculating a reasonable range of expected returns going forward. This approach won‚Äôt help you much with short-term market timing, but current valuations have historically proven extremely useful in forecasting long-term returns. In his book¬†Irrational Exuberance¬†(2005), Robert Shiller of Yale University shows how this approach ‚Äúconfirms that long-term investors ‚Äì investors who commit their money to an investment for ten full years ‚Äì did do well when prices were low rel ative to earnings at the beginning of the ten years. Long-term investors would be well-advised, individually, to lower their exposure to the stock market when it is high ‚Ä¶ and to get into the market when it is low.‚Äù  As you can see in Figure 6, compared to the more common trailing 12-month P/E ratio in Figure 5, the Shiller P/E metric essentially smooths out the series and helps us avoid false signals by dividing the market‚Äôs current price by the average inflation-adjusted earnings of the past ten years. Historically, this range has peaked and given way to major market declines at around 29x on average (or 26x excluding the dot-com bubble), and it has bottomed in the mid-single digits. Not only does today‚Äôs Shiller P/E of 24x suggest a seriously overvalued market, but the rapid multiple expansion of the last two years in the absence of earnings growth suggests that this market is also seriously overbought. John Hussman helps us keep current valuations in historical perspective: The Shiller P/E is now 24.4, about the same level as August 1929, higher than December 1972, higher than August 1987, but less extreme than the level of 43 that was reached in March 2000 (a level that has been followed by more than 13 years of market returns within a fraction of a percent of the return on Treasury bills ‚Äì and even then only by revisiting significantly overvalued levels today). The Shiller P/E is presently moderately below the level of 27 at the October 2007 market peak. It‚Äôs worth noting that the 2000-2001 recession is already out of the Shiller calculation. Moreover, looking closely at the data, the implied profit margin embedded in today‚Äôs Shiller P/E is 6.3%, compared with a historical average of only about 5.3%. At normal profit margins, the current Shiller P/E would be 29.  While it may be impossible to accurately predict when this policy-driven market will break, history suggests it would be very reasonable for the secular bear to eventually bottom at a P/E multiple between 5x and 10x, opening up one of the rare wealth-creation opportunities to deploy capital at truly cheap prices. Some of these technical details are rather dry, but I hope you'll focus on the main idea:¬†We are not talking about the potential for a modest 20% to 30% drawdown in the S&amp;P 500. If history is any indication, we are talking about the potential for a 50%+ peak-to-trough drawdown and ten-year average annual returns as bad as -4.4%,¬†according to the chart above from Cliff Asness at AQR. Such a result would fall in line with somewhat similar deleveraging periods such as the United States experienced in the 1930s and Japan has experienced since 1989. There is no way to sugarcoat it: too much equity risk can be unproductive and even destructive in this kind of economic environment. But where there is danger, there is also opportunity. This is a terrific time to take some profits and diversify away from the growth-oriented risk factors that dominate most investors‚Äô portfolios. Instead of concentrating risk in one asset class or one country, investors can boost returns and achieve more balance by taking a global view, by broadening the mix of core asset classes, and by weighting those return streams to achieve balance across potential economic outcomes (rather than trying to predict the future). Since¬†equities and credit¬†are essentially a directional bet on positive economic growth and benign inflation, you have a lot to gain from diversifying into other core market risks:¬†commodities, which thrive when inflation, or more specifically expected inflation, is rising; and nominal¬†safe-haven government bonds, which thrive as inflation gives way to deflation and the oth er assets typically decline. While each group of asset classes responds to economic conditions differently and exhibits low correlations to the others, each of them tends to offer similar risk-adjusted returns over long periods of time, thus warranting constant inclusion in any core portfolio. It also makes sense to embrace truly diversifying alternative strategies that are either less correlated or negatively correlated. When valuations are expensive across the board, momentum-based strategies like managed futures can be a fantastic addition to a portfolio. Aside from government bonds, momentum is the only easily accessible strategy that tends to become more negatively correlated with broader markets during times of extreme stress and tends to deliver outsized returns when your other investments are losing money. Of course, combining the asset classes into one portfolio is the hard part, but research going back to the early 1970s suggests that broadening this mix of core assets ‚Äì so that you have some element of your portfolio that responds positively to every potential economic season ‚Äì and managing the relative allocations to each economic scenario may be your biggest opportunity to add value in the investing process.¬†¬† You have a lot to gain from diversifying as broadly as possible, eliminating unrewarded costs, reducing your reliance on equity risk, and reining in the emotional mistakes that often lead investors to dramatically underperform. Remember, in a world characterized by deleveraging, changing demographics in aging populations, financial repression, and increasingly experimental monetary policy, every basis point counts and anything can happen. With that, let‚Äôs end our discussion with a few words of advice from the world‚Äôs largest and arguably most successful hedge fund manager, Ray Dalio: What I'm trying to say is that for the average investor, what I would encourage them to do is to understand that there's inflation and growth. It can go higher and lower and to have four different portfolios essentially that make up your entire portfolio that gets you balanced.¬† Because in every generation, there is some period of time, there's a ruinous asset class, that will destroy wealth and you don't know which one that will be in your life time. So the best thing you can do is have a portfolio that is immune, that is well diversified.¬† That is what we call an all-weather portfolio.¬† That means you don't have a concentration in that asset class that's going to annihilate you and you don't know which one it is. Last week I was in Newport, Rhode Island, at the Naval War College, where I participated in a summer study group focused on possible futures and how they might affect the strategy of the US Defense Department. The discussions were wide-ranging and mind-expanding, at least for me. As readers know, I believe that Japan has begun a long-term process of continually devaluing its currency. For reasons I have written about at length in previous letters, I think the yen could go to 200 to the dollar in the next five years. I don‚Äôt see a precipitous move, simply a steady erosion as Japan tries to bring back inflation and export its deflation. While the yen at its current valuation is not a particular problem for the rest of the world, when it hits 120 we will start to see raised eyebrows and political speeches from the countries most affected. At 140 we could start to see serious reactions. One of the countries that I think is put into a most difficult situation is South Korea. Their options for responding to a weakening yen are quite limited. If they respond by printing more of their own currency, they are likely to engender a debilitating inflation, which is of course not a good thing. Protectionism will have little real effect vis-√†-vis Japan. Remember that the Japanese yen was 357 to the dollar about 40 years ago. The Japanese watched their currency rise by almost 400% in the decades since. The only real response available to them was to simply become more competitive and more productive as their currency got stronger, and to their great credit they did. Honing their competitive edge may also be the only real option for South Korea. But it is not an easy one, of course, and you will hear lots of complaints from Korean politicians and businessmen. Not an easy environment, to be sure. Now let‚Äôs shift our focus to North Korea. Everyone (including your humble analyst) is worried about the isolationist regime in North Korea having access to nuclear weapons and the ability to deliver them on missiles. But a few conversations I had this past week led me to think there is another scenario we should consider. A side conversation at the study group began with an observation by a senior officer about the ability of the North Korean military to actually project power. As this information is nothing more than what you can find in the newspapers, I feel comfortable discussing it here. Everyone knows that North Koreans have been malnourished for multiple decades. Studies suggest that North Koreans may be up to three inches shorter than South Koreans and have diminished IQs because of malnourishment as children. The latter is a known effect on human beings anywhere who are subjected to a starvation diet. The North Korean population has suffered from severe diet restriction for decades. How capable is the North Korean military of actually mounting an offensive when their soldiers are simply not physically able to withstand the pressures of combat? I was also able last week to visit with one of the great geopolitical strategists of our time, Professor Ian Bremmer of Columbia, who is the president and founder of¬†Eurasia Group, with some 100 geopolitical analysts working for him. I shared with him my concerns about the Korean peninsula. He immediately said that he was more worried about the Korean peninsula than any other part of the world, including the Middle East. One of the interesting things that he shared is that an increasing number of cell phones are being smuggled into North Korea from China and that the North Koreans are beginning to get the real story about the world rather than just the propaganda fed to them by their government. While there is little ability for the North Korean population to actually stage a revolution, as they do not have the weapons and hungry people really have difficulty mounting military operations, there is the possibility of the country becoming increasingly difficult to manage. Combine that with the potential for a disastrous food-production year, and the potential for the collapse of the government is not all that far-fetched. There were not many people forecasting the collapse of the USSR in 1987. Yet as we look back, the confluence of causes that resulted in its collapse seems rather obvious. Probably, the current dictatorship will maintain its stranglehold on North Korea. That is the tendency with repression and tyranny ‚Äì witness Cuba and any number of other countries. But one cannot dismiss the possibility of a collapse of the North Korean state. If that were to happen it would be a humanitarian disaster. In the long run it might be better for the North Korean people, but in the short run it would be catastrophic. It is not unreasonable to expect that South Korea would have to do the bulk of the heavy lifting, especially after the first year or so. And should the world no longer have to focus on the ability of North Korea to create mischief with nuclear weapons, North Korea could soon become page 16 news. No matter how positively you would want to view Korean unification, the process would be enormously expensive for South Korea. Assimilating a population long challenged by hardship into a new reality, not to mention incorporating it into a modern economic model, is a daunting challenge. I think the task would be more difficult and more expensive on a per-capita basis than the unification of Germany. And this could happen while the attention of South Korea is focused on dealing with the devaluation of the yen and the need to become progressively more competitive to maintain its export and business model. There is also the possibility of massive refugee movements into China. That is a significantly different issue than worrying about a million-man army crossing the DMZ into South Korea. I‚Äôm not saying this will happen, but it is a possibility we need to keep an eye on. I‚Äôm at¬†Leen‚Äôs Lodge¬†in Grand Lake Stream, Maine, at ‚ÄúCamp Kotok,‚Äù with about 50 people from all areas of the financial sector: money managers, traders, writers, real economists (as opposed to your humble analyst), financial media, Federal Reserve economists, and other guests. Old friends whose names are familiar to my readers have become regulars here ‚Äì people like Paul McCulley, Barry Ritholtz, Jim Bianco, David Rosenberg, Mike McKee of Bloomberg, Bill Dunkelberg (chief economist of the National Federation of Independent Businesses), Phillipa Dunne of the¬†Liscio Report,¬†and others too numerous to mention. David Kotok of Cumberland Advisors organizes the event and masterfully crafts the mix of guests and the agenda for the long weekend. Some people have referred to this group as the Shadow Fed, but that is far too serious a moniker for what really happens here. This is one of the more fascin ating discussion groups I ever get to participate in, and I always learn a great deal. I should note that at least ten of our group are women, which makes it somewhat unusual for a financial-industry gathering, but it's a trend I would like to see more of. This is the seventh year I‚Äôve attended, and each year I‚Äôve come with my youngest son, Trey. He was 12 the first year we came and is now 19. He has grown up with these men and women. Being with my son each year has made this a very special week in my life. Each year's event is an emotional and very personal measuring stick as I watch him grow up. The annual competition to see who among us will catch the most fish is a small part of the experience, but Trey does not let me forget that he has won for six years in a row. After our first rain-soaked half-day of fishing, I am ahead by one, but there are two more full days ahead. Watching him grow up here is very special. There is a part of me that hopes he catches at least one more fish than the old man. But I will never tell him that. Grand Lake Stream is in the middle of Washington County, Maine, which is about the size of Connecticut yet has only 30,000 people. As it turns out, it is also the poorest county east of the Mississippi. Who knew? Local officials assure me that our gathering of economists is one of the biggest financial events for the area each year. In a few weeks they are going to announce what is a fascinating economic experiment. The state of Maine is going to make the entire county an enterprise zone. They are going to eliminate all taxes in the county ‚Äì every last corporate, personal, and sales tax. As one former state official told me tonight, the state gets such a small amount of taxes from this county that eliminating the taxes won‚Äôt affect the state budget whatsoever. And the poverty here is quite real. I will give you an update, down the road, on whether the Washington County experiment makes a difference. My philosophical bet is that it will. In a few years the results will not be just philosophical but something we can all see. As long as I keep getting an invitation to return, I intend to spend the first weekend of every August in Maine. It is truly a slice of heaven and one of the gatherings I most look forward to every year. We go back home¬†on Monday, and then the next week I‚Äôm off to Montana with Darrell Cain for a week to read, relax, and gather my thoughts. At the end of the month I go to San Antonio for the World Science Fiction Convention (WorldCon), where I get to play groupie for a few days. Then in the middle of the month I will go to Bismarck, North Dakota (details later), and hopefully make a side trip to South Dakota, which will allow me to finally say that I have been in all 50 states. It is time to hit the send button, as the group is gathering for Lobster Night. Charles Driza, the owner of Leen‚Äôs Lodge, and his staff provide fabulous gourmet meals. And the conversation is even better. Have a great week and find a few friends and family to be with. That time is an investment where the valuation is always rising. Your soaking up the beauty of Maine analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Share Your Thoughts on This Article  To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/subscribe To change your email address, please click here:http://www.mauldineconomics.com/change-address To unsubscribe, please refer to the bottom of the email. Thoughts From the Frontline¬†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member¬†FINRA¬†and¬†SIPC, through which securities may be offered. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Intr oducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining the Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at¬†www.MauldinCircle.com¬†or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as wel l as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauld in receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have t otal trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor's interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at¬†800-829-7273. Mauldin Economics, LLC | PO Box 192495 | Dallas, Texas 75219 
REUTERS/Andrew BirajThe tobacco industry used to be one of America's most profitable, but you know how the story goes¬†‚Äî scientific research and litigation slowly chipped away at the smoking facade. Add to that excise taxes and restrictions, and now under 20% of Americans are smokers. But big tobacco companies like Marlboro-maker Philip Morris International (PMI) have footholds in emerging markets, which are still highly lucrative areas for the cigarette business.¬†Asia in particular has been a growing market (and Europe still has plenty of smokers too). We pulled ten key slides from the company's latest quarterly earnings presentation that capture the state of the international smoking markets.
REUTERS/Andrew BirajThe tobacco industry used to be one of America's most profitable, but you know how the story goes¬†‚Äî scientific research and litigation slowly chipped away at the smoking facade. Add to that excise taxes and restrictions, and now under 20% of Americans are smokers. But big tobacco companies like Marlboro-maker Philip Morris International (PMI) have footholds in emerging markets, which are still highly lucrative areas for the cigarette business.¬†Asia in particular has been a growing market (and Europe still has plenty of smokers too). We pulled ten key slides from the company's latest quarterly earnings presentation that capture the state of the international smoking markets.
Goldman Sachs' new monthly chartbook is out, and it leads with a list of the trades and investment strategies that have and haven't been working so far this year. Leading the way is health care stocks. The basic investment thesis argues that with the Affordable Care Act, aka Obamacare, comes lots of new volume for the health care companies. Meanwhile, gold is just not working. From Goldman Sachs: Goldman Sachs
If you want to make a lot of money, you get a job on Wall Street. If you want to make even more money, you might dump that Wall Street job for a startup. It isn't a career path that works out for everyone. But for the founders of Wikipedia and Amazon, for example, ditching finance for tech was a smart choice.
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesMany American industries are still in flux following the financial crisis. In a new report, IBISWorld has identified ten of America's riskiest industries. These industries do offer growth opportunities for investors, but are largely expected to decline the most between now and 2018.¬† We drew on the report to highlight both the risks and opportunities in each of the industries. We also highlighted the average annual revenue growth or decline for each of these industries over the next five years.
On Friday, we learned that the U.S. economy added just 162,000 jobs in July, missing expectations for 185,000 new jobs.† Even worse, the June jobs number was revised down to +188,000 from last month's estimate of +195,000 jobs. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate dropped from 7.6% in June to 7.4% in July with the caveat that the labor force participation rate fell to 63.4% from 63.5% a month ago. So, what does all of this mean for the direction of monetary policy? In a new 8-page note to clients, Credit Suisse's Neal Soss reviewed the job market indicators followed by Janet Yellen, the current Vice Chair of the Federal Reserve Board and the frontrunner to become the next Chairman. "'Substantial improvement in the labor market' has been the Fedís stated benchmark for assessing its stimulus program," said Soss in a new note to clients. "Earlier this year, Federal Reserve Vice Chair Janet Yellen attempted to flesh out the substantial improvement idea by highlighting five variables she considered informative." Here's a little of what Soss saw. 1) Unemployment Rate Yellen: "Federal Reserve research concludes that the unemployment rate is probably the best single indicator of current labor market conditions. In addition, it is a good predictor of future labor market developments." While the 7.4% unemployment rate is the lowest level seen in this cycle, much of the improvement is due to gains in part-time jobs and the decline in the labor force participation rate. "[I]f the labor force participation rate held steady since December, the unemployment rate would be 7.7%, not 7.4," said Soss. 2) Payroll Employment Yellen: "...the pace of payroll employment growth is highly correlated with a diverse set of labor market indicators, and a decline in the unemployment is more likely to signal genuine improvement in the labor market when it is combined with a healthy pace of job gains." The July nonfarm payrolls number missed expectations at 162,000, but the trend has been on an upward trajectory. "[T]he average pace isnít materially out of the recent range: 175K over the last three months, compared to 200K in the last six months, and 190K in the last twelve months," noted Soss. "Relative to where it was at the start of QE3, the pace is somewhat improved. (The corresponding moving averages as of last September when QE3 began are 152K, 130K, and 178K.)" 3) Hiring Yellen: "In addition, I am likely to supplement the data on employment and unemployment with measures of gross job flows, such as job loss and hiring, which describe the underlying dynamics of the labor market. For instance, layoffs and discharges as a share of total employment have already returned to their pre-recession level, while the hiring rate remains depressed. Therefore, going forward, I would look for an increase in the rate of hiring" Yellen, as we know, is a close watcher of the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) report. New hires as a percentage of employment hasn't really changed since the Fed embarked on its third round of bond purchases (QE3). "The hiring rate is also trending well below levels commonly observed before the recession," said Soss. "This explains why jobless claims-based regressions have been persistently overestimating payroll growth by a substantial margin this cycle" 4) Quit Rate Yellen: "...a pickup in the quit rate, which also remains at a low level, would signal that workers perceive that their chances to be rehired are good--in other words, that labor demand has strengthened." The quit rate and the rate of job leavers have been on the rise since recovery started in 2009. 5) Economic Growth Yellen: "I also intend to consider my forecast of the overall pace of spending and growth in the economy. A decline in unemployment, when it is not accompanied by sufficiently strong growth, may not indicate a substantial improvement in the labor market outlook. Similarly, a convincing pickup in growth that is expected to be sustained could prompt a determination that the outlook for the labor market had substantially improved even absent any substantial decline at that point in the unemployment rate." When the recovery began, GDP growth was outpacing employment gains in what many dubbed the jobless recovery. More recently, those roles appear to have reversed. "Job growth has been overshooting GDP growth by a substantial margin this year," said Soss. "And while there are numerous hypotheses as to why that might be happening (lower productivity, doubling-up of part-time workers due to Obamacare concerns, and others), none are entirely convincing. One concern has to be that job growth (which lags GDP) could ìcatch-downî to the lower run rate of GDP growth (or be revised down in due course)." So, while the Fed has said it would consider a 6.5% unemployment rate as a threshold to guide monetary policy, it's clear that the dynamics underlying that number send a much more ambiguous message. By the way, the new JOLTS report will be published on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Citi ResearchBen Bernanke is expected to retire when his term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve ends this year. Current Vice Chair Janet Yellen is considered the favorite to fill the vacated seat. But the controversial former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has recently emerged as a frontrunner. Some experts believe a Summers nomination could face a lot of hurdles in Congress. To that end, Citi's Matthew Dabrowski and Tina Fordham review Fed governor nominations that just didn't work out: As we noted in January, only seven Cabinet nominees have been rejected or withdrawn since Reconstruction (i.e. the 1870ís), and six of those were due to personal scandal on the part of the nominee. For the Fed, no Chairman has ever been rejected, though Woodrow Wilson lost a handful of his picks for the initial board in 1914. More recently, a handful of Fed Governor nominations have been held or even rejected by the Senate. Bill Clinton lost two of his nominees at the height of the Whitewater scandal, and two of George W. Bushís were left waiting as his administration drew to a close. More notable was the 2010 rejection of Peter Diamond. With the U.S. recession hitting its low point at the time, Senators focused on Diamondís lack of direct experience with monetary policymaking. In our view, the Senate isnít likely to reject Obamaís final pick. The recent track record described above doesnít apply here. No overarching personal scandal is attached to the President, nor can the Senate wait out the last three full years of Obamaís term before approving a Fed Chair. So, the good news is whoever Obama nominates will probably see a clear path to Bernanke's vacated seat.
Although the market celebrated today‚Äôs releases on weekly unemployment claims and the ISM Manufacturing Index, the trajectory of this weak economic recovery has probably not changed.¬† Both of these indicators are affected by the difficulty the government has in gauging the seasonal adjustment factors in this part of the year as a result of the timing of the annual auto industry shutdowns for re-tooling.¬† In our view the 1st and 2nd quarter GDP results offer a much more representative outlook for an economy that seems to be losing steam rather than picking up as most observers believe. The unexpectedly large increase in the ISM Index was propelled mainly by a 6.4% rise in orders and an 11.6% jump in production.¬† On a seasonally unadjusted basis the respective increases were -1% and +2%.¬† While these were both better than usual for July, the seasonal adjustments, as compared to the past, seem unusually generous, and the reported number is most likely an outlier that also appears inconsistent with most other economic reports.¬† Similarly, the weekly unemployment claims number is usually choppy in July, and we would take it with grain of salt unless it is confirmed in subsequent weeks. The GDP results for the first half are a more accurate indicator of how weak the economic recovery has become.¬† While 2nd quarter growth of 1.7% was a mild upward surprise over expectations, 1st quarter growth was marked down to 1.1% from a previously reported 1.8% and a preliminary report of 2.4%.¬† Even so, there is reason to believe that the 2nd quarter was actually weaker than the 1st.¬† An unexpectedly large rise in inventories accounted for 24% of 2nd quarter growth, while consumption was up only 1.2%, compared to a still anemic 1.5% in the prior quarter.¬† Final demand was up only 1.3% in the 2nd quarter and 0.3% in the 1st.¬† The need to work off the excess inventories will tend to impede second half growth.¬† In addition government spending was down less than expected, indicating that further layoffs related to the sequester are still ahead.¬† We note that GDP would have to rise 3.5% in the 2nd half in order to meet the Fed‚Äôs last forecast. Another factor to consider is that nominal 2nd quarter GDP growth of 2.39% was actually lower than the 2.83% reported in the prior quarter.¬† The adjusted result was based on applying a price deflator of only 0.71% in the 2nd quarter, down from 1.67% in the 1st.¬† Had the same deflator been used in the 2nd quarter, real GDP growth would have been only 0.7%. In assessing the prospect for growth, it is also important to mention the much-discussed concept of ‚Äústall speed‚Äù, the point at which the economy can no longer maintain momentum and, therefore, falls into recession.¬† In post-World War II recoveries whenever the 4-quarter growth rate of GDP has declined to below 2% the economy has gone into recession within a short time.¬† In this regard, it is noteworthy that 2nd quarter GDP growth was only up 1.4% from a year earlier.¬† This does not bode well for the widely expected pickup in the 2nd half, particularly in view of the headwinds from the coming political fight over the budget and debt limit, the possible tapering of QE, and the numerous problems facing the global economy. In our view the stock market is overvalued, overly bullish and in a state of denial about the shaky economic recovery.¬† We believe that the potential for a severe downturn is too great to ignore.
