The "race" between Larry Summers and Janet Yellen to succeed Ben Bernanke is becoming more and more like a political battle every day. The latest example: A STRONG endorsement of Janet Yellen in the New York Times, that reads a lot like a paper endorsing a politician. Not only is it a strong endorsement of Yellen, it's pretty brutal towards Larry Summers, whom the paper ties to bad economic decisions, bad regulatory decisions, and even sexism. First on the differences in their economic pasts: A Yale educated economist and professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, she was first nominated and confirmed to the Fed board in the 1990s; from 2004 to 2010, she served as the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. She has been vice chairwoman since 2010, a trying time in which the Fed‚Äôs largely successful efforts to steer the economy have been made all the more difficult by poor fiscal policy decisions, including the White House‚Äôs premature pivot from stimulus to deficit reduction, which happened while Mr. Summers was a top adviser to Mr. Obama. And on the matter of gender: ...she is reminiscent of other accomplished women with whom Mr. Summers, or his supporters, or both have tangled in the past. In 1998, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers opposed Brooksley Born, then the chairwoman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for correctly calling for the regulation of derivatives; in 2009, Mr. Summers squelched the sound recommendation of Christina Romer, then an economic adviser to Mr. Obama, for a larger stimulus. In the first Obama term, Mr. Geithner clashed unhelpfully with Sheila Bair, then the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and with Elizabeth Warren, then the chairwoman of the Congressional panel overseeing the bailouts. The final line: In the end, the choice rests with Mr. Obama. The facts are entirely on Ms. Yellen‚Äôs side. Is the president?
REUTERS/Kiyoshi OtaA boy is encouraged by a judge during a competition at the Karate-Do championships in Tokyo, July 28, 2007. Japan just released a couple of June economic stats, and they were overall disappointing. First was June household spending, which unexpectedly fell 0.4% year-over-year.¬† Economists were looking for a 1.4% gain. That was followed by June industrial production, which fell 3.3% month-over-month.¬† Economists were looking for 1.5% decline. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.4% early in the Tuesday trading session. This follows Monday's 3.3% sell-off. Nikkei.com
REUTERS/Eric ThayerDallas Federal Reserve researchers Tyler Atkinson, David Luttrell and Harvey Rosenblum have a new paper out in which they attempt to calculate the true cost of the 2007-2009 financial crisis and recession. "The 2007-09 Financial crisis was associated with a huge loss of economic output and financial wealth, psychological consequences and skill atrophy from extended unemployment, an increase in government intervention, and other significant costs," they write. And they do offer a nominal range of figures, which we'll get to in a moment. But their larger conclusion is that the combination of measurable declines in output and opportunity costs are so vast, that an accurate total cost is practically incalculable. "Many of these consequences are intangible or difficult to measure," the trio write in "How Bad Was It? The Costs and Consequences of the 2007‚Äì09 Financial Crisis."¬†"The¬†cost is at least equal to the economic output that would have been produced but was not ‚Äî 40 to 90 percent¬†of one year's output [emphasis theirs]. But in light of the less-tangible consequences, the total cost likely exceeds the value¬†of one year's output." To get at that 40% to 90% range, they consider three estimates for trend GDP growth rates and what losses look like relative to each. First, assuming constant GDP per capita growth, you see GDP growing a higher than 4%.¬† Under this scenario, the U.S. economy lost $11.7 trillion. Dallas Fed Next, assuming constant GDP per working-age adult growth, growth is near 4% then slows.¬† The estimated loss under this scenario was slightly less worse at $9 trillion. Dallas Fed Finally, assuming the precrisis CBO potential output forecast, you get $6 trillion in losses. Dallas Fed But none of these accounts for losses stemming from unemployment, they write. Throw that into the mix, and you get a loss of $14 trillion, which happens to be the average annual output of the entire U.S. economy: In 2008-12, unemployment related to the weak economy prevented roughly $900 billion in earnings. According to the findings in Helliwell and Huang ["New Measures Of The Costs Of Unemployment"], society would have given up fifteen times this ‚Äî $14 trillion (in 2012 dollars, 90 percent of 2007 output) ‚Äî to avoid the negative consequences to well-being from unemployment rising above its natural rate through year-end 2012. Yet even this may short-change the true dollar amount of losses. The above quote comes from a chapter entitled, "The Unquantifiable Costs Of National Trauma,"¬†which also includes sections like "reduced opportunity" and "damaged public trust." Those items have knock-on effects on future gains that are unfathomable, they say: The narrowest and most easily quantifiable cost of the crisis is large, and the consequences are vast. Given our range of estimates, the tepid economic recovery, and the litany of other adverse effects stemming¬†from the Second Great Contraction, we suggest that the total domestic cost is likely greater than the¬†equivalent of an entire year's output. Ugly stuff.
After spending years fruitlessly attempting to reverse errors on her credit report, an Oregon woman walked away with one of the largest awards in history against a consumer credit agency.¬† Julie Miller, of Marion County, Ore., was awarded $18.6 million in damages against Equifax on Friday, winning a long battle in federal court.¬† Miller claimed she reached out to Equifax at least eight times between 2009 and 2011 to address errors she found on her credit report. Two other credit reporting agencies had no problem fulfilling Miller's request, but Equifax, for some reason, allegedly would not budge.¬† It wasn't as if Miller was complaining about a missing letter in her name or an incorrect address. She claimed her report showed credit accounts she never opened, along with debt collection attempts and a Social Security number that wasn't even hers. ¬†Just one of these flags could have dealt a nasty blow to anyone's credit score, let alone all of them at once.¬† "There was damage to her reputation, a breach of her privacy and the lost opportunity to seek credit," her attorney,¬†Justin Baxter,¬†told Oregon Live.¬†"She has a brother who is disabled and who can't get credit on his own and she wasn't able to help him." This is a huge victory for Miller, but it only underlines the seriously disjointed world of credit reporting in the U.S. A recent report by the Federal Trade Commission found that as many as one in five consumers have errors on their credit reports that could hinder their ability to apply for new credit or stick them with sky-high interest rates. ¬† Of those errors, 5% could have blocked consumers like Miller from access to credit and only 20% of people who disputed errors ever saw them corrected. The sad part here is that she did everything right. As soon as she discovered the problems on her report, she reached out to all three credit bureaus and requested adjustments. She also asked for copies of her credit report.¬† There are literally tens of thousands of complaints against credit bureaus floating in the ether out there, either with state attorneys general, the Federal Trade Commission, or the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, all of which are charged with protecting consumers from fraud.¬† So, what does a case like Miller's mean for the rest of consumers out there?¬† Hopefully, it will encourage credit bureaus to take consumer complaints seriously, but only time will tell. Equifax is pursuing plans to appeal the verdict as we type.¬† If you have a credit error you'd like to report, the quickest and easiest way to go about it is to fill out an error form at each of the three major bureau's websites. From then on, it's a game of wait and see. If you feel like you're getting the runaround, it could be time to call on the FTC, CFPB or your state attorney general for help. If your claim is denied, you can submit supplemental evidence and request another look. Once an agency has recieved your request, they are legally obligated to reopen your case and resolve your claim within 30 to 45 days under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.¬† If they fail to do so and the errors are seriously hindering your ability to obtain credit, you could consider hiring a consumer attorney.¬†
The Federal Energy Regulating Commission (FERC) has accused JP Morgan of using manipulative bidding strategies in U.S. energy markets, Bloomberg reports. The bank's physical energy business is housed within JP Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation. Back in May, the New York Times reported that regulators warned the bank that it was being investigated for allegedly manipulating markets in Michigan and California. According to the report, it was specifically looking into the work of commodities legend Blythe Masters. From NYT: The regulatory document cites her supposed ‚Äúknowledge and approval of schemes‚Äù carried out by a group of energy traders in Houston. The agency‚Äôs investigators claimed that Ms. Masters had ‚Äúfalsely‚Äù denied under oath her awareness of the problems and said that JPMorgan had made ‚Äúscores of false and misleading statements and material omissions‚Äù to authorities, the document shows. Since then FERC ordered that UK bank Barclays and some of its traders pay a $453 million fine for similar violations. Around the same time, JP Morgan was negotiating a $410 million settlement with FERC. To add more drama to the story, in September the Fed will decide if it will continue to allow Wall Street banks to trade physical commodities at all. JP Morgan started entering the business aggressively after the financial crisis, and last week announced that it was considering making its exit as the risks may have become too great. This accusation may make that decision a little easier. Check out FERC's detailing of the allegations below: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION STAFF NOTICE OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS(July 29, 2013)Take notice that in a nonpublic formal investigation pursuant to 18 C.F.R. Part 1b, the staff of the Office of Enforcement of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has preliminarily determined that JP Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation (JPMVEC) violated the Commission‚Äôs Prohibition of Electric Energy Market Manipulation, 18 C.F.R. ¬ß 1c.2 (2012) by engaging in eight manipulative bidding strategies. Staff alleges that between September 2010 and June 2011, JPMVEC engaged in five manipulative bidding strategies designed to improperly obtain payments at above-market rates from the California Independent System Operator (CAISO):‚Ä¢ submission of Day Ahead energy bids of -$30/MWh (the bid floor) that falsely appeared economic to the CAISO system, but in fact led to payments to JPMVEC of tens of millions of dollars at rates far above market prices when JPMVEC‚Äôs bidding strategy was fully implemented. ‚Ä¢ submission of energy self-schedules every third hour to obtain large Day Ahead awards, combined with submission of high-priced energy bids in the intervening hours, to lead the CAISO system to pay JPMVEC at its high bid prices for ramping energy in the latter hours. ‚Ä¢ self-scheduling the ancillary service Regulation Down while also submitting high-priced energy bids for the same hours, leading the CAISO system to pay JPMVEC millions of dollars at above-market rates for the energy needed to support the Regulation Down self-schedule. ‚Ä¢ bidding at -$30/MWh in the final hours of Day 1, which led to large Day Ahead awards in those hours, and then bidding at $999/MWh for the opening hours of Day 2, which led the CAISO system to pay JPMVEC millions of dollars for ramping energy at $999/MWh between midnight and 2 a.m. Market prices averaged around $12/MWh during these hours of low demand. ‚Ä¢ obtaining Day Ahead awards for ancillary services, while making energy bids that made it impossible to fulfill those awards, leading the CAISO system to pay JPMVEC its bid price of $999/MWh to exceptionally dispatch JPMVEC‚Äôs plants. Staff alleges that between October 2010 and May 2011, JPMVEC engaged in three manipulative strategies aimed at improperly obtaining excessive payments from the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO): ‚Ä¢ making Day Ahead bids of -$50/MWh or -$60/MWh in the hours before midnight on Day 1, with a Minimum Run Time of four hours, to obtain a Day Ahead award in the final hours of Day 1, followed by $1,000/MWh energy bids and a (false) 20-hour Minimum Run Time on Day 2, leading the MISO system to pay JPMVEC $1,000/MWh for 14 hours on Day 2; ‚Ä¢ submission of low bids (around $10/MWh) in odd-numbered hours and high bids (up to $178/MWh) in even-numbered hours, leading the MISO system to pay JPMVEC for ramping energy at above-market prices in the latter hours; and‚Ä¢ submission of -$15/MWh Day Ahead bids to get Day Ahead awards, followed by Real Time bids aimed at buying back those awards, to obtain unnecessary Day Ahead Market Assurance Payments from MISO.Staff further alleges that JPMVEC violated Section 39.2.5.c of the MISO tariff by increasing the Minimum Run Time of the Kinder Jackson unit from the plant‚Äôs actual Minimum Run Time of four hours to 20 hours on multiple trade dates in October and November 2010. This Notice does not confer a right on third parties to intervene in the investigation or any other right with respect to the investigation. Kimberly D. Bose,Secretary.
APEliot Spitzer, the former governor of New York and a candidate for New York City's comptroller position, said Monday that Anthony Weiner should not be the city's mayor after new revelations detailing online sexual relationships. Spitzer's comments came on MSNBC's "Hardball," after much prodding from liberal host Chris Matthews.¬† Spitzer first told Matthews that he would fire a government employee who engaged in Weiner's behavior. At the end of the interview, Matthews pressed Spitzer on who he was going to vote for in the Democratic primary for mayor.¬† Spitzer objected to answering that question, but Matthews then followed up and asked if it was fair to say Weiner should not be mayor. "That's correct," Spitzer said. Support for Weiner has been collapsing in recent polls, with a new Quinnipiac poll released Monday showing him plunging to last place among serious Democratic contenders. Weiner admitted last week to online sexual relationships with at least three women after resigning from Congress in 2011. In total, he estimated that he had online relationships with between six and 10 women both during his time in Congress and otherwise. Spitzer, of course, notoriously resigned as New York's governor in 2008 amid a prostitution scandal. He announced his candidacy for comptroller toward the beginning of the month. In response, the campaign of Scott Stringer, Spitzer's Democratic opponent in the comptroller race, blasted Spitzer for an apparent double standard. "It's clear that Eliot Spitzer thinks there are two standards¬†‚Äì¬†one for him, and one for everybody else," Stringer spokesman Audrey Gelman said in a statement. "His comments are the height of hypocrisy." Here's a clip: 
AppleYou walk in, greeted not by a person, but radiant digital displays that follow the clean lines of the building. Cutting-edge technology is propped along the desks and walls, and a mix of customers and employees (sometimes difficult to differentiate) mill about the room with little need for conversation. No, you are not in an Apple store ‚Äî you‚Äôre at the¬†bank. The days when bank customers were greeted by a person in a conservative suit and then sent to wait in line to speak with a teller are quickly fading. Banks are ditching their stuffy interiors and replacing them with modern,¬†Apple store-like features, all in the hopes of providing the banking experience their 21st century customers want. And from the looks of things, that means a lot of screens and little human interaction. There are a few regional banks, like Umpaqua, that fully embraced ‚Äúsmart banking‚Äù years ago. For major, national banks, it was Citi that sparked the trend. In 2008, beginning with its Singapore location, the bank began constructing futuristic branch prototypes that swapped tellers for touchscreens, size with efficiency, and gave locations the overall look and feel of Apple stores. It wasn‚Äôt a coincidence, either. Rather than reinventing the wheel when it came to modern design, Citi actually hired the services of Eight, Inc., the architectural and strategic design firm behind Apple, according to¬†The Financial Brand.  ¬† Citi smart banking then came to the United States, with the New York branch offering ‚Äúsix interactive sales walls; image ATMs; free online access and Wi-Fi for customers; 24/7 access from the ATM lobby, to customer service experts via videoconferencing; and a private seating lounge for customers of Citigold, Citi‚Äôs premium banking service,‚Äù according to¬†BankTech.com. Unfortunately for financial institutions, comparing the banking and tech industries isn‚Äôt apples to oranges, so to speak. Banks may only get so far mimicking Apple before they find they‚Äôve run out of gimmicks that drive revenue. The shiny hardware and eye-catching displays may be aesthetically pleasing, but it‚Äôs important to understand that Apple‚Äôs loyal fan base isn‚Äôt retained through design alone. There is also a connection to the customer, with ‚ÄúGeniuses‚Äù who can provide one-on-one service and guidance in stores. Simply putting up an Apple-esque facade may not be enough for banks to generate return (i.e., happy) customers. As¬†First Tennessee Bank¬†CMO, Dan Marks, reminds us, ‚ÄúAs we have seen at a certain large national retailer, dropping concepts that worked at Apple into another category can have disastrous consequences.‚Äù Indeed. However, Marks also points out, ‚ÄúI do think banks can be inspired by Apple and other companies who are fanatical about design. Good design starts with the really deep spoken needs of customers and how to delight them with a total approach to the environment. Umpqua is probably the most successful example in our industry in creating a truly unique branded branch design that has been successful in driving revenue and profitability.‚Äù Other banks that manage to accomplish this, Marks says, are Frost and First Republic. But is strong design and branding enough? There are a few potential problems banks could face by moving away from traditional branches and toward modern banks that resemble Apple stores: Bank customers still expect personal service. One of the main reasons why local banks and¬†credit unions¬†have been gaining membership in recent years is because of their superior customer service that focuses on the individual. Bank customers may value convenience, but they may also not appreciate the idea that their bank doesn‚Äôt have time for them. Modern banks will need to adopt Apple‚Äôs customer service approach along with design if they hope to retain and acquire new business. Several older generations of customers who haven‚Äôt adopted banking technology may be alienated. It‚Äôs obvious banks are trying to appeal to younger generations who possess great technological savvy and almost non-existent attention spans. But what about their current customers? Gen-Yers and Millennials may have iPhones surgically attached to their palms, but a recent study by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board found more than half of mobile phone owners who do not currently use¬†mobile banking¬†say they just don‚Äôt have any interest in the technology. It‚Äôs apparent those who haven‚Äôt already adopted technology as part of their financial lives probably aren‚Äôt going to, ever. That leaves a lot of people who would rather talk to a physical person than their likeness on a screen who proponents of smart banking are ignoring. Banking expert, Brett King, nails the underlying problem modern banks face in his e-book¬†Banking 3.0, ‚ÄúTurning banks into coffee shops, yoga studios, media showcases, and Apple Stores just doesn‚Äôt bring customers flocking back to interact‚Ä¶Insist on sticking a new-looking space over the same old processes, complexities, culture, metrics and philosophy and you‚Äôll score a big, old FAIL!‚Äù In essence, people don‚Äôt want to hang out at the bank, no matter how trendy or modern it appears. Banks will have to provide something of more value to remain relevant, or as King suggests in his book, eliminate physical branches from the banking experience completely to make customers truly happy. In fact,¬†King argues¬†that it isn‚Äôt even the sleek Apple stores that drive success for Apple! If we look at their revenue sources, half of it comes from online sales. He explains, ‚ÄúCustomers might start their relationship with Apple in-store, but they don‚Äôt have to, increasingly they‚Äôre choosing not to.‚Äù Banks can emulate Apple all they want, but it turns out the brand‚Äôs stand-out design is just a fraction of their overall success formula. If banks want to attract younger customers and remain relevant in an increasingly digital age, they might want to stop focusing on the physical branch all together.
REUTERS/Mathieu Belanger FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Investors Shouldn't Be As Afraid Of A Potential Bond Bear Market, As A Potential Bear Market In Stocks (Vanguard)  In a new paper titled 'Risk of loss: Should the prospect of rising rates push investors from high quality bonds,' Vanguard's Christopher Philips argues investors should be more worried about a potential bear market in stocks than a bear market in bonds. "Even the worst 12-month period for the U.S. bond market historically saw a little more than just one-fifth the losses of the worst 12-month period for the U.S. equity market." The paper also argues that if there were to be a bear market in bonds, investors could "somewhat offset price declines with higher nominal yields and potentially higher subsequent nominal returns."  Times Are Getting Harder For RIAs (Investment News) Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs) are focused on financial planning and use fee-based compensation models. Now, Investment News reports that wirehouses and regional brokers are increasingly encroaching on both of these areas, making it more challenging for RIAs to compete. "It's a huge challenge to figure out how to grow your firm from here," Michael Kitces of Pinnacle Advisory Group told Investment News. "When you're competing against someone who may or may not be a fiduciary but uses the same business model, it's indistinguishable." Mega-Cap Stocks Are Positioned For A Prolonged Period Of Outperformance (BMO Capital Markets) Brian Belski at BMO Capital Markets thinks that mega-cap stocks are "positioned for a prolonged period of significant outperformance." He points out that mega-cap stocks underperform during the early years of bull markets but historical patterns.¬† "Another characteristic that we believe is a strong tailwind for mega-cap stock performance is that most institutional investors remain underexposed to these stocks. ...Fund managers have been underweight mega-cap stocks for seven consecutive years, and have become increasingly so in recent years. This is important because pre-financial crisis, most fund managers maintained healthy overweight positions towards mega-caps.¬† "If the past few years have taught us anything, it‚Äôs that fund managers will pile into an asset class once it starts performing well (or avoid ones that have been performing poorly). So it is not too surprising they remain underweight mega-cap stocks given their underperformance in recent years. However, should these stocks begin to outperform in the coming months, as we expect, the fact that fund managers are underexposed is likely to boost performance, as fund managers play 'catch-up'." MANKIW: Why It Makes Sense For Investors To Have Some Gold In Their Portfolio (The New York Times) Harvard economist Greg Mankiw said investors should give gold a 2% weight in their portfolio. This is for four key reasons. 1. There isn't a lot of gold and a lot of it isn't available to investors because it exists in the form of jewelry. 2. "Over the long run, gold‚Äôs price has outpaced overall prices as measured by the Consumer Price Index ‚Äî but not by much." 3. Gold is extremely volatile. 4. Gold however doesn't correlate with stocks or bonds and could therefore reduce risk and a small allocation could be attractive. Hedge Funds Are Buying Up Detroit Bonds So Fast There's A Waiting List (CNNMoney) CNNMoney reported that the Detroit Municipal bond has become "the hottest trade on Wall Street." This is because hedge funds are betting that these bonds will be a good bet in the long run. "Shortly after Detroit filed for bankruptcy, several hedge funds managed to buy $5 million of pension bonds for 41 cents on the dollar. Those were some of the only pension obligation bonds available. "Hedge funds are also eyeing about $1 billion in general obligation bonds backed by Detroit. More of these have changed hands, but also in small increments. One hedge fund manager said he was able to procure $30,000 of general obligation bonds at 75 cents on the dollar from a dentist in Milwaukee. The fund was hoping to buy several millions of dollars' worth, but so far, that's all they can get their hands on."
REUTERS/Greg BakerU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke waves towards members of the Chinese delegation as he is introduced at the opening of the Strategic Economic Dialogue in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing December 14, 2006. "I don't think the Fed can get interest rates up very much, because the†economy is weak, inflation rates are low," said Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in his semi-annual testimony on monetary policy before the House Financial Services Committee this month. "If we were to tighten policy, the†economy would tank." Deutsche Bank economists Peter Hooper, Torsten Slok, and Matthew Luzzetti take issue with that claim in a new report: Often we meet we meet investors investors who argue along these lines: "The only reason why markets are rallying is because the Fed is printing money, and once the Fed stops printing money, financial markets will crash like a house of cards." This is a complete misunderstanding of what is going on. What many investors forget is that we have over the past five years witnessed a dramatic improvement in the housing market,†consumer balance sheets, and banking sector balance sheets.†This healing and correction of imbalances has come so far that the†economy is now able to stand on its own legs and generate†sustainable growth going forward. This is exactly the backdrop for†why tapering can begin soon and the Fed can eventually begin†hiking rates. Hooper, Slok, and Luzzetti use the following series of charts to show how imbalances leading to the 2008 financial crisis have slowly been corrected in the past few years. "The indicators in this chart book show that the correction of these†imbalances was fastest in housing, followed by banking,†consumers, and the labor market," says the Deutsche Bank team. "The slower healing in the labor†market is obviously important for when the Fed will hike rates but a†virtuous cycle is currently playing out with higher home prices supporting consumers and banks, which again supports the†housing market, and this virtuous cycle will continue to support†employment growth going forward." Let's go to the charts. Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax FRBNY Consumer Credit Panel/Equifax Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Deutsche Bank, Business Insider, data from Bloomberg
Early-life stressors brought on by poverty can leave medical scars that linger even in adulthood ‚Äì regardless of income, reports the¬†New York Times' Moises Velasquez-Manof: "Scientists find [people who grew up poor] are more prone to illness than those who were never poor. Becoming more affluent may lower the risk of disease by lessening the sense of helplessness and allowing greater access to healthful resources like exercise, more nutritious foods and greater social support; people are not absolutely condemned by their upbringing. But the effects of early-life stress also seem to linger, unfavorably molding our nervous systems and possibly even accelerating the rate at which we age." In one case, people who experienced early-life adversity were found to bear scars of that stress right in their DNA.¬†Our telomeres (the tips of chromosomes) get shorter as we age, but people who grew up poor were found to have even shorter tips over time, suggesting accelerated aging.¬† And beyond the simple impact of stress on our bodies over time, studies have found that social hierarchy also plays a role in long-term health for the rich, the poor and everyone in between. British epidemiologist Michael Marmot coined the term¬†"Status Syndrome" to describe how people's health is often impacted by their social status. "Conventional explanations for¬†noncommunicable disease‚Äîlack of access to medical care,¬†unhealthy lifestyles‚Äîat best only partially explain the status syndrome," Marmot¬†wrote in a 2006 white paper. "Rather, the lower individuals are in the social hierarchy, the less likely it is that their fundamental human needs for autonomy and to be integrated into society¬†will be met. Failure to meet these needs leads to metabolic¬†and endocrine changes that in turn lead to increased risk¬†of disease."¬† In a study of British civil servants, he found that even people relatively high on the social ladder had a lower sense of control and, thus, poorer health than those ahead of them.¬† "In other words it wasn't only the difference between top and bottom,"¬†he said. "But where you were in the hierarchy was intimately related to your chances of health and disease."
REUTERS/Fahad ShadeedSaudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi speaks to media as he arrives for the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Oil Ministers' meeting in Riyadh, October 9, 2012.Billionaire Saudi Prince Alwaleed has sounded the alarm about the threat shale oil and gas development poses to the petro-kingdom's barely diversified economy.¬† It's taken a while for such a prominent Saudi to acknowledge this fact. But it's been pretty clear to the rest of the world. In March, for instance, Norway's foreign minister said America's shale boom could rearrange the Middle East's balance of power. Then in May, the vice-president of Bahrain-based Nexant Middle East¬†told the FT's Ayesha Daya¬†that the kingdom's proposed petrochemical investments would miss the mark: The shale gas boom has returned focus to the US. So it‚Äôs reasonable to suppose that some companies, especially those from the US, won‚Äôt develop additional projects in the Middle East as they look to spread their geopolitical risk and invest in the US. The kingdom still rules the oil world in major production stats: production (11.2 million barrels a day), exports (8.5 million barrels a day), and as the largest oil deposit (the Ghawar field at an estimated 70 billion barrels). But with the help of some charts from AEI's Mark Perry, who's been chronicling America's energy boom better than anyone, and the now-instant classic note, "The End Is Nigh [for rising oil demand]"¬†from Citi's Seth Kleinman and Ed Morse, we bring you 15 charts that should scare the crude out of the Saudis.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNutritional supplement-seller Herbalife beat second quarter earnings estimates. For the second quarter, Herbalife posted adjusted EPS of $1.41 and sales of $1.22 billion. On average, analysts were expecting Herbalife to post adjusted-EPS of $1.18 on sales of $1.162 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† The stock is up in after-hours trading. It was last trading up over 3% in the late session. Herbalife will hold an earnings conference call tomorrow morning.¬† Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company, has been the focal point of an epic¬†clash of hedge fund titans. Back in December, Bill Ackman, who runs $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, publicly revealed that he's shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife stock because¬†he believes the company is a "pyramid scheme."¬† Ackman's arch-nemesis billionaire investor Carl Icahn bought a massive stake in Herbalife. Icahn said he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the¬†"mother of all short squeezes." Here's the release:¬† Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) today reported second quarter net sales of $1.2 billion, reflecting an increase of 18 percent compared to the same time period in 2012, on volume point growth of 14 percent. Adjusted1¬†net income for the quarter of $150.7 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, compares to the second quarter 2012 net income of $132.0 million and EPS of $1.09, respectively. On an as reported basis, second quarter 2013 EPS of $1.34 increased 23 percent compared to the $1.09 reported in the comparable quarter last year. ‚ÄúWe reported our fifteenth quarter in a row of double digit top-line growth, reflecting the success that our products and distribution model are having in markets around the world helping to mitigate the adverse effects of the obesity epidemic. The second quarter record results for volume point and net sales were driven by the ongoing engagement of our distributors and consumer demand for our weight loss and nutrition products worldwide,‚Äù said Michael O. Johnson, Herbalife‚Äôs chairman and CEO. For the quarter ended June 30, 2013 the company generated cash flow from operations of $213.8 million, an increase of 56 percent compared to 2012; paid dividends of $30.9 million and invested $31.3 million in capital expenditures. Second Quarter 2013 Key Metrics2,3 Regional Volume Point and Average Active Sales Leader Metrics Updated 2013 Guidance Guidance for fully diluted 2013 EPS is based on the average daily exchange rates of the first two weeks of July 2013. Our 2013 guidance continues to assume a Venezuelan exchange rate of 10 to 1 for the balance of the year, excludes the impact of the February devaluation of the bolivar as well as any potential future devaluation, and excludes the impact of any repatriation of existing cash balances in Venezuela. Guidance for the year also excludes the following which were recognized in the first half of the year: $15.1 million in expenses (post-tax), mostly legal and advisory services relating to the Company‚Äôs response to information put into the marketplace by a¬†short seller which information the Company believes to be inaccurate and misleading, and $2.7 million in expenses (post-tax) incurred for the re-audit of 2010-2012 financial statements resulting from KPMG LLP‚Äôs resignation, as well as any additional expenses related to these matters that are expected to be incurred in the second half of the year. Based on current business trends the company‚Äôs third quarter fiscal 2013 and full year fiscal 2013 guidance is provided below. September 30, 2013 December 31, 2013 26.5 Announces Quarterly Dividend The company reported today that its board of directors has approved a dividend of $0.30 per share to shareholders of record August 13, 2013, payable on August 27, 2013. Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call Herbalife senior management will host an investor conference call to discuss its recent financial results and provide an update on current business trends on Tuesday, July 30, 2013 at 8 a.m. PST (11 a.m. EST). The dial-in number for this conference call for domestic callers is (877) 317-1296 and (706) 634-5671 for international callers (conference ID 11550232). Live audio of the conference call will be simultaneously webcast in the investor relations section of the company's website athttp://ir.herbalife.com. An audio replay will be available following the completion of the conference call in MP3 format or by dialing¬†(855) 859-2056 for domestic callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers (conference ID 11550232). The webcast of the teleconference will be archived and available on Herbalife's website. About Herbalife Ltd. Herbalife Ltd.¬†(HLF) is a global nutrition company that sells weight-management, nutrition, and personal care products intended to support a healthy lifestyle. Herbalife¬†products are sold in over 80 countries through and to a network of independent distributors. The company supports the¬†Herbalife Family Foundation¬†and its Casa Herbalife program to help bring good nutrition to children.¬†Herbalife's¬†website contains a significant amount of information about¬†Herbalife, including financial and other information for investors at¬†http://ir.Herbalife.com. The company encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: ‚Ä¢ the resignation of our former independent registered public accounting firm, its withdrawal of its audit reports with respect to certain of our historical financial statements, and any difficulties PricewaterhouseCoopers, our successor accounting firm encounters in the re-audits of such relevant historical financial statements or any material modifications to such historical financial statements PricewaterhouseCoopers believes should be made as a result of such re-audits; ‚Ä¢ any collateral impact resulting from the ongoing worldwide financial environment, including the availability of liquidity to us, our customers and our suppliers or the willingness of our customers to purchase products in a difficult economic environment; ‚Ä¢ our relationship with, and our ability to influence the actions of, our distributors; ‚Ä¢ improper action by our employees or distributors in violation of applicable law; ‚Ä¢ adverse publicity associated with our products or network marketing organization, including our ability to comfort the marketplace and regulators regarding our compliance with applicable laws; ‚Ä¢ changing consumer preferences and demands; ‚Ä¢ our reliance upon, or the loss or departure of any member of, our senior management team which could negatively impact our distributor relations and operating results; ‚Ä¢ the competitive nature of our business; ‚Ä¢ regulatory matters governing our products, including potential governmental or regulatory actions concerning the safety or efficacy of our products and network marketing program, including the direct selling market in which we operate; ‚Ä¢ legal challenges to our network marketing program; ‚Ä¢ risks associated with operating internationally and the effect of economic factors, including foreign exchange, inflation, disruptions or conflicts with our third party importers, pricing and currency devaluation risks, especially in countries such as Venezuela; ‚Ä¢ uncertainties relating to the application of transfer pricing, duties, value added taxes, and other tax regulations, and changes thereto; ‚Ä¢ uncertainties relating to interpretation and enforcement of legislation in China governing direct selling; ‚Ä¢ uncertainties relating to the interpretation, enforcement or amendment of legislation in India governing direct selling; ‚Ä¢ our inability to obtain the necessary licenses to expand our direct selling business in China; ‚Ä¢ adverse changes in the Chinese economy, Chinese legal system or Chinese governmental policies; ‚Ä¢ our dependence on increased penetration of existing markets; ‚Ä¢ contractual limitations on our ability to expand our business; ‚Ä¢ our reliance on our information technology infrastructure and outside manufacturers; ‚Ä¢ the sufficiency of trademarks and other intellectual property rights; ‚Ä¢ product concentration; ‚Ä¢ changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation; ‚Ä¢ taxation relating to our distributors; ‚Ä¢ product liability claims; ‚Ä¢ whether we will purchase any of our shares in the open markets or otherwise; and ‚Ä¢ share price volatility related to, among other things, speculative trading and certain traders shorting our common shares. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. 1¬†See Schedule A ‚Äì ‚ÄúReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures‚Äù for more detail. 2¬†Supplemental tables that include additional business metrics can be found athttp://www.ir.herbalife.com. 3¬†Worldwide Average Active Sales Leaders may not equal the sum of the Average Active Sales Leaders in each region due to the calculation being an average of Sales Leaders active in a period, not a summation, and the fact that some sales leaders are active in more than one region but are counted only once in the worldwide amount. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: 6/30/2012¬†(2) ¬† ¬† 6/30/2012¬†(2) (1)¬†As a result of the resignation of KPMG, the unaudited interim financial information presented has not been reviewed by an outside independent accounting firm. See Note 2 of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. (2)¬†As discussed in Note 2 of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, prior year amounts have been revised for income tax errors that were considered not material, individually or in the aggregate, to any of the prior reporting periods. (Unaudited and Unreviewed)¬†(1) 2012¬†(2) (Unaudited and Unreviewed)(1) ¬† 6/30/2012¬†(2) ¬† SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION SCHEDULE A: RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES(unaudited and unreviewed), (Dollars in Thousand, Except Per Share Data) In addition to its reported results, the Company has included in the tables below adjusted results that the Securities and Exchange Commission defines as ‚Äúnon-GAAP financial measures.‚Äù¬†Management believes that such non-GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the Company‚Äôs reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors in analyzing period to period comparisons of the Company‚Äôs results. 6/30/2012¬†(3) ¬† 6/30/2012¬†(3) ¬† 6/30/2012¬†(3) ¬† 6/30/2012¬†(3) ¬† The following is a reconciliation of total long-term debt to net debt: 
REUTERS/Michael DalderUkraine's team perform in the synchronised swimming team technical final during the World Swimming Championships at the Sant Jordi arena in Barcelona, July 22, 2013. The markets kicked off an extremely busy week with a modestly downward move. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Economists are notorious for getting worked up by numbers, and these days no data dump triggers a sharper frisson of excitement than the two dozen or so tables of employment numbers released at exactly 8:30 a.m. on the first Friday of every month by the Bureau of Labor Statistics at the U.S. Department of Labor. Itís not just economists who eagerly awaitóor dreadóthe U.S. ìJobs Day,î as this Friday has become known in Washington. Itís also politicians, stock analysts, policy wonks, and journalists. Amid the worst economic run of our lifetimeóa crisis that keeps morphing and whacking us againóeveryone is looking for signs of whatís coming next. If youíre waiting on Wall Street for the numbers, youíre wondering whether youíre about to make money or lose money. But if youíre sipping coffee in Washington on Jobs Day or sitting in an editorial office or the faculty lounge of a place like Harvard or the University of Chicago, youíre getting ready to spin the numbers to support your beliefs about how the economy works. No matter what the numbers, youíll have something authoritative to say on Jobs Day (even I always do)óan analysis of exactly whatís going on with the economy and, most of all, a set of solutions designed to ensure growth and jobs. If Jobs Day is nothing else, itís a chance to make the same points youíve made before and tout the same solutions you always tout. (from The Age of Oversupply Overcoming the Greatest Challenge to the Global Economy, forthcoming from Penguin Portfolio, September 26, 2013) The headline jobs numbersówhile still failing, five-and-a-half years later, to close the gap of 8.7 million jobs lost from the pre-Great Recession high of 138 million non-farm jobs (January 2008), have been very sprightly indeed, growing by just over an average of 200,000 jobs a month over the past six months. But notwithstanding the creation of some 1.2 million jobs this year, the pool of those eligible for workóthe so-called Civilian Non-Institutional Populationóhas grown by a like amount. Thus, the employment-population ratio has languished at 58.7 percent (where is has been more or less stuck since September of last year), down sharply from its pre-recession high of 63.4 percent. Nevertheless, 1.2 million more people are ìworking,î even as the number of idle citizens and those working part time who would rather have a full time job, increased by over 750,000 during H1 2013. ìYeah, yeah,î you say. Youíve heard all the stuff about the low employment-population ratio before, and some say itís a merely structural phenomenon tied to retiring baby boomers and the like. Sure, we may not have recovered all of the jobs lost to the Great Recession, but weíve made up for 75 percent of them over the past 40 months. The official (U-3) unemployment rate has fallen to 7.6 percent from a recession high 10 percent in October 2009. Clearly, America is on the mend . . . right? I suppose if all you knew were the headline numbers and ignored the underlying components thereof, you would easily arrive at the foregoing conclusion. But the fact is that the U.S. employment situation is more of a wounded beast than a bull. And it is a wounded beast whose entrails tell a different story, indeedóone that ties far more convincingly into the anemic sub-2 percent GDP growth rate of the U.S. economy and the sluggish retail sales data we have seen of late. This recently led to the Federal Reserveís chairman, Ben Bernanke, conceding that he is puzzled by the lack of growth in an economy that is producing about 200,000 jobs per month. Here, then, is a different set of ìheadlinesî for you (and the chairman) to mull over: Gains in employment, however welcome, are not transmitting into meaningful economic growth in this ìsick-onomy.î Not when the only folks engaging in meaningful hiring are doing so because labor is cheap and, on a real basis, getting cheaper. And not when we are stuck with, on a seasonally adjusted basis, a mere 116.8 million full time workers, plus an additional 27.3 million working between one and 34 hours a week, trying to support a population of 316.3 million people. In fact, on a non-seasonally adjusted basis, June 2013 showed the actual number of part-time workers at over 33 million. The math of recovery just doesnít work at these levels. The Hamburger Flipper, the Barmaid, the Temp, the Garbage Man, and the Walmart ìAssociateî Letís start with an examination of where the jobs are being created. For this purpose, I divide the job sectors into two categories. One could pull out additional low-ish wage sub-sectors from some of the super-sectors I am using below, but the following highlights the problem well enough in my view (all data in this report is sourced from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics): Daniel Alpert/Westwood Capital When you review the above, you may wonder why some sub-sectors in the education and health sector are not included under low wages. Certainly, some teachers and health care aides are not paid much more than waiters and checkout girls. But, for the most part, jobs in education and health earn more than $20 per hour and those that do not employ fewer people than the number that would be statistically material to this analysis. Next, letís see how wages have changed in each sector over the past twelve months ending in June, relative to inflation: Daniel Alpert/Westwood Capital The low-wage jobs have gotten hammered after inflation, while most high-wage sectors have held their own or even gained some. Now this situation might be tolerable if it were not for the fact that it is the low-wage sectorsówhich suffer from significant real wage deflationówhere employers are most willing to take on new hires. And it might even be seen as normal in a cyclical recovery for temporary help, food and beverage workers, and retail employees to be at the vanguard of a robust expansion in job creation across all categories. A pump-primer. Such has been the case in the past. The problem is that matters seem to be operating in reverse this time around. The job growth in the higher wage-paying sectors was substantially more robust in Q4 2012 and Q1 2013, than it was in Q2 2013. In the high-wage goods producing part of the economy, the six months preceding the most recent quarter saw the creation of 247,000 new jobs. In the last quarter, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said America lost 9,000 good producing jobs. The pump apparently failed to prime. Instead, nearly 70 percent of total job growth in Q2 2013 came from the lowest paying sectors of the U.S. economy, as shown in Figure 1 on the following page, well in excess of those sectorsí relative percentage of the employment base: One final, but important, point: jobs in the low-wage-paying sector offer the smallest bump up in economic activity not only because of their nominal wage levels. They also provide a correspondingly smaller net benefit to the economy in terms of the spread between the unemployment benefits being received by a formerly out of work individual and the compensation being received for working. For example, the unemployment compensation received by a worker receiving the maximum benefit is about $400 per week on average, nationally. Based on a 35 hour a week fulltime job, that equates to $11.42 per hour. Throw in another $50/week for food stamps and you are up to the equivalent of a job paying $12.86 per hour. While there is a fiscal benefit to government not being required to pay out assistance to a previously unemployed individual, just how much additional consumption is spurred by the 70 percent of those gaining employment in the second quarter of 2013 at wages that average $15.80/hour versus the $12.86 received in benefits? That would be less than $3.00 per hour, about $100 gross per week if the job is full timeóless taxes say about $80óor the paltry sum of $4,160 per year of additional consumption. In the second quarter, some 414,000 jobs were created in the foregoing low-wage sectors (of a total of 597,000 created). Based on the forgoing math, that would be an increment of $1.7 billion in additional annual consumption (versus public assistance), at best a rounding error in a $15 trillion economy. And that is if the job is full time . . . which leads to the next part of the story.† Part Time and Marginally Attached We move now from the establishment survey portion of the U.S. employment situation reports, to the population survey. One caveat for the uninitiated: While the two data series typically converge over long term trends, they are certainly not relatable in the short term. But the independent trends of each series are useful in interpreting general directions. One phenomenon that would typically be expected in a recovery from a recession is the steady decline in the number of people working part time involuntarily and those who have been discouraged from actively looking for a job, even though they want one, because they believe there are none to be had for them. While the number of those working part time for economic reasons has declined from its crisis peak, it has not declined anywhere near to post-recession levels, nor has the pace of decline emulated patterns in the recessions of the early 1980s and 1990s. Disturbingly, over the just-ended quarter, the number of those working part time for economic reasons, as a percentage of the total number of workers employed, has moved higher on a seasonally adjusted basis. While it is difficult to make direct comparisons as explained above, it seems not unlikely that not only are the jobs that have been created over the first half of 2013 (and particularly Q2) low-wage jobs, but are part-time jobs as well. That may be explainable early in a recovery, but coming at this stage it is concerning. Note, in Figure 2, the quick fall-off in involuntary part-time employment following the two previous recessions in comparison to the stubborn pattern indicated this time around. A second phenomenon, more evidencing disease than economic vibrancy, is the percentage of people who are marginally attached to the labor force and not counted as being in it. These are people who want to work but have given up looking. Instead of declining, as the red line in the above figure shows, the number of people in this category remains at the highest levels (calculated relative to those employed); higher than during the Great Recession and its immediate aftermath. The cause of this elevated level of marginally attached unemployed (who are not counted as unemployed) is undoubtedly the extremely long periods of unemployment for many workers who were terminated (or, in the case of the young, never hired) during the Great Recession. These workers, some 6.6 million of them at last count, have lost skills, never acquired them, and/or suffer the stigma, in the eyes of potential employers, of having been unemployed for extraordinarily long periods. Secondly, the survey of business enterprises measures hard data (although that data itself goes through a statistical meat grinder for adjustment) that seems more reliable in a month-to-month context, inasmuch as it does not ask respondents to characterize things like their own employment status, their level of dedication to finding a job if they are unemployed, and the number of hours they work if they are working (as does the population survey). Nevertheless, the notion of a ìjob createdî is a very mushy one itself if one fails to understand that the attributes of each job created can vary widely and therefor the measure itself can be very misleading if one is using it to forecast growth or contraction in other economic metrics. In fact, this essay argues that the job creation number, which is generally the first to be uttered on ìjobs dayî each month, is nearly as ambiguous as the headline unemployment rate. But the U-3 measure is even more misleading, and hereís why. The foregoing peculiarities in the calculation of U.S. unemployment lead to some discomfiting results when observed as changes in the percentages of the overall population (CNIP) that is actually employedóthe so-called Employment-Population Ratioóand the percentage of the CNIP that are considered to be in the labor forceóthe Labor Force Participation Rate (LFPR).† If you are reading this report, there is a very good chance that youíre already aware that the Great Recession saw the Employment-Population ratio plummet from its average level of around 63 percent during the 15 prior year to now hover at a level of around 58 percent, a level not seen previously since the early 1980ís when women were just beginning to come into the labor force in larger numbers. And there it has remained since, showing little sign of budging. The Labor Force Participation Rate has also declined and is, more or less, continuing to declineóbut its downward trend began well before the Great Recession. There is therefore a correlation between the falling LFPR and certain ongoing demographic changes in the CNIP. Chiefly, such demographic changes arise from an aging U.S. population with growing longevityótypified by the ongoing aging-out of the enormous baby boom cadre from the labor force. But as real as those changes may be, the fact remains that the LFPR declined by all of 1 percentóto 66 percent from around 67 percent between 2000 and the beginning of the Great Recession. Since 2009, however, the LFPR has fallen nearly an additional 3 percent. This acceleration of the earlier trend is unlikely to merely be a demographic phenomenon. Figure 3, on the following page, shows the accelerated decline of the LFPR, the dramatic fall in the Employment-Population Ratio, and an overlay of the U-3 and U-6 unemployment/underemployment rates. Daniel Alpert/Westwood Capital And that brings us to the heart of the matter: Nearly 100 percent of the decline in the U-3 unemployment rate has been the result of there being fewer workers in the labor force as a percentage of the employable population (the CNIP). If the Labor Force Participation Rate had not fallen from October 2009, when unemployment hit its Great Recession peak of 10 percent, unemployment would today still be around 10 percent. Moreover, if the LFPR were held constant from its highest pre-recession level of 66.40 percent in January 2007 (when unemployment was 4.6 percent), the U-3 unemployment rate would be nearly 12 percent today. Figure 4, on the following page, illustrates the foregoing. Daniel Alpert/Westwood CapitalConclusion It would be nice be able to conclude that the job market has improved considerably and bodes well for a thorough recovery. I was hoping earlier in the year that the elevated levels of low-wage hiring we were experiencing were just temporary and that the modest additional demand this created would translate into momentum towards new hiring spread more evenly across the board. The real wage deflation, and nominal wage disinflation, trends in the low-wage sectors seemed inevitable to meógiven the enormous oversupply of global labor in the tradable sectors that has led to a surplus of domestic labor needing to take service jobs. But when the percentage of low-wage sector job creation accelerated sharply from the first quarter into the second quarter of 2013, elevated hopes turned to elevated concerns. The job creation this year may not evidence of a curing trend, but rather continued sickness. I am beginning to believe that we may be seeing workers accepting jobs at wages only marginally above the assistance benefits they were receiving, because their benefits have run out. Employersóseeing a bit more demand (not much, however, given the poor final reading for the growth of Q1 2013 GDP), seeing confidence build from monetary policy-led asset inflation in the housing sectors, and perhaps reacting to the deceptive jobs numbers themselvesóhave been willing to take on a little extra help here and there after years of cutting back to the bone, as long as that extra help comes dirt cheap and isnít looking for anything in the way of a raise. I am concerned also by the fact that an expansion in revolving consumer credit has accompanied this rise in confidence. Credit card growth led by rising incomes is a great thing. Consumer credit growth resulting from people having jobs paying little more than the assistance they were previously receiving (after all, you canít get credit when youíre on the dole) is not a good signóit shows people still canít make ends meet. It is possible that may be some of what we are seeing. Regardless, I know that what we are taking for a jobs recovery is not the ìreal thing.î† Daniel Alpert's new book "The Age of Oversupply: Overcoming the Greatest Challenge to the Global Economy" comes out in September.
Shares of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer manufacturer¬†CF Industries are ripping after Dan Loeb's Third Point LLC said in an investment letter that it had taken a stake. From the letter:¬† Equity Position: CF Industries 6¬† CF Industries is North America‚Äôs largest nitrogen fertilizer manufacturer and one of the lowest-cost producers globally. CF currently trades at an unwarranted discount to fertilizer and commodity chemical peers. We believe its structural cash flow generation strength is misunderstood and that management should deliver a much larger dividend to its shareholders. Such a dividend would highlight the sustainability of its cash flow generation and lead to a substantial re-rating.¬† CF‚Äôs access to low-cost North American natural gas ‚Äì the primary input in nitrogen fertilizer production ‚Äì gives the company a structural, sustainable margin capture relative to global peers with higher input costs. These same competitors provide a floor for the nitrogen fertilizer price, because they idle production when the price nears their cost (‚Äúthe cost floor‚Äù). The spread between CF‚Äôs production cost and that of the higher cost producers is a sustainable stream of cash flow for CF, with limited volatility. Using an onerous set of assumptions for this spread ($5 Henry Hub/natural gas input cost and $275 per ton nitrogen fertilizer price),we estimate that this cash flow stream would be ~$1.2 billion annually (operating free cash flow less maintenance CapEx, post expansion). On today‚Äôs equity value, that would mean CF is currently trading at an 11% free cash flow yield using these onerous assumptions. Given the low-risk profile of this portion of CF‚Äôs cash flow, it should receive a bond-like multiple (e.g. 7 - 8% yield), which alone implies significant upside to the current share price. CF management has the ability to highlight the value of this stable cash flow stream by paying a significant portion of it as a dividend. A high dividend payout would still leave CF‚Äôs leverage well below the 3x debt to EBITDA criteria that Moody‚Äôs recently established as adequate to maintain their current debt rating of Baa2. The stock was last trading up around 7%. Check out the stock's reaction following the news. Yahoo! Finance
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstUS Federal Reserve Bank Board Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before a joint congressional hearing on the country's economic outlook on Capitol Hill in Washington, April 2, 2008. This is an interesting note from Credit analyst Harley Bassman at Credit Suisse, who argues that Ben Bernanke is guaranteed to "taper" soon (meaning, reduce the pace of the Fed's monthly bond purchases) and that it has nothing to do with economic reality. †1) The announcement of "taper" has NOTHING to do with the economy, it has everything to do with Mr. Bernanke's legacy.† This was his "irrational exuberance" speech to deflate the asset bubble the FED has so assiduously inflated.† By stopping out the over-levered trader's who were trying to monetize the "Bernanke put", the FED has mitigated a 1994 or 1998 or 2007 scenario (the last times that gamma vols sunk below 80).† Mr. Bernanke does not want a Greenspan redux where a financial calamity occurs soon after his departure and he takes the blame.† 2) There is a huge Political component.† Mr. Bernanke is the only person who can start the taper process and keep his hands clean.† If the job falls to the next FED Chairperson, it will be met with a cacophony of second guessers (think Krugman).† By doing the dirty job himself, he provides a clean slate to his successor. He also argues that there's an economic stability angle, as the Fed will soon be too much of an owner of U.S. debt.

The OECD estimates that U.S. corporations pay face an average statutory tax rate of 39%, the second highest rate in the developed world.† This is based on a combination of the federal statutory rate and a weighted-average of state-level tax rates. But thanks to various tax breaks and loopholes, corporations actually pay far less than that. "The current S&amp;P 500 median effective tax rate of 30% is almost 10 percentage points below the statutory rate," estimates Goldman Sachs' David Kostin in his latest note to clients. "Over the last 10 years, fewer than 10% of S&amp;P 500 firms have paid the statutory rate or higher. This is not a new trend. For the last 45 years, the median S&amp;P 500 firm has paid an average effective rate more than 5 pp below the statutory rate." With the debt ceiling debate making a comeback, Kostin warns that these tax rates could get attract the spotlight once again. "If media attention is not enough of a catalyst, the next round of debt- ceiling debates in the fall may steer discussion back to tax reform," he said. "This week Max Baucus (D, Montana), Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the committee will consider making changes to the US tax code. However, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R, Kentucky) said his party was not willing to raise revenue through higher corporate tax rates." Tax reform would likely have an uneven impact in the market. "As politicians focus on corporate taxes, companies paying the lowest effective tax rates may continue to underperform those with higher rates," warned Kostin. Goldman Sachs
Every year, college and MBA students flock to New York and other financial centers for highly-coveted summer analyst positions at investment banks. A Wall Street intern who works hard and is a great team player has the potential to turn their 10-week long summer stint into a full-time offer from their respective firm. † We spoke with Suzanne Gauron, a Goldman Sachs managing director, about internships in the bank's Investment Management Division.† She shared tips for summer interns and explained what she looks for when making a hire. Gauron, who studied humanities in college and began her career at Goldman as an intern, also told us what an intern can do to impress her and the biggest mistake they can make. †† † We've transcribed our Q&amp;A with Gauron below. (Note: It has been lightly edited for clarity).† JL: First off, can you give me a little bit about your background and how you got to where you are today?† SG: "I was a humanities major in college. I studied 18th century poetry. I had no experience in business. I was a summer analyst at Goldman before my senior year in college. That was my first real business experience and I was extremely, pleasantly surprised by that experience. I was invited to come back as a full-time analyst on the same team I worked with that summer in private wealth management. I covered high-net worth clients for two years, went back to business school at that point and then joined the group that I'm in now eight years ago. The group I'm in invests in private equity managers on behalf of Goldman Sachs' clients." JL: Can you describe the typical day for an intern in your division? What sort of responsibilities do they have? SG: "In our group, we're an investing group, and our interns work on the transactions that we're working on. They're staffed as though they are full-time employees with the same level of responsibility and involvement. So we're taking them through the transactions. They're working with senior members of the team leading the transactions. They would be doing the valuation work, the research work that we do around the types of investments that we're assessing and they're part of the team that forms a view on whether we are going to make the investment or not. "That's our group, but generally people are doing a combination of shadowing and education in their summer analyst program that starts to get them to build the types of investment views and perspectives that we're looking for in investment management." JL: How do you balance the desire to use an intern's talents and delegating responsibility, while still feeling comfortable? Basically, how do you decide how much responsibility to give an intern?† SG: "We give them as much responsibility as they're willing to take and that they can achieve on. In terms of day-to-day, we're trying to build a support system around the interns so they can be successful. So we're giving them big chunks of responsibility, but we're also giving them a lot of resources that they can use to make sure that they're on the right path on this. That means that they're staffed with another analyst who can help show them the steps that they could take to solve the problem or model out the valuation that they might be working on. They have a mentor who they can talk to about 'Hey, is this a dumb question? or not a dumb question that I'm thinking about and I'm asking about?' because they're integrated in the team they can go to other members of the team at any time. So if I just looked out of my office, they're sitting next to two other analysts who are full-time analysts who have more experience who are willing at any minute to sit with them and take them through a question large or small that may be a challenge to them."† JL: Do you mentor an intern?† SG: "I mentor a number of interns. We have a big buddy system and then a more senior mentor. The big buddy is the person who can talk to them about what time do you get in in the morning? What does casual Friday really mean? That sort of day-to-day practical things that can trip somebody up. Then the senior person is there to give broader counsel about career development and the types of feedback you receive during the summer to make sure that people are thinking more long-term about their career and where their place might be in the firm and group." JL: What sort of advice would you give to an intern in your group? Like, what would be the best piece of advice you could give them?† SG: "I think the best piece of advice that I give most often is †I think that people get really hung up on the practical skills that they have to have coming in. So what we see in Investment Management is a lot of people want to demonstrate 'Oh, I've run a portfolio. I've invested for myself.' And that's certainly a good thing to have, but the thing that's really priceless over the summer is having a good attitude because during the summer they face a lot of challenging situations and there are long hours and so feeling like the person next to you is excited to be there and wants to do the work every day is the thing you remember about somebody after they've gone back to school in September." JL: When you were an intern, did someone give you a piece of advice that stuck with you? SG: "I think my managing director did say to me when I was an analyst, I didn't know at the time it was true, he said look, 'You're 22, you think you're a grown up, but you still have a long way to go.' And when I look back on my career in my 20s, I actually evolved not just as a professional, but as a person a lot with the experiences I had in the first five years. I think people are sometimes too pre-mature in pigeonholing themselves based on who they think they are at 22."† JL: So what do you think is the biggest mistake an intern can make? SG: "Probably the biggest mistake is not writing things down and remembering them. So we always tell people that they should ask more questions. That's a very common feedback that we give interns and we're willing to entertain as many questions as they have, but they need to write that down and take that answer on board not just ask a question for the sake of asking a question and then ask it again a week later."† JL: That's good advice. JL: What's something that impressed you about an intern? SG: Probably going the extra step. So there are some interns that do the work and do it well and then there are some interns who say, 'Here's this good work product that I've done that's fully checked and accurate and when I think about how this fits into your business here's the next thing that I think I could do. Or why don't I build you this other model as well.' So offering up other things that they can do that are thoughtful and show that they understand the business is a really exciting thing to see from someone.† JL: If I were an intern, what's a good way to standout? SG:†"I think being a good team member is always the most important thing. You're probably the youngest person on the desk and sometimes people feel like they're not a full member of the team, but nobody else views it that way. Everyone views it from day one that you're just like everybody else and so that means building personal relationships with other people on the desk, getting to know people and meshing as part of the team so at the end of the summer people are surprised when you have to say that you're going back to school."† JL: In a job market that is so competitive, what are some of the details which make a difference in an interview or on a rÈsumÈ?† SG: "In a rÈsumÈ, showing expertise at something is really important. So I'm looking for depth as well as breadth of interests. So you have to have taken one thing and moved up in the organization or excelled at a sport or whatever it is that is most interesting to you. And then following on that, in the interview demonstrating passion about that thing. We're not looking for everyone to have a PhD in finance, but we're looking for them to have done anything that they like in the world and done a good job at it and feel deeply about it."† JL: What advice do you have for someone who wants to turn an internship into a full-time job? What should they do? How should they do that? SG: "I think it's a combination of coming in every day and doing the work and fitting in on the team so that people don't remember by the end of the summer that you weren't there full-time. I think people can be reasonably vocal about it. We can't read anyone's minds so saying, 'I really like this. I'd like to do this next year' never hurts. JL: How should someone prepare for an internship in this division? And then talk about the training they get on the job. SG:†"In preparing for the summer, I think following the markets is very valuable because we are investing. So I always ask people what stories they are following in the financial press and what companies they're most interested in. It's not a matter of knowing the price quote for the S&amp;P for the last fifteen days in a row, but having larger framework that they can fit knowledge into over the summer. "And then on the job, we have a pretty extensive training program at the Investment Management Division level. It starts off with a couple of days where all the interns are together getting an introduction to the firm and to investment management so they understand the different businesses across the division, not just the business that they'll be working in. Then they also throughout the summer have thought leadership gatherings were different business leaders come in and talk about the challenges and interesting opportunities that they're seeing in their businesses. And then professional development as well around things like feedback, thinking about your career, working on teams. So it's both the practical and the longer term."†† JL: Can you talk about the diversity of candidates that you all look for? SG:†"We're looking for very diverse set of students. It's not all finance majors as I said before. I think I'm a pretty good example of that. I hadn't taken any classes that required math in college. We're looking for people who are logical and organized and disciplined and have demonstrated the ability to come up a learning curve in something in the past whether it's learning to speak Chinese or learning to play an instrument or a sport or taking up something else that's a challenge. I think you see that in a cross-section of our summer class that they have a lot of different backgrounds."† We will be doing these Q&amp;A's with Goldman managing directors in different divisions over the next couple of weeks. Up next will be the Technology department.†
Part of the joy of Scotch is that it's simple. You put it in a glass with some ice, maybe water, and you're done. Ready to enjoy. So when Desmond Payne, head distiller at Beefeater Gin, offered to let Business Insider taste test a new gin he was brewed up called 'Burrough's Reserve'; he pulled us in with this quote: "We don't expect to see this on every bar up and down the street, It's a high end gin. We recommend it for sipping." Shots fired ‚Äî Gin without a twist, not dirty, not with tonic. Neat. The 'Burrough's Reserve' gin (named for Beefeater founder James Burrough) follows the same recipe the distillery has been using since the 1800s except for one thing ‚Äî after the gin is steeped with 9 botanicals and then distilled, it is placed in a wood cask. Bottles hit American stores this fall. To get the taste just right, Payne played with the size of the cask (think: the more surface area the gin touches the more the wood seeps into the taste) and the type of wood its made from. It gives the gin a slightly golden brown tint. Now, it's impossible not to notice that there are distilleries popping up everywhere these days, and there are even other gin distilleries doing the cask thing ‚Äî St. George Spirits in the San Francisco area has one, so does Few Spirits in Chicago, and Citadelle Reserve to name a few ‚Äî but no one has been more open about how their casked gin is supposed to be served than Beefeater. "Rather than just have a high end, high priced in a nice bottle, I wanted to explore the occasions in which people drink gin," said Payne. It's his polite way of trying to say that he's trying to disrupt the occasions in which you drink gin. As for the taste after our test? Yes, Burrough's Reserve is unquestionably sippable. Citrusy and light, it's obviously not the same taste as scotch, but that's not the point ‚Äî it goes down so smoothly you won't be reaching for tonic at all. If you do dare to try it, there's a chance you might be converted. Very scary. And here's what it'll look like in U.S. stores: Beefeater
YouTube/WHFreemanWorthGreg MankiwHarvard economist and former George W. Bush advisor Greg Mankiw has a new piece in the New York Times grappling with whether a smart investor should hold some gold. Mankiw calls himself a "boring" investor¬†‚Äî your standard 60% stocks 40% bonds kind of guy¬†‚Äî who never really saw the value in hoarding gold. But when a friend asked him if he should add gold his portfolio, Mankiw dove into the academic research. He came away with four main points:
The U.S. has been making money since 1792. That first money was in the form of coins. These early coins were made of precious metals and had actual value. It wasn't until 1862 during the Civil War that the Department of Treasury produced paper money, which isn't actually paper; it's cotton. It was created to make up for the coin shortage. Since those early coins contained valuable metals, Americans began hoarding them as a hedge against the fluctuations in money created by the war.¬†
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThat didn't take long. After ditching junk bonds at a record pace in June on the news that the Federal Reserve might slow its asset purchasing program soon, investors are buying them back up at a record pace. Junk bonds netted a record $5.4 billion of deposits last week while investors pulled $1.8 billion from investment grade, according to Bloomberg. We broke down the week's flows into junk bonds last week. It's an indication that investors are preferring higher-yield junk bonds over the stability of corporate or municipal bonds. From Bloomberg: Relative yields on high-yield bonds globally were 511 basis points on July 26 compared with the all-time low of 233 in June 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads on investment-grade notes of 150 basis points are up from this yearís low of 132 on May 28. The so-called Great Rotation†ó a concept that came to vogue earlier this year when investors poured money into equity funds stoking fears that bonds would see a mass exodus†ó has yet to materialize.
The stock is down by around 0.1% today. As usual, the colorful CEO Steve Wynn hosted the earnings call with analysts where he offered his insights into the industry and the economy. One analyst asked Wynn whether he saw a commercial recovery taking hold in Las Vegas. Here's how Wynn responded: Las Vegas is managing to hold its head up. And if we have a real recovery in the U.S.‚Äî And I don't think we are having a real recovery. I think we're having a limp-wristed sort of crawl out of a hole. But a recovery is a more robust word, and I don't see it in the country as clearly as the politicians do who are trying to sell it to the people. I think most if it is baloney. I think real inflation is way north of 10[%], everybody's dollar is going down, buying power and living standards is going backward for the working people of America, and that's taking a toll on what you would call a recovery. So I don't see it myself. Earnings clocked in at $1.28 per share against the $1.57 expected by analysts. Revenue was in line with estimates at $1.3 Billion.
FREDJapanese CPI going back for decades. If you read Business Insider at all, then you definitely come across charts from FRED, a website run out of the St. Louis Federal Reserve, which lets you chart tens of thousands of economic data series, like the CPI, initial jobless claims, GDP (and many sub-indicators), and Non-Farm Payrolls (including detailed data on lots of industries). We profiled the site and the people behind the site early last year. Not only is there tons of data, but it's also interactive, so you can chart one indicator against another, or quickly go from a chart that shows annual percentage changes to one that shows a sequential percentage change. FRED is so good, that it makes you depressed to go to other sites where public data is presented. The ECB, for example, is a complete horror show. Check it out here and then get really depressed. But the good news is that FRED itself keeps getting better, and adding more data, which is way better than other sites becoming FRED-like, since then everything's all together. And FRED took a huge step in that direction last week with the addition of a bunch of data from the OECD: FRED grows to more than 140,000 data series with addition of OECD Main Economic Indicators The addition of 58,000 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Main Economic Indicators (MEI) series will nearly double the size of the FRED database. The addition includes detailed economic data on the 34 OECD-member nations plus Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, the Russian Federation and South Africa. This significant expansion goes beyond headline figures such as GDP, unemployment, CPI and retail trade volume, thus providing users with the means to analyze the OECD-member and selected non-member economies with more detail and precision. These new series include, but are not limited to, extensive balance-of-payments data; government securities rates; and granular employment data by age, status and gender.¬† Additional series of interest measure such things as monetary aggregates; compensation on an hourly, monthly and weekly basis; and business opinions on the current economic environment. So that's why we have the chart above, Japanese CPI, which is not something we were easily able to chart before. And here's another one. It shows the year-over-year change in German Unit Labor costs, the general decline of which is a key part of the story of how its economy dominates Europe. FRED Check out the full set of new data here ¬ª
Sarabeth'sHere's something we just learned ... In the Smithsonian Magazine's fascinating piece on the origin of popular hangover foods, the author writes Eggs Benedict was apparently invented by a hungover Wall Street stockbroker. From the Smithsonian Mag: ¬† In 1942, The New Yorker published an article¬†claiming the dish had its roots in a man named Lemuel Benedict, a Wall Street worker known for his eccentric-for-the-time lifestyle choices (like marrying a woman who worked as an opera singer) and heavy partying habits. After one especially raucous night of partying, Lemuel awoke in the morning and went to breakfast at the Waldorf Hotel, where he invented his own breakfast sandwich of two poached eggs, bacon, buttered toast, and a pitcher of hollandaise sauce. Lemuel‚Äôs inventive sandwich¬†caught the eye of the Waldorf‚Äôs famous ma√Ætre d‚Äôh√¥tel Oscar, who sampled the sandwich, made some personal alterations (ham was swapped for bacon, an English muffin for the toast), put the sandwich on the menu, and sailed peacefully into history, much to the delight of hungover brunch attendees everywhere. The other story about the origin of the popular egg dish is that it was invented by Pope Benedict XIII.
Google FinanceMarkets are in the red halfway through the U.S. trading session. The Dow and S&amp;P are each down a little under half a percent. This week's big market moving events include the July jobs report, the ISM manufacturing index release, and revisions to R&amp;D as an investment category in the GDP data going back to 1929. Also, we have monetary policy meetings at the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the Bank of England. "Risk events are set to pick up dramatically, threatening the summer lull," says Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale head of rates and forex strategy Vincent Chaigneau. Meanwhile, Nikkei futures are sliding in Japan in the wake of Monday's sell-off.¬† Here's a look at the move via FinViz.com. FinViz
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWhen Detroit filed for bankruptcy two weeks ago, Wall Street asked the obvious question†ó how can we make money off this? That didn't take long to answer. CNNMoney is reporting that the Detroit municipal bond has become "the hottest trade on Wall Street." Though it may seem hard to believe, many hedge funds are betting that Detroit's bonds†ó which are backed by insurance firms that could continue to pay bondholders for now†ó will be quite lucrative in the long run. There aren't even enough bonds to go around, with hedge funds are sitting on a long waiting list. From CNNMoney: Shortly after Detroit filed for bankruptcy, several hedge funds managed to buy $5 million of pension bonds for 41 cents on the dollar. Those were some of the only pension obligation bonds available. Hedge funds are also eyeing about $1 billion in general obligation bonds backed by Detroit. More of these have changed hands, but also in small increments. One hedge fund manager said he was able to procure $30,000 of general obligation bonds at 75 cents on the dollar from a dentist in Milwaukee. The fund was hoping to buy several millions of dollars' worth, but so far, that's all they can get their hands on. It's a risky bet, but one expert told CNNMoney that bondholders tend to recover more in municipal bankruptcies than corporate ones.
Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg has an interesting illustration of the various stages of the current economic recovery. "I think the charts below speak for themselves, and why I like them is that they underscore my current stream of consciousness regarding the current business cycle, which is moving in stages," wrote Rosenberg. Stage 1 was driven by government stimulus. Stage 2 was fueled by the manufacturing comeback with the ISM index nearing 60 in 2011. Stage 3 was all about the housing revival, "which is continuing for now but the recent rolling-over of the homebuilding stocks suggests a dose of caution is warranted." And that brings us to the American consumer. "Stage 4 will have to be the consumer grabbing the torch or else the economy will stagnate or perhaps even contract in the coming year ‚Äî this is the spoke in the wheel," said Rosenberg. "The good news is that we are settling into payroll numbers of around +200K monthly, wages are beginning to show a pulse and consumer confidence has hit a cycle high." We'll have to wait for the hard data to confirm the soft signals being sent by the confidence numbers before we can confirm that the consumer has grabbed the economic baton. Gluskin Sheff
I've heard enough. I can help you. I've now attended or listened to more than a dozen "second half outlook" presentations from both the sell-side and several asset management shops. Here's the consensus - and it is a†rock-solid†consensus - in a nutshell: * †Overweight US stocks and / or US-focused stocks (companies with high domestic revenues, profits). Tailwinds: Shale Gas Revolution, continuing strength in housing, rebounding consumer sentiment. * †Underweight international equities / EM equities. Headwinds: stronger dollar, China slowing growth. * †Underweight international bonds, REITs, EM debt. Headwinds: less accommodation from US central bank, rates on lower-risk yield plays (like Treasurys) rising. * †Sectors: Overweight Tech, Financials Industrials. Underweight Utilities, Consumer Staples, Basic Materials. * †High oil prices are transitory, "geopolitically driven", "the wild card", a possible "headwind for the consumer". * †September Taper expected, $15 billion taken off current $85 billion monthly asset purchases. Fed reiterates no change in interest rates anytime soon, as a "peace offering" to keep the bond market calm. Stocks falter at first, then rally into year end. * †Larry Summers would be bad for the bond market. Janet Yellen would would be bullish for stock prices. There you go, just saved you hours and hours and hours of time. Go read a book under a tree.
REUTERS/Keith BedfordWelcome to Business Insider's newest section: Education. From pre-K to graduate school, our education system is in a period of rapid change. With skyrocketing tuition, plummeting acceptance rates, and questionable job prospects, a college degree has never before been so controversial. And the road getting there isn't so clear cut, either.† We'll cover these issues and more, bringing you a frank look at what's going on at every level of education.  If you want to know about major news on college campuses, the latest conversation on education policy, or what parents of K-12 students are discussing, we'll have it here. But don't worry, we'll also have some fun here. From fraternity fails to sorority snafus and every other cringe-worthy collegiate scandal, we'll work to uncover the seedy underbelly of higher education. We'll also have tons of features, from a tour of†the most beautiful college campus in New York City to a candid look at the real most expensive colleges in the U.S. Got a hot tip or a story idea (or just want to say hi)? Shoot us an email at†colleges@businessinsider.com. And, of course, be sure to follow us on Twitter at @BI_University for everything education-related.
Yes, China‚Äôs economy has slowed. While the crisis-battered West could only dream of matching the 7.5% annual GDP growth rate that China‚Äôs¬†National Bureau of Statistics reported¬†for the second quarter of 2013, it certainly does represent an appreciable slowdown from the 10% growth trend recorded from 1980 to 2010. But it is not just the slowdown that has the skeptics worked up. There are also concerns over excessive debt and related fears of a fragile banking system; worries about the ever-present property bubble collapsing; and, most important, the presumed lack of meaningful progress on economic rebalancing ‚Äì the long-awaited shift from a lopsided export- and investment-led growth model to one driven by internal private consumption. With respect to the last point, recent shifts in the composition of Chinese GDP appear disconcerting at first glance. Consumption (private as well as public) contributed only 3.4 percentage points to economic growth in the first half of this year, and an estimated 2.5 percentage points in the April-June period ‚Äì a deceleration on a sequential quarterly basis that underscores a cyclical, or temporary, weakening in Chinese consumer demand. At the same time, the contribution from investment surged from 2.3 percentage points of GDP growth in the first quarter of 2013 to 5.9 percentage points in the second quarter. In other words, rather than shifting from investment-led to consumer-led growth, China appears to be continuing along its investment-led growth track. For an unbalanced economy that has under-consumed and over-invested for the better part of three decades, this is unnerving. After all, China‚Äôs leadership has been talking about rebalancing for years ‚Äì especially since the enactment of the pro-consumption¬†12th Five-Year Plan¬†in March 2011. It was one thing when rebalancing failed to occur as the economy was growing rapidly; for the skeptics, it is another matter altogether when rebalancing is stymied in a ‚Äúslow-growth‚Äù climate. This is superficial thinking, at best. The rebalancing of any economy ‚Äì a major structural transformation in the sources of output growth ‚Äì can hardly be expected to occur overnight. It takes strategy, time, and determination to pull it off. China has an ample supply of all three. The composition of GDP is probably the worst metric to use in assessing early-stage progress on economic rebalancing. Eventually, of course, GDP composition will provide the acid test of whether China has succeeded. But the key word here is ‚Äúeventually.‚Äù It is far too early to expect significant shifts in the major sources of aggregate demand. For now, it is much more important to examine trends in the potential determinants of Chinese consumption. From this perspective, there is good reason for optimism, especially given accelerated growth in China‚Äôs services sector ‚Äì one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing. In the first half of 2013, services output (the tertiary sector) expanded by 8.3% year on year ‚Äì markedly faster than the combined 7.6% growth of manufacturing and construction (the secondary sector). Moreover, the gap between growth in services and growth in manufacturing and construction widened over the first two quarters of 2013, following annual gains of 8.1% in both sectors in 2012. These developments ‚Äì first convergence, and now faster services growth ‚Äì stand in sharp contrast with earlier trends. Indeed, from 1980 to 2011, growth in services output averaged 8.9% per year, fully 2.7 percentage points¬†less¬†than the combined growth of 11.6% in manufacturing and construction over the same period. The recent inversion of this relationship suggests that the structure of Chinese growth is starting to tilt toward services. Why are services so important for China‚Äôs rebalancing? For starters, services are far more labor-intensive than the country‚Äôs traditional growth sectors. In 2011, Chinese services generated 30% more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction. This means that the Chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption objectives ‚Äì employment, urbanization, and poverty reduction ‚Äì with much slower GDP growth than in the past. In other words, a 7-8% growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that required 10% growth under China‚Äôs previous model. That is good news for three reasons. First, services growth is beginning to tap a new source of labor-income generation, the mainstay of consumer demand. Second, greater reliance on services allows China to settle into a lower and more sustainable growth trajectory, tempering the excessive resource- and pollution-intensive activities driven by the hyper-growth of manufacturing and construction. And, third, growth in the embryonic services sector, which currently accounts for just 43% of the country‚Äôs GDP, broadens China‚Äôs economic base, creating a significant opportunity to reduce income inequality. Far from crashing, the Chinese economy is at a pivotal point. The wheels of rebalancing are turning. While that is not showing up in the composition of final demand (at least not yet), the shift from manufacturing and construction toward services is a far more meaningful indicator at this stage in the transformation. So, too, are signs of newfound policy discipline ‚Äì such as a central bank that seems determined to wean China off excessive credit creation and fiscal authorities that have resisted the timeworn temptation of yet another massive round of spending initiatives to counter a slowdown. Early steps toward interest-rate liberalization and hints of reform of the antiquated¬†hukou¬†(residential permit) system are also encouraging. Slowly but surely, the next China is coming into focus. China doubters in the West have misread the Chinese economy‚Äôs vital signs once again.
REUTERS/Jason ReedMassachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren joined a list of Senate Democrats calling on President Obama to name Janet Yellen as head of the Federal Reserve, the Boston Globe reports. Warren¬†‚Äî who lately has made curbing Wall Street's power and profitability¬†a chief legislative agenda¬†‚Äî signed onto the letter urging Obama to appoint Yellen. If appointed, she would become the first female Fed chair when Ben Bernanke likely retires at the end of his term in January. Of course, picking Yellen meant Warren snubbed her former Harvard colleague Larry Summers, also rumored to be on Obama's short list. From The Globe:¬† Warren was a professor at Harvard Law School when Summers resigned as Harvard‚Äôs president in 2006 for making comments suggesting that gender differences partly explained why fewer women pursued careers in math and science. They later clashed when Warren was heading a congressional oversight panel. In interviews, Warren said that her views differed sharply from those of Summers, as well as then-Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. They were too supportive of the big banks, she suggested, while she stuck up for everyday Americans. And when asked earlier this month if she thought whether Summer could win Senate confirmation, Warren replied, "I don't know."
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke arrives to deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress before the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, July 17, 2013.A federal judge has ruled that Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke should not be kept from testifying in a lawsuit by former AIG CEO Hank Greenberg against the U.S. government over the bailout AIG received in 2008. Reuters reports: Judge Thomas Wheeler of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims rejected the government's effort to keep Bernanke from being deposed, saying the Fed chairman was a "central figure" in the decision to bail out AIG. "Indeed, the court cannot fathom having to decide this multi-billion dollar claim without the testimony of such a key government decision maker," Wheeler wrote. "These facts constitute 'extraordinary circumstances' for the taking of Mr. Bernanke's deposition." Read the rest at Reuters &gt;
Reuters/China PhotosThe latest economic data out of China has confirmed concerns of an economic slowdown. But in a new Financial Times column Michael Pettis, China expert and professor at Peking University, thinks GDP growth needs to slow much further. He also argues that many China experts are wrong to assume that slower growth will cause social unrest. Instead, he believes the number that everyone should watch and that is important for China if it is to rebalance it's economy is median household income. From FT:  "The consumption rate is low mainly as a consequence of policies that systematically transferred resources from the household sector to subsidize rapid growth. This forced down the household income share of GDP which, at about 50 per cent, is among the lowest ever recorded in the world. There is no sustainable way to boost household consumption without boosting household income. "This suggests that consumption growth of 10-11 per cent requires similar growth in household income. In principle China could have this by paying workers much higher wages and sharply raising the deposit rates paid by banks. But since low wages and cheap capital are at the heart of China‚Äôs growth model, raising wages and deposit rates enough to rebalance the economy would cause growth to collapse. Only a continued, and ultimately self-defeating, surge in debt can get household income to grow quickly enough to accommodate both high GDP growth rates and a rebalancing economy. ..This is why GDP growth rates must drop further." If China is to avoid social unrest while rebalance its economy, it is median household income that needs to grow. Real disposable income has been climbing at over 7% a year on average, and needs to keep going at this pace or stronger to prevent social unrest. "If China is to rebalance meaningfully, GDP must grow by ‚Äúonly‚Äù 3-4 per cent." Read the entire piece at the Financial Times &gt;
Jeff ZelevanskyFormer Penn State safety Mark Rubin, who works at Barclays This weekend, some real alpha males competed in The RBC Decathlon at Columbia University's Wien Stadium for the title of "Wall Street's Best Athlete." The popular annual charity event also featured the first-ever "Wall Street's Best Female Athlete."¬† Over a five hour time period, athletes participated in a 400 meter run, football throw, pull ups, 40 yard dash, dips, 500 meter row, vertical jump, 20 yard shuttle, bench press and 800 meter run. The annual event raised more than $1.3 million, which goes to pediatric cancer research and treatment¬†at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. ¬†That number should be around $1.4 million by the end of the week, The Decathlon's co-founder Dave Maloney told us. The Decathlon featured athletes in their early 20s and there were some who were over 50.¬†The competition was definitely fierce. ¬† In case you missed it, we have included photo highlights in the slides that follow.¬†Also, a big thanks to¬†Jeff Zelevansky, who was kind enough to share some of his photos with us.¬†
NEW YORK (Reuters) - As JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co prepares to exit physical commodities trading, the spotlight is turning to the future of the two banks that have dominated Wall Street's involvement in the natural resources supply chain for 30 years. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley two decades ago became known as the 'Wall Street Refiners' for their mastery of both financial and physical commodities. But since 2012 Morgan Stanley has looked at selling its commodity arm and Goldman has made moves to scale back its physical operations. Letters between the banks and the Federal Reserve, received by Reuters under the Freedom of Information Act, show both banks are in discussions on conforming or divesting activities that fall outside the normal scope of commercial banks. Goldman has been looking at selling its Metro International metals warehouses firm since at least March, but it has also publicly reaffirmed its commitment to its J. Aron commodities business, where CEO Lloyd Blankfein started his career. Morgan Stanley has been looking at a possible spin-off or sale of its commodity arm since last summer, but with little success. Recent moves suggest it may try to refocus on its vast physical oil trading arm and exit peripheral markets like Australian electricity. The question is, in part, whether they will be able to choose their own future, or will the Federal Reserve's decision to review the entire role of Wall Street in physical commodities markets see regulators make the choice for them? The past 10 days has seen unprecedented scrutiny of Wall Street's commodity trade, with a Senate hearing questioning whether banks should be allowed to own pipelines, warehouses and other commercial assets. U.S. regulators and the Department of Justice have launched initial investigations into the metals warehousing business of banks and other big commodity traders, which have been accused of driving up the price of aluminum by drink can manufacturers. While JPMorgan cited the growing regulatory pressures as one of the reasons it has decided to exit physical commodities trading, it was not clear if it was influenced by the banks' discussions with the Federal Reserve. One person familiar with the matter said on Friday the bank had decided the profits from commodities were too slight to be worth the regulatory and reputational risks. CEO Jamie Dimon has been trying to put the bank back on course after a series of costly trading moves and regulatory run-ins, including a potential $410 million settlement over alleged power market manipulation. "I don't think it was any one thing, but a culmination of things, that drove (JPMorgan's) decision," said Craig Pirrong, a professor at the University of Houston and expert in commodity markets. "The legal and reputational risks, the Fed's likely action to constrain - if not eliminate - this sort of trading, the increasing capital strains on banks, and especially the political heat being directed at the industry. In the scheme of things at JPMorgan, commodities just weren't big enough and profitable enough to be worth all this bother." LETTERS FROM THE FED Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley may hold one advantage over JPMorgan, as their long history of operating in physical commodities as less regulated banks may provide them with "grandfathered" ownership of assets like warehouses, pipelines and storage tanks that other commercial banks aren't allowed. "I don't think there is a necessary or clear link between whatever the Fed's position is on JPMorgan's ownership of physical assets - if, in fact, it is the Fed that is pushing JPMorgan to divest - and the Fed's position on Goldman and Morgan Stanley," said Saule Omarova, associate professor of law at the University of North Carolina, who appeared at the Senate banking committee hearing last week. However, there are signs the Federal Reserve is still reviewing this position, just two months before a five-year deadline expires for Goldman and Morgan Stanley to conform their business activities to the Bank Holding Company Act. A Federal Reserve letter to the Goldman Sachs' lawyers in 2012, obtained by Reuters, said that "specifically, Goldman Sachs continues to engage in commodity-related activities and indirectly controls (redacted) impermissible non-real-estate investments that the Board has not authorized." The letter, dated September 19 2012, said the Fed was granting another one year extension for Goldman as it had made a "good faith effort to conform its impermissible activities" and had "taken steps to restructure or divest its commodity-related activities and its non-real estate investments." A Goldman Sachs spokesman declined to comment when asked what assets or activities the Fed letter referred to. It was not clear if the Fed was referring to Metro International, which Goldman bought two years after converting to a commercial bank during the financial crisis, and is now looking to sell. Goldman has already got rid of many of the physical trading assets it owned in 2008. Last year it sold its power plant business Cogentrix to private-equity firm the Carlyle Group. Its U.S. power sales have fallen since then, according to regulatory filings with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and are less than one sixth of their peak in 2005. The bank may choose to focus on financial trading of commodity derivatives and other products, one of its strongest areas. It is already a much smaller player in global crude markets than it was in the 1990s. Oil traders and Wall Street rivals say it is rarely seen moving tankers of crude these days. Last year it imported 5,000 barrels per day of crude oil to the United States, mainly for a small asphalt refinery inCalifornia, U.S. Energy Information Administration data shows. JPMorgan imported 50 times more, or around 250,000 bpd. Despite launching a metals trading desk in 2010 after its purchase of Metro, it has struggled to compete against big merchant commodity firms like Glencore Xstrata and Trafigura, trading sources say. Two senior metals traders,Scott Evans and David Freeland, left Goldman earlier this year. Natural gas is the exception, where it has grown from a small presence to be a top 10 physical gas trader in North America since 2010, after its purchase of Nexen's trading book. Brad Hintz, a Wall Street analyst at Sanford Bernstein &amp; Co in New York and a former treasurer of Morgan Stanley, said that regulatory pressures would probably lead to other banks eventually following JPMorgan's lead. "The commodities business of the future will likely devolve to its financing and risk management core and the banks will be less active in the physical markets," Hintz said. "In the vernacular of the commodities market - Wall Street will become "paper" traders." For Morgan Stanley, the situation may be more complicated. It went deeper than any other bank into physical oil trading, including acquiring its TransMontaigne terminal and storage firm, which Forbes magazine estimates is the 17th largest private company in the United States, with revenues of more than $14 billion last year. Morgan Stanley's request to the Federal Reserve for another year's leeway, also released to Reuters by the Federal Reserve under the Freedom of Information Act, consisted of eight heavily redacted pages and 10 annexes. It is not clear what physical commodity assets, if any, have been kept from public view. A spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley could not be reached over the weekend to answer questions over what non-conforming assets were redacted in the Fed letter, and what, if any, assets had been conformed or divested since. What is known is that despite all the regulatory uncertainty, TransMontaigne has pushed ahead with one of its biggest physical asset investments ever, taking a 42.5 percent stake in a $485 million oil terminal near Houston. Two weeks ago, Morgan Stanley tied itself even more closely to TransMontaigne, extending the majority of its oil terminal leases with the firm indefinitely, according to a filing. The bank remains by far the most exposed to the growing pressure on banks in physical commodity trading. PHIBRO PRECEDENT For JPMorgan's commodity division, it is not clear how the next few months will go. Blythe Masters, one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, will remain in charge of the business and oversee the sale, but Morgan Stanley's experience may suggest it may not be straightforward. While the bank has already sold more than half of its electricity trading contracts, it still has a vast number of physical deals and assets, including long-term supply and sales agreements with two major U.S. refineries, and its Henry Bath metals warehouse market has over 70 locations worldwide. In an already crowded market, who would buy its assets? "I doubt banks will buy. Which only leaves the physical trading houses and some of these newly formed merchant traders like Castleton and Freepoint," said a trader at a Western trading house in Singapore. But there is one possible alternative. In 1998, Citigroup said in a press release - reminiscent of JPMorgan's statement on Friday - that it was evaluating "strategic alternatives" for its physical energy unit Phibro, including a possible sale of the company. The bank had absorbed the big energy trader in its merger with Travelers Group that year, but banking regulations did not automatically allow it to run the business given its dealings in physical tankers of crude oil and pipelines of natural gas. Five years later Phibro was still a part of Citigroup, and the Federal Reserve granted approval for the bank to carry on trading in physical markets - a landmark decision the Fed says it is now reviewing. That approval opened the doors to almost every other commercial bank on Wall Street getting permission to trade physical commodities over the next five years. Phibro was eventually sold to oil firm Occidental in 2008, after public outrage over a $100 million bonus Citigroup was set to pay to star oil trader Andy Hall, despite receiving a government bailout. Pirrong, the professor and commodities expert, said that even if the banks do exit the physical business, they would likely be replaced by other "financial" firms, like private equity groups or hedge funds. "Finance and commodities are inherently intertwined, and will continue to be so," Pirrong said. "The identities of the financial firms that are involved may change, but they will perform the same basic functions and provide the same basic products and services that the banks do now." (Additional reporting by Josephine Mason, Jonathan Leff and Jeanine Prezioso in New York, Florence Tan inSingapore; Editing by Michael Perry and Amran Abocar)
flickr/Steve Johnson The¬†Dallas Fed's monthly survey of regional manufacturing activity is out. The headline index fell to 4.4 in July from 6.5 in June. Economists were looking for an advance to 7.5. The drop in the index suggests that the pace of growth in regional manufacturing slowed in July. Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- Texas factory activity continued to expand in July, according to business executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The¬†production¬†index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, fell from 17.1 to 11.4, suggesting output growth continued but at a slower pace than in June. Some other measures of current manufacturing activity also indicated slower growth in July. The¬†new orders¬†index was positive for the third month in a row, although it edged down from 13 to 10.8. The¬†capacity utilization¬†index also slipped slightly, falling three points to 12.2. However, the¬†shipments¬†index inched up to 17.7, reaching its highest reading in six months. Perceptions of broader business conditions improved again in July. The¬†general business activity¬†index posted a second consecutive positive reading, although it edged down from 6.5 to 4.4. The¬†company outlook¬†index also remained positive but fell, coming in at 4.5. Labor market indicators reflected a pickup in labor demand. The¬†employment¬†index rose to 9.3, its highest reading in nearly a year. Eighteen percent of firms reported hiring new workers compared with 9 percent reporting layoffs. The¬†hours worked¬†index remained in positive territory. Input prices and wages rose in July while selling prices were little changed. The¬†raw materials price¬†index came in at 15.9, slightly above its June reading of 14.3. The¬†wages and benefits¬†index was positive but edged down from 20 to 16.4, although the great majority of manufacturers continued to note no change in compensation costs. The¬†finished goods price¬†index was¬†-1,¬†suggesting fairly steady selling prices. Looking ahead, 37 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw materials prices over the next six months, while 24 percent expect higher finished goods prices. Expectations regarding future business conditions remained optimistic in July. The indexes of future¬†general business activity¬†and future¬†company outlook¬†fell five points but remained in strongly positive territory. Indexes for future manufacturing activity also remained solidly positive. The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to obtain a timely assessment of the state‚Äôs factory activity. Data were collected July 16‚Äì24, and 85 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or remained unchanged over the previous month. Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero, suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number of firms reporting a decrease. Data have been¬†seasonally adjusted¬†as necessary. Next release:¬†August 26, 2013 ¬†
It now looks as if prices for oil, natural gas, and related products may fall. A confluence of events suggests that can happen, to wit: With permission, we have posted Jim Roemer‚Äôs discussion of colder-than-normal weather in the US and its impact on natural gas prices in the ‚ÄúSpecial Reports‚Äù section of our website. Here is the link. Our energy-specific ETFs (exchange-traded funds) have been sold. We anticipate there will be some reduction in pricing power in the oil and natural gas sector. Another variable that exerts lower energy-pricing pressure is the ongoing possible strengthening of the US dollar. As monetary policies unfold out of the United Kingdom and Japan, the likelihood for the dollar to strengthen is rising. The unknown in the monetary equation is the ECB (European Central Bank). The ECB awaits decisions to be made by the German Constitutional Court in a matter of months. The court could dismember the ability of the ECB to participate in sovereign debt purchases and the expansion of monetary stimulus. Most observers believe, however, that an extreme decision is not likely and that some middle-of-the-road guidance will probably be delivered by the court instead. If the ECB can begin a process of QE, this move will change the game radically in favor of a stronger US dollar. The euro continues to emerge as the strongest of the G4 currencies because its central bank balance sheet has not been expanding, while others‚Äô balance sheets have been. In a world where the Fed (Federal Reserve) may soon be reducing QE by ‚Äútapering‚Äù even as the rest of the G4 central banks are expanding their balance sheets through various forms of QE, it is likely that the US dollar will strengthen. We also see signs of a stronger dollar in the buildup and the stability of world reserves, of which the US dollar is the largest single component. We see growing crossover buying originating from abroad in our state and local government bonds sector, simply because the highest-grade US municipals are nonsensically cheap relative to Treasuries and are attracting the attention of foreigners. Even as Americans are missing this great opportunity, astute investors from abroad are seizing it. A stronger dollar with incoming flows from abroad suggests that the Treasury bond market could rally. Yields could fall once the Fed dispels uncertainty over QE by clarifying its policy direction. We expect that is coming as well. Falling energy prices relieve any inflationary pressures arising from the energy patch, which constitutes a large input component in pricing. Think about what it means when the prices of oil and natural gas and all their derivative products are poised to fall instead of rise. The inflation rate in the US could approach zero. In such an environment, it is highly unlikely that interest rates on bonds will rise further ‚Äì and possibly, with economic slowing, they could fall. We have gone from overweight to underweight in energy. We have realigned our ETF portfolios accordingly and do not expect inflationary pressures to come from the energy patch for some time.

via NewspressLast week we declared that the European recession had come to an end, or at least was on the verge of ending. That wasn't to say that things weren't a gigantic mess. Unemployment is still enormous, and the political situation is tenuous in many countries.The Euro is still deeply flawed. But the data is turning the corner left and right, and banks are beginning to expand available credit again. And now (via Josh Brown) comes more evidence in the form of car sales. Nina Bains at WSJ rounds up what the automakers are saying about the European market: Daimler AG said it expects its passenger car sales to rise further in the second half of the year alongside ‚Äúsignificantly better‚Äù earnings as Europe‚Äôs battered car market starts to turn a corner. Meanwhile, French rival Renault SA's global vehicle registrations perked up in the second quarter of this year, partially offsetting a 4.7% drop in the first quarter. Shares in Renault rallied over 5% Friday following first-half results, with analysts cheered by a strong performance in the auto division. Auto makers across the pond are also steadily becoming more optimistic about Europe‚Äôs prospects. Ford Motor Co. F¬†+0.65% brightened its outlook for the rest of the year after second-quarter profit raced ahead, helped by an improvement in its European division. Are things still horrible? Absolutely. Does the data show they're on the mend. Clearly.
Reuters/Richard ClementThe Pending home sales index (PHSI) for June fell 0.4% month-over-month. This was better than expectations for a 1% fall. Meanwhile, on the year, pending home sales were up 9.1%, beating expectations for an 8.3% rise. May's numbers were revised lower to reflect a 5.8%¬† MoM decline and an 11.2% YoY rise. This compares with an initial reading that showed a 6.7% MoM rise and a 12.5% YoY rise. "Mortgage interest rates began to rise in May, taking some of the momentum out of contract activity in June," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. "The persistent lack of inventory also is contributing to lower contract signings." The 30-year rate stands at 4.31% according to Freddie Mac's primary mortgage market survey. Yun added that some homebuyers sign contracts with floating mortgage interest rates, and these can be locked 10 - 14 days before closing. "So some homebuyers may change their minds if the rate rises too much, which apparently happened with some sales scheduled to close in June." Ahead of the report, Bank of America's Michelle Meyer expected a decline of 2% on the month. She expected some of the decline to be on accounts of a "give-back following a 6.7% surge in May." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: Investors watch this number because it is considered a leading indicator of the housing market. The PHSI looks at all homes where a contract has been signed but the sale is not complete. Here's a look at pending home sales from NAR: NAR
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Hudson's Bay Co &lt;HBC.TO&gt; said on Monday it would buy Saks Inc &lt;SKS.N&gt; in a $2.4 billion deal that would add prime real estate to its portfolio and bring the luxury chain to its home market of Canada. HBC, which operates Lord &amp; Taylor in the United States and Hudson Bay in Canada, is offering $16 per share, a 30 percent premium over levels in May right before media reports emerged Saks had put itself up for sale. Shares of Saks rose 3.4 percent to $15.87 in premarket trading. HBC is paying $2.9 billion in cash, including the assumption of Saks' debt. There is a 40-day "go-shop" period when Saks can seek better bids, but the company said it did not expect to get any. It anticipates the deal will close by year-end. Saks, famous for its iconic Fifth Avenue flagship store in Manhattan, will operate separately within HBC and have its own merchandising, marketing and store operations teams. It will also keep its New York headquarters. HBC plans to bring Saks department stores and outlet stores into Canada by converting some of its own locations. HBC Chief Executive Officer Richard Baker said on a conference call that he saw a potential for up to seven Saks department stores and 25 Off Fifth outlets in Canada, and noted the company would open them as quickly as possible. That will bring it into competition with retailers like the high-end Holt Renfrew chain as well as Nordstrom Inc &lt;JWN.N&gt;, which is opening its first Canadian stores in 2014. The combined company would have flagship stores in cities such as New York, Montreal and Toronto, and HBC said it would consider creating a real estate investment trust to benefit from that portfolio. After U.S. department store chain Dillard's Inc &lt;DDS.N&gt; announced plans in 2011 to form a REIT, its shares soared. Saks' Fifth Avenue flagship, in operation since 1924, generates about $600 million in sales a year, and by some estimates, the building is worth $1 billion. "The Fifth Avenue store is a gem and everything else is second to that," said independent retail analyst Walter Loeb. "Many of the stores are not as productive." Saks in recent years has closed department stores in markets like Portland, Oregon, and Dallas, but pushed its Saks Off Fifth outlet chain. It has 41 full-service stores and 67 outlets. Before the speculation about the deal started in May, Saks' shares had last hit the $16 level in early 2008, before the recession decimated luxury spending. In late 2008, faced with collapsing sales, Saks slashed prices, decimating margins and training shoppers to expect discounts. It took three years for the retailer to start selling closer to full price. Saks has struggled to keep pace with rivals Nordstrom and Neiman Marcus Group Inc &lt;NMRCUS.UL&gt;, which each get a much bigger proportion of sales online than it does. Saks' two largest shareholders are Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim and Italian luxury businessman Diego Della Valle, who own a combined 30.5 percent of the stock. HBC will finance the deal with about $1 billion in new equity, $1.9 billion in senior secured loans and $400 million of senior unsecured notes, as well as cash on hand. Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;BAC.N&gt; was HBC's lead financial adviser, with RBC Capital Markets &lt;RY.TO&gt; providing additional services. Stikeman Elliott LLP and Willkie Farr &amp; Gallagher LLP were the Canadian retailer's legal counsel. On Saks' side, Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt;, Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; and Guggenheim Securities were financial advisers and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz provided legal counsel. (Reporting by Phil Wahba in New York; Additional reporting by Dhanya Skariachan.; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn)
The debate over who will become the next Chairman of the Federal Reserve is heating up. It was long believed that current Vice Chair Janet Yellen was the clear and obvious favorite. But former Treasury secretary Larry Summers seemingly emerged out of nowhere as an unlikely frontrunner. However, UBS's Art Cashin floats the idea that a Summers' candidacy is just a "ruse." It would have all started when volatility in the markets spiked after Bernanke suggested the Fed could soon taper its monthly purchases of $85 billion worth of bonds. From Cashin (emphasis added): The FoF (Machiavelli Chapter), Casts A Jaundiced Eye On The Larry Summers "Candidacy" ‚Äì A group of ultra-cynics at the Friends of Fermentation (FoF) Seminars has a bit of a different spin on the growing buzz about a possible selection of Larry Summers to replace Ben Bernanke.¬† The FoF contingent thinks the whole thing may be a ruse to "condition" the markets to the ultimate election of Yellen. Part of the hypothesis is that some of the economic advisors to the President were shocked by the market's sharp and sudden response to Bernanke's hint of a shift to tapering.¬† The fact that the hint required nearly the entire FOMC to be trotted out to soothe markets showed the Administration how sensitive to change markets might be. A looming key change will be the announcement of the Bernanke successor.¬† If there is a negative response, there is no easy "walk back".¬† The President would be hardly willing to take the political (and legacy) hit of a withdrawal and new nominee.¬† The FoF cynics think that led Washington strategists to suddenly refloat a Summers candidacy three weeks ago, after it had been presumed dead and buried.¬† Summers, as a non-Fed type, with some historical controversy attached would work as the perfect foil to openly vet and debate Yellen's candidacy.¬† A full debate could gauge reactions in the markets and also condition them to Yellen assuming the throne.¬† Peanuts, pondering and plotting are all on the FoF menu. For now, all of this debate seems to have advanced the odds of other Fed Chair candidates like former Vice Chair Roger Ferguson and former Council of Economic Advisors Chair Christina Romer.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen will have some bragging to do at the next FOMC meeting. The Wall Street Journal has ranked more than 700 predictions made between 2009 and last year by 14 Fed officials on everything from growth to jobs to inflation.¬† And Yellen, the Fed's vice chair and possible successor to Ben Bernanke, is at the top of the list. Of course, even more important than bragging rights, is that this boosts the argument that she should be the next Fed Chair, which is a decision that Obama will make in the coming months. From the Journal: She was joined in the high scores by other Fed "doves," policy makers who wanted aggressively easy money policies to confront a weak U.S. economy and low inflation. Collectively, they supported Fed Chairmen¬†Ben Bernanke's strategy to pump money into the U.S. economy. The least accurate forecasts came from central bank "hawks," those who feared Fed policies would trigger rising inflation. Forecasting isn't the be all and end all for a Fed chair (you have to consensus build and communicate effectively too), but the report could bode well for her chances.
REUTERS/Neil Hall Billionaire Saudi Prince¬†Alwaleed bin Talal has warned shale oil and gas development poses a threat to the kingdom's economy, the Wall Street Journal's Summer Said reports. In an open letter to Saudi oil minister Ali al Naimi [in Arabic], Alwaleed also warns the kingdom must diversify its revenue streams in the face of flagging oil demand. A source translated the key portion of the note: With all due respect to your Highness‚Äô viewpoint about shale gas and that it poses no danger on Saudi economy at ‚Äòthe present time‚Äô, I was hoping that your Highness would also shed light and focus on the danger of this matter in the ‚Äònot-so-distant future‚Äô, especially that America and some Asian countries made big discoveries in shale gas extraction which will affect the oil industry around the world in general and Saudi Arabia in particular... He also sent us the following summary of the letter's salient parts: The third page calls on the government to decrease its dependence on oil and start investing in alternative energy sources like solar. The fourth page is to the deputy oil minister after he told BBC that Saudi is not concerned about shale gas at the present time. Alwaleed says shale gas may not be a concern in the present, but it should be worrying for the future of Saudi energy exports. The fifth page is similar to the fourth. His handwritten comment asks if indeed 92% of Saudi revenue is from oil and that we should pay more attention and shale gas and other energy developments around the world. Here's Sky News' summary: Prince Alwaleed said demand for oil from Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) member states was "in continuous decline". He said Saudi Arabia's heavy dependence on oil was "a truth that has really become a source of worry for many. ... "Our country is facing a threat with the continuation of its near-complete reliance on oil, especially as 92% of the budget for this year depends on oil," he said. "It is necessary to diversify sources of revenue, establish a clear vision for that and start implementing it immediately." Naimi recently denied¬†that shale posed a threat, but the prince challenges that view, Said says: We disagree with your Excellency on what you said, and we see that raising North American shale gas production is an inevitable threat," Prince Alwaleed's letter said, in comments directed at Mr. Naimi. Read the full story on WSJ.com ¬ª
Ben Bernanke's term as Federal Reserve Chairman ends this year, and most experts expect him to retire. For a while, Fed Vice Chair Janet Yellen was considered the clear favorite to fill the vacated seat. But more recently, for Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has emerged as a frontrunner. This escalating uncertainty has the U.S. economics team thinking that some of the other candidates are seeing their odds rising. The politicking for the next Fed Chair has begun in earnest. A revolt by Senate Democrats has likely pricked the Secretary Summers trial balloon candidacy. Governor Yellen remains a viable candidate but, given that Summers was pushed, we also have to assume that the odds of other candidates are on the rise. Our top two alternatives at this juncture are Former Federal Reserve Vice Chair Ferguson and Former Council of Economic Advisors Chair Romer. Back in May, UBS assigned Ferguson and Romer 14% and 20% probabilities of becoming Fed Chair. At the time, they gave Summers a &lt; 5% chance.
UBSAt 10:00 a.m., we'll get the June reading of pending home sales. Economists are looking for a 1.0% month-over-month decline. Of course, some economist expect worse, and some expect better. "Pending home sales should have decreased by 2.0% mom in June," warned Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michelle Meyer. "We expect some of the decline in signed contracts for existing homes to be a give-back following a 6.7% surge in May. We could also start to see the impact of rising mortgage rates, which may have deterred some homebuyers, particularly investors and second home buyers. The rise in rates is likely to create volatility over the coming months, but overall we believe the housing market can withstand the rise in rates and sales will continue to head higher." So, Meyer sees some give-back and the beginning of the unfavorable impact of rising interest rates. "The pending home sales index (PHSI), based on initial existing home sales contracts, probably rose again in June," said UBS's Kevin Cummins who's looking for a 1.0% gain. "New home sales, which also reflect initial contracts, were reported up 8.3% in June. The new home sales data are notoriously volatile, but the latest homebuilder survey also suggested further strengthening in sales." So, Cummins is relying on the other coincident indicators, which signal continued up moves. Regardless, today's report will be closely watched to see how rising rates are impacting one of the most encouraging economic stories in the world.
REUTERS/Sergio MoraesClergy gather for Pope Francis' final mass on Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, July 28, 2013. Pope Francis, in a stunningly candid assessment of the state of the Catholic Church, said on Saturday it should look in the mirror and ask why so many people are leaving the faith of their fathers.Good morning! Here's what you need to know:
It is pretty well established that a tax increase, especially an income tax increase, will have an immediate negative effect on the economy, with a multiplier of between 1 and 3 depending upon whose research you accept. As far as I am aware, no peer-reviewed study exists that concludes there will be no negative effects. The US economy is soft; employment growth is weak ‚Äì and yet we are about to see a significant middle-class tax increase, albeit a stealth one, passed by the current administration. I will acknowledge that dealing a blow to the economy was not the actual plan, but that is what is happening in the real world where you and I live. This week we will briefly look at why weak consumer spending is going to become an even greater problem in the coming years, and we will continue to look at some disturbing trends in employment. Last week, I noted at the beginning of the letter that an unintended consequence of Obamacare is a rather dramatic rise in the number of temporary versus full-time jobs. This trend results from employers having to pay for the health insurance of employees who work more than 29 hours a week. I quoted Mort Zuckerman, who wrote in the¬†Wall Street Journal: The jobless nature of the recovery is particularly unsettling. In June, the government's Household Survey reported that since the start of the year, the number of people with jobs increased by 753,000 ‚Äì but there are jobs and then there are "jobs." No fewer than 557,000 of these positions were only part-time. The June survey reported that in June full-time jobs declined by 240,000, while part-time jobs soared 360,000 and have now reached an all-time high of 28,059,000 ‚Äì three million more part-time positions than when the recession began at the end of 2007. That's just for starters. The survey includes part-time workers who want full-time work but can't get it, as well as those who want to work but have stopped looking. That puts the real unemployment rate for June at 14.3%, up from 13.8% in May. As it turns out, the unintended consequences of Obamacare are not the only problem. Charles Gave wrote a withering indictment of quantitative easing this week (which we will look at in a few pages) and included the following chart, which caught my eye. Note that the relative increase in part-time jobs began prior to Obama's even assuming office. The redefinition of part-time as less than 29 hours a week and the new costs associated with full-time employment due to Obamacare simply accelerated a trend already set into motion. Look closely at this graph. It turns out the trend toward part-time employment started in the recession of the early 2000s, paused only briefly, and then really took off in the recent Great Recession. This is clearly a secular trend that was in place well before 2008.  This development is very troubling, especially because it primarily affects young people and those with fewer skills. As I documented in letters last year, workers 55 and older are actually taking "market share" from younger workers. I went back tonight to see if that trend is still in place. The first graph below (the next few graphs are from the St. Louis Fed's FRED database) is one we are familiar with: the actual employment level over the last ten years. We are still two million jobs down since the onset of the last recession, some six years later. The only reason the unemployment rate has fallen at all is that several million people have simply left the labor force for one reason or another.  The next graph is the number of employed 25-54-year-olds. What you will notice is that the above graph shows about 7 million new jobs since the very bottom of the employment cycle, yet employment in the 25-54 age cohort has barely risen. Who got all the jobs?  That mystery is solved courtesy of the next chart, which shows the number of employed in the 55+ age group. Even acknowledging that there is a growing Boomer population does not account for the rather spectacular increase in employment in the 55+ age group. Can you find the recession in this chart? If the St. Louis Fed hadn't shaded the recession in gray, you certainly couldn't find it in the data. Not only did Boomers see a rise in employment, they took jobs from younger groups. If you dig down deeper, you find that the younger you are, the higher the unemployment level of your age-mates. I will spare you that exercise, as this is already depressing enough, unless you are 55+.  Note that I am not arguing that those of us over 55 should be put out to pasture. Many can't afford to quit working (especially when their kids are living with them!). I am just reporting on the facts. The only way to solve this is to grow our way out of it, yet whatever we are doing is not working. Let's turn back to my good friend Charles Gave's analysis, picking up in the middle of his work. He has divined a rather interesting reason for our current employment malaise. I am going to quote at length because this is just so good and deserves a wide audience in the current debate over monetary policy. This chart [below] shows a steady increase in part time employment since the early 2000s back toward levels that persisted through the 1976-2001 period. The big change is the precipitous decline in full time jobs which started in 2002 and accelerated after 2008. It can be seen that the number of part time jobs has risen by 3mn, while full time jobs have decreased by a similar amount.¬†This compositional shift is unprecedented.  The next step is to measure the difference in job growth for part time and full time workers. This is done by comparing the rolling seven year series for each classification of jobs and noting the differential. As this gap widens in favor of part time employment, we would expect a greater share of the US labor force to be earning lower wages. To test this proposition we compare this seven year differential measure with the median income level for US households. The results are quite striking. The correlation between our differential measure for the kinds of jobs being created and the real median income was 0.82 between 1974 and 2013; from 1997 to 2013 it moved up to 0.95. This matters because periods when individuals have stable full time jobs are associated with rising median income, while incomes tend to decline in an unstable job market.  Put simply, median income has slumped because a very large share of Americans can no longer find proper jobs. Behind this economic, political and social disaster, stand many factors such as technological change which has undermined traditional low-skilled employment and the rise of China as a fierce industrial competitor. What is less well understood is the pernicious impact that US monetary policy has had on the US labor market. A collapse in the US median income level has historically coincided with the Fed running a policy of negative real interest rates. The reason why unemployment tends to be lower during periods when capital has a real cost attached was explained in some detail in a piece written in early 2011. This dour relationship has been maintained over the last two years and median income has, as I suspected, continued to fall. Make no mistake, if monetary policy is not substantially changed, then median incomes will continue to fall.  When poor people cannot earn a return on their savings or on their labor they remain trapped in poverty. The effect is to subsidize what are effectively overpaid financial jobs and undermine employment prospects within traditional sectors. As a result, periods of negative real rates tend to be accompanied by the Gini coefficient rocketing higher. Today, this policy is effectively leading to the emergence of a poorly paid and chronically insecure "lumpen proletariat". At least half of the US population may be moving deeper into a poverty trap, which, over the long-run, must negatively impact consumption. Moreover, I never saw a structural bull market in equities take place against a backdrop of falling median income. So why is Bernanke doing it? It would seem for the same reasons that the Japanese did 20 years ago. He is protecting not so much the banks as the bankers. To cut a long story short and to paraphrase a famous quote:¬†What is good for the US Investment Banks is bad for America. Bernanke's policies are aimed at guaranteeing the prosperity of this elite, and as such he has been wildly successful. Paul Volcker, arguably the best ever central banker, cared for the interests of ordinary people over those of investment bankers. By contrast, Bernanke has helped create his own "lumpen proletariat" and a parallel class of the "super-rich." This will have many consequences, not all of them pretty. For this reason, I saw the potential for so called tapering as the first step towards a return to economic sanity (see¬†Volcker's Return). Alas, I seem to have been wrong. Bernanke has the fortitude of a cheese cake, and once again, I misjudged him. The implications for job creation, fair income distribution and indeed the future prosperity of the US may be far reaching. I am worried. We are watching the Fed employ a trickle-down monetary policy. They hope that if they pump up the banks and stock market, increased wealth will lead to more investment and higher consumption, which will in turn translate into more jobs and higher incomes as the stimulus trickles down the economic ladder. The kindred policy of trickle-down economics was thoroughly trashed by the same people who now support a trickle-down monetary policy and quantitative easing. It is not working. We have a younger generation that is having trouble finding full-time work and developing the skills needed for the transition to more stable, higher-paying employment. The longer the situation persists, the more difficult making up lost ground and lost time becomes for them. As Charles wrote, we may be seeing a new underclass develop, which has disastrous implications for the country. This week President Obama gave a speech on the economy that sounded like a campaign speech except that he should not be running any longer. He blamed the rise of technology for the loss of jobs, the decimation of the power of unions for flat incomes, and the policies of his predecessor for the current malaise. The speech was a wish list of new programs and promises, yet nothing is getting done. He fails to engage with the most pressing problems of our time and doubles down on a healthcare plan that is a train wreck even his most ardent supporters are walking away from. Did you see the r ecent letter from multiple union leaders asking for a course correction on healthcare? The Congressional Budget Office now estimates that 7 million people will lose their employer-provided health insurance at the end of the year. One would assume that those are almost all full-time workers. So instead of getting health insurance in some form as a benefit, they will likely soon be paying $1400 a year (minimum) in mandated taxes (the level set by the Supreme Court), and those costs will rise dramatically over the next few years, according to the current schedule. That is a HUGE tax increase for those people. Young people who have no insurance and are making more than $10 an hour will be paying about $1300 a year, or close to 10% of their after-tax income. That blows a monster hole in their disposable income at those levels. There is no other way to look at this: it's a huge lower-middle-class tax increase. Yes, they get a benefit (health insurance) that someone somewhere in society was already paying for, but they personally did not have these costs before. The unintended consequences of the healthcare bill are going to be vicious. Not only is there a tax increase on the rich and on small employers, there is a tax increase on young people and the middle class. And it's a tax increase that comes in the middle of the slowest recovery on record. It is possible that we grew at less than 1% this last quarter. And the burden piles on top of a secular shift in employment practices that is making life more difficult for the younger generations. We are getting close to the point where not only are there no good choices left, but the difficult choices are starting to look pretty bad indeed. And no one in DC is talking about the budgetary choices we are going to be forced to make. The recent drop in the deficit is temporary, fueled by people taking income in 2012 and paying taxes at a lower rate. That "tax dividend" is just about done. Deficits are going to be the number one topic in 2016, with jobs a close number two. Hide and watch. I have been in Newport, Rhode Island, at the Naval War College, where I attended a small Summer Study Group for the Office of Net Assessment for the Department of Defense. My mind is on overload trying to absorb all I heard and learned and to fit all that into my limited understanding of how the world works. It is a very complex world that the US military finds itself in. Shrinking budgets and an expanded menu of options and demands mean difficult choices. Factor in rapidly changing geopolitical and technology environments, and the challenges become even more complex. When I think of the limits our budget process is going to force on our set of choices, the situation does not make me comfortable. The one thing that did make me feel good was the caliber of the people I met. They were most impressive. Admittedly, those in the room were among the best and brightest in the military; nevertheless, it was comforting to see the quality of thought and training going into the decision-making process. These are scholars with wide-ranging educational backgrounds as well as warriors proud of their service. I have to tell you, I do not get that same level of comfort when I am in a roomful of political leaders. There are some good ones but not enough of them. I am in New York for a few meetings before I head on to Maine. My partners in Mauldin Economics, David Galland and Olivier Garret, will be here¬†Wednesday; and as a special treat I get to have dinner with Jack Rivkin¬†on Tuesday. I may even try to attend a meeting of the Friends of Fermentation if they allow teetotalers to show up. My youngest son, Trey, will fly up to meet me here, and we'll head north¬†on Thursday¬†morning. It will be good to be with friends and talk about the issues of the day at Leen's Lodge, amidst the beauty of Grand Lake Stream . Then I'll be home for a week before heading out to join Darrell Cain at his summer home in Montana. My fall schedule looks to be light on travel for some odd reason, and that's ok with me. I need some catch-up time. And speaking of Mauldin Economics, I continue to be impressed by Grant Williams' ability to see through the smoke in the market today and pinpoint where it's headed. This skill lets him spot investment opportunities that others tend to overlook. You get his¬†Things That Make You Go Hmmm‚Ä¶¬†for free as a subscriber to my letters, but if you haven't yet subscribed to his excellent monthly advisory,¬†Bull's Eye Investor, I recommend you do so. You can sign up now at a 50% discount by clicking this link:¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com/go/bwXwl/MEC It is time to hit the send button. Have a good week and enjoy your summer. I intend to. Your worried about the kids analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved. Share Your Thoughts on This Article 
Treasury Secretary Jack Lew was on "Meet the Press" Sunday (recorded Friday). Lew said: "The fight over the debt limit in 2011 hurt the economy, even though, in the end, we saw an extension of the debt limit. We saw confidence fall, and it hurt the economy. Congress needs to do its job. It needs to finish its work on appropriation bills. It needs to pass a debt limit." Here is a graph of consumer sentiment.† Notice the huge spike down in 2011. That was when Congress threatened to "not pay the bills."†  As Jack Lew notes, there is no reason to do this again.† CalculatedRisk The following†excerpts are from a post I wrote the last time Congress threatened to not pay the bills: "Default Ceiling: Bluffing into the Nuts."  I wrote several posts about the†"debt ceiling" debate in 2011.† The debate clearly scared many Americans and impacted the economy.† Hopefully this time the "debt ceiling" will be raised well in advance of the deadline.  I prefer "default ceiling" because "debt ceiling" sounds like some sort of virtuous limit, when, in reality, the vote is about whether or not to the pay the bills - and voting for default is reckless and irresponsible. Note: Several financial articles recently have used poker terms - and the title of this post is my contribution to this sad trend.† "The Nuts" is the best possible poker hand in a given situation. Bluffing into the nuts is†a losing play - and that is what the Congress is trying to do with the "debt ceiling."† The sooner they fold, the better for the economy and the Congress. From the WaPo: GOP dissension over debt-ceiling strategy House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio) likewise insisted that Republicans hold the line, telling his members they must demand that every dollar they raise the debt limit be paired with commensurate spending cuts. But other Republicans counseled caution, warning that pressure from the business community and the public to raise the $16.4 trillion federal borrowing limit renders untenable any threats not to do so and will weaken the GOPís hand if their stance is perceived to be a bluff. It is a bluff. As Republican Senator Mitch McConnell noted in 2011, if the debt ceiling isn't raised the "Republican brand" would become toxic and synonymous with fiscal irresponsibility.The bottom line is Congress is being silly (again), and they will raise the debt ceiling.† It is just a matter of when.†Note: There is a reason†Congress never threatens to default right before an election, they hope everyone will forget!
Obama probably won't announce his choice to head up the Federal Reserve for another couple of months yet. But the speculation and chatter is already getting very loud about who might replace Ben Bernanke (assuming Bernanke doesn't get re-appointed). Multiple reports indicate that the two frontrunners are Janet Yellen (currently the Fed Vice-Chair) and the economist Larry Summers, who has held many positions, and who has been close to this White House, and who has a long history in Washington. Among economists and Wall Street types, Yellen is seen as the front runner. Among DC political chatterati types, Summer is viewed as the favorite. Ezra Klein of Wonkblog ‚Äî who usually doesn't do much gossipy reporting ‚Äî said last week that Summers was the favorite. In an interview with the New York Times, Obama gave his clearest comments yet about what he's looking for in the role. ...what I‚Äôm looking for is somebody who understands the Fed has a dual mandate, that that‚Äôs not just lip service; that it is very important to keep inflation in check, to keep our dollar sound, and to ensure stability in the markets. But the idea is not just to promote those things in the abstract. The idea is to promote those things in service of the lives of ordinary Americans getting better. And when unemployment is still too high, and long-term unemployment is still too high, and there‚Äôs still weak demand in a lot of industries, I want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, let‚Äôs make sure that we‚Äôre growing the economy, but let‚Äôs also keep an eye on inflation, and if it starts heating up, if the markets start frothing up, let‚Äôs make sure that we‚Äôre not creating new bubbles. Okay, so we said Obama's comments were his "clearest" but that doesn't mean they're clear. Still, if you really want to do some word parsing (and that is what Fed Kremlinology is all about), then there might be some clues here. UC Berkely econ grad student Carola Binder makes the case that this sounds Summers-esque. For one thing, even though he talks about the "dual mandate" he's also talking a lot about inflation and bubbles, which indicates someone of, perhaps, a more hawkish persuasion (i.e., not Yellen). Furthermore, the idea that monetary policy is a good tool for fighting bubbles doesn't sound like a continuation of Bernanke's approach (again, perhaps not good for Yellen). Of course, this is all speculative, and trying to make something out of a few words, because people are interested. The bigger picture is that Yellen and Summer as viewed as being pretty different, and it could be that the debate about who will lead the Fed becomes a bigger monetary policy issue for markets than the Fed exit itself, at least in the short term.
GoogleBEIJING (AP) ‚Äî China's Cabinet has ordered an urgent nationwide audit of debts owed by local governments, reflecting unease about potential financial threats from unreported multibillion-dollar borrowing. The order announced Sunday by the National Audit Office in a one-sentence statement gave no details or a timeline. But the ruling Communist Party's main newspaper, People's Daily, said the Cabinet sent an "urgent message" ordering the audit and told local audit officials to suspend work on other projects until it is completed. The rising debts of China's city, county and other local governments have prompted concern about possible threats to the state-owned banking system if borrowers default. A deputy finance minister, Zhu Guangyao, said this month the total amount of borrowing was unknown but he expressed confidence the debt load was manageable. Local governments face rising financial burdens to pay for schools, health care and other programs promised by Beijing. But most are barred from imposing their own taxes and have limited sources of financing. They rely on land sales and borrowing from banks. Borrowing accelerated after the 2008 global crisis, when Beijing pumped money into the economy through higher spending on building subways and other public works. Many were financed by local governments with loans from state banks. Local leaders also created finance agencies to pay for construction of highways and other infrastructure. Some of those entities have run into trouble raising revenues to repay their debts. The National Audit Office reported last year that local governments ran up debts of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.6 trillion) over the preceding decade, which is equal to about one-quarter of China's annual economic output. "We admit candidly that we still face challenges," said the finance official, Zhu, at a July 5 news conference. "We need to stay alert to the risks but we also are confident in the general situation." China's total debt is relatively low as a percentage of its economy. But some analysts warn the speed of increase in recent years could lead to problems. "Further rapid growth of debts would raise the risk of a disorderly adjustment in local government spending," said the International Monetary Fund in a report this month. "This would drag down growth, with adverse global spillovers." Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Henry Blodget / Business InsiderIn his latest Weekly Kickstart note, Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin says clients remain focused on one thing: Monetary policy and fiscal policy. This is in spite of the fact that we're in the throes of earnings season, which, one would thing, would be a good opportunity for clients to focus on what's going on with individual companies they're invested in. Not so much. Here's Kostin: Profit results outside the Financials sector have been lackluster with 2Q EPS falling 1% on a year/year basis. Information Technology firms have generally disappointed and the sector has lagged, returning 4% during the past month and 10% YTD. In contrast, Financials firms have thrived. EPS soared by 34% versus 2Q 2012 and the sector has outpaced the market, returning 8% during the past month and 27% YTD. Our banks research team notes that corporate loan demand is improving and pipelines are building, while construction lending to housing continues to increase and spending volume has accelerated, particularly at the high end. Although it is reporting season, recent client inquiries have not focused on corporate results. Instead, investors have sought perspective on monetary and fiscal policy risks to the equity market and the proverbial ìgreat rotationî from bonds to stocks. As we noted last week, our Rotation Index signals the strongest risk appetite in five years as domestic equity funds have received $34 billion of inflows since the start of June vs. a $45 billion outflow from taxable bond funds. Since the end of the crisis, investors have been remarkably macro focused. That obviously hasn't changed. At least now, eagerness to invest in stocks is on the rise, as evidenced by the upsurge in inflows into stock funds that Kostin is talking about. As for the Fed, not only is there plenty to talk about with regards to tapering and all that, but for the next couple of months, there should be plenty of interest in who the next Fed chief will be, and what kind of impact they will have on the economy.
Deutsche Bank has a monster note out on margin debt that has been making the rounds. †The conclusion of the note is rather simple ñ todayís euphoric borrowing on margin to buy stocks is reminiscent of past bubbly equity market periods (see here for more). †The note reviews commentary from the 1999 &amp; 2007 periods and compares it to whatís being said today. †They found some eerie similarities: We prepared a collection of press articles which were published around the key events during the past financial crises as displayed in Figure 2 on page 2 above. Our key finding is straight forward. Irrespective of the publishing date, the articles read alike throughout the two major crisis periods, i.e. the ìnew technologies market equity bubbleî (1999-00) and the ìGreat/Global Financial Crisisî (2007-08) (see Figure 6 on page 5 and Figure 7 on page 6). Most interestingly, litrally the same content can be found in todaysí press as displayed in Figure 8 on page 7). Universal phrases include: ìA rising stock market encouraged more investors to go into debt to buy stocks, sending margin debt levels past their all-time highî. ìThe National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) has asked members to review their lending requirements in a sign of increasing concern that rising levels of margin debt could exacerbate a stock market plunch.î ìThe Fed is concerned about a sharp rise in margin debt but has been unwilling to attack stock market speculation as high levels of leverage do not necessarily translate into high risk. The last time the Fed adjusted the margin rules was in 1974, when when it reduced the down payment required for stocks to 50 percent of the purchase price, from 65 percent.î [Ö] ìThe Fed should return to its pre-1974 policy of actively changing margin requirements in response to stock market speculationî. ìHigh margin debts show the effect of over-leveraging and mispricing of riskî. ìThe movements in stocks cause brokerages to stop allowing customers to buy some of the volatile stocks on margin or require clients to put up more cash.î ìEither the market rises dramatically to make those loans good or in any down move there is tremendous selling pressureî. ìUntil recently, most investors ignored red flags raised by regulatorsî. Why is margin debt dangerous? † Leverage is dangerous for many reasons, but the dangers of an excessively levered market are really rather simple to understand. †As DB says, it creates an environment that can lead to a disorderly unwinding of excessive risk: ìMargin debt can be described as a tool used by stock speculators to borrow money from brokerages to buy more stock than they could otherwise afford on their own. These loans are collateralized by stock holdings, so when the market goes south, investors are either required to inject more cash/assets or become forced to sell immediately to pay off their loans ñ sometimes leading to mass pullouts or crashes.î Margin debt creates the sort of unstable environment that makes a snowball effect much more likely than it would be in an environment without margin debt. †If you recall 2008 you likely remember hearing about how many fund managers were ìforced liquidatorsî of portfolios. †That was, in large part, due to the excessive leverage. But thereís a double whammy effect with leverage. †Not only are the regulators likely to force you out of positions that go heavily against you, but from a psychological perspective it creates a much more fragile environment. †If youíve ever been short a stock you know what I mean. †Itís one thing to own the stock outright in a long position. †Itís a whole different mentality to borrow a position knowing that youíre PAYING to own the position. †That creates a finite trading period and a sense of uneasiness that makes a levered trade much more different than outright ownership. †Being on leverage is kind of like a teenager who borrows his/her motherís car versus driving his/her own car. You donít want to crash your own car, but you really donít want to crash your motherís car (because itís not yours, thereís more on the line!). All of this is interesting not only from the perspective of the investment world, but also from the perspective of the monetary system. †I sincerely believe that this environment is due, in large part, to the Bernanke Put and the idea that you ìcanít loseî by owning risk assets because the Fed will put a floor under the markets no matter what. †This borrowing to own more stocks is a case of what is called a disaggregation of credit. †It is, in essence, an unproductive use of credit that provides no real benefit to the real economy, but potentially adds a destabilizing element that rewards gamblers and no one else. †As Iíve explained before, this is the element of QE that I simply despise. †As a market practioner I know, for a fact, that this mentality influences price action and has the potential to both help (on the upside) and hurt (on the downside) the economy. †I see no need to encourage such behavior and I think thatís what the Fed is doing via QE. †I think itís irresponsible and very poor risk management ñ something that all banks, even central banks, could improve upon. So, are we in a 2007 or 2000 type environment? †Yes. †I would say we are given that the data is confirming the same sort of market trends and debt trends. †But the question is whatís the trigger? †The market is kind of like a Jenga set at this stage in the cycle. †Everyone knows it can probably be toppled by the wrong move. †But that move might not come this year, nexy year or in the next few years. †As Keynes said, ìMarkets†can remain†irrational†a lot†longer than†you and I can remain†solvent.î PragCap
APWe've reached the backlash-to-the-backlash stage with Anthony Weiner. Ari Melber writes in the Daily News that calls for Weiner to exit the New York mayor race after¬†new sexting revelations are "wrong, anti-democratic and strangely puritanical." Andrew Sullivan, Dan Savage and Amanda Hess have all been noting that sexting with strangers is increasingly common behavior with the rise of smartphones, and sooner or later we'll have to make peace with electing leaders whose sexts we have read. In the abstract, they're right. Let's be frank. In the age of Grindr, I'm far from the only gay man under 35 with a personal stake in changing this norm. But while we will eventually need a standard bearer for the "sexters can be leaders, too" message, Weiner can't be it. That's because the specific circumstances of his sexting provide further evidence that he lacks the temperament to be a good mayor. Let's look back at Exhibit A on Why Anthony Weiner Would Be A Terrible Mayor: June's New York Times piece on his record in Congress. The Cliffs Notes version: Weiner had no record of legislative accomplishment to speak of, save for one pet bill pushed by a major donor.¬†His main goal seemed to be to get on television as much as possible and raise his profile for a run for mayor. He positioned himself as a progressive champion but was not useful in getting the left's goals into law.¬†He threatened to interfere with passage of Obamacare but relented when Nancy Pelosi put him in a position to take more credit for it. He went on a self-aggrandizing rant against Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) at the same time other New York Democrats were working constructively with King to secure passage of a bill to compensate 9/11 first responders.¬†He refused to participate in a pro-immigration event because its organizers wouldn't make it into a platform for showcasing Anthony Weiner. His me-first behavior so alienated other Democrats that, when his first sexting scandal broke in 2011, few colleagues were interested in publicly defending him. It was clear that Pelosi was glad to have him gone. And his lack of a legislative record has given his mayoral opponents a strong argument against him. The key lesson here is not that Weiner is a relentless self-promoter. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) is a relentless self-promoter and also a highly effective senator. What makes Weiner special is that he compulsively seeks attention and adulation even when that interferes with his long-run self-promotion. He couldn't keep from grandstanding even when it cost him goodwill within his party, and he couldn't stop sexting even when he was planning a comeback from a sexting scandal that forced his resignation from Congress. If you're the sort of person who can't pass the Stanford marshmallow test, you shouldn't be running for mayor. I don't particularly care about politicians' marital infidelities.* Eliot Spitzer's enjoyment of prostitutes hasn't stopped me from being enthusiastic about his run for Comptroller. That's because he has a record of actual accomplishment that suggests he would be good at the job. Unlike Weiner, Spitzer's infidelities do not reinforce already-existing reasons to doubt his suitability. Melber is right that we should be less hung up on sex, and Savage, et al are right that we're going to have to get used to seeing leaked cell phone pictures of politicians' junk. But that doesn't mean that Weiner, personally, should continue to run for office. ¬†*As a side note, I do think Weiner's sexting is an infidelity. Savage raises the possibility that Weiner and his wife Huma Abedin "have an agreement" that allows sexting. That strikes me as exceedingly unlikely, since Abedin is widely reputed to be ambitious and not an idiot, making her unlikely to sign off on hugely politically risky behavior by her husband. The resignation this weekend of Weiner's campaign manager, Danny Kedem, also suggests that Kedem was not briefed about and on board with his candidate's post-2011 sexting activities. That is, while Weiner's sexting is not directly a matter of public concern, it does appear to have been a breach of private trust.
Markets are down pretty much everywhere. US futures are pointing to a modest decline on the open. Europe is down across the board, with Italy shedding 0.6%, while Germany is up modestly. The big lower: Japan. As you can see, it lost another 3% in Monday trading, and is now riding a hard 3-day losing streak. Nikkei.com The dollar against the yen is back below 98, and generally the whole "Abenomics" trade (strong stocks, weak yen) has been losing since the recent upper house elections. Remember, this is going to be a massive week, filled with economic and central bank action. 
