While 20-year highs for the CNY may be enough for many to question the USD's ongoing reserve status, it is clear that there are many other plans afoot that undermine the dominance of the greenback. Submitted by Michael Snyder of¬†The Economic Collapse blog, On the global financial stage,¬†China is playing chess while the U.S. is playing checkers,¬†and the Chinese are now accelerating their long-term plan to dethrone the U.S. dollar.¬† You see, the truth is that China does not plan to allow the U.S. financial system to dominate the world indefinitely.¬† Right now, China is the number one exporter on the globe and China will have the largest economy on the planet at some point in the coming years.¬† The Chinese would like to see global currency usage reflect this shift in global economic power.¬†¬†At the moment, most global trade is conducted in U.S. dollars andmore than 60 percent¬†of all global foreign exchange reserves are held in U.S. dollars.¬† This gives the United States an enormous built-in advantage, but thanks to decades of incredibly bad decisions this advantage is starting to erode.¬† And due to the recent political instability in Washington D.C., the Chinese sense vulnerability.¬† China has begun to publicly mock the level of U.S. debt, Chinese officials have publicly threatened to stop buying any more U.S. debt, the Chinese have started to aggressively make currency swap agreements with other major global powers, and China has been accumulating unprecedented amounts of gold.¬† All of these moves are setting up the moment in the future when China will completely pull the rug out from under the U.S. dollar. Today, the U.S. financial system is the core of the global financial system.¬†¬†Because nearly everybody uses the U.S. dollar to buy oil and to trade with one another, this creates a tremendous demand for U.S. dollars around the planet.¬† So other nations are generally very happy to take our dollars in exchange for oil, cheap plastic gadgets and other things that U.S. consumers "need". Major exporting nations accumulate huge piles of our dollars, but instead of just letting all of that money sit there, they often invest large portions of their currency reserves into U.S. Treasury bonds which can easily be liquidated if needed. So if the U.S. financial system is the core of the global financial system, then U.S. debt is "the core of the core" as some people put it.¬†¬†U.S. Treasury bonds fuel the print, borrow, spend cycle that the global economy depends upon. That is why a U.S. debt default would be such a big deal.¬† A default would cause interest rates to skyrocket and the entire global economic system to go haywire. Unfortunately for us, the U.S. debt spiral cannot go on indefinitely.¬† Our debt is growing far, far more rapidly than our GDP is, and therefore our debt is completely and totally unsustainable. The Chinese understand what is going on, and when the dust settles they plan to be the last ones standing.¬† In the aftermath of a U.S. collapse, China anticipates having the largest economy on the planet, more gold than anyone else, and a respected international currency that the rest of the globe will be able to use to conduct international trade. And China is not just going to sit back and wait for all of this to happen.¬† In fact, they are already doing lots of things to get the ball moving.¬† The following are 9 signs that China is making a move against the U.S. dollar... #1¬†Chinese credit rating agency Dagong¬†has downgraded U.S. debt¬†from A to A- and has indicated that further downgrades are possible. #2¬†China has just entered into a very large currency swap agreement with the eurozone that is considered a huge step toward establishing the yuan as a major world currency.¬† This agreement will result in¬†a lot less U.S. dollars¬†being used in trade between China and Europe... The swap deal will allow more trade and investment between the regions to be conducted in euros and yuan, without having to convert into another currency such as the U.S. dollar first, said Kathleen Brooks, a research director at FOREX.com. "It's a way of promoting European and Chinese trade, but not doing it with the U.S. dollar," said Brooks. "It's a bit like cutting out the middleman, all of a sudden there's potentially no U.S. dollar risk." #3¬†Back in June, China signed a major currency swap agreement¬†with the United Kingdom.¬† This was another very important step toward internationalizing the yuan. #4¬†China currently owns about 1.3 trillion dollars of U.S. debt, and this enormous exposure to U.S. debt is starting to become¬†a major political issue¬†within China. #5¬†Mei Xinyu, Commerce Minister adviser to the Chinese government,¬†warned this weekthat if the U.S. government ever does default that China may decide to completely stop buying U.S. Treasury bonds. #6¬†According to¬†Yahoo News, China has already been looking for ways to diversify away from the U.S. dollar... There have been media reports this week that China's State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the body that handles the country's $3.66 trillion of foreign exchange reserve, is looking to diversify into real estate investments in Europe. #7¬†Xinhua, the official news agency of China, called for a "de-Americanized world" this week, and also made the following statement about the political turmoil in Washington: "The cyclical stagnation in Washington for a viable bipartisan solution over a federal budget and an approval for raising debt ceiling has again left many nations' tremendous dollar assets in jeopardy and the international community highly agonized." #8¬†Xinhua also said the following about the U.S. debt deal¬†on Thursday: "[P]oliticians in Washington have done nothing substantial but postponing once again the final bankruptcy of global confidence in the U.S. financial system".¬† The commentary in the government-run publication also declared that the debt deal "was no more than prolonging the fuse of the U.S. debt bomb one inch longer." #9¬†China is the largest producer of gold in the world, and it has also been importing¬†an absolutely massive amount of gold¬†from other nations.¬† But instead of slowing down, the Chinese appear to be accelerating their gold buying.¬† In fact, money manager Stephen Leeb says that his sources are telling him that China plans to buy¬†another 5,000 tons of gold.¬† There are many that are convinced that China eventually¬†plans to back the yuan with gold¬†and try to make it the number one alternative to the U.S. dollar. So exactly what would happen if the Chinese announced someday that they were going to back their currency with gold and would no longer be using the U.S. dollar in international trade? It would change the face of the global economy almost overnight.¬†¬†In a previous article, I described some of the things that we could expect to see happen... If China does decide to back the yuan with gold and no longer use the U.S. dollar in international trade, it will have devastating effects on the U.S. economy.¬† Demand for the U.S. dollar and U.S. debt would drop like a rock, and prices on the things that we buy every day would soar.¬† At that point you could forget about cheap gasoline or cheap Chinese imports.¬† Our entire way of life depends on the U.S. dollar being the primary reserve currency of the world and being able to import things very inexpensively.¬† If the rest of the world (led by China) starts to reject the U.S. dollar, it would result in a massive tsunami of currency coming back to our shores and a very painful adjustment in our standard of living.¬† Today, most U.S. currency is actually used¬†outside of the United States.¬† If someday that changes and we are no longer able to export our inflation that is going to mean big trouble for us. The fact that we get to print up giant mountains of money and virtually everyone around the world uses it has been a huge boon for the U.S. economy. When that changes, the word "catastrophic" is not going to be nearly strong enough to describe what is going to happen. According to a Rasmussen Reports survey that was released this week, only¬†13 percentof all Americans believe that the country is on the right track.¬† But the truth is that these are the good times.¬† The American people haven't seen anything yet. Someday people will look back and desperately wish that they could go back to the "good old days" of 2012 and 2013.¬† This is about as good as things are going to get, and it is only downhill from here.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) (C) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) (R) depart the Senate floor after their speeches before the night-time budget vote at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 16, 2013.So who are the 144 members of the House of Representatives, all Republican, who voted earlier this week to continue the federal government shut down and cause the United States of America to default on its obligations? ¬†And who elected them to office? I live in a blue state. I am a Fellow in a progressive think tank (as well as being an investment banker, versed in the ways of Wall Street). I travel in the ‚ÄúAcela Corridor‚Äù between New York and Washington, where most folks think in a fairly similar political context. When I get off in Union Station and walk up to Capitol Hill, I meet with many congressman and senators from time to time on business and political matters.¬† I may be a Democrat, but I have great respect and admiration for many on the Republican side of the aisle (especially in the Senate) and find them to be thoughtful and responsible leaders. Not so with the 144 naysayers. Truth is, I don‚Äôt know many of their lot.¬† Paul Ryan, the former Republican candidate for Vice President is among them. Other names I recognize as being among those I see on television from time to time (one of them, Rep, Brady of Texas I even debated myself on Bloomberg television only days before the government shut down).¬† But for the most part ‚Äì as I imagine is the case for many in my region of the country ‚Äì I don‚Äôt know the rest of them from Adam.¬† I am, I imagine, not likely to in the future. So I got curious, where are the 144 from and who elected them to office.¬† Here are the facts: ¬† West: 20 Midwest: 35 Northeast: 8 South: 81 ¬† ¬†Now, I am sure that many of the 144 are relatively conscientious public servants who don‚Äôt deserve characterization as terrorists who hijacked the U.S. government and who nearly succeeded at kicking the federal government into deadbeat status.¬† And I believe that some of those who voted no might not have done so if it was not clear that the bill passed in the house had sufficient republican votes to pass.¬† Last minute vote changes seemed to indicate that several members voted no for political expediency, not wishing to encounter a more right-wing challenger in 2014. But the fact remains that when the House leadership freed Republicans to vote their conscience, a sizable hard core voted emphatically for what is essentially anarchy ‚Äì a closed government that would not be able to pay its bills. That these members were elected by a small minority of voters and yet were able to wreak legislative havoc and demand the backing of their party‚Äôs leadership for even the few weeks of this latest crisis, is not just a matter of constitutional and legislative procedure.¬† Rather, it is a failure of their party‚Äôs leadership in enabling a tyrannical rule by minority. Thomas Jefferson, to a not-insignificant extent the father of the Jeffersonian/Jacksonian anti- government claque who begot (biblically and spiritually) a large number of the 25.5 million voters who gave us the 144 naysayers, somewhat ironically warned against the need to avoid a ‚Äútyranny of the majority‚Äù in his first inaugural address, saying ‚ÄúThough the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail, that will to be rightful must be reasonable;...the minority possess their equal rights, which equal law must protect, and to violate would be oppression." The will of the minority, to be rightful, to be worthy of any respect at all, must also be reasonable.¬† The majority must be protected from oppression by the opposite.¬† That is the lesson that needs to be branded on the collective conscience of the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives.
GlassdoorJPMorgan Chase will pay $4 billion to settle allegations that it sold billions of dollars worth of bottom-quality mortgages to state housing finance companies, the Wall Street Journal said Friday. The Journal said JPMorgan had reached a deal to settle the charges that it overstated the quality of the mortgages it sold on to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, resulting in significant losses for the two companies that required government bailouts. The deal would be less than the $6 billion originally sought by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie and Freddie, the Journal said. It said the bank hoped to wrap that settlement into a larger deal, possibly $11 billion, to get past a range of charges of misbehavior dating to the financial crisis that involve the Justice Department and other agencies. "The FHFA agreement won't likely be finalized until either a broader deal with the Justice Department is reached or the parties abandon those larger talks," the Journal said citing people close to the talks. Neither the bank nor the agencies would comment on the report. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.
(Reuters) - Latino civil rights activists on Friday appealed to†California's attorney general to probe the marketing practices of Herbalife as the nutrition and supplements company hosted a sales event for thousands of Latino distributors. Dozens of protesters with signs saying "Stop Exploiting Us" stood outside the Los Angeles convention center to urge†Kamala Harris, the state's attorney general, and†Bob Lee, the Santa Cruz District Attorney, to investigate what they call predatory business practices and review how the $6.7 billion company targets minorities. "We are asking Attorney General Harris to help us protect vulnerable, low income Latinos and other minorities from these schemes that have cost people their life savings," said Angelica Salas, Executive Director,†Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. They were meeting nearby the city's convention center where Herbalife was hosting 12,000 Latino distributors at its Extravaganza Latina sales event. Some prominent Wall Street investors as well as certain civil rights groups have accused Herbalife, which relies on thousands of independent distributors to sell its products, of being a pyramid scheme, something the company denies. Pyramid schemes, where operators typically try to make money by recruiting new members who pay fees rather than relying only on the sale of goods, are illegal in California. The Attorney General's office has a section on its Web site alerting people to how they differ from legal multi-level-marketing schemes. Harris' office did not return a call seeking comment. Herbalife spokeswoman†Barbara Henderson†did not return phone calls or emails seeking comment. The company often woos potential distributors with stories of big paychecks that lead to luxury cars and super-sized mansions and a carefree lifestyle. In reality more than two-thirds of the distributors made no money at all last year, said†Brent Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens. "If Herbalife's executives refuse to implement the necessary reforms, at the very least they should stop targeting the family-oriented and trusting Latino community with their deceptive business practices," he said. Outside the convention center where Herbalife hosted its event the atmosphere became testy when some distributors spat at some of the community activists and when Herbalife CEO Michael Johnson arrived, several eye witnesses said. "Johnson approached us and was very confrontational," said†Randy Fox, a regional director for LULAC, adding "he told us 'You don't know the facts. We don't want to hear your lies. This is all lies. You should be ashamed of this." Herbalife spokesman James Golden declined to comment on the matter. For the company, the sales event in Los Angeles caps a busy week when a federal judge denied Herbalife's motion to drop charges brought by a former distributor who accused it of running an alleged pyramid scheme. The ruling marked a victory for the plaintiff,†Dana Bostick, as it was the first court case brought against the company since it captured the public attention of Wall Street where prominent billionaire investors are battling over its future. Hedge fund manager†William Ackman†has called the company a pyramid scheme and predicted its stock price will eventually fall to zero. So far he has lost hundreds of millions of dollars on the bet. Billionaire†Carl Icahn†has bet that the company's share price will climb. Shares closed the week at $65.25, leaving them up 98 percent for the year to date. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Fred Prouser in Los Angeles)
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'The Godfather Of Charts' Is Back On The Bull (WSJ) Ralph Acampora, widely considered the "godfather of technical analysis," is canceling the bearish call he made earlier this summer, after stock indices hit new highs, WSJ's Tomi Kilgore reports. " 'You have to have discipline," he said. "As ugly as the Dow [Industrials] got, it didnít break down.†That said to me: Ralph, back off."† It Feels Like 1999 ñ Is This Time Different?†(Josh Brown) With stock indices at all-time high and tech stocks breaking four figures, one is apt to start thinking the market is getting ahead of itself, like it did in 1999. Josh Brown says that on the surface, this time looks different. "Stocks like Facebook and Google are going bananas but they are insanely profitable companies with billions and billions in real business. Priceline isn't Webvan. Salesforce.com isn't†Commerce One." Still, he can't help shake the trauma of that infamous year. "So far, the†Rocket Fuel Hypothesis†looks correct, but it seems too easy. Are we pulling forward the entire Santa Claus rally into October? Too much, too soon?" The Market Went Up During The Shutdown Because Washington Is Not In Silicon Valley (NYMag) Between Oct. 1 and Oct. 16 the Dow climbed 1.2%. Venture Capitalist Chamath Palihapitiya says†that's because the world capital of wealth creation is no longer in New York, and definitely not in DC, but in Silicon Valley. As he told a recent conference: "We are becoming the eminent vehicles for change and influence, and capital structures that matter. If companies shut down, the stock market would collapse. If the government shuts down, nothing happens and we all move on, because it just doesn't matter. Stasis in the government is actually good for all of us.†It means they can neither do anything semi-useful nor anything really stupid. They just sit there and they just kind of, you know ...[APPLAUSE]" The New Wall Street Parlor Game Is Picking Activist Targets (Michael Santoli) 2013 will go down as, among other things, the Year of the Activist Investor. Between Carl Icahn's market-moving Tweets and the saga of Bill Ackman, companies' fortunes have been transformed by lone wealthy individuals. Yahoo's Michael Santoli says the new parlor game on the Street is now figuring out which companies will get targeted next. "This, in a sense, is the same as sifting for companies with a financial cushion, inefficient balance sheet, lagging margins, sputtering strategies or disparate businesses that might be spun off. So, even if no activist emerges, the stocks are usually conservatively valued, with low investor expectations and room for fundamental improvement." Bond Trading Is Going To The Bots (Bloomberg) "A record share of U.S.†corporate-bond trading†has moved to computers as buyers who traditionally transacted over the phone seek faster ways to buy and sell in a market where Wall Streetís human traders are retreating" as their firms reduce holdings, Bloomberg's Lisa Abromowicz reports. The largest electronic bond-trading platform in the industry saw a YOY surge of 45% to $44 billion in September, and will end the year having processed†$400 billion-worth of volume. McKinsey estimates that by 2015, 30% of corporate bond trades will be made electronically.

YouTube/The Great Gatsby Trailer BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett says 2014 is "the year of the BOOM." "We believe extraordinary policies (560 rate cuts since 2007) mean extraordinary outcomes such as macro and market booms in 2014," writes Hartnett in a note to clients. "In our view, macro will be lifted by lower fiscal drag and lower banking drag. Meanwhile, we think Wall Streetís boom will likely continue until Main Streetís recovery becomes visible and tightening starts (note while tapering may harm the weak hands, we believe only tightening will harm the strong)." Hartnett calls it the final melt-up for the one-percenters: The Final Melt-up for the ìOne Percentersî We believe the opiate of investors for the moment remains central bank liquidity. The degree of stimulus since 2007 has been unprecedented: $13 trillion of FX reserve accumulation and financial asset purchases by central banks and 560 central bank rate cuts. And the ìbullsî appear to remain driven by "liquidity": only 13% of the 235 investors polled in our Fund Manager Survey believe the global economy will grow "above-trend" in 2014 versus 84% who believe it will be "below-trend". We think "Bernanke-care" may have truly cured all known investor concerns. But whereís the growth? We think stronger growth, perhaps much stronger US growth, will be the investor surprise in the next 12 month for three reasons: First, successful asset price reflation (and other stimuli): the US economy has significant monetary stimulus, a booming housing market, an inexpensive dollar, record corporate cash balances, and increasing energy independence...if the US economy does not significantly accelerate in coming quarters, we think it is difficult to say when it ever will. Second, lower fiscal drag: Our economics team estimates that the impact of the "fiscal drag" on US growth to be 1.5pp this year, but will slow to 0.5pp next year, as GDP growth accelerates from 1.5% in 2013 to 2.7% in 2014. Third, lower banking drag: BAC lending to large corporations appears to be accelerating and now growing at a double-digit pace; lending to small businesses is now positive YoY for the first time since May 2008 (Chart 3). BAC internal data "We continue to believe that asset allocators should reduce risk allocations only once the consensus believes in sustained economic growth ('escape velocity') which in turn allows the Fed to reduce liquidity (tapering) and later raise interest rates (tightening)," Hartnett concludes.
Flickr/MessercnMarkets climbed, Google passed the $1,000 landmark, and Chipotle had a monster day. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Highbridge Capital's†private investment platform has become a minority partner in entertainment mogul Sean "Diddy" Combs' latest venture to launch a music cable channel, according to the Wall Street Journal.† From the WSJ:† Mr. Combs is putting up much of the money for Revolt TV, but has a minority partner in a fund managed by Highbridge Principal Strategies. Launching a cable channel can run as much as $100 millionóMr. Combs declines to comment on the cost. Combs plans on having Revolt TV be a 24-hour music †channel that feature live performances, music videos and shows for an audience of 18 to 34, according to the Journal. † Highbridge was co-founded by billionaire fund manager Glenn Dubin. Dubin recently announced plans to step down as CEO and remain chairman of the firm.†Scott Kapnick, who previously ran High Bridge Principal Strategies, was tapped as the new CEO.† Highbridge Principal Strategiesóthe firm's credit and private investment branchóinvests in media, technology and communication. †It's a subsidiary of Highbridge Capital, which is a subsidiary of JPMorgan Asset Management.
Fantex, a San Francisco based digital marketing firm, wants to make Houston Texan running back Arian Foster a brand power house, and they've created a video to show you why he's ready for international Superstardom. The video is one part introduction, another part pitch. The pitch is because Fantex is asking for your cash to get this venture going. Yesterday, the company announced a $10,550,000 stock offering for shares of Arian Foster's brand, after cutting a deal with the athlete for 20% of any profits he makes from endorsement deals, appearances etc. Those deals haven't materialized yet, though so the point of this video is to get you to buy his story, and he has a good one. Foster was not drafted to NFL, but worked his way up through the practice squad to become one of the most valuable players in the league. "I want to redefine what it is to be an athlete in our generation," says Foster. "Reinvent them as thinkers, businessmen and CEOs of their own brand and their own company. Being a trailblazer isn't about being first, it's about clearing the way so that others can follow." Watch the video below:  Fantex Arian Foster Brand Video from Fantex Brands on Vimeo.
Fisker AutomotiveEarlier this week it was revealed that the U.S. Department of Energy had†started an auction†for the remaining portion of a $192 million loan awarded to electric car startup†Fisker Automotive back in 2010 under the governmentís advanced-technology vehicle manufacturing program.  There are now reports that the winning bidder for the loan is a consortium that includes Hong Kong billionaire Richard Li, an early investor of Fisker. According to†Reuters, which cites people familiar with the deal, the DOE and the Li-backed consortium are now negotiating the final details of the sale. Li was previously reported to be†working with Fisker co-founder†Henrik Fisker on the bid, though the two are said to have parted ways. Thereís been no mention of how much the DOE plans to sell the loan for, but we do know that bids in its auction needed to be at least $30 million. The remaining portion of the loan stands at $168 million. Buying the loan would award the consortium a key stake in Fisker, though itís not clear if control of the company will change. It would also help stave off bankruptcy for Fisker temporarily, although the company does have other debts to suppliers as well as Finlandís Valmet Automotive, the independent manufacturer that built Fiskerís Karma extended-range electric sedan. Fisker†hasnít built a car in 15 months†and to get production running again is expected to cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Despite the challenges, a handful of parties have expressed interest in the company. Rival bids are believed to have come from†German consortium Fritz Nol†and another consortium†led by auto industry veteran Bob Lutz. Stay tuned for an update. Follow Motor Authority on†Facebook,†Twitter, and†Google+.
Longboard Asset ManagementThe last time we saw a slide deck from Cole Wilcox, of Longboard Asset Management, the firm was† arguing that Tesla is the new Apple, and the stock was headed up to $200 a share. Now the Longboard is out with a new "next Apple" to share with the market. It's the old Apple, actually ó Microsoft. In its presentation, Longboard says the current perception that Microsoft is, well, soft, is ignoring the success of Office 365, their top cloud business, and the potential earning power of Windows plus Android hybrid devices.
CEO Steve Ells said in his earnings call Thursday¬†the company plans to raise prices between 3% and 5% as it eliminates genetically modified organisms from its menu. They also had a nice beat on Q3 revenues, and saw net income rise more than 15%. And they forecast that nearly 200 new restaurants could open next year, up from a max of 180 this year. David Einhorn is not going to be thrilled. The Greenlight Capital chief devoted a huge chunk of his latest note to investors explaining why he thinks Chipotle is a good short.¬† And a note from Goldman earlier this week saying the company was losing its "It factor." For now, defiance.
"Risk appetite has remained healthy despite the U.S. government shutdown and debt ceiling impasse,"¬†write Deutsche Bank strategists in their latest "House View" report. The chart below shows returns in various key markets around the world ‚Äì both year-to-date and since October 1, when the government shutdown began. The big winners: Italian and Spanish equities. Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank Research*October 1 is the first trading day after Fed postponed potential tapering. Note: Total return accounts for both income (interest or dividends) and capital appreciation. Prices as of 16 Oct 2013, COB.
If Fantex's prospectus on its new Arian Foster stock is any indication, investing in a human being is risky business. Yesterday, the San Francisco-based company announced that it would issue Fantex Series Arian Foster ‚Äî a stock backed by Houston Texan running back Arian Foster's brand and career. The stock would exclusively trade on an Exchange Fantex created and be brokered in-house.Now, anytime you file a new stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission, you have to write a prospectus outlining what the stock is and the risks associated with buying it. As Fantex writes: " Investing in our Fantex Series Arian Foster involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below...If any of the events discussed in the risk factors below occur it could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If that were to happen, the trading price of our Fantex Series Arian Foster could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment." Below is a laundry list of risks Fantex outlines in its filing range from issues with Foster's physical person to the simple fact that no company has ever done anything like this before ‚Äî so no one knows if it'll be a success. The first risk factors all have to do with whether or not anyone will actually buy this idea, and this stock: Then there are the risks associated with the business model itself. Will their marketing consulting manage to boost Foster's profile? Is the strategy cost effective? Will other athletes get on board? Then there are just plain old risks to the stock: Then there are all the risks relating to Foster himself, like an NFL lockout, for instance: The value of our Arian Foster Brand is dependent upon the performance of, and to a lesser extent, the popularity of Arian Foster in the NFL.
At the height of D.C.'s shutdown insanity, Chinese state news organization Xinhua published an editorial that shocked many Westerners by calling for a "de-Americanized" world. However, that may not have been the only bit of soft power on show from China. A mysterious video called ‚ÄúHow to Make Leaders‚Äù that compares China's political system to that of the U.S. and the U.K. has appeared ‚Äî and it may be linked to the Chinese government. Since it was published on Weibo on October 14, the video has been viewed over 2 million times. Here's an English-language version uploaded to YouTube by Shanghaiist.  The video tells the glorious tale of how President Xi Jinping had to climb through the Communist Party's 85 million membership to become top leader. Youku By contrast, Barack Obama needed a ‚Äúglib tongue‚Äù and ‚Äúunending flow of greenbacks," the video says, comparing the presidential competition to "American Idol." Youku The U.K. doesn't get too much better, with David Cameron's rise to 10 Downing Street compared with Susan Boyle's Britain's Got Talent appearance. The cartoon doesn't directly criticize U.S. or U.K. democracy but seems more focused on defending Chinese democracy. Here's how the cartoon ends: ‚ÄúMany roads lead to national leadership whether by a single ballot that gets the whole nation out to vote or by a meritocratic screening that requires years of hard work like the making of a kung fu master. As long as the people are satisfied and the country develops and progresses as a result, it‚Äôs working.‚Äù So, who made the video? James T. Areddy of the Wall Street Journal points out that a number of commenters on the Weibo video cartoon is state propaganda. ‚ÄúObviously this is made by some official (source). There is no sarcasm at all,‚Äù one comment quoted by Areddy says. Writing in the Times of London, Leo Lewis says that the production company behind the cartoon ( On the Road to Revival) is unheard of, but unnamed propaganda experts believe the video was produced by the government to ‚Äúchange the old-fashioned, stiff methods of propaganda and reach a wider international audience.‚Äù 
Things at Google are pretty peachy these days. The company's Q3 earnings outpaced expectations yesterday, shooting its stock up over $1,000 per share. And recently released data suggests that Google is the largest provider of online advertisements by an almost comically wide margin ó more than †200 billion monthly ad impressions above its next rival. But even then, people don't seem to understand just how huge Google is. This one forecast from an analyst note released by Morgan Stanley blew us away: "We continue to expect Google to take around one point of global ad market share every year, helped by promising mobile execution." Wow. That's one percentage point of ALL ad dollars, in any medium, on Earth ó TV included. Keep in mind: Google currently owns about 11.7% of the global advertising market (Magna Global estimates the market to be at $495 billion†annually, and 97% of Google's $14.98 billion in quarterly revenues come from advertising). This means that by Morgan Stanley's calculations, the company is going to increase its already sizeable market share by more than 25% over the next three years ó and it will still have only about 15% of the business. And Google is already†bringing in half of all mobile internet advertising revenue. To think that Google's dominant mobile business will continue to grow to allow it to pick up one percentage point of the entire advertising market every year is simply astounding. According to Morgan Stanley, Google will be able to do this because its investment in multi-screen advertising campaigns, both in providing the so-called "enhanced campaigns" and offering better measurement tools, will pay off in the long run. The note predicts that the enhanced campaigns will be revenue-neutral this year, but they'll contribute to growth in 2014. So there you have it: Google is already a goliath, but it somehow still has an absurd amount of growing to do.
REUTERSThis week, China's Xinhua news agency released a mysterious "op-ed" calling on the world to "de-Americanize." It was a lot of the usual talking points: the U.S. meddles too much in other countries' affairs, it is guilty of moral hypocrisy ó and the latest wrinkle, that the U.S. Government shutdown makes it unworthy of the world stage. Later in the week, China's ratings agency†downgraded U.S. credit, and its foreign ministry said America's founding fathers are "turning in their graves." And that's about where the whole episode looks to end. So†far, the world has shown no immediate signs of de-Americanizing: the yield on U.S. 10-years has barely budged, and places like the IMF are still calling on America to do†more for the world, not for the world to do less with America.† More importantly, it is highly unlikely the Chinese themselves actually believe this ó not least because, according to Tealeaf Nation's Liz Carter,†if something appears in Xinhua with a formal byline (as was the case here), it means it only represents that individual's opinion. Here are four additional reasons why China has no desire to see the world "de-Americanized." China just became the world's largest oil importer, and it really doesn't want to see oil prices rise.†And they're willing to put money where their mouth is to prevent that from happening.  Just not their money. †A recent report from the Wall Street Journal's Brian Spegele and Matt Bradley says Chinese leaders have been quietly asking U.S. military leaders to continue to devote resources and personnel to ensuring stability in the Middle East: "In meetings since at least last year, Chinese officials have sought to ensure U.S. commitment to the region isn't wavering, particularly as the Obama administration has pledged to rebalance some of its strategic focus toward East Asia, said people familiar with those discussions."† Few analysts think there was any sign of this happening in the first place, given, for instance, the U.S. just considered bombing Syria. But the report seriously undermines the "de-Americanize" premise. KFC was the first-ever fast-food restaurant in China (they opened in 1987) and remains the country's No. 1 chain,†according to Yum! Brands, with more than 4,400 restaurants in 850 cities. Pizza Hut, meanwhile, is China's No. 1 casual dining location. Not surprisingly, Yum! says they are the country's leading retail developer.† They may start to face serious competition for that distinction ó from Starbucks, which is about to turn China into its No. 2 market worldwide, replacing Canada. "China is our 'second home' market outside of the U.S.,"†John Culver, Starbucks Group President of China and Asia Pacific, told USA Today. India and China are predicted to account for fully two-thirds of the growth in international students at American institutions from 2011 to 2024,†according to a recent British study. Six years ago, China was already sending 100,000 students a year to the U.S..†That figure has now doubled.† Per the IBTimes, China owned $1.28 trillion-worth of†U.S. Treasuries in July, more than any other nation, and holds about $3.5 trillion in dollar-denominated assets. Last year we imported $426 billion-worth of Chinese goods, a nominal record, and are already on pace to break that figure this year. †As Time's Dan Kedmey recently reported, "China must cling to its faith that the U.S. will eventually pay back its loans. 'Every creditor believes that they can,' said†Ma Guangyuan, a Beijing-based economist.†"They believe that even more than Americans do, because they have no choice. If the creditors donít believe America can pay them back, then the global economy would collapse.î
Flickr/steevithakYesterday, the Wall Street Journal ran a story revealing that the U.K. government planned to implicate as many as 24 people in a criminal fraud case related to the Libor scandal. And the Journal named names. That's when British prosecutors stepped in, obtaining a court order "prohibiting the newspaper from publishing names of individuals not yet made public in the government's ongoing investigation," the Journal's Cassell Bryan-Low reported. From the paper's explanation: The Journal received word of the order from the SFO by email at 7:18 p.m. London time. The news organization already had published on Dow Jones Newswires and the Journal's website, WSJ.com, an article by Mr. Enrich and reporter Jenny Strasburg that divulged names of traders and brokers that British prosecutors expect to publicly name next week. The¬†article was taken down from the website¬†but appears in Friday's print editions of the Journal circulated in the U.S. and in Asia. Readers can find this note in place of the article (via ZeroHedge): WSJ As ZeroHedge noted, a casual Internet search¬†(or just, you know, picking up the U.S. version of the physical newspaper) would reveal the names British prosecutors want to conceal. But press freedom in Britain differs greatly from the U.S. "In the U.S., court orders preventing media from reporting something are exceedingly rare, and typically would be considered only in exceptional circumstances involving, for example, threats to national security," Bryan-Low writes. Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal¬†¬ª
AP ImagesDuring a panel discussion at the Commodities Week conference in London last week, Jeffrey Currie, head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs, called gold and other precious metals a "slam-dunk" sell once the fiscal crisis in Washington was resolved. The deal struck by Congress Wednesday only reopens the government until January 15 and raises the debt ceiling until February 7, so it hasn't quite been resolved yet. As a result, it seems as if chances are increasing that the Federal Reserve will continue to delay tapering back its quantitative easing program. In a note to clients today, Currie says he's not ready to short gold just yet: Gold is still waiting for data confirmation of a US rebound that can support tapering even as the lack of a lasting US resolution could delay tapering Gold is back to where it was when the US debt ceiling debates started, as the risks of deferred tapering erased any optimism that was generated late last week. We continue to argue that the key to the gold outlook is data that shows a strong US recovery and gives the market confidence that tapering will begin. We still believe that this is the key trigger for gold prices even as the risks of deferred tapering have increased. Accordingly, we still expect gold to trade close to our near-term target of $1300/toz until the end of this year when our economists expect economic data to begin to show some confirmation of the economic improvement embedded in the 2014 US outlook.  This more optimistic 2014 US economic outlook is what drives our economists‚Äô expectations for tapering next year (whether it starts in December, March or June), which combined with a stronger dollar and weaker emerging market currencies, suggests that the investment and monetary demand for gold will create significant downside risks for gold prices in 2014. Accordingly, we are maintaining our end of 2014 gold price target of $1050/toz. Today, gold is trading around $1315 an ounce.
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew.U.S. political leaders struck a deal Wednesday to reopen the government until January 15 and raise the debt ceiling until February 7. Without the deal, the U.S. Treasury Department would have hit the debt ceiling on October 17, but would be able to engage in "extraordinary measures" using cash on hand to continue servicing its debts until around November 15. Failure to raise the debt ceiling before the Treasury ran out of cash was seen as the biggest risk to financial markets from the fiscal crisis in Washington, D.C. because it would force the Treasury to default on short-term obligations, potentially calling into question the status of U.S. government debt as a safe-haven investment. BofA Merrill Lynch has already downgraded its GDP growth forecast for Q1 2014 in response to politicians' decision to put off the resolution of the fiscal crisis until next year. However, this next time around, the Treasury will likely have a lot longer than just a month to maneuver around the debt ceiling. BAML strategists Marcus Huie and Ian Gordon explain why: The second date is 7 February, when the suspended debt limit is revived and effectively marked to market as of the debt outstanding on that date. On that date, if the limit has not been raised, the Treasury would be obliged once again to engage in extraordinary maneuvers to finance the deficit and prevent a default. The length of time that these maneuvers can delay a default date is uncertain, because of the special variable flows around that period ‚Äì the extension could be as short as two months or as long as five months. February and March see large extra outlays by the federal government to pay for tax refunds, while April and June are months with extra-large tax receipts. If the Treasury can make it past the refund months and into the latter part of April, it could manage to avoid default until June or July. However, as we have noted above, the political incentive to game the debt ceiling has been much diminished. "We also expect a relative benign outcome around the debt ceiling," says Ethan Harris, BAML's co-head of global economics research. "The Treasury can run for several months using extraordinary measures and revenues from the big tax season. Thus, unlike in the fall, the two deadlines don‚Äôt come right on top of each other."
The most coveted brand of bourbon is surprisingly not the most expensive one. Watch below Tommy Tardie of the whiskey bar Flatiron Room tell us all about that the most sought after bourbon, and other brands of similar quality. Produced by Justin Gmoser.¬†Additional Camera by Daniel Goodman.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook ¬† ¬†
In a way, uncertainty isn‚Äôt a bad thing. Companies shouldn‚Äôt be guaranteed market share or customer loyalty. Not knowing when a disruptive competitor might create a some killer new product or service helps keep private-sector management on its toes ‚Äî and innovative. Or should. ‚ÄúOnly the paranoid survive,‚Äù as former Intel CEO Andy Grove famously put it. But uncertainty about government is another matter. As James Madison wrote in The Federalist #62: Great injury results from an unstable government. The want of confidence in the public councils damps every useful undertaking, the success and profit of which may depend on a continuance of existing arrangements. What prudent merchant will hazard his fortunes in any new branch of commerce when he knows not but that his plans may be rendered unlawful before they can be executed? ‚Ä¶ ¬†In a word, no great improvement or laudable enterprise can go forward which requires the auspices of a steady system of national policy. And now we have the data to help prove correct Madison‚Äôs intuition.¬†Macroeconomic Advisers¬†finds that since late 2009, uncertainty created by America‚Äôs crisis-driven fiscal policy has a) raised the Baa corporate bond spread by 38 basis points, b) lowered GDP growth by 0.3 percentage points per year, and c) raised the unemployment rate in 2013 by 0.6 percentage points, equivalent to 900,000 lost jobs. Pethokoukis/AEI MA:¬†‚Äù ‚Ä¶ by undermining wealth and raising private borrowing costs, fiscal policy uncertainty can indirectly undermine household spending as well as business hiring and investment.‚Äù Pethokoukis/AEI This analysis is¬†based on the work of economists Scott Baker, Nicholas Bloom, and Steven Davis¬†who created an index of policy uncertainty, finding that ‚Äúhigh levels of policy uncertainty foreshadow lower levels of output, investment, and employment.‚Äù (Along those lines,¬†new research from Harvard‚Äôs Daniel Shoag and AEI‚Äôs Stan Veuger ‚Äî scholars who are also fans of that Madison quote ‚Äî documents ‚Äúthe tight link between increased levels of economic and policy uncertainty and unemployment at the state-level during the 2007-2009 recession.‚Äù) While we can‚Äôt prove the counterfactual here, it‚Äôs reasonable to put a thumb on the scale that ongoing fiscal brinksmanship is probably a net negative. Obviously much better for Washington to reach agreement on pro-growth tax reform and pro-sustainability entitlement reform to both reduce debt and increase incomes. Let‚Äôs not forget, however, that debt is also a kind of tax.¬†Higher debt levels mean future taxes will need to be higher than they would be otherwise. And those higher expected future tax rates reduce incentives to invest today. Giving business, investors, and consumers some certainty that they won‚Äôt face a debt crisis or a confiscatory tax burden seems like it might be a good idea. Washington needs to cut its uncertainty tax on America in more ways than one.
The third quarter has marked an "economic turnaround" for China, writes Standard Chartered's Wei Li. "GDP growth picked up to 7.8% y/y in Q3 from 7.5% in Q2, as the market expected," Li wrote to clients. "Labor market remains robust; both urban and rural household income saw faster growth in Q3."¬†From the note:¬† The aggregate labour demand-to-supply ratio reported by 100 or so job centres edged up to 1.08 in Q3 from 1.07 in Q2; a reading above 1 is positive. Moreover, urban households‚Äô disposable income rose by 7.2% y/y in real terms in Q3, after growth slowed to 6.4% in Q2. This has supported a mild pick-up in urban household consumption, which grew 5.6% y/y in Q3, up from 4.6% in Q2. Real growth in rural households‚Äô cash income also accelerated, to 10.2% y/y in Q3 from 8.9% prior. Migrant workers‚Äô real wage growth stayed robust at 9.9% y/y in Q3.¬† Bank of America's Ting Lu looks at whether the recovery is sustainable or not. "Based on QoQ sequential¬†growth, we believe the growth peak was behind us in 3Q and we will surely see a¬†decline of QoQ growth to around 1.8-1.9% in 4Q. In yoy terms, we could see a¬†small moderation to 7.7% in 4Q on higher comparison base, but we might see a¬†rebound again in 1H14 to around 7.8-8.0% on a low comparison base. We¬†maintain our 7.7% and 7.6% annual GDP growth forecasts for 2013 and 2014," he writes. But according to Nomura economist Zhiwei Zhang, we're about to see deceleration. "We have argued that China's recovery is fundamentally unhealthy, as it has been mainly driven by heavy industry and stands in contrast to the principles recently espounded by both President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang ‚Äì that a lower rate of GDP growth can be tolerated to ensure a better quality of growth in the future," he wrote to clients. The other question this year has been China's credit conditions, but Li writes that "monetary policy has been effective so far, with differentiated treatment across sectors," including restrictions on industries with overcapacity. Standard Chartered Standard Chartered ¬†
For a few years, we would wonder aloud when Apple was going to surge past Microsoft to become the world's most valuable technology company. Then, in May of 201o, it finally happened. Since then Apple has buried Microsoft. It's not even close any more.† Now, it might be time to start thinking about Google chasing Apple.†Google just broke through $1,000 giving the company a market cap over $332 billion. Apple, meanwhile is over $500 a share, and its market cap is over $462 billion. Using data from the Bloomberg terminal we've charted out the market cap of Apple and Google. Google is definitely closing the gap, though the gap remains large. The difference between Google chasing Apple versus Apple chasing Microsoft, though, is that Apple is a leader in two growing categories ó tablets and smartphones. It is also said to be developing new game changing products. But, technology is a tough industry and Google could come up with a new innovation that buries Apple, or at the very least, propels its stock even higher.† Business Insider
The stock traded up more than 13% at around $1,007 today. It's now closer to $1,000.† Here's a rundown of the ten hedge funds with the biggest stakes in the tech giant, according to the most recent 13F regulatory filing data compiled by Bloomberg. †(A few of these guys are Julian Robertson seeded "Tiger Cubs", too.)† Keep in mind, these were their stakes at the second quarter ended June 30. †It's unclear if they decided to buy, hold or sell since that time.†
This post is sponsored by¬†OppenheimerFunds. Today's investors are faced with a number of options ‚Äî many of which are probably best explored with the help of a financial advisor. We're now pleased to present the first part of our series, addressing the question, "How can I tell if my portfolio has the right balance of growth, income, and protection*?" Watch as Brian Levitt, senior economist at OppenheimerFunds, talks investors through the factors they need to consider, including looking for growth around the world and thinking about more than just what happened in 2008. Learn more at GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. Before investing in any of the Oppenheimer funds, investors should carefully consider a fund's investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Fund prospectuses and summary prospectuses contain this and other information about the funds, and may be obtained by asking your financial advisor, visiting oppenheimerfunds.com, or calling 1-800-CALL-OPP (800-225-5677). Read prospectuses and summary prospectuses carefully before investing.  ¬© 2013 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. Find out more about Sponsor Posts.
Google's stock opened sharply higher this morning and almost immediately went through the $1,000 barrier. As of 10.08 a.m. it touched $1,005. Yesterday, after Google delivered revenues and earnings per share that beat analysts' expectations, the stock blew past $960 in after-hours trading. It has previously been sitting around $890 or more, but not really venturing beyond $900. The stock is being driven by a 28% increase in paid clicks in Q3 2013 over the year before. Although the price per click sank, total revenues went up 12% to $15 billion. That means more advertisers are continuing to spend more total dollars on Google's mobile and desktop ad products. This chart shows it all: Disclosure: The author owns Google stock.
Demand for fine art is thriving, but it is the priciest works that are attracting most interest, art experts told CNBC, as a number of paintings sold for millions of dollars at the†Frieze Masters†art fair inLondon. Such is the interest in top-flight art that dealers are finding it easier to sell expensive works than cheaper ones, said Clare McAndrew, head of Dublin-based research firm Arts Economics. "It is a polarized market: the top-end is doing very well, while the middle-to-lowish-end has struggled a little bit more since 2009/10," she told CNBC on Wednesday. "The best pieces are relatively easy to sell; it is a crazy time for some dealers, who are selling higher volumes of more expensive work and lower volumes of less expensive worksÖ It is easier to sell items for over $1 million dollars, than for $100,000." (Read more:†Top 10 Billionaire Art Collections) The boom at the top of the market is reflected in the price tags for the art on offer at this year's Frieze Masters fair, which features ancient and medieval works alongside Old Masters and modern artists like Picasso. The event, now in its second year, runs in tandem with the main Frieze showcase, which concentrates on contemporary art from around the world. Paintings for sale include a re-discovered work by Flemish Old Master Brueghel the Younger, which was unveiled at the fair and is under reserve for £6 million ($9.6 million).† Frieze Masters opened to "VIPs" on Wednesday, and buyers have already snapped up a Picasso and two de Koonings (a Dutch expressionist who died in 1997) for around $8 million each. Another Picasso and a work by contemporary artist Basquiat sold for over $1 million each. "The showing by the dealers was much stronger this year; it was a much more confident offering of top-range piecesÖ A lot of the dealers were selling on the first day ó the top dealers were paying their way on the first day," said Philip Hoffman, who heads art investment firm Fine Art Group. Those not invited to the first day of Frieze Masters have had to wait until Thursday to visit the fair. According to Knight Frank's 2013 "Wealth report," fine art is currently the most popular "investment of passion" among wealthy individuals ó defined as those with net assets of over $30 million ó topping†wine, watches,†classic cars†and sports teams. Nineteen percent of private bankers and wealth advisers surveyed by the real estate agent said clients' investment in art rose in 2012, and 13 percent forecast a further uptick this year. (Read more:†118-carat diamond sells for how much?!)† But despite the buzz, art's performance as an asset class has been questionable. According to Knight Frank's luxury investment index, the value of fine art fell 6 percent in the 12 months to September 2013, underperforming other collectibles such as jewelry and cars. The returns on art look more respectable over the long-term, however, with gains of 182 percent over the last decade, similar to those for wine. "Art as an investment is good for the next 10 years," said Hoffman. "I think there will be many more investors moving into the art market, as art proves that it can be a serious investment market."
"Indian festival season could provide a lift to gold.†Traditionally, the Diwali festival (specifically, Dhanteras, the two days before Diwali) is the biggest gold buying period of the year in India. In the last 10 years, gold has risen an average 2.5% in the one month around Diwali. While governmentís new import restrictions and INR depreciation could adversely affect gold imports, buying should be supported by ~20% YoY decline in gold in Rupee terms."óParetosh Misra, Morgan Stanley
Gallup, BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchAt the beginning of last week, BofA Merrill Lynch slashed its GDP growth forecasts for Q3 and Q4 2013, citing the effects of the government shutdown on spending and attendant "significant spillovers into the private sector." Today, the bank's economists also downgrade its GDP growth forecast for Q1 2014, following a temporary deal in Congress this week to reopen the government until January 15 and raise the debt ceiling until February 7. "We have made a minor change in our GDP forecast: we continue to see just 2% 4Q GDP growth, but we have cut 1Q back from 3.3% to 2.8%," writes Ethan Harris, BAML's co-head of global economics research, in a note to clients. "This reflects offsetting factors: government spending will bounce back in 1Q, but with new budget deadlines we expect mild confidence headwinds to persist into the quarter. Our Fed call remains the same, with a $10bn tapering in January and with a later move more likely than a sooner move." Harris expands on the call in the note: Looking ahead, the broad story remains the same. Growth in the last several years has been held back by three factors: structural healing in the private sector, fiscal austerity and confidence shocks. Looking ahead, confidence remains at risk but the structural healing is well advanced and fiscal drag drops significantly. At the same time, we think inflation is likely to remain below the Fed‚Äôs forecast, with abundant spare capacity in the US and globally, soft commodity prices and a strong dollar. This implies a super-slow Fed exit. We don‚Äôt expect QE to end until next November and we don‚Äôt expect rate hikes until the end of 2015... As we have noted before, the shutdown has made the economic and Fed outlook much more uncertain. Prior to the shutdown, the economy seemed to be still stuck at 2% growth, but with hope of stronger growth ahead. The shutdown caused both an austerity shock ‚Äî cuts in government spending ‚Äî and an uncertainty shock. The shutdown has hurt sentiment a lot, pushing many survey measures lower. Looking ahead, the issue now is does sentiment quickly go back to pre-crisis levels or does it linger lower? The latter is likely if people worry about a sequence of shutdowns. Hence we need to wait for post-crisis survey data to get a clear sense of the lasting damage. Given release lags, it will take even longer to judge the impact on hard data. Harris thinks the crisis may be relatively less chaotic in the spring, though. "While the debt ceiling deadline is nominally on February 7, the real deadline ‚Äî the 'x-date' when cash runs out ‚Äî is probably in May," says Harris. "The Treasury can run for several months using extraordinary measures and revenues from the big tax season. Thus, unlike in the fall, the two deadlines don‚Äôt come right on top of each other."
Money-market funds were reportedly moving out of Treasury bills of certain maturities in the weeks leading up to the deal Congress struck Wednesday to raise the debt ceiling and avert a potential default. Meanwhile, as the latest fund flow data for the week ended October 18 show, investors were moving out of money-market funds in a big way. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR GlobalThe asset class got hit with $70 billion in redemptions this week, an outflow of equal magnitude to that during the debt ceiling crisis of August 2011. "But unlike 2011, the 'flight-to-quality' this time is to stocks ($17bn inflows) rather than bonds ($3bn outflows)," writes BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett. "Corporations are safer than countries." Below, is a complete breakdown of this week's flows from Hartnett. Asset Class Flows Equities: $17.2bn inflows ($14.6bn via ETFs) Bonds: $3.3bn outflows (3 straight weeks) MMF: outsized $70bn outflows (same size as Aug'11 outflows) Precious metals: $1.1 outflows (largest outflows in 14 weeks)  Equity Flows  US: $10.6bn inflows (all via ETFs - SPY, IWM) (breaks 3-week outflow streak) Europe: 3rd largest weekly inflows on record ($3.4bn) (16 straight weeks) EM: $0.9bn inflows (inflows in 5 out of past 6 weeks) Japan: $0.6bn inflows (6 straight weeks)  Fixed Income Flows  69 straight weeks of inflows to floating-rate debt ($0.6bn) 6th straight week of inflows to HY bond funds ($1.7bn) 6th straight week of redemptions from govt/tsy funds ($0.9bn) $2.0bn outflows from IG bond funds $0.5bn outflows from EM debt funds (3 straight weeks) 27 straight weeks of outflows from TIPS ($0.2bn)
Google ImagesU.S. energy independence is a myth. Oil is a globally traded commodity, so no matter how much oil and gas emerges from the Great American Shale Boom, the price we pay at the pump will remain dependent on supply and demand in the rest of the world, including the Middle East. As ITG Energy Research Director Judith Dwarkin told us recently:¬† "...the notion that the US is less exposed to disruptions in international crude trade now because it imports less oil reflects a lack of understanding about how the world oil market actually works. The world oil market is a single, integrated market ‚Äì meaning an oil crisis¬†anywhere¬†is a crisis¬†everywhere. In this world, it‚Äôs the sum of demand and the sum of supplies that determines prices. So unless the US decides to control crude prices within its own territory (a truly horrible idea), it isn‚Äôt insulated from price shocks related to disruptions in oil trade outside its borders, whatever the reason for the disruptions." But that does not mean the boom has all been for nothing. Here are five ways 'Saudi America' is is reshaping geopolitics. Western sanctions took 1.5 million barrels of Iranian crude¬†out of the market.¬†But as S&amp;P's Peter Rigby told us in June, a large portion of lost Iranian oil was made up for by North American shale production: ...as Iranian supply came off the global market, new US supply was coming on line to contribute to meeting global demand. So even though US supply, for all practical purposes, does not go onto the global market, it contributes to global supplies.¬†The price is still global, which the US pays, adjusted, of course, for transportation and crude quality differentials. So, all else being equal, had the embargo gone into effect without that new 1 million barrels per day from the US, there would have been upwards price pressure on crude. One million barrels is not an insignificant amount, as evidenced by the changing crude oil shipping patterns that are emerging. Here is a list of the countries importing the largest quantities of oil products, showing along with what proportion of their consumption that would represent (it's not totally one-to-one as some countries like Panama are transit points): Here's a map showing countries receiving the most overall products: EIA Natural gas exports do not face the same restrictions¬†as crude, and the U.S. has¬†approved four new liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals since the advent of the shale boom¬†to take product to countries with which we have no free trade agreements.¬†And there are a lot of them. An additional 6.27 bcf of gas a day can now be shipped abroad. Ten more terminals are awaiting approval.¬†¬† Some analysts say America may lose sight of climate change as a result of its shale production. That's in part because low natural gas prices has sent coal consumption down -12% since 2011 ‚Äî and in the process, reduced CO2 emissions. Between 2010 and 2012, they fell-5% in the U.S., and helped slow global emissions growth to 2%, according to BP data.¬† ‚ÄúThis extraordinary rate of [shale] development is good for our country in terms of jobs and energy prices, but bad in that we are not worrying as much about the greenhouse gas problem as we are about exploiting gas with hydrofracking," Penn State geosciences professor Susan Brantley told The Guardian. Fracking did not stop President Obama from instituting new rules for coal plants.¬†Plus,¬†there's debate about whether, over the long term, natural gas production does impact the climate. But the current numbers are undeniable, and the State Department now has an active program devoted to helping countries promote their own shale industries. Just because the U.S. will always remain as exposed to global oil markets, it doesn't mean countries heavily reliant on oil won't see turmoil.¬†In an open letter to the Saudi monarchy earlier this year, billionaire investor Prince Alweed warned¬†that the country should begin examining how to further diversify its economy should American and Asian shale production start eating into Saudi market share. This week, the country announced¬†it would begin ramping up its unconventional gas production. The greater danger may actually be to Russia, whose economy heavily depends on elevated natural gas prices. Once the aforementioned U.S. gas exports come on line, those prices will begin to come down. As Southern Methodist University's Bernard Weinstein has written, "...by exporting liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the U.S. to Europe and Asia we can help break Gazprom‚Äôs hold on those markets.¬† At the same time, we should continue transferring our fracking technology to China, Poland and other countries with substantial shale resources to diminish their dependence on Russian gas."
Foursquare user/ Louis C. Goldman's Sky Lobby on the 11th floor leading to the cafeteria. Goldman Sachs' cafeteria¬†has been described as something out of Gattica, the 1997 science fiction film. It's a wide-open space full of furniture that looks like it was smuggled from a utopian future in which nothing is ever dirty, broken or unintentionally asymmetrical. It isn't just the physical design of the 11th-floor space that creates this impression. It's the way Goldman administers it with a clever‚Äîalmost sinisterly clever‚Äîpolicy designed to economically engineer efficient eating. The most crowded time of the day to eat lunch is, naturally, during lunch time. For most people, this falls around noon. This creates the phenomenon of the lunchtime rush hour. You know this all too well if you've ever tried to stop in your local chopped salad place at, say, 12:30 in the afternoon. Goldman¬†didn't like the idea of its people waiting on long lines to get their lunch. People are capital to Goldman. It wants to use its capital efficiently. Standing on line waiting for dumplings or salad or a burger is not an efficient use of Goldman's capital. So Goldman has installed actual vampire squids in strategic places to encourage people to move faster. OK. I just made that up. What they actually did is far smarter. The cafeteria has a set of timed discounts. If you show up in the cafeteria before 11:30 or after 1:30, you get a 25 percent discount on your food. Goldman incentivizes employees to avoid the rush hour. (See also:¬†Goldman sees a silver lining in the budget crisis) As it turns out, Goldman folks are both especially attuned to economic incentives and ruthless about capital efficiency. There are some Goldman employees who take pride that they've never eaten lunch inside the "cost penalty window," as one trader referred to the two hours when the discount isn't in effect. Others take it more casually. If you find yourself in the cafeteria sometime around 1:20 pm, you'll notice that the lines at the pay registers are empty. So are many of the tables. But the cafeteria area between where the food is collected and where you pay is quite crowded. The Goldman lunchers are chatting with each other, waiting for the final minutes to tick down until they can save a dollar or two. There's a bit of an absurdity to the employees at one of the best-paying companies in America biding their time to save a couple of dollars. But it also makes perfect sense. One of the things you don't want to do as an employee at Goldman--ever--is admit you overpaid for something. How can you be trusted to trade bonds if you can't be trusted to buy lunch at the best price? It's also of a piece with¬†Goldman's most recent quarterly results. Goldman beat estimates but many analysts say a driver of this was Goldman's ability to cut costs. The practice of saving money may start at lunch but it goes all the way to the top. Lloyd Blankfein reportedly loves the Goldman cafeteria. I bet he eats before 11:30 or after 1:30. (Read more:¬†Goldman's ugly earnings beat) I reached out to Goldman spokesman David Wells to ask about Goldman's lunch market manipulation. Unsurprisingly, he wasn't immediately available around 1:30. No one else in the Goldman spokes hub was either. Sometime later, he called me. "Goldman approves of employees using their capital efficiently," he said. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney. Follow him on Twitter¬†@Carney
Wikimedia CommonsNow that the crisis in D.C. is over, it's time to refocus on things like economic data, the Fed, and stock market valuations. How are they looking? According to Raymond James strategist Jeff Saut, everything's pointing higher. He writes in his note today: Now that the "crisis" is in the rear view mirror, the equity markets should refocus on earnings, economics and the Federal Reserve; and here the story is pretty good. S&amp;P's bottom up operating earnings estimate for the SPX is currently $107.58 leaving the SPX's PE ratio at almost 16. Next year's estimate is $121.66. If the SPX continues to trade at that PE multiple, it renders a price target of 1946. As far as economics, things appear to be getting better. In 2014 I believe GDP growth will finally accelerate to 3% driven by a capital expenditure cycle because companies like GM are running their plants flat out 24/7 and the equipment is wearing out. Finally, with Janet Yellen at the helm of the Fed, it should be steady as you go. That implies no tapering and plenty of liquidity. To the underinvested -- and underperforming -- investor, this trifecta is a nightmare. For a similarly bullish argument, check out this recent post titled "Rocket Fuel" from Josh Brown.
A couple of eye-popping charts from Morgan Stanley on the leverage in corporate China. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) (C) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) (R) depart the Senate floor after their speeches before the night-time budget vote at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, October 16, 2013.Good morning ! Here's what you need to know.
Morgan Stanley reported EPS (ex-DVA) of 50 cents beating analyst estimates¬†of 40 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.¬† Third quarter adjusted revenue came in at $8.1 billion also beating estimates of¬†$7.659 billion. "Our results point to the increased consistency, strength and balance we are deriving from our business model," James Gorman said in the release.  "Our strategy to combine a world class investment bank with the stability of the largest U.S. wealth management franchise and strong investment management is enabling us to deliver exceptional advice and execution for our clients as well as stronger returns for our shareholders. Overall, our stronger year-over-year revenues and net income reflect the progress we have made to position the Firm well for the future," he added.¬† Shares of Morgan Stanley are trading up more than 4% ¬†in the pre-market ahead of the earnings release.¬† Here's an excerpt from the release:¬† Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) today reported net revenues of $7.9 billion for the third quarter ended September 30, 2013 compared with $5.3 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $888 million, or $0.44 per diluted share,6¬†compared with a loss of $1.0 billion, or a loss of $0.55 per diluted share,6¬†for the same period a year ago. Results for the current quarter included negative revenue related to changes in Morgan Stanley‚Äôs debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA)1¬†of $171 million, compared with $2.3 billion a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $8.1 billion compared with $7.5 billion a year ago and income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.0 billion, or $0.50 per diluted share, compared with income of $560 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, a year ago.3,7 Compensation expense of $4.0 billion was relatively unchanged from a year ago. Non-compensation expenses of $2.6 billion decreased from $2.8 billion in the prior year primarily due to the absence of non-recurring Wealth Management integration expenses in the prior year quarter. For the current quarter, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, including discontinued operations, was $0.45 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $0.55 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.6 Morgan Stanley Business Overview James P. Gorman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said,¬†‚ÄúOur results point to the increased consistency, strength and balance we are deriving from our business model. Our strategy to combine a world class investment bank with the stability of the largest U.S. wealth management franchise and strong investment management is enabling us to deliver exceptional advice and execution for our clients as well as stronger returns for our shareholders. Overall, our stronger year-over-year revenues and net income reflect the progress we have made to position the Firm well for the future.‚Äù
The Bank of England is breaking new ground in central bank transparency this morning. Seriously. Using the hashtag #AskBoE, the Bank of England is answering people's questions about monetary policy on Twitter. It's a genuinely interesting experiment and discussion. Here are some examples of questions asked then answered. @bankofengland @bankofengland Hopefully Janet Yellen is watching.
Air ForceGoldman's Alec Phillips predicts that the next fiscal fights ó which will start early next year ó won't be that big of a deal. The title of his note is: The Next Fiscal Debate: Perhaps as Much Bark, But Probably Less Bite. His basic argument: Because of the damage done to the GOP this time, there just won't be the same kind of momentum or inclination to fight like there was this time. He writes: The first deadline is a House-Senate budget negotiation targeted to conclude by December 13. We don't expect a fiscal agreement to be reached then, but there is no immediate consequence of failure. The second deadline is January 15, when spending authority must be renewed to avoid another government shutdown. We do not expect "Obamacare" to be an obstacle to the next extension the way it was over the last two weeks, and view the risk of another shutdown to be low. The next debt limit increase seems likely to be a greater source of uncertainty than the December and January deadlines. Debt limit increases are usually politically sensitive, and there is a good chance that it won't be raised until close to the deadline again. However, at this point we do not expect the next debt limit increase to be quite as disruptive as the one just debated. The recent showdown had negative political consequences for Republicans, and after two "clean" debt limit increases they may find it difficult to argue for policy concessions on the next extension. Of course, conservatives are already saying they plan to wage another battle early next year. The good news is that the conservative establishment may be more hesitant to get dragged into the fight.
REUTERS/Tim ShafferEBay founder and chairman Pierre Omidyar in Delaware, December 7, 2009. SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - EBay Inc founder†Pierre†Omidyar†has become the latest self-made tech baron to plunge into the struggling news industry - hot on the heels of Amazon.com Inc founder†Jeff Bezos, who just paid $250 million for†the Washington Post. But unlike Bezos, the French-born Iranian American says he aims to build a new "mass media organization" from the ground up, and his first recruits are the journalists who exposed the†U.S. government's surveillance programs, using documents leaked by former spy agency contractor†Edward Snowden. The new venture puts†Omidyar, 46, in the public eye after many years of relatively low-profile philanthropic and investment activities. While he has long supported efforts to promote transparency and accountability in government, including a local news website in his home state of†Hawaii,†Omidyar†suggested that he is prepared to spend as much as Bezos did in buying the Post to take those efforts to a new level. "I want to find ways to convert mainstream readers into engaged citizens,"†Omidyar†wrote in a blog post on Wednesday. Omidyar's new endeavor, as yet unnamed, will face myriad challenges. Established news organizations are struggling to find a viable financial model as print advertising and circulation plummet while online advertising dollars migrate to Google Inc and to automated ad exchanges that drive prices down. He has yet to offer any clues about his business strategy. Media investments generally do not make good investments, said David Cowan, a partner at Bessemer Ventures. "I'm pretty sure Pierre doesn't think that a news startup is the best way to get richer," he said. Born in†France†to Iranian parents,†Omidyar†grew up largely in the Washington, D.C. area, with a stint in†Hawaii. He graduated from†Tufts University†near†Boston†in 1988 with a degree in computer science, and moved to Silicon Valley. While working as a software engineer at then-hot personal-communications company General Magic,†Omidyar†came up with the idea for eBay in 1995 and worked on it as a hobby until it became big enough for him to quit his day job. When eBay went public three years later, the then 31-year-old†Omidyar's stake was valued at $611 million by the end of the trading day. He still owns almost 9 percent of the $70 billion company today, making him eBay's top shareholder. Forbes pegs his wealth at $8.5 billion. Omidyar†serves as eBay's chairman, but has not been involved in its day-to-day operations for years. During the summer,†Omidyar†considered purchasing†the Washington Post, he wrote in his blog. While the Post eventually sold to Bezos in August, the process "got me thinking about what kind of social impact could be created if a similar investment was made in something entirely new, built from the ground up," he wrote. Those musings led to his latest project, which he is billing as "My Next Adventure in Journalism." Omidyar†Network, the investment firm founded by†Omidyar†and his wife,†Pam, in 2004, has backed some 25 organizations dealing with news and government transparency, including News Trust, a news-discovery site run by the nonprofit journalism center the†Poynter Institute; the†Sunlight Foundation, a government-transparency nonprofit; and Transparency &amp; Accountability Initiative, a†London†based organization. "Pierre gets journalism," said John Temple, founding editor of†Honolulu Civil Beat, the news site launched by†Omidyar†in 2010. "He's passionate about it and knows how to create an environment and culture where journalists feel energized and empowered." Omidyar's comments on Twitter in recent months show an increasing discomfort with the workings of the†U.S. government. "There goes freedom of association," he tweeted earlier this week, linking to an article in†the Washington Post†about the†National Security Agency†collecting email address books. But in his Wednesday blog post,†Omidyar†emphasized his new endeavor would go beyond investigative reporting, and would "cover general interest news, with a core mission around supporting and empowering independent journalists across many sectors and beats." That broad approach makes sense, said†Arianna Huffington, creator of†the Huffington Post, which started an edition in†Hawaii†earlier this year through a partnership with†Omidyar's†Civil Beat. "He wants this to be a business, and that's not possible without having a site that's about general news and everything that people are interested in," Huffington said in an interview. "And for the conclusions of investigative journalism to have impact - and he wants to have impact - you have to capture the public imagination. If you have people coming to the site for other reasons they are more likely to engage." To some extent,†Omidyar†seems to be shifting what he has been trying with†Honolulu Civil Beat†to a broader stage. Civil Beat†aimed to create a new online journalism model with paid subscriptions and respectful comment threads.†Patti Epler, current editor of†Civil Beat, said a policy of requiring people to log in via Facebook before they post a comment has encouraged a less strident tone than at many news organizations. She declined to comment on the site's finances. Her boss has championed projects that might lead to more government transparency, Epler said. When her reporters ran up against a law exempting police from releasing internal disciplinary records,†Omidyar†created the†Civil Beat†Law Center, which is working to secure the release of those records. Another impetus for starting the center was the demise of†Hawaii's shield law, which protects journalists from having to reveal anonymous sources, Epler said. It expired earlier this year. Omidyar†frequently drops by the newsroom, where he edits the occasional article, plays foosball, and chats with staff. "He loves to talk stories," Epler said. "And journalistic principles and ethics." To read a column for Reuters.com by a reporter who has worked for†Omidyar, click on http://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/2013/10/17/the-omidyar-way/ (Additional reporting by Jonathan Weber; Editing by Tiffany Wu and Grant McCool)
AP ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - In the early hours of the New York morning on Thursday, when scarcely a few hundred lots of gold futures are usually traded, a wave of buy orders worth over $2.3 billion surged into the market. Prices soared 3 percent in just 10 minutes, setting the tone for the next 12 hours of trade - and puzzling many traders and investors who have been rattled by a series of similarly abrupt, and largely unexplained, trade surges over the past two weeks. While sudden swings in the price of gold are nothing new, the usual causes - a shock in economic data or a "fat finger" erroneous trade - don't seem to fit. While the U.S. dollar had also tumbled on Thursday, bullion's move was far more extreme. Some are pointing at spin offs from today's predominantly 24-hour electronic trading, with a far smaller number of market makers on the trading floor to match orders and provide liquidity. The half-dozen mammoth orders whipsawed prices and disrupted trade in the CME Group's &lt;CME.O&gt; Comex futures, a market already edgy about bullion's fading safe-haven appeal and its lackluster performance during the U.S. budget impasse. "What's unusual about these moves is the price stays at a new level so that suggests it's a natural buyer or seller," Chris Concannon, executive VP of New York-based electronic trader Virtu Financial. "This is moving to and setting a new price level, so it can only be done by someone who's buying or selling substantial amounts and then holding." Unlike the meteoric declines in April and June, when institutional investors exited en masse in a two-day sell-off, these seemingly sporadic trades lasted only minutes but overwhelmed volumes and price direction on each occasion. The barrages started on the first day of the U.S. government shutdown, yet seemed to bear no link to the headlines from Washington. Other financial markets have remained mostly immune to gold's erratic trades. Traders have offered a host of possible explanations including that it could be driven by selling by a distressed fund, yet the incidents have occurred across a period of nearly three weeks. Others said it may be due to unusually low liquidity, as open interest dwindled to a four-year lows just a day before the first episode on October 1. But professional Comex traders should know to moderate their orders in thinner conditions. A few suggested darker causes: the deliberate gaming of the market, whether by a rogue trader or a computer-driven algorithm that seeks to maximize market impact by overwhelming the system with a large number of orders in milliseconds. Whatever the cause, the trades risk undermining confidence at a time when electronic trading glitches and flash crashes have roiled other U.S. financial markets in recent years and will fuel concerns that algorithmic trading systems have undue influence over prices. "Clearly, whoever is out to sell is looking for high impact. It's somebody who is either running a big short position or would like to see a lower gold price for other reasons," said Ross Norman, Chief Executive Officer of London-based bullion broker Sharps Pixley, referring to an abrupt $30 drop on Oct 11. Thursday's roiling started just after 4:00 a.m. EDT (0800 GMT), when almost 18,000 lots, equivalent to 1.782 million ounces of gold, changed hands in a 10-minute interval, sending gold futures up 3 percent to their highest in just over a week. December futures ended the day up 2.7 percent at $1,319 per ounce. Reuters One possible explanation: short covering after U.S. lawmakers agreed an eleventh hour deal that reopened government and averted a debt crisis for the world's largest economy. The U.S. dollar had just tumbled, also with little cause. The episode followed five equally dramatic and short spurts of heavy buying or selling that moved prices by over $10 within minutes. The sheer volume has astonished traders. On October 1 and October 11, volume in just ten minutes exceeded 20,000 lots, accounting for almost a tenth of the market's average daily turnover this year, Reuters data showed. Two of those incidents triggered the CME Group's rarely-used "stop logic" function that automatically halts trade briefly to prevent excessive price movements. One common phenomenon that may be exacerbating the sudden swings is cascading stop orders, a condition in which a big move triggers stop orders which in turn cause the market to set off other stop orders and inappropriately moves the market. Traders say that these cascading stop orders are a side effect of today's electronic trade. Over the last few weeks, in a market lacking the usual flow of U.S. government data that often defines the day's trade, such technical trading may have held more sway. "In essence, a lot of market participants are placing similar orders at the same price, as everybody is looking at the same chart and the stops build in a particular price," said Frank McGhee, head precious metals dealer at Chicago commodities brokerage Alliance Financial LLC. It's not clear if these dramatic trades will have a long lasting impact on prices, but traders warn they could damage investors' confidence in the long run. "It's just the reality of electronic trading," McGhee said. (Additional reporting by Clara Denina, Jan Harvey in London and Josephine Mason in New York; Editing by Josephine Mason and Ed Davies)
If you want to keep your pulse on the US real estate markets there are few better places than Southern California. †The local market here in San Diego has been red hot in 2013, but is really starting to slow down. †In fact, September was one of the weakest years in the last 5 years. †This is partly seasonal, but also a much slower trend than in recent years. †Price appreciation is flat month over month, inventory is up and demand is down. †Buyers are becoming much more tepid as some of the unsustainable price trends in recent years are making the market unaffordable. †Hereís more†via Fidelity Pacific Real Estate: ìIn September the San Diego housing market saw inventory increase, pending sales decrease, monthsí supply increase and sold homes decrease. The market has had major changes since the spring market with more sellers coming on the market and fewer buyers in the market. While year over year prices continue to have substantial increases month to month price change have gone flat. The market continues to be a sellersí market the heat from multiple offers has significantly reduced. Home sales generally decline in the fall and winter but the sales this September dropped to the lowest September sales in 4 of the past 5 years. Since 2013 has been the best sales year in the last 5 years the drop this September was more than the normal seasonal decline. I believe that much of the decline is due to the bubble prices of this year. In 2009 homes less than 1,000 sq. ft. were selling for $180,000 compared to $276,000 this September. Homes that were between 1000 to 1300 sq. ft. sold in 2009 for $269,000 and now are selling for $372,000. These levels of price changes are pushing†buyers out of the market and now we see interest rates increasing, adding to the cost of buying, only adding to the affordability problem in the market resulting in lower demand. I see this trend continuing through the winter months into the beginning of next year.î
REUTERS/David GrayA stone craftsman drills a large rock before it is sculpted into a statue in what is called the 'sculpture zone' in the town of Dangcheng in Hebei Province, located around 150 km south of Beijing, January 16, 2008. Last night, China posted solid growth of 7.8% for Q3. One of the themes this year has been China outperformance. While many emerging markets have slowed precipitously, China has held on pretty well, which is ironic given all the hype about a "hard landing" But according to Nomura economist Zhiwei Zhang, this is it. This quarter marks the top, and now we're about to see deceleration. In part, it's because this quarter and recent ones have been driven by unsustainable investment spending that can't continue, while leading indicators and other measures we've seen for September are already showing a slowdown. Leading indicators of activity suggest China‚Äüs recovery ended in September. Both investment growth of on-going projects and new projects slowed by 0.3pp and 1.1pp from August, to 18.6% y-o-y ytd and 13.3% y-o-y ytd, respectively, which does not bode well for investment growth down the road. In the property sector, growth of floor space sold slowed further to 23.3% y-o-y ytd in September from 23.4%, while growth of floor space started picked up to 7.3% y-o-y ytd from 4.0%. The rate of decline of land area purchased eased in September, to -3.3% y-o-y ytd from -9.1% in August. Collectively, this suggests an increase in housing inventory which is likely to pressure the property sector in future. We maintain our view that the recovery ended in Q3 and that GDP growth will slow to 7.5% y-o-y in Q4 and 6.9% in 2014. We see downside risks to our Q4 GDP forecast. We have argued that China‚Äüs recovery is fundamentally unhealthy , as it has been mainly driven by heavy industry and stands in contrast to the principles recently espounded by both President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang ‚Äì that a lower rate of GDP growth can be tolerated to ensure a better quality of growth in the future. We expect the government to cut its growth target for 2014 to 7% in December in an effort to contain financial risks such as local government debt risk.
China's economy expanded 7.8 percent year-on-year in July-September, data showed Friday, snapping two quarters of slowing growth, but analysts questioned whether the improvement was sustainable. The gross domestic product (GDP) figure matched the median forecast in a survey of 11 economists by AFP. Growth for the first nine months of the year came in at 7.7 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said. "The overall national economy realised steady growth and enjoyed good momentum," the NBS said in a statement accompanying the figures. "The major indicators stayed within the rational range, which was in favour of promoting economic restructuring and pushing forward reforms." But its spokesman Sheng Laiyun warned of "pressures" in the form of a "complicated, volatile and severe" external environment, and accumulated structural problems in the economy. Additionally, high comparative figures in the last three months of 2012 could mean China's growth rate may not accelerate in the fourth quarter, he added. The latest result suggests China's economy, a key driver of global growth, remains on track to at least meet Beijing's own target for this year of 7.5 percent. The government usually announces a conservative number that it regularly surpasses. Industrial production, which measures output at factories, workshops and mines, rose 10.2 percent in September year-on-year, the NBS said, while retail sales, a key indicator for consumer spending, was up 13.3 percent. And fixed asset investment, a measure of government spending on infrastructure, rose 20.2 percent during the first nine months of the year. The latest report card for the economy comes as China's new leadership has stressed the need to retool the country's growth model to one where private, consumer-led demand drives sustained -- albeit lower -- expansion. Economists surveyed ahead of the release had said the jump was mainly a result of government stimulus since late June that featured increased rail and urban fixed-asset investment, tax cuts and looser monetary policy. But analysts are questioning whether such measures can be continued, and some signs the recovery is waning have already emerged, highlighted by a surprising drop in exports last month. "The GDP figure in the fourth quarter may be lower than the third quarter, as the momentum of the rebound is not that strong while the base from the fourth quarter last year is relatively high," Ma Xiaoping, a Beijing-based economist for British bank HSBC, told AFP. Room for further monetary loosening is limited due to factors including rising inflation and excess market liquidity, economists say, adding that at the same time skyrocketing local government debt and slowing fiscal revenue growth are restricting further tax incentives. ANZ bank economists Liu Li-Gang and Zhou Hao credited what they called the "mini stimulus" package for the growth uptick. The government will more than make good on its 7.5 percent growth target, they predicted, with "risk biased to the upside", but added that the rebound was "not on a solid footing". There were few indications that inventories are being restocked, they said, a situation "reflecting a cautious mood" ahead of a key Communist Party meeting scheduled for November, when economic reforms could be announced. The pump-priming measures were taken after economic growth slowed for two straight quarters and following a 7.7-percent expansion for all of 2012 -- the worst performance since 1999. The economy expanded 2.2 percent in the third quarter from the previous three months, the NBS said, the strongest expansion by that measure in five quarters. Sheng said: "Despite the growth rate volatility, the internal structure of the economy and the growth quality have improved. "Looking forward, it is more likely that the Chinese economy will maintain steady and relatively fast growth." Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Henry RomeroHot air balloons float during a festival as part of the spring equinox at the Sun pyramid of Teotihuacan outside Mexico City, Mexico March 21, 2007. The US stock market is just incredibly bulletproof. First, all through the debt ceiling standoff the market barely dropped. Then there was no "sell the news" event after a deal was reached, as the S&amp;P 500 hit a brand new all-time high yesterday. And now the stock market is drifting higher again. Granted it's pretty modest. But still, the rush of demand for US equities is something to behold. The rest of the world's markets, from Japan to China to Europe aren't really doing much at all. Gold, which surged yesterday, is basically flat so far.
