So the story of the day is this: Bernanke came out and sounded dovish this evening, for reasons which we've explained here. Markets are rallying, interest rates are down, the dollar is falling, and gold is jumping nicely. From Kitco: KITCO Of course, gold has been getting massacred for the last couple of months, so it's coming off of a weak spot, but still a nice night for gold owners. In a note out tonight, Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading argues that gold is now in the sweet spot, and that Bernanke has lost any tapering credibility: We donít believe the Chairmanís intentions have changed.† Regardless, the Chairmanís credibility is once again damaged.† If the Dollar breakdown continues, it will be a sign that the market believes the Chairman has again lost control over policy.† The asset clearly in the best position in such an environment is Gold.† After such a notable correction in the past 9 months, the precious metal once again becomes a very attractive global asset if monetary policy in the largest economy of the world spins out of control.
Earlier we mentioned how Ben Bernanke gave some decidedly dovish comments during the Q&amp;A of a speech held in Boston this evening. He said two things that were definitely of note. One was that there was some concern at the Fed that the rise in interest rates could slow the recovery. That's a hint that an effort to cap rates could be made if things got out of control. He also really leaned into the notion that the Fed is nowhere close to raising rates, even if tapering of QE purchases is a done deal. Markets are all green this evening, but the clearest evidence that the market viewed Bernanke's talk as decidedly dovish is in the dollar, which is dropping like a rock this evening, giving back several days of gains. FinViz
Flickr/Microsoft SwedenExcel is the best piece of software ever made.¬† We've talked a lot about basic formulas and advanced tricks that will make you way better at the program, but we've been remiss and forgot about our beginners.¬† Excel is a powerful, daunting program, and a lot of people barely know where to start. We're here to help.¬† If you've never used Excel before and want to, or if you're just starting out and want to make sure you're going on the right track, we'll show you some of the most fundamental concepts and ideas to get you well on your way to becoming an Excel whiz kid.¬†
barclays.com(Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; on Wednesday won the dismissal of a U.S. credit union regulator's lawsuit over the sale of more than $555 million of mortgage-backed securities to two failed corporate credit unions. U.S. District Judge John Lungstrum in Kansas City, Kansas said the National Credit Union Administration waited too long by not filing its complaint until September 25, 2012. He said the deadline was March 20, 2012, three years after the NCUA had been named conservator of the U.S. Central Federal Credit Union and the Western Corporate Federal Credit Union. The lawsuit accused Barclays and other defendants of making misleading statements about 12 residential mortgage-backed securities that the credit unions bought between October 2006 and June 2007. It is one of 10 lawsuits that the NCUA has been pursuing on behalf of five credit unions it seized in 2009 and 2010 over losses they suffered on $14.1 billion of mortgage-backed securities amid a crumbling housing market. Wholesale credit unions suffered more pain than retail counterparts because they had more leeway on how to invest. "We respectfully disagree with the decision," NCUA spokesman John Fairbanks said. "We will continue to vigorously pursue our claims against the parties that sold the faulty securities to corporate credit unions." Fairbanks had no immediate comment on whether the NCUA might appeal. In April, Lungstrum also cited a statute of limitations in dismissing part of the NCUA's case against Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;CSGN.VX&gt;. Lungstrum affirmed that ruling on Wednesday. Half of the securities at issue in the various lawsuits were sold by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, or Bear Stearns Cos or Washington Mutual Inc, both of which JPMorgan bought in 2008. Banks that have settled with the NCUA include Bank of America Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt;, Deutsche Bank AG &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; &lt;DB.N&gt; and HSBC Holdings Plc &lt;HSBA.L&gt; &lt;HBC.N&gt;. The cases are National Credit Union Administration Board v. Barclays Capital Inc et al, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas, No. 12-02631; and National Credit Union Administration Board v. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC et al in the same court, No. 12-02648. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by David Gregorio)
In June, major international equity index provider MSCI confirmed Greeceís sojourn among the ranks of ìdeveloped marketsî would end later this year as it will become the first-ever country to lose its ìdeveloped marketî status in the MSCI universe.1  Interestingly, Greece was classified as emerging when I started with the Templeton Emerging Markets Group in 1987, and while the recent news might conjure up images of a significant turn for the worse for the countryís economic fortunes, MSCIís explanation for Greeceís reclassification was actually more mundane. The division of MSCIís equity universe into separate ìdeveloped,î ìemergingî and ìfrontierî indexes was originally conceived in response to the arrival on the world scene of countries in various stages of economic development. In order to be classified as a developed market, a countryís gross national income (GNI) per capita has to have been at least 25% higher than the World Bankís threshold for a country to be in a ìhigh incomeî (i.e. developed) category for three consecutive years.2 That would equate to US$15,600, given the World Bank threshold stood at US$12,475 as of 2011, the latest year for which data are available. Despite several years of wrenching recession, Greek per capita GNI has been far in excess of this figure.3 Indeed, several emerging and frontier markets would meet this criterion. Therefore, MSCIís economic development requirements for index inclusion were not the issue for Greece, but other factors relating to the ability of international investors to easily enter and operate in the market proved important. The Greek Tragedy According to MSCI, for an international equity index to fulfill its purpose, investors, including passive ìindexî vehicles, must be able to buy and sell its component companies with a degree of ease and confidence.4 To this end, MSCI has a number of criteria including explicit requirements for market size and liquidity, and somewhat more subjective targets, including a countryís openness to foreign ownership, restrictions on foreign currency trading that might hamper repatriation of funds and availability of mechanisms to facilitate trading. Greece has failed both the MSCI size and accessibility tests for inclusion in the developed index because of the Greek stock market collapse since 2007, and the subsequent re-listing elsewhere of some key companies which left the Greek market containing too few large and liquid stocks to allow major investors to take adequate positions. In addition, the Greek stock exchange authorities have failed to match developments in other markets in areas such as stock borrowing and lending, short selling and transferability, making the Greek market relatively difficult to do business in. Despite Greeceís problems, we still see potential long-term opportunities there. However, just because Greece will become part of the emerging market universe again does not necessarily mean we are rushing out to buy Greek stocks immediately. A key aspect of our investment philosophy is that we are not constrained by considerations of index weighting, and although we will pay attention to a countryís macroeconomic fundamentals, our allocation decisions are based primarily on individual companiesí long-term value and potential prospects. We see some faint signs that Greeceís challenging economic ordeal might be reaching a turning point, and we will look at the possibilities for investing. The key, of course, is to find stocks that meet our value criteria. A China Addition?  While Greeceís reclassification made headlines, perhaps the most striking MSCI announcement did not involve an actual change, but one that may be on the horizon. Chinaís domestic ìAî share market probably wonít become part of an MSCI index any time soon; however, the idea that it might become eligible at some point is potentially of tremendous significance given the very large size of the market compared to the internationally traded ìBî and ìHî share markets. MSCIís commentary on the subject emphasized huge obstacles remaining to the ìAî share market joining the MSCI index family, notably the limitations of the ìqualified foreign investorî quota system as a means of providing access and a level playing field for foreign investors, ongoing restrictions on foreign exchange trading and uncertainty about taxation. Nevertheless, as investors we should be aware of, and excited by, the prospect that a vast and dynamic market may eventually become more available. Moviní on Up  Meanwhile, South Korea and Taiwan remain under MSCI review for promotion to developed market status. In terms of economic development and market depth, we think both easily qualify to upgrade, but idiosyncrasies in their foreign exchange markets and stock identification systems worry large institutional investors, causing South Korea and Taiwan to fail the market accessibility test. We feel that the South Korean and Taiwanese economies are so intimately meshed with their emerging neighbors that their presence in emerging market indexes currently makes good sense. In the Middle East, the long-anticipated promotion of the Persian Gulf states Qatar and the United Arab Emirates to emerging from frontier market status was confirmed, while issues of accessibility led to Moroccoís reclassification to frontier status. We should again emphasize that these developments are not likely to lead to any major short-term changes to the composition of our emerging and frontier market portfolios. These shifting sands certainly keep things interesting, but the MSCI class switches wonít take effect until 2014, and regardless, making sharp turns isnít generally our style. Still, we are definitely eager to see more investor attention drawn to these dynamic markets. 1. MSCI press release June 11 2013, ìMSCI Announces the Results of the 2013 Annual Market Classification Review.î All MSCI data is provided ìas is.î MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Indexes are unmanaged. One cannot directly invest in an index. 2. MSCI Global Market Accessibility Review June 2013, MSCI Market Classification Framework. 3. World Bank development indicators © 2013 The World Bank Group, All Rights Reserved. 4. Indexes are unmanaged, and one cannot invest directly in an index. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ìInvestment Adventures in Emerging Marketsî blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ìTrading with China,î ìThe Investorís Guide to Emerging Markets,î ìMobius on Emerging Markets,î ìPassport to Profits,î ìEquitiesóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î ìMutual FundsóAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,î îThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,î and ìMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ª
www.empireonline.comThe latest Economy and Finance survey by Gallup had the finance world abuzz today.† Just 52% of Americans said they are invested in the stock market. That's the lowest rate since 1998 and 13% lower than the pre-recession high in 2007, BlackRock†notes. We all know what happened to the 1% of investors who got spooked during the recession and pulled their funds out of the market (hint: it wasn't great). But we can't entirely blame the lapse in confidence in the market on the recession alone. Cullen Roche, founder of Orcam Financial Group, LLC, offers up another interesting conclusion: It's more of a lapse in education. People aren't investing because they just don't understand the point.† Obviously, if you've signed up for a newsletter called "Smart Investor," chances are you get the point of saving.  But we take for granted the fact that every consumer understands the rules of inflation ññ that our cash only loses purchasing power over time, and that "investing" it in a variety of assets with growth potential simply is a way of protecting it. People get too caught up thinking that investing means day trading on your lunch break, trying to beat the market, or doing whatever those "Wall Street types" do in the movies. It's that reputation that isolates regular consumers and makes them insecure in their ability to get in the game.† Here's the reality:†You don't have to beat the market. You don't have to be the next Warren Buffet or even know who Warren Buffet is, for that matter. There are people simply pumping money into their 401(k)s every pay period who are "winning the game" every day and don't even know it.† "In fact, [your investment portfolio] doesnít have to do half of the things that Wall Street says it needs to do," Roche writes. "But it really does need to keep pace with purchasing power or youíre falling behind just by doing nothing or misunderstand this most basic point. †And itís easier than you think. †I†spend most of my time these days teaching people how to†build these types of portfolios and training them to feel comfortable doing it on their own. †But you have to want to do it or youíre destined to a world of guaranteed 3.5% losses on your savings."†
APThree months ago, Frank Newman sent me a book entitled¬†Freedom From National Debt.¬† I finally got around to reading it ‚Äî all 89 pages. ¬†It‚Äôs a little book, packed with evidence that America is being held back by incorrect assumptions and misguided fears about the national debt and government finance in general. Here‚Äôs the takeaway: America has convinced itself that it can no longer afford many of the productive things that it has done so well over its history. Infrastructure repair, jobs programs, military modernization, tax reduction‚Ä¶have all been stifled because of this fear. Like the proponents of¬†MMT, Mr. Newman is frustrated by the pervasiveness of these falsehoods and their devastating effects on our social and economic well-being.¬† He sees what we see, the potential for a vastly more prosperous, more stable, and more secure America that is being kept out of reach through the adoption of economic policies that were designed for a country whose currency was still tied to gold. He draws many of the same ‚Äúunconventional conclusions‚Äù reached by¬†proponents of MMT: He recognizes that this runs counter to the conventional wisdom, but he insists that these truths simply follow from an accurate portrayal of ‚Äúhow the system actually works.‚Äù¬† And he should know.¬† He served as Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Treasury. Prior to that, he was Vice Chairman of the Board and CFO of BankAmerica Corporation, and Executive Vice President and CFO of Wells Fargo Bank. So when Mr. Newman writes, ‚ÄúThis author recommends¬†Mr. Mosler‚Äôs book, as well as various writings by academic proponents of ‚ÄòModern Monetary Theory‚Äô,‚Äù it really means something.
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. The Bond Market Isn't A Monolith, There Are 5 Strategies That Could Help In A Rising-Rate Environment (AllianceBernstein) The 10-year U.S. Treasury Yield jumped in May and June, but AllianceBernstein's Douglas Peebles writes that investors should reposition their portfolios instead of panicking. He writes that higher rates lie ahead even if the Fed is keeping short-term rates lower for some time. "The good news: the bond market isn‚Äôt a monolith. There are a lot of ways to reduce a portfolio‚Äôs sensitivity, or ‚Äúbeta,‚Äù to interest rates while staying true to investment goals," he writes.¬† Peebles suggests five strategies to help portfolios as in a rising-rate environment. 1. "Go global" though there is a risk from currency fluctuations. 2. "Access credit sectors‚Ä¶ Investors who are particularly conscious of interest-rate risk might consider high-yield bonds with lower duration, which indicates less interest-rate sensitivity." 3. "Tap into muni bonds." 4. "Inflation-protection strategies with lower duration." 5. "Leave the index behind." Massachusetts Sends Subpoenas To 15 Brokerages For Information On Sales Of Alternative Investments To Seniors (Investment News) Massachusetts sent subpoenas to 15 brokerages asking for information on sales practices of alternative investments to seniors in the state. Morgan Stanley, UBS, Merrill Lynch, Charles Schwab and LPL Financial are among those that are being investigated. The firms are required to respond by July 24. These firms aren't necessarily accused of wrongdoing, according to Investment News. A History Of Stock Market Corrections (Dr Ed's Blog) In the current bull market we have had three corrections i.e. declines of 10% or more. In a new blog post Ed Yardeni gives us a brief history of stock market corrections.¬† "During bull markets, corrections aren't necessarily frequent occurrences. Indeed, there was only one correction during the previous bull market, but only if the start date is pegged at October 9, 2002 rather than March 11, 2003. Between the bear market of 1987 and 2000-2003, there were just two corrections. Between the bear markets of 1980-1982 and 1987, there was only one." This chart shows corrections from 2000 - 2009. Dr. Ed's Blog Investors Must Invest Based On Their Needs, Not Their Desires (Vanguard) It's easy for investors to get caught up in all the noise that surrounds investing. Especially when by and sell calls around the market intensify. At times like this it's important for advisors to remind client's of their goals, according to Vanguard's Colleen Jaconetti. "We believe it is better to select an asset allocation based on each client's required, not desired, return‚Äîthe return necessary to achieve his or her long-term goals‚Äîwhich is often meaningfully less than the desired return. Basing asset allocation decisions on the desired return, rather than the required return, may result in selecting an asset allocation that is skewed, sometimes quite heavily and unnecessarily, toward higher-risk assets." It Is Important For Advisors To Discuss End-Of-Life Plans With Their Clients (The Wall Street Journal) It's important for advisors to discuss "end-of-life plans" with their clients, writes Beth C. Gamel of Pillar Financial Advisors in The Wall Street Journal. While the subject is sensitive advisors should have the discussions to avoid problems later on.¬† "Often I approach this part of the conversation by asking the client if they have considered what they'd like their final arrangements to be. I use that term because for some people it means picking out a plot or saying they want to be cremated. It provides a segue to then say that another important element is to clarify what you want done if you are in a state where your family will have to make a decision about the continuation of your life."
REUTERS/Chris KeaneChairman of the Federal Reserve System Ben Bernanke speaks after receiving The Citizens of the Carolinas award from the Charlotte Chamber during the Charlotte Chamber Annual Meeting at the Charlotte Convention Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, November 29, 2007. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke spoke today at the National Bureau of Economic Research Conference in Cambridge, MA. His speech was titled: "A Century of U.S. Central Banking: Goals, Frameworks, Accountability." Bernanke's speech did not include any remarks on the outlook for the U.S. economy. (Most analysts and economists expected him to save that for his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony next week.) However, Bernanke did hold a Q&amp;A, during which he commented on current Fed monetary policy. Bernanke said that the the unemployment rate probably understates the weakness in the labor market, and that the overall thrust of monetary policy remains accommodative. Furthermore, the unemployment rate may have to fall well below 6.5% in order for the Fed to raise rates. The full text of the speech is below. Stocks and bonds soared on Bernanke's remarks during the Q&amp;A. --------------------------------------- A Century of U.S. Central Banking: Goals, Frameworks, Accountability I'd like to thank the National Bureau of Economic Research for organizing this conference in recognition of the Federal Reserve's centennial, and I'm glad to have the opportunity to participate. In keeping with the spirit of the conference, my remarks today will take a historical perspective. I will leave discussion of current policy to today's question-and-answer session and, of course, to my congressional testimony next week. Today, I'll discuss the evolution over the past 100 years of three key aspects of Federal Reserve policymaking: the goals of policy, the policy framework, and accountability and communication. The changes over time in these three areas provide a useful perspective, I believe, on how the role and functioning of the Federal Reserve have changed since its founding in 1913, as well as some lessons for the present and for the future. I will pay particular attention to several key episodes of the Fed's history, all of which have been referred to in various contexts with the adjective "Great" attached to them: the Great Experiment of the Federal Reserve's founding, the Great Depression, the Great Inflation and subsequent disinflation, the Great Moderation, and the recent Great Recession. The Great ExperimentIn the words of one of the authors of the Federal Reserve Act, Robert Latham Owen, the Federal Reserve was established to "provide a means by which periodic panics which shake the American Republic and do it enormous injury shall be stopped."1¬†In short, the original goal of the Great Experiment that was the founding of the Fed was the preservation of financial stability.2¬†At the time, the standard view of panics was that they were triggered when the needs of business and agriculture for liquid funds outstripped the available supply--as when seasonal plantings or shipments of crops had to be financed, for example--and that panics were further exacerbated by the incentives of banks and private individuals to hoard liquidity during such times.3¬†The new institution was intended to relieve such strains by providing an "elastic" currency--that is, by providing liquidity as needed to individual member banks through the discount window; commercial banks, in turn, would then be able to accommodate their customers. Interestingly, although congressional advocates hoped the creation of the Fed would help prevent future panics, they did not fully embrace the idea that the Fed should help end ongoing panics by serving as lender of last resort, as had been recommended by the British economist and writer Walter Bagehot.4¬†Legislators imposed limits on the Federal Reserve's ability to lend in response to panics, for example, by denying nonmember banks access to the discount window and by restricting the types of collateral that the Fed could accept.5¬† The framework that the Federal Reserve employed in its early years to promote financial stability reflected in large measure the influence of the so-called real bills doctrine, as well as the fact that the United States was on the gold standard.6¬†In the framework of the real bills doctrine, the Federal Reserve saw its function as meeting the needs of business for liquidity--consistent with the idea of providing an elastic currency--with the ultimate goal of supporting financial and economic stability.7¬†When business activity was increasing, the Federal Reserve helped accommodate the need for credit by supplying liquidity to banks; when business was contracting and less credit was needed, the Fed reduced the liquidity in the system. As I mentioned, the Federal Reserve pursued this approach to policy in the context of the gold standard. Federal Reserve notes were redeemable in gold on demand, and the Fed was required to maintain a gold reserve equal to 40 percent of outstanding notes. However, contrary to the principles of an idealized gold standard, the Federal Reserve often took actions to prevent inflows and outflows of gold from being fully translated into changes in the domestic money supply.8¬†This practice, together with the size of the U.S. economy, gave the Federal Reserve considerable autonomy in monetary policy and, in particular, allowed the Fed to conduct policy according to the real bills doctrine without much hindrance. The policy framework of the Fed's early years has been much criticized in retrospect. Although the gold standard did not appear to have greatly constrained U.S. monetary policy in the years after the Fed's founding, subsequent research has highlighted the extent to which the international gold standard served to destabilize the global economy in the late 1920s and early 1930s.9¬†Likewise, economic historians have pointed out that, under the real bills doctrine, the Fed increased the money supply precisely at those times at which business activity and upward pressures on prices were strongest; that is, monetary policy was procyclical. Thus, the Fed's actions tended to increase rather than decrease the volatility in economic activity and prices.10¬† During this early period, the new central bank did make an important addition to its menu of policy tools. Initially, the Fed's main tools were the quantity of its lending through the discount window and the interest rate at which it lent, the discount rate. Early on, however, to generate earnings to finance its operations, the Federal Reserve began purchasing government securities in the open market--what came to be known as open market operations. In the early 1920s, Fed officials discovered that these operations affected the supply and cost of bank reserves and, consequently, the terms on which banks extended credit to their customers. Subsequently, of course, open market operations became a principal monetary policy tool, one that allowed the Fed to interact with the broader financial markets, not only with banks.11¬† I've discussed the original mandate and early policy framework of the Fed. What about its accountability to the public? As this audience knows, when the Federal Reserve was established, the question of whether it should be a private or a public institution was highly contentious. The compromise solution created a hybrid Federal Reserve System. The System was headed by a governmentally appointed Board, which initially included the Secretary of the Treasury and the Comptroller of the Currency. But the 12 regional Reserve Banks were placed under a mixture of public and private oversight, including board members drawn from the private sector, and they were given considerable scope to make policy decisions that applied to their own Districts. For example, Reserve Banks were permitted to set their own discount rates, subject to a minimum set by the Board. While the founders of the Federal Reserve hoped that this new institution would provide financial and hence economic stability, the policy framework and the institutional structure would prove inadequate to the challenges the Fed would soon face. The Great DepressionThe Great Depression was the Federal Reserve's most difficult test. Tragically, the Fed failed to meet its mandate to maintain financial stability. In particular, although the Fed provided substantial liquidity to the financial system following the 1929 stock market crash, its response to the subsequent banking panics was limited at best; the widespread bank failures and the collapse in money and credit that ensued were major sources of the economic downturn.12¬†Bagehot's dictum to lend freely at a penalty rate in the face of panic appeared to have few adherents at the Federal Reserve of that era.13¬† Economists have also identified a number of instances from the late 1920s to the early 1930s when Federal Reserve officials, in the face of the sharp economic contraction and financial upheaval, either tightened monetary policy or chose inaction. Some historians trace these policy mistakes to the early death of Benjamin Strong, governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in 1928, which left the decentralized system without an effective leader.14¬†Whether valid or not, this hypothesis raises the interesting question of what intellectual framework an effective leader would have drawn on at the time to develop and justify a more activist monetary policy. The degree to which the gold standard actually constrained U.S. monetary policy during the early 1930s is debated; but the gold standard philosophy clearly did not encourage the sort of highly expansionary policies that were needed.15¬†The same can be said for the real bills doctrine, which apparently led policymakers to conclude, on the basis of low nominal interest rates and low borrowings from the Fed, that monetary policy was appropriately supportive and that further actions would be fruitless.16¬†Historians have also noted the prevalence at the time of yet another counterproductive doctrine: the so-called liquidationist view, that depressions perform a necessary cleansing function.17¬†It may be that the Federal Reserve suffered less from lack of leadership in the 1930s than from the lack of an intellectual framework for understanding what was happening and what needed to be done. The Fed's inadequate policy frameworks ultimately collapsed under the weight of economic failures, new ideas, and political developments. The international gold standard was abandoned during the 1930s. The real bills doctrine likewise lost prestige after the disaster of the 1930s; for example, the Banking Act of 1935 instructed the Federal Reserve to use open market operations with consideration of "the general credit situation of the country," not just to focus narrowly on short-term liquidity needs.18¬†The Congress also expanded the Fed's ability to provide credit through the discount window, allowing loans to a broader array of counterparties, secured by a broader variety of collateral.19¬† The experience of the Great Depression had major ramifications for all three aspects of the Federal Reserve I am discussing here: its goals, its policy framework, and its accountability to the public. With respect to goals, the high unemployment of the Depression--and the fear that high unemployment would return after World War II--elevated the maintenance of full employment as a goal of macroeconomic policy. The Employment Act of 1946 made the promotion of employment a general objective for the federal government. Although the Fed did not have a formal employment goal until the Federal Reserve Reform Act of 1977 codified "maximum employment," along with "stable prices," as part of the Fed's so-called dual mandate, earlier legislation nudged the central bank in that direction.20¬†For example, legislators described the intent of the Banking Act of 1935 as follows: "To increase the ability of the banking system to promote stability of employment and business, insofar as this is possible within the scope of monetary action and credit administration."21¬† The policy framework to support this new approach reflected the development of macroeconomic theories--including the work of Knut Wicksell, Irving Fisher, Ralph Hawtrey, Dennis Robertson, and John Maynard Keynes--that laid the foundations for understanding how monetary policy could affect real activity and employment and help reduce cyclical fluctuations. At the same time, the Federal Reserve became less focused on its original mandate of preserving financial stability, perhaps in part because it felt superseded by the creation during the 1930s of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and Exchange Commission, along with other reforms intended to make the financial system more stable. In the area of governance and accountability to the public, policymakers also recognized the need for reforms to improve the Federal Reserve's structure and decisionmaking. The Banking Act of 1935 simultaneously bolstered the legal independence of the Federal Reserve and provided for stronger central control by the Federal Reserve Board. In particular, the act created the modern configuration of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), giving the Board the majority of votes on the Committee, while removing the Secretary of the Treasury and the Comptroller of the Currency from the Board. In practice, however, the Treasury continued to have considerable sway over monetary policy after 1933, with one economic historian describing the Fed as "in the back seat."22¬†During World War II, the Federal Reserve used its tools to support the war financing efforts. However, even after the war, Federal Reserve policy remained subject to considerable Treasury influence. It was not until the 1951 Accord with the Treasury that the Federal Reserve began to recover genuine independence in setting monetary policy. The Great Inflation and DisinflationOnce the Federal Reserve regained its policy independence, its goals centered on the price stability and employment objectives laid out in the Employment Act of 1946. In the early postwar decades, the Fed used open market operations and the discount rate to influence short-term market interest rates, and the federal funds rate gradually emerged as the preferred operating target. Low and stable inflation was achieved for most of the 1950s and the early 1960s. However, beginning in the mid-1960s, inflation began a long climb upward, partly because policymakers proved to be too optimistic about the economy's ability to sustain rapid growth without inflation.23¬† Two mechanisms might have mitigated the damage from that mistaken optimism. First, a stronger policy response to inflation--more like that observed in the 1950s--certainly would have helped.24¬†Second, Fed policymakers could have reacted to continued high readings on inflation by adopting a more realistic assessment of the economy's productive potential.25¬†Instead, policymakers chose to emphasize so-called cost-push and structural factors as sources of inflation and saw wage- and price-setting as having become insensitive to economic slack.26¬†This perspective, which contrasted sharply with Milton Friedman's famous dictum that "inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon," led to Fed support for measures such as wage and price controls rather than monetary solutions to address inflation.27¬†A further obstacle was the view among many economists that the gains from low inflation did not justify the costs of achieving it.28¬† The consequence of the monetary framework of the 1970s was two bouts of double-digit inflation. Moreover, by the end of the decade, lack of commitment to controlling inflation had clearly resulted in inflation expectations becoming "unanchored," with high estimates of trend inflation embedded in longer-term interest rates. As you know, under the leadership of Chairman Paul Volcker, the Federal Reserve in 1979 fundamentally changed its approach to the issue of ensuring price stability. This change involved an important rethinking on the part of policymakers. By the end of the 1970s, Federal Reserve officials increasingly accepted the view that inflation is a monetary phenomenon, at least in the medium and longer term; they became more alert to the risks of excessive optimism about the economy's potential output; and they placed renewed emphasis on the distinction between real--that is, inflation-adjusted--and nominal interest rates.29¬†The change in policy framework was initially tied to a change in operating procedures that put greater focus on growth in bank reserves, but the critical change--the willingness to respond more vigorously to inflation--endured even after the Federal Reserve resumed its traditional use of the federal funds rate as the policy instrument.30¬†The new regime also reflected an improved understanding of the importance of¬†providing a firm anchor, secured by the credibility of the central bank, for the private sector's inflation expectations.31¬†Finally, it entailed a changed view about the dual mandate, in which policymakers regarded achievement of price stability as helping to provide the conditions necessary for sustained maximum employment.32¬† The Great ModerationVolcker's successful battle against inflation set the stage for the so-called Great Moderation of 1984 to 2007, during which the Fed enjoyed considerable success in achieving both objectives of its dual mandate. Financial stability remained a goal, of course. The Federal Reserve monitored threats to financial stability and responded when the financial system was upset by events such as the 1987 stock market crash and the terrorist attacks of 2001. More routinely, it shared supervisory duties with other banking agencies. Nevertheless, for the most part, financial stability did not figure prominently in monetary policy discussions during these years. In retrospect, it is clear that macroeconomists--both inside and outside central banks--relied too heavily during that period on variants of the so-called Modigliani-Miller theorem, an implication of which is that the details of the structure of the financial system can be ignored when analyzing the behavior of the broader economy. An important development of the Great Moderation was the increasing emphasis that central banks around the world put on communication and transparency, as economists and policymakers reached consensus on the value of communication in attaining monetary policy objectives.33¬†Federal Reserve officials, like those at other central banks, had traditionally been highly guarded in their public pronouncements. They believed, for example, that the ability to take markets by surprise was important for influencing financial conditions.34¬†Thus, although Fed policymakers of the 1980s and early 1990s had become somewhat more explicit about policy objectives and strategy, the same degree of transparency was not forthcoming on monetary policy decisions and operations.35¬†The release of a postmeeting statement by the FOMC, a practice that began in 1994, was, therefore, an important watershed. Over time, the statement was expanded to include more detailed information about the reason for the policy decision and an indication of the balance of risks.36¬† In addition to improving the effectiveness of monetary policy, these developments in communications also enhanced the public accountability of the Federal Reserve. Accountability is, of course, essential for policy independence in a democracy. During this period, economists found considerable evidence that central banks that are afforded policy independence in the pursuit of their mandated objectives deliver better economic outcomes.37¬† One cannot look back at the Great Moderation today without asking whether the sustained economic stability of the period somehow promoted the excessive risk-taking that followed. The idea that this long period of calm lulled investors, financial firms, and financial regulators into paying insufficient attention to building risks must have some truth in it. I don't think we should conclude, though, that we therefore should not strive to achieve economic stability. Rather, the right conclusion is that, even in (or perhaps, especially in) stable and prosperous times, monetary policymakers and financial regulators should regard safeguarding financial stability to be of equal importance as--indeed, a necessary prerequisite for--maintaining macroeconomic stability. Macroeconomists and historians will continue to debate the sources of the remarkable economic performance during the Great Moderation.38¬†My own view is that the improvements in the monetary policy framework and in monetary policy communication, including, of course, the better management of inflation and the anchoring of inflation expectations, were important reasons for that strong performance. However, we have learned in recent years that while well-managed monetary policy may be necessary for economic stability, it is not sufficient. The Financial Crisis, the Great Recession, and TodayIt has been about six years since the first signs of the financial crisis appeared in the United States, and we are still working to achieve a full recovery from its effects. What lessons should we take for the future from this experience, particularly in the context of a century of Federal Reserve history? The financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession reminded us of a lesson that we learned both in the 19th century and during the Depression but had forgotten to some extent, which is that severe financial instability can do grave damage to the broader economy. The implication is that a central bank must take into account risks to financial stability if it is to help achieve good macroeconomic performance. Today, the Federal Reserve sees its responsibilities for the maintenance of financial stability as coequal with its responsibilities for the management of monetary policy, and we have made substantial institutional changes in recognition of this change in goals. In a sense, we have come full circle, back to the original goal of the Federal Reserve of preventing financial panics.39¬† How should a central bank enhance financial stability? One means is by assuming the lender-of-last-resort function that Bagehot understood and described 140 years ago, under which the central bank uses its power to provide liquidity to ease market conditions during periods of panic or incipient panic. The Fed's many liquidity programs played a central role in containing the crisis of 2008 to 2009. However, putting out the fire is not enough; it is also important to foster a financial system that is sufficiently resilient to withstand large financial shocks. Toward that end, the Federal Reserve, together with other regulatory agencies and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, is actively engaged in monitoring financial developments and working to strengthen financial institutions and markets. The reliance on stronger regulation is informed by the success of New Deal regulatory reforms, but current reform efforts go even further by working to identify and defuse risks not only to individual firms but to the financial system as a whole, an approach known as macroprudential regulation. Financial stability is also linked to monetary policy, though these links are not yet fully understood. Here the Fed's evolving strategy is to make monitoring, supervision, and regulation the first line of defense against systemic risks; to the extent that risks remain, however, the FOMC strives to incorporate these risks in the cost-benefit analysis applied to all monetary policy actions.40¬† What about the monetary policy framework? In general, the Federal Reserve's policy framework inherits many of the elements put in place during the Great Moderation. These features include the emphasis on preserving the Fed's inflation credibility, which is critical for anchoring inflation expectations, and a balanced approach in pursuing both parts of the Fed's dual mandate in the medium term. We have also continued to increase the transparency of monetary policy. For example, the Committee's communications framework now includes a statement of its longer-run goals and monetary policy strategy.41¬†In that statement, the Committee indicated that it judged that inflation at a rate of 2 percent (as measured by the annual change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures) is most consistent over the longer run with the FOMC's dual mandate. FOMC participants also regularly provide estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment; those estimates currently have a central tendency of 5.2 to 6.0 percent. By helping to anchor longer-term expectations, this transparency gives the Federal Reserve greater flexibility to respond to short-run developments. This framework, which combines short-run policy flexibility with the discipline provided by the announced targets, has been described as constrained discretion.42¬†Other communication innovations include early publication of the minutes of FOMC meetings and quarterly postmeeting press conferences by the Chairman. The framework for implementing monetary policy has evolved further in recent years, reflecting both advances in economic thinking and a changing policy environment. Notably, following the ideas of Lars Svensson and others, the FOMC has moved toward a framework that ties policy settings more directly to the economic outlook, a so-called forecast-based approach.43¬†In particular, the FOMC has released more detailed statements following its meetings that have related the outlook for policy to prospective economic developments and has introduced regular summaries of the individual economic projections of FOMC participants (including for the target federal funds rate). The provision of additional information about policy plans has helped Fed policymakers deal with the constraint posed by the effective lower bound on short-term interest rates; in particular, by offering guidance about how policy will respond to economic developments, the Committee has been able to increase policy accommodation, even when the short-term interest rate is near zero and cannot be meaningfully reduced further.44¬†The Committee has also sought to influence interest rates further out on the yield curve, notably through its securities purchases. Other central banks in advanced economies, also confronted with the effective lower bound on short-term interest rates, have taken similar measures. In short, the recent crisis has underscored the need both to strengthen our monetary policy and financial stability frameworks and to better integrate the two. We have made progress on both counts, but more needs to be done. In particular, the complementarities among regulatory and supervisory policies (including macroprudential policy), lender-of-last-resort policy, and standard monetary policy are increasingly evident. Both research and experience are needed to help the Fed and other central banks develop comprehensive frameworks that incorporate all of these elements. The broader conclusion is what might be described as the overriding lesson of the Federal Reserve's history: that central banking doctrine and practice are never static. We and other central banks around the world will have to continue to work hard to adapt to events, new ideas, and changes in the economic and financial environment.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAll the noise in investment media often prompts investors to change their asset allocations In new commentary, Vanguard points out that at such times it is important for advisors to remind clients that they need to focus on their long term goals. And that market timing could bring them huge returns, but it could also bring them huge losses. Investment analyst Colleen Jaconetti of Vanguard explained what advisors need to remind their clients of:¬† "Advisors tend to have a better perspective than their clients about the need to bear some investment risk to increase the likelihood of clients' achieving their long-term financial goals. Some clients may have a tendency to misjudge the extent of this risk. Many times clients may advocate for asset allocations based on targets or desired returns that may be the result of a number of influences, such as clients' unique return experiences or their expectations set by historical returns or the investment media in general. "We believe it is better to select an asset allocation based on each client's required, not desired, return‚Äîthe return necessary to achieve his or her long-term goals‚Äîwhich is often meaningfully less than the desired return. Basing asset allocation decisions on the desired return, rather than the required return, may result in selecting an asset allocation that is skewed, sometimes quite heavily and unnecessarily, toward higher-risk assets." Jaconetti says advisors should always ask clients if their goal or circumstances have changed. "Listening, empathizing, and reviewing financial goals will help keep clients on track toward their long-term objectives."
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke listens to his introduction prior to speaking at the Regional Leaders Issues Conference in Washington at the Library of Congress in Washington, June 13, 2006. Ben Bernanke is commenting on monetary policy following the speech he just delivered at the NBER conference in Boston this afternoon. The Federal Reserve chairman is striking a decidedly dovish tone in the Q&amp;A, and investors are buying Treasury futures in after-hours trading. His remarks help to clear up the confusion that has gripped the bond market in recent weeks. The gist is this: Just because the Fed may begin tapering soon, interest rates will still be pinned at current ultra-low levels for a long time. Bernanke said that the unemployment rate ‚Äì a key indicator that will determine the future path of Fed monetary policy ‚Äì probably understates the weakness in the U.S. labor market. That the onset of tapering should not be taken as a sign of an imminent rate hikes is something that the Fed has communicated in various ways, but has not spelled out this cogently or forcefully. Two other points that Bernanke really drove home hard: Bottom line: No rate hike for a long time, and the interest rate spike is of some concern to the Fed. Stocks and bonds are soaring in after-hours trading. The chart below shows the reaction to Bernanke's comments in 5-year U.S. Treasury futures (the 5-year sector comprises the Fed's biggest holdings of Treasuries). Thinkorswim And here is the reaction in S&amp;P 500 futures: Thinkorswim
The news that the SEC will begin allowing hedge fund to publicly advertise has set Twitter ablaze with suggestions for slogans. Or, as they say on twitter, #hedgefundslogans. Some of our favorites: "Fee all that you can fee." "Trades great! More billing!"‚Äî "Can't spell hedge fund without F-U-N!" "You may remember our stock picks on Twitter" "Please don't squeeze the Ackman" "Two and Twenty-Somethings" "Alpha for the rest of us!" "Come for the survivorship bias-inflated returns, stay for the five year lock-up period." ¬†"Hedged today, gone tomorrow." "I don't always pay for underperformance, but when I do I pay 2 and 20." ¬†"Real men don't need liquidity" ¬†"I'm a Tepper, You're a Tepper" ¬†They SEC, NFA, and @whitehouse are in our pockets.... Shouldn't you be? ¬†‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney.¬†Follow me on Twitter¬†@Carney
Susan Sheehan GalleryNo Picassos will adorn Bernie Madoff's prison cell walls. And high-end collectors eager to get ahold of the $17 billion Ponzi schemer's art†ó out of spite or otherwise†ó can bid on his 61 piece collection†at auctions at Sotheby's in Manhattan and†Stair Galleries†in Hudson, New York, Bloomberg reports. Though the collection is extensive, not every art appraiser is impressed. "It's a fairly lackluster group," art appraiser Victor Wiener told Bloomberg.†ìIf you think about the amount of money this man had, he could have been buying fabulous paintings.î And here's what's in there (from Bloomberg): The highlights include a 1947 Picasso lithograph depicting a black bull, a set of six 1973 bull lithographs by Roy Lichtenstein and a small 1952 Matisse crayon drawing of a womanís head. While there also are important postwar artists -- Andy Warhol, Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Brice Marden, Cy Twombly, Ellsworth Kelly -- most are represented by works on paper that are part of large editions. For years trustees have been liquidating Madoff's toys ó like yachts and sports cars†ó†to benefit his victims. The items, formerly festooned in Madoff's Manhattan and Queens offices, have an insured value of more than $575,000. Oh well.
REUTERS/Allen Fredrickson William Ackman, a shareholder of Target Corporation, leaves the annual shareholders meeting following a vote by shareholders to keep the current Target Board members at a new Target store in Waukesha, Wisconsin in this May 28, 2009.BOSTON (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager William Ackman's strong returns have made him into one of Wall Street's biggest managers, but even he may struggle to raise $1 billion in the next week for a single stock fund whose target he won't identify, say investors. One of his clients, the Public Employees Retirement Association of New Mexico, which first invested with Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management in 2010, has already said it will take a pass on the new special investment vehicle, unwilling to hand over so much cash for such a long time. "We were notified of the PS (Pershing Square) special vehicle, but will not be investing as it has a longer lock-up than what we'd like," said Jason Goeller, who oversees hedge fund investments at the $13 billion pension fund. Ackman, an activist investor whose taste for shaking up staid corporations has earned clients an average 16 percent a year over his firm's eight-year lifetime, set the $2.25 trillion hedge fund industry buzzing this week with his latest offer: a new special investment vehicle with a three-year lockup until September 30, 2016. In a letter, seen by Reuters, he says it will pay off "if we are successful in effectuating change." He will not name the company for fear of having someone else step in front of him and he has put an usually aggressive timeframe - 10 days - on raising the $1 billion needed at a time investors are taking more not less time to finalize investment choices. A spokeswoman for Pershing Square declined to comment. Calling the offer "a big ask" and comparing it to writing Ackman a "blank check", a handful of industry investors speculated that many potential clients will say no just as New Mexico is doing. "This is going to be a much tougher slog than when he raised money for the fund that invested in Target," said a person who allocates money to hedge funds but did not want to be identified as he mulls his own allocations. He was referring to one of Ackman's previous special-purpose vehicles that invested with retailer Target and had to be shut down after 90 percent of the money was lost. While losses in the Target-only fund were accelerated by the use of options to leverage the bet, Ackman is doing it differently now. "We do not intend to use a material amount of financial or option leverage, if any," he said adding that if the uses options to acquire the stock of the unnamed company, they will be converted to stock as soon as possible. The Target fund is a black mark on Ackman's record, but his other special-purpose investment bets on Sears and Burger King fared better. Even though a good number of investors may shy away because the proposition appears risky, there is bound to be interest. "This is a bet on his investment acumen," said Stewart Massey, chief investment officer at Massey Quick which invests with hedge funds for individuals and institutions. This year's returns are modest - up 6.3 percent after fees in the first half while the broader Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index gained 12.6 percent - but Pershing Square's long-term returns are among the best in the industry. "People want to feel like they are part of something special and this can make them feel that," said one person who has money with Ackman now and speculated on how the money raising may go. Besides betting on Ackman's reputation, they may also like the lower fees he is offering. Management fees for this investment are 0.25 percent per year, down from the industry's traditional 2 percent fee. Incentive fees, normally 20 percent or more, can be as low as 5 percent if an investor puts in $200 million or more. Another trend that might help Ackman is a general shift in asset allocations in the wake of the recent bond market drubbing where investors are saying they are taking fresh interest in stock pickers. Activist hedge funds, which normally bet on stocks, are especially popular, and profitable, right now with assets having climbed six-fold to $73 billion over the last decade, data from Hedge Fund Research show. Indeed if this fund raising effort is successful, experts say Ackman could strike at some of the industry's very largest companies that have long been inoculated from activists' because of their size. "There is probably room for activism at large cap companies," said Damien Park, managing partner at consulting firm Hedge Fund Solutions. "And while it will be tough to go after these companies, Ackman has the appetite."
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokTimes are tough for famed equity analyst Meredith Whitney. Whitney ‚Äî¬†who gained national attention during the financial crisis for correctly predicting that Citigroup would have to cut dividends due to capital concerns ‚Äî¬†is down to just one full-time staffer at her eponymous advisory firm. The Wall Street Journal recently reported Meredith Whitney Advisory Group has lost half its clients¬†in addition to shrinking from five full-time investment professionals to one¬†in the past two years. Just a few years ago Wall Street was hanging on her every word. Not anymore. Whitney's new book "The Fate of the States: the New Geography of American Prosperity" calls¬†that state municipal bonds are about to collapse, a prediction that has yet to materialize. It may be a rough patch for Whitney, but once you know where she came from, you probably won't count her out. Myles Meserve contributed reporting.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueChairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke remains seated during a break in a hearing held by the House Financial Services Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington September 20, 2007. The hearing was on "Legislative and Regulatory Options for Minimizing and Mitigating Mortgage Foreclosures." Markets didn't do a whole lot today. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
For all the anxiety, the†"new normal"†has performed a lot like the old. Or at least the normal we were accustomed to in the back half of the 1990's. Perhaps not quite Livin' La Vida Loca "normal". But when you compare our equity market returns over the past 5 years with the rest of the world - †Gisele†wasn't the only one to turn her back on the U.S. right before Old Glory caught another strong breeze.† Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology All joking aside, we have tremendous respect for Mohammed el-Erian's sharp investing acumen and intuitive market philosophies. To his credit, many of the economic, monetary and fiscal predictions outlined by him in 2009 have held up. Growth has been disappointedly sluggish and unemployment stubbornly high. He was also on the mark initially in anticipating that emerging markets would lead the way in the recovery.  Where his and many participants expectations went astray was in assuming the shift in economic leadership away from the U.S. and the dollar to developing nations (particularly in Asia) - had room to run. In true contrarian fashion, the concept practically top ticked the balance of the world's outperformance (namely China) in the recovery and a major pivot for the dollar.† Erik Swarts/Market AnthropologyToday, as conventional market wisdom has firmly embraced the notion that the U.S. under the stewardship of the Fed is the safest neighborhood to park ones capital, the original tenet of outperformance by developing nations - particularly China, is now overgrown with pessimism and stands of contrarian tinder.† While we agree it looks rather bleak in the East right now, we know markets have been discounting these conditions for some time. †Considering the Fed has written the playbook of monetary intervention, we wouldn't be surprised to see China pull a page or two in the coming months or even write a new chapter of their own.†For reference, our Shanghai Composite comparative with the SPX, circa 1982 - may hold some clues.Erik Swarts/Market Anthropology

UPDATE:¬†Initially, stocks, bonds, and gold rose after the release of the FOMC minutes at 2 PM. However, all of those gains have been erased, and the S&amp;P 500 and Treasuries are now lower than their pre-release levels, while gold is unchanged from where it was at prior to the release. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1650, down 0.1% on the day. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note stands at 2.67%. Gold is trading around $1248 an ounce, up just 0.2%. ¬†------------ EARLIER:¬†The Federal Reserve just released the minutes from the FOMC's June monetary policy meeting, and markets are liking the news. The main headlines from the minutes were that although several on the Committee saw tapering as likely warranted soon, they also need to see more gains in labor market data in order to begin tapering. Stocks, bonds, and gold are all moving higher in the wake of the release. Meanwhile, the dollar has fallen sharply against both the euro and the yen. Right now, the¬† The S&amp;P 500 is now trading around 1657, up from levels around 1650 right before the release. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is 4 basis points lower from prior to the release at 2.63%. Gold is trading at $1258 an ounce, up around $10 from where it was before the release. The chart below shows the drop in 10-year U.S. Treasury yields following the release as investors give bonds a bid. MarketWatch
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke listens to questions about the inflation rate during his testimony before the Joint Economic Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington April 27, 2006. The minutes from the Federal Reserve's June FOMC monetary policy meeting are out. Some of the key headlines from the text, via Bloomberg: In other words, this is more of the same ‚Äì not much new information here. However, markets are reacting favorably to the release. Below is the full text of the minutes. ------------------¬† A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, June 18, 2013, at 1:30 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, June 19, 2013, at 9:00 a.m. PRESENT:Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanJames BullardElizabeth DukeCharles L. EvansEsther L. GeorgeJerome H. PowellSarah Bloom RaskinEric RosengrenJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, and Charles I. Plosser, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively Gregory L. Stefani, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland William B. English, Secretary and EconomistMatthew M. Luecke, Assistant SecretaryDavid W. Skidmore, Assistant SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist Thomas A. Connors, Troy Davig, Michael P. Leahy, James J. McAndrews, Stephen A. Meyer, David Reifschneider, Geoffrey Tootell, Christopher J. Waller, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors James A. Clouse and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Matthew J. Eichner, Deputy Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Maryann F. Hunter, Deputy Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Ellen E. Meade and Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Daniel M. Covitz, Eric M. Engen, and Thomas Laubach, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Sean D. Campbell and Joshua Gallin, Deputy Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Jane E. Ihrig and David L√≥pez-Salido, Deputy Associate Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Joseph W. Gruber, Assistant Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Deborah J. Lindner, Group Manager, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Patrice Robitaille, Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Seung J. Lee, Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Peter M. Garavuso, Records Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors James M. Lyon, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis David Altig and Loretta J. Mester, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Philadelphia, respectively Lorie K. Logan, David Marshall, Mark E. Schweitzer, and Kei-Mu Yi, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, Cleveland, and Minneapolis, respectively Evan F. Koenig, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Andreas L. Hornstein, Senior Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond John Fernald, Senior Research Adviser, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Discussion of Guidelines for Policy NormalizationIn light of the changes in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio over the past two years, the Committee again discussed its strategy for the eventual normalization of the stance of monetary policy and the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet that was released in the minutes of the Committee's June 2011 meeting. Although most participants saw this review as prudent longer-range planning, some felt that the discussion was premature. Meeting participants, in general, continued to view the broad principles set out in 2011 as still applicable. Nonetheless, they agreed that many of the details of the eventual normalization process would likely differ from those specified two years ago, that the appropriate details would depend in part on economic and financial developments between now and the time when it becomes appropriate to begin normalizing monetary policy, and that the Committee would need to provide additional information about its intentions as that time approaches. Participants continued to think that the Federal Reserve should, in the long run, hold predominantly Treasury securities. Most, however, now anticipated that the Committee would not sell agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) as part of the normalization process, although some indicated that limited sales might be warranted in the longer run to reduce or eliminate residual holdings. A couple of participants stated that they preferred that the Committee make no decision about sales of MBS until closer to the start of the normalization process. Participants agreed that the Committee's focus continued to be on providing appropriate monetary accommodation to promote a stronger recovery in the context of price stability and so judged that additional discussion regarding policy normalization should be deferred. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe Manager of the SOMA reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as the System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) met on April 30-May 1, 2013. The review included a report that the System's purchases of longer-term assets did not appear to have had an adverse effect on the functioning of the markets for Treasury securities or agency MBS, and that the Open Market Desk's operations in both sectors had proceeded smoothly. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed for the June 18-19 meeting suggested that economic activity continued to increase at a moderate rate in the second quarter. Private-sector employment expanded further in recent months, and the unemployment rate in April and May was below its first-quarter average, although it continued to be elevated. Consumer price inflation was subdued, partly reflecting transitory influences. However, measures of longer-run inflation expectations remained stable. Private nonfarm employment rose moderately in April and May, while total government employment continued to decline somewhat. The unemployment rate was 7.6 percent in May, little changed from its level in April. The labor force participation rate edged up in May, but was still slightly below its first-quarter average, and the employment-to-population ratio increased a bit in recent months. The rate of long-duration unemployment declined slightly, while the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was little changed; both of these measures remained well above their pre-recession levels. Forward-looking indicators of near-term labor market activity were mixed but generally pointed to some further improvement in labor market conditions in the coming months: Household expectations of the labor market situation improved; initial claims for unemployment insurance were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period; and firms' hiring plans edged up. However, measures of job openings and the rate of gross private-sector hiring were about flat, on balance, in recent months and remained near their levels of a year ago. Manufacturing production increased slightly in May after declining in the previous two months, and the rate of manufacturing capacity utilization in May was lower than in the first quarter. Automakers' schedules indicated that the pace of motor vehicle assemblies would hold roughly steady in the coming months, and broader indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, were generally at subdued levels that pointed to only modest increases in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose in April. In May, nominal retail sales, excluding those at motor vehicle and parts outlets, increased briskly, while light motor vehicle sales moved up solidly. Some key factors that tend to support growth in household spending were positive in recent months. After decreasing in the first quarter when payroll and income taxes increased, households' real disposable income rose in April, in part reflecting a small decline in consumer prices. Households' net worth likely increased in recent months, as equity values and home prices rose further. Moreover, consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved notably, on balance, in May and early June and was at its most upbeat level since the onset of the recession. Conditions in the housing sector generally improved further, but construction activity was still at a relatively low level, and demand continued to be restrained by tight credit standards for mortgage loans. Starts of new single-family homes declined, on net, in April and May, but permits rose, suggesting gains in construction in the coming months. Starts of new multifamily units decreased in April but increased in May. Home prices continued to rise rapidly through April, while sales of both new and existing homes advanced. Real business expenditures on equipment and software appeared to slow somewhat going into the second quarter after expanding modestly earlier in the year. Nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft decreased in April, but nominal new orders for these capital goods increased and were slightly above the level of shipments, pointing to modest gains in shipments in the near term. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, also suggested that outlays for business equipment would continue to rise at only a modest pace in the coming months. Nominal business spending for nonresidential construction increased in April after it had declined in the first quarter. Business inventories in most industries appeared to be broadly aligned with sales in recent months. Real federal government purchases appeared to be declining less rapidly going into the second quarter than they had during the first quarter, as decreases in defense spending slowed, on balance, in April and May. The ongoing declines in real state and local government purchases appeared to moderate over recent months; the payrolls of these governments expanded in April and May, but state and local construction expenditures continued to decline noticeably. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in March but widened in April, leaving the level of the trade deficit in April similar to its average in the first quarter. Both imports and exports fell in March but largely recovered in April, although oil imports remained below their first-quarter average. Exports of consumer goods and automotive products reached new highs in April, but exports of agricultural products declined. Overall U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, edged down in April, while the consumer price index (CPI) rose somewhat in May. Both the CPI and the PCE price index increased at a subdued rate over the most recent 12-month period for each series. After declining in the previous two months, consumer energy prices rose a little in May, and retail gasoline prices, measured on a seasonally adjusted basis, were up further in the first couple of weeks in June. Consumer food prices edged down in May after rising modestly in April. Partly reflecting some transitory factors, such as a one-time reduction in Medicare prices associated with the federal government spending sequestration, consumer prices excluding food and energy only edged up in April but rose slightly more in May. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed in May and early June; longer-term inflation expectations in the survey also were essentially flat and remained within the narrow range that they have occupied for a number of years. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages remained modest. Compensation per hour in the nonfarm business sector increased moderately over the year ending in the first quarter, and, with a small rise in productivity, unit labor costs advanced only a little. Gains in average hourly earnings for all employees were muted, on balance, in April and May. Foreign economic growth remained sluggish so far this year. A slower pace of expansion in many emerging market economies (EMEs), including China, since the beginning of the year offset an increase in the average rate of economic growth in the advanced foreign economies. In Japan, where recent policy measures appeared to have boosted household confidence, economic growth picked up noticeably early in the year. Recent indicators of Canadian economic activity also strengthened. However, indicators for the euro-area economies remained weak. A decline in commodity prices and continued lackluster economic growth contributed to a decline in foreign inflation. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial markets were volatile during the intermeeting period as investors reacted to incoming economic data and Federal Reserve communications. Information about the U.S. economy was somewhat better, on balance, than investors had anticipated, apparently giving them greater confidence in the economic outlook. Federal Reserve communications over the period reportedly were interpreted by market participants as pointing to a less accommodative stance of future monetary policy than they previously had expected. Market-based indicators suggested that investors revised up their expectations about the path of the federal funds rate in coming years. Forward rates two to three years ahead derived from overnight index swaps shifted up 25 to 40 basis points over the intermeeting period, likely reflecting both an increase in the expected path for the federal funds rate and an increase in term premiums. In contrast to the readings from financial market quotes, which suggested that investors had come to expect the FOMC to increase its target for the federal funds rate sooner than they previously had anticipated, the results from the Desk's survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the June meeting showed little material change, on balance, in the dealers' expectations of the most likely timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate target. Nominal yields on Treasury securities rose sharply over the intermeeting period amid some better-than-expected U.S. economic data and Federal Reserve communications that were interpreted by market participants as signaling a possible earlier-than-expected reduction in the pace of purchases under the FOMC's flow-based asset purchase program. Nominal yields on 5- to 30-year Treasury securities increased about 35 to 55 basis points. Yields on agency MBS rose more than those on comparable-maturity Treasury securities, leaving option-adjusted spreads to Treasury securities notably wider. The rise in longer-term Treasury yields appeared to reflect both an increase in term premiums and a rise in expected future short-term rates. The rise in term premiums, in turn, likely reflected in part a reassessment of the pace and ultimate size of the Federal Reserve's asset purchase program, as well as increased uncertainty about the future path of monetary policy. Measures of inflation compensation derived from yields on nominal and inflation-protected Treasury securities fell notably but ended the intermeeting period within their ranges over the past few years. Investor perceptions of a somewhat less accommodative tone of Federal Reserve communications, as well as the softer-than-expected reading for the April CPI, likely contributed to the decline in inflation compensation. Conditions in domestic and offshore dollar funding markets were generally little changed, on balance, over the intermeeting period. In secured funding markets, rates on Treasury general collateral repurchase agreements decreased, on net, in large part because of the seasonal decline in the supply of Treasury securities. Market sentiment toward large domestic banking organizations appeared to improve somewhat over the intermeeting period, likely related in part to further reductions in nonperforming loans and growing confidence in the economic outlook. Equity prices for large domestic banks outperformed broad equity indexes over the intermeeting period, as did the equity prices for most other types of financial institutions. In contrast, equity prices for agency mortgage real estate investment trusts declined, reflecting the rise in longer-term interest rates, the underperformance of agency MBS, and weaker-than-expected earnings reports. Responses to the June Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms generally suggested little change over the past three months in the credit terms applicable to important classes of counterparties and in the use of financial leverage by most classes of counterparties covered by the survey. However, about one-fourth of dealers reported an increase in the use of leverage by hedge funds. Corporate bond yields rose significantly over the intermeeting period, and their spreads relative to comparable-maturity Treasury yields edged higher on net. Credit flows to nonfinancial businesses remained strong in May, especially through bond issuance. Gross issuance of speculative-grade corporate bonds was particularly elevated early in the intermeeting period, but such issuance slowed after mid-May in response to the rise in interest rates and in market volatility. Meanwhile, the issuance of syndicated leveraged loans remained robust in April and May, supported by strong investor demand for floating-rate corporate debt instruments. House prices continued to rise in recent months, with national home price indexes up between 5 and 12 percent over the 12-month period ending in April. As a result, the number of mortgages with negative equity was estimated to have decreased substantially. Primary mortgage rates increased with yields on MBS over the intermeeting period, and the spread between primary mortgage rates and MBS yields remained near the low end of its range over recent years. Consumer credit continued to expand at a solid pace because of the ongoing expansion in auto and student loans; credit card debt remained about flat. Issuance of consumer asset-backed securities increased strongly again in May. Growth in total bank credit moderated in April and May compared with the first quarter, as core loans slowed and securities declined slightly. Growth in commercial and industrial loans at large banks decreased noticeably in recent months, reportedly reflecting both increased paydowns and reduced originations. In contrast, increases in commercial real estate loans picked up, especially at large banks. The M2 monetary aggregate expanded at an annual rate of about 5 percent from April through mid-June. The monetary base grew at an annual rate exceeding 40 percent over the same period, driven mainly by the increase in reserve balances that resulted from the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. Over the intermeeting period, yields on 10-year sovereign debt of the advanced foreign economies followed the yields on comparable-maturity U.S. Treasury securities higher, and volatility in sovereign bond markets rose, particularly in Japan. Japanese equity markets also displayed substantial volatility; equity prices fell sharply late in the period and erased the gains that had been registered since early April, when the Bank of Japan announced that it would expand its asset purchases in order to nearly double the size of its balance sheet. European equity indexes were little changed, on net, over the period, and euro-area financial conditions remained relatively stable. Spreads of yields on Italian and Spanish government debt over yields on German bunds increased only a few basis points, while comparable spreads for Greek sovereign debt declined notably. The foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed, on average, relative to the currencies of the advanced foreign economies, but appreciated against EME currencies amid weak incoming data on economic activity and monetary policy easing in some EMEs, along with rising U.S. Treasury yields. Emerging market mutual funds experienced sharp outflows in recent weeks, while EME stock prices declined and EME credit spreads widened on net. The staff reported on potential risks to financial stability, including the stability of banking firms, nonbank financial intermediaries, and asset markets. Most market-based measures of the health of the banking sector--such as banks' stock prices, credit default swap spreads, and equity correlations--pointed to an improvement in the stability of the banking sector, in part because of rising levels of liquidity and capital as well as diminished concerns about downside risks. However, a number of indicators pointed to a modest increase in risk-taking and leverage that was largely being intermediated through the shadow banking system. Signs of upward pressures on the valuations of some risky assets were also noted. Overall, the risks to financial stability were viewed as roughly unchanged since March. Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic forecast prepared by the staff for the June FOMC meeting, the projection for near-term growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) was little changed from the one prepared for the previous meeting. However, the staff's medium-term projection for real GDP was revised up somewhat. The staff raised its projected paths for equity and home prices, which pushed up expected consumer spending over the medium term, and boosted its outlook for domestic oil production, which reduced oil imports in the forecast. These positive factors were partly offset in the staff's medium-term GDP projection by higher projected paths for both longer-term interest rates and the foreign exchange value of the dollar. Nevertheless, with fiscal policy expected to restrain economic growth this year, the staff still anticipated that the pace of expansion in real GDP would only moderately exceed the growth rate of potential output. The staff also continued to forecast that real GDP would accelerate gradually in 2014 and 2015, supported by accommodative monetary policy, an eventual easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, increases in consumer and business sentiment, and further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to slowly reduce the slack in labor and product markets over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually. In addition, although the staff did not change its view of the longer-run level of the natural rate of unemployment, it judged that the natural rate was on a more pronounced downward trajectory back toward its longer-run level than previously assumed; as a result, the staff's projection for the unemployment rate over the next two years was revised down a little, relative to its previous forecast. The staff's forecast for inflation in the near term was also revised down a little from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting, reflecting in part some of the recent softer-than-expected readings on consumer prices. Nonetheless, the staff expected that much of the recent softness in inflation would be transitory, and thus did not materially change its medium-term projection. The staff projected that inflation would pick up in the second half of this year, but given the assumption of stable longer-run inflation expectations and only modest changes in commodity and import prices as well as forecasts of gradually diminishing resource slack over the projection period, inflation was projected to still be relatively subdued through 2015. The staff viewed the uncertainty around the forecast for economic activity as normal relative to the experience of the past 20 years. However, the risks were still viewed as skewed to the downside, in part because of concerns about the situation in Europe and the ability of the U.S. economy to weather potential adverse shocks. Although the staff saw the outlook for inflation as uncertain, the risks were viewed as balanced and not unusually high. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn conjunction with this FOMC meeting, meeting participants--the 7 members of the Board of Governors and the presidents of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks, all of whom participate in the deliberations of the FOMC--submitted their assessments of real output growth, the unemployment rate, inflation, and the target federal funds rate for each year from 2013 through 2015 and over the longer run, under each participant's judgment of appropriate monetary policy.1¬†The longer-run projections represent each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would be expected to converge, over time, under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. These economic projections and policy assessments are described in the Summary of Economic Projections, which is attached as an addendum to these minutes. In their discussion of the economic situation, meeting participants generally indicated that the information received during the intermeeting period continued to suggest that the economy was expanding at a moderate pace. A number of participants mentioned that they were encouraged by the apparent resilience of private spending so far this year despite considerable downward pressure from lower government spending and higher taxes. In particular, consumer spending rose at a moderate rate, and the housing sector continued to strengthen. Business investment advanced, although only modestly, and slower economic activity abroad restrained domestic production. Overall conditions in the labor market improved further in recent months, although the unemployment rate remained elevated. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. Most participants anticipated that growth of real GDP would pick up somewhat in the second half of 2013. Growth of economic activity was projected to strengthen further during 2014 and 2015, supported by accommodative monetary policy; waning fiscal restraint; and ongoing improvements in household and business balance sheets, credit availability, and labor market conditions. Accordingly, the unemployment rate was projected to gradually decline toward levels consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. Many participants saw the downside risks to the medium-run outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished somewhat in recent months, or expressed greater confidence that stronger economic activity was in train. However, some participants noted that they remained uncertain about the projected pickup in growth of economic activity in coming quarters, and thus about the prospects for further improvement in labor market conditions, given that, in recent years, forecasts of a sustained pickup in growth had not been realized. Participants noted that consumer spending continued to increase at a moderate rate in recent months despite tax increases and only modest gains in wages. Among the factors viewed as supporting consumption were improvements in household balance sheets and in the job market, as well as low interest rates. In addition, consumer sentiment improved over the intermeeting period, which some participants attributed to rising house prices and gains in the stock market. It was noted that the mutually reinforcing dynamic of rising confidence, declining risk premiums, improving credit availability, increasing spending, and greater hiring was an important factor in the projected pickup in economic activity but also that this favorable dynamic could be vulnerable to an adverse shock. A few participants expressed some concern about the outlook for consumer spending, citing the weakness in labor income and households' cautious attitudes toward using debt. Housing markets continued to strengthen, with participants variously reporting increases in house prices, sales, and building permits; low inventories of homes on the market; and rising demand for construction supplies. The improvement in the housing sector was seen as supporting the broader economy through related spending and employment, with rising real estate values boosting household wealth, confidence, and access to credit. Participants generally were optimistic that the recovery in housing activity would be sustained, although a couple of participants were concerned that the run-up in mortgage rates in recent weeks might begin to crimp demand. However, the recent increase in mortgage purchase applications was seen as suggesting that the demand for housing was being driven by factors beyond low mortgage rates. Reports on business spending were mixed. A number of participants continued to hear that businesses were limiting their capital spending to projects intended to enhance productivity and that they remained reluctant to invest to expand capacity, or to step up hiring. Uncertainties about regulatory issues and fiscal policies as well as weak economic activity abroad were cited as factors weighing on business decisionmaking. Some businesses, particularly smaller firms, were again reported to be concerned about the implications of new health-care regulations for their labor costs. Nonetheless, a few participants reported that their business contacts expressed somewhat greater confidence in the economic outlook or reported plans to expand capacity. A pickup in bank lending to small businesses was also reported. Although the manufacturing sector slowed considerably during the spring, contacts in several Districts reported that activity turned up more recently. Reports on activity in the airline, trucking, and warehousing industries were uneven. Agriculture remained robust, supported in part by strong demand from emerging market economies. However, prospects for farm income were less positive as a result of the wet weather in the Midwest and expectations of lower prices for corn. The outlook for the energy sector remained positive. While the federal sequestration and the tax increases that became effective earlier in the year were expected to be a substantial drag on economic activity this year, the magnitude and timing of the effects remained unclear. Several participants commented that the direct effects of the cutbacks in federal spending, to date, did not appear as great as had been expected, but that they anticipated that fiscal policy would continue to restrain economic growth in coming quarters. In particular, one pointed out that the furloughs scheduled for the second half of the year were likely to reduce household income and spending. A report on the favorable fiscal condition of one state was indicative of the improvement in the budget situation at state and local governments. Participants generally agreed that labor market conditions had continued to improve, on balance, in recent months; many saw the cumulative decline in the unemployment rate and gains in nonfarm payrolls over the past nine months as considerable. Reflecting these developments, participants' forecasts for the unemployment rate at this meeting were lower than those prepared for the September 2012 meeting. Among the encouraging aspects of labor market developments since then were the step-up in average monthly gains in private employment, the breadth of job gains across industries, the decline in layoffs, and a rise in voluntary quits in some industries. However, some participants discussed a number of indicators that suggested that the improvement in broad labor market conditions was less than might be implied by the decline in the unemployment rate alone. Some pointed out that the rate of hiring still fell short of the pace that they saw as consistent with more-noticeable progress in labor market conditions, that a portion of the improvement in payroll employment since the September meeting was due to data revisions, or that there were no signs of an increase in wage pressures. Others expressed concern about the still-elevated level of long-duration joblessness and the weakness in labor force participation. Most participants still saw slack remaining in the labor market, although they differed on the extent to which the progress to date had reduced that slack and how confident they were about future labor market improvement. Inflation was low in the months prior to the meeting, with the trends in all broad measures remaining below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Several transitory factors, including a one-time reduction in Medicare costs, contributed to the recent very low inflation readings. In addition, energy prices declined, and nonfuel commodity prices were soft. Over the past year, both core and overall consumer price inflation trended lower; participants cited various alternative measures of consumer price inflation, including the trimmed mean PCE and CPI as well as the sticky price CPI, that suggested that the slowing was broad based. Market-based measures of inflation expectations decreased over the intermeeting period but remained within their ranges over the past few years. Most participants expected inflation to begin to move up over the coming year as economic activity strengthened, but many anticipated that it would remain below the Committee's 2 percent objective for some time. One participant expressed concern about the risk of a more rapid rise in inflation over the medium term, given the highly accommodative stance of monetary policy. In contrast, many others worried about the low level of inflation, and a number indicated that they would be watching closely for signs that the shift down in inflation might persist or that inflation expectations were persistently moving lower. In their discussion of financial market developments over the intermeeting period, participants weighed the extent to which the rise in market interest rates and increase in volatility reflected a reassessment of market participants' expectations for monetary policy and the extent to which it reflected growing confidence about the economic outlook. It was noted that corporate credit spreads had not widened substantially and that the stock market had posted further gains, suggesting that the higher rates reflected, at least in part, increasing confidence that moderate economic growth would be sustained. Several participants worried that higher mortgage rates and bond yields could slow the recovery in the housing market and restrain business expansion. However, some others commented that any adverse effects of the increase in rates on financial conditions more broadly appeared to be limited. A number of participants offered views on risks to financial stability. A couple of participants expressed concerns that some financial institutions might not be well positioned to weather a rapid run-up in interest rates. Two others emphasized the importance of bolstering the resilience of money market funds against disorderly outflows. And a few stated their view that a prolonged period of low interest rates would encourage investors to take on excessive credit or interest rate risk and would distort some asset prices. However, others suggested that the recent rise in rates might have reduced such incentives. While market volatility had increased of late, it was noted that the rise in measured volatility, while noticeable, occurred from a low level, and that a broad index of financial stress remained below average. One participant felt that the Committee should explore ways to calibrate the magnitude of the risks to financial stability so that those considerations could be more fully incorporated into deliberations on monetary policy. Participants discussed how best to communicate the Committee's approach to decisions about its asset purchase program and how to reduce uncertainty about how the Committee might adjust its purchases in response to economic developments. Importantly, participants wanted to emphasize that the pace, composition, and extent of asset purchases would continue to be dependent on the Committee's assessment of the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook, as well as the cumulative progress toward the Committee's economic objectives since the institution of the program last September. The discussion centered on the possibility of providing a rough description of the path for asset purchases that the Committee would anticipate implementing if economic conditions evolved in a manner broadly consistent with the outcomes the Committee saw as most likely. Several participants pointed to the challenge of making it clear that policymakers necessarily weigh a broad range of economic variables and longer-run economic trends in assessing the outlook. As an alternative, some suggested providing forward guidance about asset purchases based on numerical values for one or more economic variables, broadly akin to the Committee's guidance regarding its target for the federal funds rate, arguing that such guidance would be more effective in reducing uncertainty and communicating the conditionality of policy. However, participants also noted possible disadvantages of such an approach, including that such forward guidance might inappropriately constrain the Committee's decisionmaking, or that it might prove difficult to communicate to investors and the general public. Since the September meeting, some participants had become more confident of sustained improvement in the outlook for the labor market and so thought that a downward adjustment in asset purchases had or would likely soon become appropriate; they saw a need to clearly communicate an intention to lower the pace of purchases before long. However, to some other participants, this approach appeared likely to limit the Committee's flexibility in adjusting asset purchases in response to changes in economic conditions, which they viewed as a key element in the design of the purchase program. Others were concerned that stating an intention to slow the pace of asset purchases, even if the intention were conditional on the economy developing about in line with the Committee's expectations, might be misinterpreted as signaling an end to the addition of policy accommodation or even be seen as the initial step toward exit from the Committee's highly accommodative policy stance. It was suggested that any statement about asset purchases make clear that decisions concerning the pace of purchases are distinct from decisions concerning the federal funds rate. Participants generally agreed that the Committee should provide additional clarity about its asset purchase program relatively soon. A number thought that the postmeeting statement might be the appropriate vehicle for providing additional information on the Committee's thinking. However, some saw potential difficulties in being able to convey succinctly the desired information in the postmeeting statement. Others noted the need to ensure that any new statement language intended to provide more information about the asset purchase program be clearly integrated with communication about the Committee's other policy tools. At the conclusion of the discussion, most participants thought that the Chairman, during his postmeeting press conference, should describe a likely path for asset purchases in coming quarters that was conditional on economic outcomes broadly in line with the Committee's expectations. In addition, he would make clear that decisions about asset purchases and other policy tools would continue to be dependent on the Committee's ongoing assessment of the economic outlook. He would also draw the distinction between the asset purchase program and the forward guidance regarding the target for the federal funds rate, noting that the Committee anticipates that there will be a considerable time between the end of asset purchases and the time when it becomes appropriate to increase the target for the federal funds rate. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members viewed the information received over the intermeeting period as suggesting that economic activity had expanded at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions showed further improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remained elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector strengthened further, but fiscal policy was restraining economic growth. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth would proceed at a moderate pace and result in a gradual decline in the unemployment rate toward levels consistent with its dual mandate. With economic activity and employment continuing to grow at a moderate pace despite tighter fiscal policy, and with global financial conditions less strained, members generally saw the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished since the fall. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, partly reflecting transitory influences, but longer-run inflation expectations were stable, and the Committee anticipated that inflation over the medium term would move closer to its 2 percent objective. In their discussion of monetary policy for the period ahead, all members but one judged that the outlook for economic activity and inflation warranted the continuation of the Committee's current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy in order to foster a stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a context of price stability. In the view of one member, the improvement in the outlook for the labor market warranted a more deliberate statement from the Committee that asset purchases would be reduced in the very near future. At the conclusion of its discussion, the Committee decided to continue adding policy accommodation by purchasing additional MBS at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month and to maintain its existing reinvestment policies. In addition, the Committee reaffirmed its intention to keep the target federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and retained its forward guidance that it anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. Regarding the outlook for policy, members agreed that monetary policy in coming quarters would depend on the evolution of the economic outlook and progress toward the Committee's longer-run objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. While recognizing the improvement in a number of indicators of economic activity and labor market conditions since the fall, many members indicated that further improvement in the outlook for the labor market would be required before it would be appropriate to slow the pace of asset purchases. Some added that they would, as well, need to see more evidence that the projected acceleration in economic activity would occur, before reducing the pace of asset purchases. For one member, such a decision would also depend importantly on evidence that inflation was moving back toward the Committee's 2 percent objective; that member urged the Committee to modify its postmeeting statement to say explicitly that the Committee will act to move inflation back toward its goal. A couple of other members also worried that the downside risks to inflation had increased, with one of them suggesting that the statement more explicitly reflect this increased risk. However, several members judged that a reduction in asset purchases would likely soon be warranted, in light of the cumulative decline in unemployment since the September meeting and ongoing increases in private payrolls, which had increased their confidence in the outlook for sustained improvement in labor market conditions. Two of these members also indicated that the Committee should begin curtailing its purchases relatively soon in order to prevent the potential negative consequences of the program from exceeding its anticipated benefits. Another member pointed out that if the program were ended because of concerns about such consequences, the Committee would need to explore other options for providing appropriate monetary accommodation. Many members indicated that decisions about the pace and composition of asset purchases were distinct from decisions about the appropriate level of the federal funds rate, which would continue to be guided by the thresholds in the Committee's statement. In general, members continued to anticipate that maintaining the current exceptionally low level of the federal funds rate was likely to remain appropriate for a considerable period after asset purchases are concluded. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. The Desk is directed to continue purchasing longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $45 billion per month and to continue purchasing agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $40 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account Manager and the Secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in May suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions have shown further improvement in recent months, on balance, but the unemployment rate remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy is restraining economic growth. Partly reflecting transitory influences, inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished since the fall. The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months. The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. The Committee is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its purchases to maintain appropriate policy accommodation as the outlook for the labor market or inflation changes. In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action:¬†Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, Elizabeth Duke, Charles L. Evans, Jerome H. Powell, Sarah Bloom Raskin, Eric Rosengren, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action:¬†James Bullard and Esther L. George. Mr. Bullard dissented because he believed that, in light of recent low readings on inflation, the Committee should signal more strongly its willingness to defend its goal of 2 percent inflation. He pointed out that inflation had trended down since the beginning of 2012 and was now well below target. Going forward, he viewed it as particularly important for the Committee to monitor price developments closely and to adapt its policy in response to incoming economic information. Ms. George dissented because she viewed the ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and in the outlook as warranting a deliberate statement from the Committee at this meeting that the pace of its asset purchases would be reduced in the very near future. She continued to have concerns about maintaining aggressive monetary stimulus in the face of a growing economy and pointed to the potential for financial imbalances to emerge as a result of the high level of monetary accommodation. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, July 30-31, 2013. The meeting adjourned at 11:25 a.m. on June 19, 2013. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on May 21, 2013, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the FOMC meeting held on April 30-May 1, 2013.
Today, BTIG's Rich Greenfield issued a report saying "competitive threats are growing" to the Internet radio provider ‚Äî mostly in the form of new Apple products. He says he found the latest version of iTunes radio much more user friendly: We have noticed an increasing amount of content (independents artists such as Arcade Fire were missing from the first beta build) and increasingly accurate/fast Siri performance. Note how there are NO annoying pop-ups display ads like you find in Pandora.¬† He also noted Apple was making inroads on improving "eyes-free Siri" for automobile use, an area in which Pandora recently saw growth. Plus, he says, Google will eventually release a Youtube music service. Greenfield included the following video to demonstrate the latest version of iTunes radio. Fast forward to the 1:50-minute mark for a particularly cool moment showing how easy it is to voice-call your preferred station: 
The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate stood at 4.29% during the week of July 3 according to Freddie Mac. This is down from 4.46% the previous week, but remains sharply higher than the 3.35% during the week of May 2. There are increasing concerns that higher mortgage rates will hurt the housing recovery, which has been a force at the forefront of the U.S. economic recovery. In a new report, Morgan Stanley's Vishwanath Tirupattur finds that despite rising interest rates, mortgages are still affordable† and under their long-term average. They also found that the percent of cash buyers has doubled and they tend to be less affected by higher mortgage rates. "While higher rates historically have coincided with improving prospects for growth and employment, and thus are positively correlated with house prices, historical relationships, of course, do not have to hold up. "However, we think higher rates to date have had only second derivative effects. Thus, while we remain constructive on US home prices, we expect YTD home price gains to moderate, both due to higher rates and to recent increases in the visible supply of homes on the market, which is already reflected in our base-case projections: up 6-8% for 2013, up 4-6% for 2014 and 3-5% for 2015." Here are the three slides that show the impact of higher rates on the housing recovery in 3 slides: Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
Going ConcernNote: this story came to us from "a friend" of a test taker but it came with a photo we're going to have to heavily censor and sorry in advance to the victim but we just¬†had to¬†given the ridiculousness of this claim.  Is Prometric truly this heartless? Well, given past incidents, I guess it isn't all that ridiculous. Here's the story from the mailbag: My friend [sat for the exam] a few months ago.¬† Right after she started the simulation section, her nose randomly started bleeding.¬† Since she was in the middle of a section, she wasn't allowed to leave the testing room to go to the bathroom unless she ended her test and the¬†Prometric¬†employees would not even give her a tissue.¬† Not wanting to forfeit her test, she stayed to finish the simulations with blood dripping down her face.¬† Afterwards, she took this picture in the bathroom and sent it to me with the caption "post-CPA". Really? REALLY? Not even a tissue? That's a crime. I can¬†almost¬†understand not allowing her a pass to go to the bathroom mid-test because that might be considered unfair to the rest of the candidates who didn't have blood gushing down their faces but REALLY?! Poorly edited photo as follows (sorry, tipster, we did what we could to conceal her identity, we ain't Picasso of Photoshop over here): Now, we really must know, did she pass?
Deutsche Bank Luxury brands in China are grappling with a worrisome trifecta. 1. Policymakers cracked down on 'gift giving' at the start of the year, as citizens got increasingly frustrated with official corruption. 2. The impact of the economic slowdown on consumption. 3. Chinese are traveling more, and making their luxury purchases abroad, benefiting from weaker currencies and lower taxes. Swiss watches have been pretty hard. Back in May China said it would cut import taxes on Swiss watched by 60% over 10 years after the two nations sign a free-trade agreement. In a new report, Deutsche Bank's Francesca Di Pasquantonio writes that "de-stocking in China is not yet over." "The results of our analysis suggest that while globally exports should hold up reasonably well in a normalizing demand environment, we see de-stocking in China as not yet over, and in light of still poor sell-out indications in Q2 provided by industry players, we do not see a pick-up in supply to that region in the short term. "However, when demand normalizes, a substantial positive impact on the supply side should be reported. This could happen earlier for other luxury spending categories, but in our view it will require a bit more time for the watch industry.' The chart above looks at Swiss watch exports to Greater China, including Hong Kong, which accounts for 28% of Swiss watch exports. This luxury watch indicator if you will, shows China's slowdown registering since May 2012 in China, and September 2012 in Hong Kong.
WASHINGTON (AP) ‚Äî For the first time, hedge funds will be allowed to advertise to the general public under a rule adopted Wednesday by federal regulators.The Securities and Exchange Commission voted 4-1 to lift a decades-old ban on hedge funds marketing their investments to a wide audience. Hedge funds are still allowed to sell securities only to an exclusive group of investors: those with a net worth of at least $1 million excluding their primary residence, or annual income of more than $200,000 in each of the two most recent years. About 7.8 percent of U.S. households would qualify. The change was mandated by legislation enacted last year. The law also makes it easier for small startup companies to raise capital without having to comply immediately with SEC reporting rules. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
Market watchers expect the minutes of† last month's FOMC meeting† to confirm and clarify Federal Reserve officials' inclination toward slowing its quantitative easing program. The minutes will be released at 2:00 p.m. ET today. The†market had a negative reaction after the June 19 press conference†ó where Chairman Bernanke indicated the Fed might taper asset purchases if certain growth criteria were met.† In a note to clients, Maury Harris at UBS expects the minutes to reinforce tapering. Another new development at the June meeting was Bernanke for the first time stating that a labor market threshold for terminating any further asset purchases could be a 7.0% unemployment rate. Moreover, he said that threshold could be reached by mid-2014. He mentioned that this new guidance represents ìthe consensus of the FOMC.î He also added ìfuture policy statements may include elements of this.î We will be watching to see if the June minutes add any additional color on this subjectópotentially providing guidance on not only when the Fed will begin to taper but also when it will finish.† Paul Dales and Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics will be looking for clues regarding how recent economic data will be weighted. In particular, the markets will be looking for anything to substantiate the hint provided in a recent speech by Fed Governor Jeremy Stein that the tapering may begin in September. Stein also suggested that the Fed will not place too much emphasis on the data released between now and September, preferring to base the tapering decision on all of the data released since QE3 was launched late in 2012. That appears to contrast with the signal Bernanke sent at the press conference after Juneís meeting that tapering very much depends on the evolution of the incoming news. The minutes may shed some light on the extent to which tapering this year is a done deal. Eric Green at TD Securities, however, believes robust June job gains will only bolster the Fed's confidence in a fall taper. The market will be particularly interested in whether the minutes shed any light on the preference among members on the timing or the size of tapering. We do not expect any direct mention of a ìconsensusî date or size in the minutes, though we suspect that it could provide some characterization on the range of options being considered. Moreover, given the renewed emphasis on forward guidance another important consideration for the markets will be gauging the deliberations on the revised exit strategy and post-QE environment. Experts have converged on September as the expected tapering announcement.  Eyes will also be on whether Bernanke strikes a more dovish tone in his speech today at a National Bureau of Economic Research Conference. While Bernanke's speech this afternoon certainly sounds more professorial than policy-inspiring (it's titled†ìA Century of U.S. Central Banking: Goals, Frameworks, Accountability,î after all), market watchers will nonetheless look for any indication ó†implicit or otherwise ó†of the taper timeline and quantity.
FlickrLike a sick person, a company facing litigation is willing to spend big bucks to get out of a trouble. It's entirely justifiable, and lawyers are only too happy to oblige, billing clients for every minute worked, and then some. But is it possible to get sound counsel from someone who just pulled 52 all-nighters in a row? How about paying more than $1,000 for an hour of legal advice? And what about being charged for 26 hours in a single day? Like all consultants, some lawyers find questionable ways to squeeze money out of clients. Some are legal, some aren't, but all will make a CFO's blood boil. So review those invoices, make sure you know billing rates, and kindly remind Dewy, Cheatem and How LLP, that summer associates don't need to stay in VIP suites at the Four Seasons. To remind you of the dangers, we've updated an article from our archives by Lawrence Delevingne and Gus Lubin. Here's what to watch for: Double billing Billing two clients for the same hour of work is dubious legally and ethically. That doesn't mean it's uncommon. More than one-third of American lawyers admitted to occasionally double-billing clients in a 2007 survey from Samford University's Cumerland Law School. According to the study, the percentage of attorneys who believed that the practice was unethical fell from 64.7 percent in 1995-96 to only 51.8 percent in 2006-07, even though the practice has been condemned by the American Bar Association and most legal commentators. One egregious example is of a Long Island lawyer whose claims in government legal bills included working more than 1,200 days in a year and claiming to be a full-time employee of five different school districts, according to the ABA Journal. Padding hours Padding hours is a basic building block of consulting billing excess. Work for ninety minutes? Call it two hours. Forget how long you worked? Call it five. Avery Tolar, Gene Hackman's character in The Firm, sure made it work. According to the Samford study, "a distressingly high percentage of attorneys believe that time-based billing results in bill padding and provides incentives for attorneys to perform unnecessary work." Two-thirds of the respondents stated that they had specific knowledge of bill padding. For example, an extensive Illinois hearing board investigation into the billing records of a lawyer at Mayer Brown found that he billed more than 150 hours during a two-week period in which he actually worked less than 50. The lawyer's routine was to arrive at the office around noon, stay until the other lawyers went home around 5, and then go home himself soon after ‚Äî while claiming to stay at the office until late in the night. When he was in the office, investigators found, the lawyer made edits to documents at a rate somewhere in the range of one edit per hour. That's the more common version of over-billing, as opposed to the notorious 1990s example of an energetic Cravath attorney who billed 26 hours in a day, according to the Washington Monthly. Overhead Are you paying for your lawyer's air conditioning? Michael Vick was. Faced with a $2.66 million fee for a bankruptcy case, Vick learned that his lawyers were charging for extensive overhead expenses. As Am Law Daily noted, these included the cost of running air conditioning during the weekend; taxi rides home for employees working late; and $1,200 for plane tickets from New York to Kansas. Cromwell &amp; Moring also billed the quarterback for an incredible number of hours ‚Äî 7,200 billable hours of work over ten months, equivalent to working 24 hours a day on the Vick case for 300 straight days. Vick's fee was subsequently reduced by a disapproving judge to $1.5 million. Trivial tasks Sometimes, law firms use high billing rates to stick clients with unnecessarily expensive bills for research, secretarial work, and other low-level tasks. For example, a federal judge scolded Richards Kibbe &amp; Orbe after a firm lawyer billed $325 an hour to review an estate landscaping plan and used a $190-an-hour paralegal to deliver a letter to court, according to the Bergen Record. Why not just use FedEx? the judge asked. Expense accounts Expense reports can be great opportunities to practice greed ‚Äî er, billing creativity. You might claim reimbursement for the cost of first-class tickets when actually you flew coach. Or you could claim reimbursement for plane tickets, hotels, and meals when actually you didn't travel at all. For example, a lawyer at Sullivan &amp; Cromwell used these techniques and others to misappropriate over $500,000 before being disbarred in 2008, according to the Wall Street Journal. Besides outright false expenses, the lawyer admitted to improperly billing for personal "meals, travel and lodging" and first-class tickets on international flights, for which he paid for coach or business-class tickets, pocketing the difference. Also in 2008, a lawyer at Latham &amp; Watkins pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud for mischaracterizing more than $200,000 of expenses as reimbursable. Exorbitant rates Although fair by the virtues of the free market, there is something wrong about four-figure hourly rates. According to last year's billing survey by The National Law Journal, the highest billing rate belonged to a partner at Locke Lord's Dallas office at $1,285 an hour. Meanwhile the highest associate billing rate was $760 an hour at DLA Piper's New York office. That counsel better be good. Inefficiency High legal fees often seem like a rip-off, and once in a while, a judge agrees. In one case of indisputable inefficiency, attorneys tasked with the recovery of billions of dollars lost in the R. Allen Stanford Ponzi scheme recovered only $81 million. According to the AP, the attorneys charged $27 million for three months of shoddy work. In other words, an unprecedented 34% of the recovered sum would be paid to legal fees. The situation was improved somewhat by a judge, who rejected and withheld about $7 million in fees. Negligence Anytime you pay an upfront fee, you risk the lawyer not doing much or any work. This was a growing problem in the past year with a high number of foreclosure cases, which often involve initial payments. In a typical case last month, Gladis Heras paid a lawyer to arrange a modification of her mortgage. Months later, her bank had not been contacted about the mortgage, and the lawyer had done his best to disappear, according to the Daily Business Review. Thankfully, he was arrested after receiving dozens of complaints related to negligence and abandonment. Training Sometimes, law firms charge clients for developing talent. Recently, Tuckerbrook Alternative Investments sued Bingham McCutchen, claiming the firm stacked a case with young associates who had ‚Äúinadequate‚Äù experience. ‚ÄúThe billing statements reflect that these junior lawyers in essence were enjoying the benefits of on-the-job-training at Tuckerbrook‚Äôs expense,‚Äù the complaint states, according to Above the Law. Working while sleeping Even if clients believe the super-human hours lawyers sometimes bill, it's hard to believe any counsel coming from someone who hasn't slept in days is worth much. One extreme (if-dated) example was a partner at Chicago's Chapman &amp; Cutler, James Spiotto, who charged clients for more than 5,471 hours in a single year ‚Äì about 15 hours a day, every day. Called "possibly the hardest-working lawyer in America" by his colleagues, Spiotto claimed to have pulled 52 all-nighters in a row in 1993, working on bankruptcy matters, according to the Washington Post.
Chinese trade data unexpectedly fell in June. This has raised some concerns about the strength of the Chinese yuan. "One key policy take-away from this trade report is probably that the strength of the yuan can hardly be justified," wrote Societe Generale's Wei Yao in a note to clients. The yuan has already had a strong climb in trade-weighted terms. And this will impact the nation's export competitiveness, even as external demand remains weak. "Since end-August 2012, the CNY has gained 3.3% against the USD. Over the same period, however, the CNY has appreciated from 12.3 to 16.2 Japanese yen (JPY), a net 31.7% gain. We estimate that the CNY nominal effective exchange rate (NEER) has risen by a net 7.8% since end-August 2012," writes Standard Chartered's Robert Minikin.† Standard Chartered "The combination of the powerful climb in the CNYís trade-weighted value, Chinaís lackluster export performance and subdued domestic inflation suggests to us that more CNY appreciation is not warranted near-term," according to Minikin. China has also been cracking down on speculative Forex inflows, that has in part been reflected in the disappointing trade data. China controls capital inflows and outflows to prevent a rise in asset bubbles. "As capital inflows are curtailed, the balance in the currency market should tilt towards yuan depreciation," writes SocGen's Yao. Those betting on yuan appreciation should be more cautious.
Philippe Laffont is a Tiger Cub, a wildly successful tech hedge fund manager, and an MIT grad. In another awesome interview with OneWire¬†for their Open Door video series, he explains the path he took to get there. In a few words ‚Äî It wasn't typical. After graduating from MIT, he began his career in management consulting at McKinsey &amp; Co. Three years later, he met his wife-to-be and moved to Spain to work for her family. It was the boom days of the 90s and during this period, Laffont and his brother began buying technology stocks in their spare time. ‚ÄúOur stocks were going up‚Äîwe confused luck with skill,‚Äù Laffont recounts, ‚ÄúBut nevertheless, it gave us the passion.‚Äù As a result, one year later he moved to New York to pursue a career in tech investing. With no network in New York City, Laffont found it challenging to get hired, eventually taking a job working for free at a small mutual fund. By pure luck, Laffont wound up meeting with Julian Robertson very briefly through a friend of a friend. ‚ÄúI went straight to the point‚Ä¶I said I want to work for you, I know about technology, and I want to pick tech names.‚Äù Robertson sent him on to interview, and he was hired by Tiger Management shortly thereafter. Eventually he started Coatue Management and the rest is history. ‚ÄúThe career advice I would have,‚Äù Laffont says, ‚Äúis you need to do two things when you graduate. You need to do them both passionately. You need to do one thing passionately that is the obvious thing that you are supposed to do after you graduate‚Ä¶At the same time‚Ä¶you need to do one thing completely off the beaten path, but also passionately.‚Äù Watch Part I of Laffont‚Äôs interview below and check back tomorrow for Part II of the interview, in which Laffont discusses his investment philosophy and how to get hired at a hedge fund today. 
Mortgage banks will quote you a mortgage interest rate, with the option to pay more money upfront, in the form of ëpoints,í for a lower interest rate over the life of the loan. The quick answer to ìgood, bad or indifferent?ì Mostly bad, for most people. Itís possibly good or indifferent under very specific scenarios. One ëpointí on a mortgage means precisely 1% of the loan principal amount.† If you plan to take out a $200,000 mortgage, for example, and you pay 1 point upfront, you will pay exactly $2,000 additional at the mortgage closing, ie the time you take out the loan. The effect on your interest rate of paying 1 point varies, but might be in the order of 1/4 of 1%.[1]† At todayís rates, you might lower your 15 year mortgage interest rate from 3.75% down to 3.5%, which could lower your monthly payment on a $200,000 15 year loan by about $25. Letís do 30-year mortgages now.[2] The effect of paying 1 point on a 30-year mortgage, or $2,000, could also be in the order of 1/4 of 1%, and you could lower your 30-year mortgage interest rate from 4.75% to 4.5%, providing approximately $25 in monthly savings.† This is similar to the effect of points on a 15 year, except that a 30-year mortgage provides more time for monthly savings through the lowered interest rate. The effect of paying 3 points on a 30-year mortgage, or $6,000, could be in the order of 5/8 of 1%, lowering your interest rate from 4.75% to 4.125%, providing approximately $75 in savings per month. Does it make sense to pay points? Not for most people. The important thing to note, if you want to understand ëpointsí is that the monthly savings by paying points is a fraction of the upfront cost. In the quotes above, after paying 1 point on a 15-year or 30-year mortgage, or 3 points on the 30-year mortgage, it will take 80 months to ëbreak even.í† Thatís $2000 upfront, divided by $25/month savings, or $6000 divided by $75/month savings. Nearly 7 years to ëbreak evení on the optional points seeks like a long time to me.† I donít think of myself as particularly prone to refinancing or moving, but as I review my own 15 year history of real estate home ownership &amp; mortgages, I realize Iíve taken out 5 different mortgages.† No mortgage has lasted more than 4 years.† Granted, this is during a period of falling interest rates[3] and Iím young enough to have moved a few times in that period, but still, I think most people canít know for sure that theyíll be in the same place, in the same mortgage, for the life of a mortgage. Points make even less sense on a 15-year mortgage than they do for a 30-year, since thereís less opportunity to ride out the life of loan, past the 7.7 year break-even point. Receiving, rather than paying, points My mortgage lender[4] also offers the option to receive points, essentially payment toward closing costs, in exchange for a higher mortgage interest rate.† This process works the same way, except that you get $2,000 applied to lower your upfront costs but might agree for example to pay an additional 1/4 of 1%, raising the rate from 4.5% to 4.75%. The breakeven calculation for ëreceiving pointsí now would work the other way, in that youíre worse off the longer you stay in the same mortgage.† In the specific situation that you knew you only wanted to stay in a house for 3 years, it might make sense to lower your closing costs through receiving points. The larger issue, however, is that if you knew you would stay in a house for only 3 years you probably should think twice about buying, since home ownership is risky and you could end up losing money in the short run. In sum, on mortgage points: Donít do it.† Thatís all. Tax deductibility of mortgage points Ok, not quite all.† One additional factor about paying mortgage points is that they are tax deductible in the year you signed the loan.† Mortgage points are considered ëpre-paid interest,í which allows you to itemize them on your income taxes, just like other mortgage interest.† Now, that is all. Please see related Mortgage posts: † Part I ñ I refinanced my mortgage and today Iím a Golden God Part II ñ Should I pay my mortgage early? Part III ñ Why are 15-year mortgages cheaper than 30-year mortgages? Part V ñ Is mortgage debt ëgood debtí A dangerous drug?† Or Both? Part VI ñ What happens at the Wall Street level to my mortgage? [1] There is not a precise formula for knowing in advance what effect paying points will have on the mortgage interest rate youíre quoted by a bank.† These examples are real, taken from mortgage quotes Iíve asked for at todayís rates, but you can expect theyíll vary somewhat within a range.† My goal here is to give a sense for likely ranges. [2] I started with 15-year mortgage rates because, did I mention I refinanced into a 15-year mortgage? [3] And that trend might have permanently reversed itself last month! [4] USAA.com.† Guys, whatís it going to take for you to start advertising on bankers-anonymous.com?† Jeez.
The Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey (CBRT)†has intervened in the foreign exchange market six times already today to prop up the value of the Turkish lira. Over the course of those six auctions, the central bank has flooded the market with $1.4 billion in hard currency in order to boost the lira against the dollar ñ but it isn't having much luck. The chart below shows the dollar-lira exchange rate today. Despite all of the dollars being sold into the market by the CBRT, the lira keeps weakening against the dollar. The lira has been among the hardest-hit emerging market currencies since May, when rising fears that the Federal Reserve would begin to taper back monetary stimulus sooner than expected hit markets around the world. Political unrest in Turkey over the past several weeks hasn't helped the currency. Right now, the dollar is up 0.5% against the lira, trading around†1.9540. Thinkorswim

Yesterday the rumor was that Bill Ackman, activist hedge fund manager extraordinaire, is raising money to buy a significant stake in a major American company, and that company is FedEx. Pershing Square, Ackman's fund, had no comment. But the stock shot up 6% anyway as some argued the company fit all of Ackman's critera ó a company that is "simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow -generative and enjoys high barriers to entry." He also said that it "substantially lower multiple of earnings than its most comparable competitor." In a note this morning, RBC analyst John Barnes said basically... ummm no, FedEx ain't it.  He has an underperform rating on the stock ó one that is sure to change if Pershing does indeed buy a stake in the company ó and says that it doesn't actually fit Ackman's critera because it lacks high customer switching costs and significant pricing power. From Barnes' note: ...we believe FDX falls short on the more salient criteria, namely high customer switching costs and significant pricing power. In our view, FDX does not truly benefit from either of these advantages. We think the point regarding one principle line of business is debatable. While it's true that the lion's share of FDX's revenue and earnings are derived from package delivery, the company does so through several distinct networks, which we believe would be very difficult to integrate from both an operational and cost standpoint. As a final note, we highlight that a $3B investment would give Pershing Square a 9% stake in the company at current market prices. Chairman and CEO Fred Smith has a 6.2% stake in the company, so we believe Pershing Square would likely have to fight a proxy battle in order to get management to take a new course of action. We believe such a proxy battle would be risky at this point since FDX is still in the early stages of an aggressive series of turnaround initiatives. Proxy battle? Who has time for that? Additionally: ...this is a binary event and in the event that FDX is not the target, we believe the stock will likely sell off aggressively...FDX is struggling with a bloated Express infrastructure and cost structure, an under-utilized aircraft fleet and dealing with the trade down from air service to ground service, further exacerbating the under utilization of the Express network. Further, we believe that if an activist shareholder, whether it be Pershing Square or another one, is in fact interested in FDX, it is doing so because it believes it can seat a management team that can deliver better results quicker and more materially than management's current cost reduction and network rationalization efforts. If FDX was performing well and trading at a multiple that is in-line or higher than its closest competitor, an activist shareholder probably wouldnít be interested. If that convinced you, it's time to start looking around again. For what it's worth, the stock is down very slightly today, about 0.08%. Either way, we'll all find out which stock it is by July 18th. Ackman wants investors to commit at least $1 million (of a total of $1 billion) by July 17th. Until then let your speculations run WILD ó and let us know if you have any bright ideas.
There have been three corrections in the S&amp;P 500 so far during the current bull market, in 2010 (-16.0% lasting 69 days), in 2011 (-19.4% lasting 154 days), and in 2012 (-9.9% lasting 59 days). That means that since the start of the bull market, there have been four relief rallies that more than offset the corrections along the way, with the S&amp;P 500 still up a whopping 144%. Last year‚Äôs correction troughed on June 1. There have been a few downdrafts since then, but no corrections.  During bull markets, corrections aren't necessarily frequent occurrences. Indeed, there was only one correction during the previous bull market, but only if the start date is pegged at October 9, 2002 rather than March 11, 2003. Between the bear market of 1987 and 2000-2003, there were just two corrections. Between the bear markets of 1980-1982 and 1987, there was only one. (See our¬†Bear Markets &amp; Corrections Since 1929¬†and the companion¬†table.)  Today's Morning Briefing: The Latest Relief Rally.¬†(1) Despite three corrections totaling 45%, bull is up 144%. (2) No correction since June 1, 2012. (3) The latest mini-correction was a drop of 5.8%, followed by a gain of 5.0%. (4) If phasing out QE is our only problem, then life is good. (5) Backup in bond yields almost over thanks to NZIRP. (6) Obamacare may be in intensive care. (7) Insurance exchanges not ready for show time? (8) Fears allayed again. (More for subscribers.)Dr. Ed's Blog
The reality of China's economic slow down is becoming more well known in the wake of China's unexpectedly weak import and export figures. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite included these bearish points in a presentation on Tuesday. Credit Suisse
Canadian authorities are now saying the runaway crude oil freighter that blew up a town in Quebec may have been sabotaged. If true, it would not be surprising as trains transporting crude see far fewer accidents than truck tankers.† But here's some more context that should maybe give us some pause: more crude products than ever are being transported by rail, according to data cited today by the EIA. Here's the chart: EIA We're now transporting 1.37 million barrels per day, or 13,700 rail tankersó a 48% increase from last year.† Here's the agency's comment: The jump in crude oil production from†North Dakota, where there is not enough pipeline capacity to move supplies, accounts for a large share of the increased deliveries of oil by rail. North Dakota is the second largest oil producing state after Texas, as advanced drilling technology has unlocked millions of barrels of tight oil in the†Bakken Shale†formation. The figure could do go down as pipelines come online and if production slows (which appears to be happening, as we reported yesterday), but it looks like we'll be on track for more trains for awhile.
No, the retail investor has not stepped back into the stock market. According to Gallup, only 52% of Americans (alone or with their spouse) are in the game as of April 2013. That's the lowest percentage since Gallup started tracking this information in 1998 (via Blackrock, h/t Reformed Broker). As Blackrock points out, this doesn't jive with the traditional idea that confident consumers are more likely to invest. Recent surveys of consumer confidence have actually come in strong, but 48% of Americans are still sitting this one out. "It is possible that this has to do with the impacts of emotional investing or peoples' decreasing appetites for risk since the recession," said the BlackRock report. That's probably putting it gently.
U.S. futures are looking firm ahead of the open. This is particularly impressive considering the horrific Chinese trade report and the fact that the stock market has been up for four straight days. Dow futures are currently up 15 points. S&amp;P futures are flat. Markets in Europe remain in the red, but they're off of their lows. Here's a look at Dow futures via FinViz: FinViz

REUTERS/Olivia Harris The Rolling Stones play the last stop of their current tour ‚Äî and possibly their career ‚Äî next week in London's Hyde Park. Their last few shows have drawn¬†rave¬†reviews, and the returns on their earlier shows have been strong. But others have called it¬†"the night of the living dead" tour, for reasons that are perhaps evident.¬† And the Rolling Stones are already one of the wealthiest bands in the world. Their last tour grossed more than half a billion dollars.¬†Mick Jagger is said to be worth more than $300 million, Keith Richards just a bit less. So why do these guys keep going on tour? There are three reasons. First, digitized music is now virtually worthless. Prof. Peter Tschmuck, a professor at the¬†University of Music and Performing Arts in¬†Vienna who runs a blog about the economics of the music business, told me the return on investment from selling a digital copy of a song is 12% compared with about 36% for CDs ‚Äî and that's before that revenue is carved up to various title holders.¬† Professor Jeff Dorenfeld, Professor of Music Business/Management¬†at the Berklee College of Music, told us songs have been losing value for more than a decade. There's very little money made from recorded music anymore. Apple ‚Äî iTunes is mostly a singles market, Spotify, that kind of service doesn't pay high royalties, radio is not as big as it used to be. So all those revenues are not where they were, and haven't been for the last 15 years. Second ‚Äî and luckily in response to item 1 ‚Äî touring now generates lots of money. And it's especially lucrative to be the Rolling Stones. Their last three tours combined will likely have grossed about $1 billion (the mid-2000s "Licks" tour did +$300 million, and the current one could do more than $100 million¬†for a much more limited set of dates). The average ticket price is $370. Bruce Springsteen is only $93.29. When asked recently by the Guardian's Casper Llewellyn Smith about whether he regrets bassist's Bill Wyman leaving the band in 1993, Charlie Watts cracked,"I think he missed out on a very lucrative period in our existence." REUTERS/Mike Blake The band in Anaheim.Money is money, Dorenfeld says, noting that bands as big as the Stones command supremely high margins on splits with concert promoters and bookers because of the guaranteed interest they draw. They're getting more than 60% is my guess (of a show's gross revenues). If the show made $3 million, that's $1.8 million, not counting merch ‚Äî you walk away with that also. They're unique ‚Äî ¬†all the ones like them are unique ‚Äî the deals are much tighter because the revenue from everything else is much greater. An additional consideration ‚Äî perhaps not for the band, but for anyone who would think the Stones are wasting everyone's time and perhaps risking ridicule ‚Äî is that while the band is just the four current members, "Rolling Stones, Inc." likely employs more than a dozen people full time and hundreds while on the road. YoutubeThe band in its salad days.Setting up stages, even for arena tours like the current one, are massive operations that Dorenfeld says can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars a night. "They're a major corporation on the road ‚Äî they're a company," he says. "They do pay well, many have benefits and healthcare." This final point was probably first ever articulated in 1995 by Larry Mullen Jr. of U2, the band that basically invented blow-out multi-sensory ¬†rock n' roll tours, in Bill Flanagan's "At The End Of The World": The biggest responsibility out of all this is the fact that you employ a lot of people and you are responsible for them, responsible for making sure they're taken care of. People's livelihoods are depending on you. I don't like that responsibility too much, but that comes with the territory. Of course, one does not go on tour merely to keep your entourage happy. But it's part of the equation.¬† Asking ¬†why the Stones "need" to go on tour leaves out the question of "wanting" to go on tour. They're still ostensibly artists, after all. Here's what Jagger said in an interview with Chicago Tribune rock critic Greg Kot in April: Everyone had a really good time in the five shows before Christmas (in London, New Jersey and New York). We wanted to see how the band was playing, how people were reacting. We didn‚Äôt get too much moaning or complaining. Given all of the above, that seems to be a fairly low hurdle to surmount.
Eliot Spitzer is on Squawk Box this morning ó not his most loved audience, as he was the Sheriff of Wall Street back in the day. So let's not preamble. First question came from Andrew Ross Sorkin and it was not a joke. "Would you trust a felon to manage your money?" Spitzer, the consummate politician, flipped the question. He said that New Yorkers should look at his record as a reformer, "I was one of the more prescient voices on Wall Street ... criticized by National Review for saying that we should rein in national debt ... I didn't buy into the "new paradigm," he added. Things only got worse form there. Sorkin pointed out that Spitzer was the state's top cop but broke the law. ... Spitzer responded with more about redemption, yadda, yadda, and then this gem from Sorkin: "Can you unequivocally say you haven't been with a prostitute?" Spitzer said "Yes ... eventually the questions about my private life will have to defer to the issues of this campaign." But it wasn't going to be this morning. After Sorkin was done with his questioning, Joe Kernen stepped in, "You were Gov of NY, do you just want to be controller or be Governor again? ... Hookers, infidelity, we read about it, I don't want to sit in judgement. ... It's almost as if someone wonders if there's a screw loose and wonders if that could happen again," said Kernen "Hubris is terminal," said Spitzer in response. "I think the learning process is recognizing that and learning from it." But Joe wasn't done. He interjected, "I'm not hurt like people that were close to you ... but it's almost like a Shakespearean thing." Spitzer did have a chance to explain (briefly) why he wanted to be NYC Comptroller. He said, "I have been speaking about the role that the comptroller plays for years ... as institutional investors," adding that he wanted to "reinvigorate" the office. Oh, and for all you Wall Streeters, Kernen did ask Spitzer if he would be a "kinder, gentler" Comptroller than he was Attorney General. The short answer was yes; the long answer: "I want to make something really clear ... It was never personal for me. Never once," said Spitzer. "We were seeking to establish certain principles for governemnt, that was it ... I like these guys. They may not want to have lunch with me ... but I never dislike people." So that could've been worse, right?
Getty Images/Kevork Djansezian Ronald Meyer, (L) President & COO of Universal Studios, Veronica Smiley (C) and Brian Grazer, film and television producer co-founded Imagine Entertainment in 1986, with Ron Howard, arrive for the annual conference on July 9, 2013 in Sun Valley, Idaho.It's that time of the year again. The heavy weights of media and technology gather in Sun Valley, Idaho for Allen &amp; Co.'s summer camp for billionaires, millionaires, and those that aspire to be either.† Allen &amp; Co is a small investment bank that works on a lot of deals. It gathers people like Warren Buffett, Jerry Yang, Tim Cook, and others for a conference each summer in Idaho. At the conference, the media moguls either start on big deals, like when Comcast's Brian Roberts started talks about buying NBC, or they get closer to closing deals. Or, they just catch up with people in the industry and trade gossip.†
In the wake of the horrific June Chinese trade numbers, the debate over a China hard economic landing scenario will certainly be louder today. Exports unexpectedly plunged 3.1% year-over-year, missing expectations for a gain of 3.7%.† Imports declined by 0.7%; economists were looking for a 6% increase. So, why hasn't all hell broken out in the markets?† The Shanghai Composite actually climbed by 2%. First, there's the issue of reliability of China's trade data, which has a long history of not tying out with its trading partners' data.† If you can't count on it on the way up, you might as well not count on it on the way down. However, the sharp downward move could is notable because you'd think that any manipulation of data by policymakers would be to the upside. Second, there are the policymakers, who will likely intervene should things get really bad. "Though we donít expect any big stimulus plans, the State Council under Premier Li will try to avoid unnecessary disruptions such as the interbank squeeze in June, and the government may do something on the margin such as speeding up fiscal spending to stabilize growth," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "Note Premier Li yesterday in a meeting said that he will not allow growth to slide to below his target. " A third explanation for the relative calm in the markets could be the fact that it's already priced in. Indeed, the Shanghai Composite is down 9.4% year-to-date. Also, investors and traders have recently loaded up on their short positions. Here's Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman in today's Global EM Morning note: Little market impact from weak China data: Chinese exports for June came in much weaker than our and consensus expectations, having declined by 3.1%Y. In addition, imports declined by 0.7%Y given sluggish domestic demand and import price deflation, as pointed out by our economists. While this data are clearly poor, they have had a marginal impact on EM currencies ñ indicative of the already heavy short positioning across the asset class. Such favorable technicals formed the main rationale to our recent change in stance on EMFX from Reduce to Hold, while the weakness in the data adds to our more bearish medium-term outlook for EM assets. In the U.S., futures are going nowhere. Dow futures are up 3 points. S&amp;P futures are down 1 point.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeGiant Panda mother Bai Yun snacks on bamboo as her cub Xiao Liwi is shown for the first time on public display at the San Diego Zoo in San Diego, California, January 10, 2013.China's disappointing June trade numbers has the market murmuring about the Chinese hard landing scenario. To be clear, China doesn't have to be in a recession to be in a hard landing.† Indeed, any significant slow down from its roughly 8% current pace of growth would be disruptive. The Chinese government has a target growth rate of 7.5% right now. Morgan Stanley's "Super Bear" scenario has GDP slowing to 5.5% later this year and 4.5% next year. "The prospect of financial sector deleveraging in China increases the risk of a hard landing," said Morgan Stanley's analysts this week. "Although the probability of the hard landing is still low, itís not low enough to make hedging costs irrelevant." Indeed, China's economy is so levered that the BIS warns its at the risk of an all-out credit crisis.† And China's regulators appear to be directing the economy in a way to take some of that leverage out, even as interest rates surged. "The new governmentís policy drive to deleverage the banking sector has become more apparent," said Morgan Stanley.† "In the three months preceding the spike in money market rates, the CBRC/SAFE have announced measures to regulate interbank entrust payments, wealth-management products, leverage in bond investments, FX lending and interbank loan structures, all with the aim of curtailing the widespread use of new financial channels to grow bank assets rapidly. We think that this deleveraging will likely continue to unfold in the next 6-12 months." So, how will it all unfold? "In the super- bear scenario, we expect aggressive policy tightening in credit policy on LGIVs (Local Government Investment Vehicles) and property developers," continued Morgan Stanley. "The government will likely slow down the fiscal expenditure growth and adopt additional administrative measures to curb property demand. We expect the government to use aggressive moral suasion and other regulations to slow down loan growth, especially loans to LGIVs and property developers." Morgan Stanley
China's June trade numbers shocked the world earlier today.† Exports unexpectedly plunged 3.1% year-over-year, missing expectations for a gain of 3.7%.† Imports declined by 0.7%; economists were looking for a 6% increase. Fears of a major slow down in China will have the country's major trading partners on edge. The countries with the most exposure are obviously its Asian neighbors. Here's Morgan Stanley on the Asian countries with the most to lose: China has played a key role in the regionís development over the last three decades. The regionís dependence on China has also increased sharply over the past five years as China emerged as a key source of end demand at a time when the US, Europe and†Japan slowed significantly post the credit crisis. The slowdown in†Chinaís growth will be transmitted to the rest of the region largely†via trade and financial linkages. Korea and Taiwan: Impacted by Direct Trade Linkages In the case of Korea and Taiwan, our economist, Sharon Lam, believes that Korea is likely to be affected more than Taiwan in a China slowdown scenario because Koreaís exports to China are mainly for China's domestic consumption and investment. Taiwan, on the other hand, as a global major tech component supplier, uses China as a re-export base. While Taiwan has heightened its cross- strait economic and commercial ties with China after the signing of the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, we believe that such a relationship and its positive economic impact will be less affected by the domestic situation in China. Morgan Stanley Australia: Impacted by Weaker Commodity Prices Slower growth in China will imply a slower rate of consumption of key commodities such as iron ore, steel, aluminum, copper and coal, putting downward pressures on prices. In this context, the net commodity exporters in the region such as Australia, Indonesia and Malaysia will be most impacted. Australia has been a key beneficiary of higher commodity prices over the past few years. The rise in commodity prices has lifted Australiaís terms of trade, and exports growth has also been rising on the back of a rise in mining exports. This, in turn, has led to a rise in mining capex, which combined together has provided support to the growth rates in Australia. Hence, as commodity prices remain weak, we believe that the Australian economy could face some challenges in maintaining a strong growth trajectory. Morgan Stanley
REUTERS/WIlliam HongA worker walks past trucks as they line up to upload containers onto a ship at a port in Ningbo, Zhejiang province July 9, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know:
REUTERS/David Gray The big story today is the weak trade data out of China. Exports declined 3.7%. Imports fell 0.7%. But why was it so bad? Ting Lu and Xiaojia Zhi at Bank of America offer 6 reasons: The negative trade growth in June might be the consequence of a few factors: (1) A sluggish global economy, especially the European economy which is the largest market for China‚Äôs exports; (2) Real appreciation of RMB versus its basket was about 5% so far this year, making China‚Äôs exports less competitive; (3) The interbank liquidity squeeze in June had some impact on trade, especially on imports, though the impact might be more salient later; (4) The dollar strength. JPY has depreciated 24% against the USD since Oct 2012, and export to Japan is 7.4% of China‚Äôs total exports. This currency impact could lower China‚Äôs trade growth (which is denominated in USD) by 1% to 2%; (5) Chinese traders might unwind their fake trade in earlier months as the government tighten up its control on hot money inflow and arbitrage; (6) Last but certainly not the least, China‚Äôs Custom might intentionally deflate trade data in June to neutralize previous over-reporting so the government will eventually report clean data. Note that the last 2 imply that the real numbers could be a bit stronger than reported.
This is the big story in the global economy at the moment: the sharp slowdown in China imports. For all of the countries that make their money selling commodities and goods to a rising China, this is the most worrisome part of it all. This chart from Nomura, which breaks it down, shows an unmistakable trend. Nomura
There have been a few hints here and there of a rebound in Greek economic data. But there's certainly nothing consistent. And the numbers are dismal. To wit: #Greece The Production Index in Industry in May 2013 vs May 2012 recorded a decline of 4.6%
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese consumer confidence slipped in June for the first time in six months as consumers reported slowing income growth and rising prices, exposing the challenges to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's plan to revive the economy by generating inflation. Household sentiment fell 1.4 points from May to 44.3 in June, with the mood worsening for all four components -- livelihood, income, jobs and spending appetite for durable goods, the government survey showed. The survey showed 83.9 percent of respondents expect prices to rise a year from now, up 0.8 point from the previous month to the highest ratio in nearly five years. Abe has pursued a policy of aggressive stimulus, dubbed Abenomics, to revive the economy and end 15 years of deflation. The early signs have been encouraging, but the plan in part relies on growth boosting wages -- something yet to be seen. Indeed, the survey's index of income growth fell 0.6 point to 41.6 in June, the first fall in six months. The Bank of Japan is hoping its strong commitment to boost prices through massive stimulus would change the widely-held perception that deflation will persist and so encourage consumers to spend now rather than later. The survey found consumers expecting prices to rise as higher raw material costs and a weaker yen push up electricity bills and prices of groceries, but the perceptions of weak wages could see them tighten spending. Japan's corporate goods price index, which tracks wholesale price moves, rose 1.2 percent in June from a year earlier, the biggest increase since November 2011, the BOJ said on Wednesday. The government's sentiment survey, which began in 1982, targets households with two more people. A reading below 50 in the sentiment index shows pessimists outnumber optimists. (Writing by Leika Kihara; Editing by John Mair) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
ShutterstockLast night, Chinese trade data came in weaker than expect. Both import and export numbers missed. In a note, Nomura's Zhiwei Zhang says the miss raises the risk of a growth miss for China, and notes that there's a big meeting coming up next week. China‚Äüs import growth contracted by 0.7%, also weaker than market expectations (Consensus: 6.0%, Nomura: 8.0%). Import growth for processing and re-export purposes fell further to -7.0% y-o-y in June, from -3.2% in May. Import growth of commodities rebounded to -5.2% in June from -14.5%. In volume terms, import growth of iron ore dropped to 6.9% from 7.4%, while that for crude oil and copper rose to 2.0% and 9.7%, respectively, from -6.0% and -14.6%. Import growth for domestic consumption (ex commodities) fell to 8.0% in June from 15.2% in May. The trade balance rose to US$ 27.1bn in June from US$ 20.4bn in May. The weak trade data pose further downside risks to the June and Q2 growth numbers due for release on 15 July and help reinforce our concern over risks in H2. The government will likely hold a meeting early next week to set its policy stance for H2, which is critical for the growth outlook. So far, it has sent consistent signals that the policy stance will remain tight to contain financial risks. As macro data weaken further, next week will be a testing time for the government in revealing just how much of a growth slowdown it is willing to tolerate.
Here‚Äôs a stat that probably won‚Äôt shock you (or, who knows, maybe it will) via BlackRock: ‚ÄúAccording to Gallup‚Äôs annual Economy and Finance survey,¬†only 52% of Americans are either personally or along with a spouse invested in the stock market¬†as of April 2013. This is the lowest number since Gallup began the survey in 1998 and¬†13% lower than the pre-recession high¬†in 2007. It is possible that this has to do with the¬†impacts of emotional investing¬†or peoples‚Äô decreasing appetites for risk since the recession.‚Äù If you‚Äôre reading this website you should definitely understand this basic point. ¬†We allocate our cash into various assets primarily to achieve protection against the loss of purchasing power. ¬†That is, if you leave 100% of your savings in cash you are guaranteed to lose about 3.5% on average just from the loss of purchasing power (that‚Äôs the average CPI since 1925). ¬†The best way to protect against this is to get in the asset diversification game and start owning assets that will help you protect your money against this loss of purchasing power. ¬†It sounds like such an obvious and simple premise, but millions of people fail to understand it. I wrote this research note about the ‚ÄúInvestment‚Äù myth in order to help conceptualize some of these key points. ¬†Contrary to popular mythology, a portfolio doesn‚Äôt really have to beat the S&amp;P 500. ¬†It also doesn‚Äôt have to compete with hedge funds or Warren Buffett or anyone really. ¬†In fact, it doesn‚Äôt have to do half of the things that Wall Street says it needs to do. ¬†But it really does need to keep pace with purchasing power or you‚Äôre falling behind just by doing nothing or misunderstand this most basic point. ¬† And it‚Äôs easier than you think. ¬†I spend most of my time these days teaching people how to¬†build these types of portfolios and training them to feel comfortable doing it on their own. ¬†But you have to want to do it or you‚Äôre destined to a world of guaranteed 3.5% losses on your savings.
Flickr/ToGa WanderingsCONFIRMED: The Chinese growth story is fading rapidly. Last night, China whiffed on both export and import data, driving home the fact that as slow as people think things are getting, it might be even worse. Markets are now going down after initially being closer to flat. US futures are modestly in the red. Italy is off by 1.3%. Spain is down by 1.2%. (China, interestingly enough, saw stocks rise 2%.) The big event today is a speech from Ben Bernanke about the history of Fed policy, which will be followed by a Q&amp;A. It will be watched very closely. For more on Chinese trade data, see here.
Confidence among the Chinese hit a 10-month low, according to Credit Suisse's latest monthly survey. The Chinese Whispers Economic Outlook Sentiment Index fell to 50 in June, declining for the third straight month. The monthly survey is given to 200 long-term residents in 61 cities across China. "Some 22% feel safe about their income and jobs, down 3 pp MoM, and another 22% are pessimistic, up 7 pp MoM and the highest since our first survey in June 2011, while the remaining 56% are neutral about the economic outlook, down 4 pp compared with last monthís survey," writes Credit Suisse's Vincent Chan. Credit Suisse The survey also took a closer look at the job market. 54% of respondents said the current job market is hard, while 5% said it is good.† 29% of respondents said someone around them had lost their job. And a higher percent of the layoffs are in private and foreign companies. 39% of private and foreign company employees said someone around them had been laid off, higher than those in the public sector. Yet, 47% of respondents said they were happy. This was the highest reading since November, when the question was first introduced into the survey.
Tonight we saw Chinese trade data disappoint markets. But Chinese data has been coming in weak for some time now. Earlier this year, Nomura said growth could fall below 7% this year. HSBC slashed its GDP forecast to 7.4% in 2013, down from 8.2%. Remember, in the Chinese version of the State of the Union speech last year, outgoing premier Wen Jiabao said China had set an official growth target of 7.5%. The latest string of data and Chinese policymakers' hardline amid the recent liquidity squeeze suggests that GDP growth could miss this target. Bloomberg BRIEF's Michael McDonough tweeted this chart of China's GDP forecasts for the second, third, and fourth quarter of 2013. Clearly economists are expecting slower growth: Michael McDonough/Bloomberg BRIEF He later tweeted that policymakers would have to do more to meet the 7.5% GDP target. China's government will most likely need to react to defend its 7.5 percent growth target.
