
Many people are worrying that China's weaker growth is not only set to continue but maybe weaken even further. A number of observers are starting to think about a so-called "hard landing". I happened to spend a couple of days in China the week before the Q2 numbers were published so my mind is fresh with things I observed and heard. I was a guest of the 48 Icebreakers Group, who were celebrating their 60th anniversary, and met a number of senior policymakers. I also met a number of leading business people and participated in a lively discussion about the economy hosted by CCCTV, the state television channel. I came away thinking that, while China's slower growth is for real, most of it has occurred as a result of government policies as part of their shift to focusing on a better quality of growth and not just growth for the sake of it. Before I turn to discussing the details behind the current state of the economy, let us not forget this: China's economy is $8.2 trillion, now more than half the size of the US. That means if China grows by 7.5pc - its Q2 rate and what the government is assuming for the rest of the decade - this would be equivalent of the US growing by 4pc. The US has not grown by 4pc for many decades, apart from the odd year. So if China's slowdown is limited to 7.5pc, then from a global perspective, this is a country that is going to have a massive impact on the world. So, while a slowdown from above the 10pc China achieved for the best part of the last three decades is notable, from a global perspective, it is not as slow as many people think. If China grows by 7.5pt for the decade (it's currently closer to 8.5pc so far this decade), it will be an economy of around $16 trillion or more by 2020, allowing its average citizen to enjoy wealth of around $12-13,000. What would be of concern is if China was still growing by 10pc or more, and its growth was based on exports and state-backed investment spending. Such growth would place huge pressure on natural resources as well as creating many problems internally in China, including a widening gap between the privileged elite and the less well-off. The current leadership has taken up the mantle of the previous regime's five-year plan and decided that it wants more balanced growth, which is more inclusive for all its 1.3 billion people. Moreover, it seems intent on trying to execute this plan and actually make the transition to a more balanced economy, with a greater role for the consumer and less importance for exports and state or regional state-backed investment. In my TV discussion, I debated the current state of the economy and these challenges with other guests, most of whom are prominent Chinese business people or economists. To my slight surprise, given that it was CCTV, they were all quite open (I didn't see it shown on TV so I am not aware of what was edited out!). A couple thought that the leadership was not really committed to change; others thought they were, but it is extremely difficult to engineer. I teased them all, saying this is the sort of thing I hear from around the world about China all the time these days. I also pointed out that if you track the relationship between monthly reported retail sales - the only monthly guide for consumer spending, relative to industrial production - you can see that it is slowly trending in the right direction. This was partly in response to one person who claimed that, despite the attention being given to higher wages in China, the real value of household wealth continues to decline, making it difficult for most Chinese people to consume. Given that real retail sales are trending higher, relative to industrial production, despite the state-enforced clampdown on luxury gifting and its efforts to stop house prices rising too quickly, there must be some real wealth being created, otherwise it wouldn't be happening. I also cited a personal anecdote: walking around the shopping mall in the complex where I was staying I was struck how busy it was for a weekday evening. I have been staying there since it was first built and it never used to be so packed. I left China wondering whether, in contrast to previous periods, this leadership is trying to change too many things at the same time. I discussed this quite openly with the policymakers I spoke to, and all of them suggested it is possible that growth could be slower than they would prefer, but they are determined to make these changes. I ended up suggesting to some of them that, to help the adjustment, perhaps they might want to do something really bold and even get rid of the notion of the "migrant worker" completely, allowing them to have the same rights as everyone else. Far from demonstrating irritation at my possible lack of diplomacy, two said in essence this is what they will do in the next couple of years in all but the largest cities. Returning to London, I still think there is a risk that growth might slow further as a result of government-inspired policy changes, but given the leadership's determination, I am more confident that the decade ambition of 7.5pc is likely to be achieved. For the rest of us, including here in the UK, that is going to remain a fantastic business opportunity, especially for those that can provide want they want to consume. Jim OíNeill is former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and chairman of education charity Shine (www.shinetrust.org.uk) 

Those attending the iProperty.com International Property Expo in Singapore, to learn about "the best property in Asia" can win a free house by attending. Guess where the house is located. One might think somewhere in Asia because that's the focus of the expo. But No! The free house is located in the mother of all choice spots, Detroit, Michigan. Check out the image.Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis Note the creative description: "Yes, itís true we are giving away a home! This is a gorgeous 3 bedroom brick home located in an excellent neighbourhood just a stoneís throw away from key facilities like the Triumph Hospital and the Bel Air Shopping Centre. It boasts a garage and basement and has just been newly furnished. Itís Freehold Landed U.S property with 3 bedroom and 1 bathroom. A lot size of 4,225 sq ft with Garage, basement and tenant included! This property has a net selling price US $38,000." Is this ad supposed to entice people to attend or scare them away? For other creative property descriptions, please see Vancouver B.C. vs. Donegal Ireland Real Estate: What Will $890,000 Buy? It's Too Late The iProperty promotion clearly needs a nice corresponding "better buy now before it's too late" message. And I have just the right promotional idea in mind. It's from my December 13, 2005 article It's Too Late. Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis
The Hamptons ‚Äî a favorite vacation destination of the rich and famous as well as New York's 'it' crowd ‚Äî is actually composed of roughly 20 different villages, each one with its own unique flavor. For this list, we ranked each destination on their quality of beaches, restaurants, shopping, nightlife, and real estate, as well as how many celebrities live in the area. We know some people go to the Hamptons to escape nightlife and the celebrity scene, but we included them in this ranking¬†because they have a big impact on local tourism. We assigned each category a score between 1 and 10, meaning the highest total score any Hamptons town could get was 60. Without further ado, here are the nine best hamlets in the Hamptons. Flickr/Lock This tiny village is renowned for its rural beauty, with some of the most scenic beaches in the area.¬† The major downside of Sagaponack is that its too small for any theaters or shopping ‚Äî for those, you would need to travel to nearby Southampton or East Hampton. Well-known faces who have homes in Sagaponack include ‚ÄúLate Night‚Äù host Jimmy Fallon and Goldman Sachs Chairman Lloyd Blankfein. Beaches: 9Restaurants: 5Shopping: 4Celebrity Sightings: 5Nightlife: 4Real Estate: 7.5TOTAL: 34.5 Facebook/The Frisky Oyster Often overshadowed by trendier hamlets, Greenport has both Noah's and The Frisky Oyster, easily two of the best restaurants in the Hamptons. But don't expect to see any celebs while you're here ‚Äî despite gorgeous real estate, Greenport is still dominated by locals. Beaches: 5Restaurants: 10Shopping: 6Celebrity Sightings: 5Nightlife: 6Real Estate: 7TOTAL: 39 Flickr/vitamintaker Technically within the town of East Hampton, Amagansett has its own special style with low-key, delicious restaurants and really nice, sandy beaches. Though it's rare that you'll see a celebrity in these parts, Alec Baldwin has been known to make an appearance here. Beaches: 8Restaurants: 10Shopping: 6Celebrity Sightings: 6Nightlife: 7Real Estate: 7TOTAL: 44 Flickr/12th St David Bridgehampton has fantastic and unique boutiques and restaurants, such as Maison 24 and Candy Kitchen. Though it currently isn't known for celebrity sightings, that could be changing soon now that Donna Karan has opened a boutique hotel in the neighborhood. Beaches: 8Restaurants: 9Shopping: 9Celebrity Sightings: 7Nightlife: 5Real Estate: 6.5TOTAL: 44.5 Flickr/ebenolli Westhampton Beach has clean, beautiful beaches. It's also great for people watching: Not only do celebs like Anderson Cooper live here, but the restaurant Starr Boggs becomes quite the scene at night when the fabulous and wealthy mingle in the converted historic home. Beaches: 10Restaurants: 8Shopping: 6Celebrity Sightings: 7Nightlife: 6Real Estate: 7TOTAL: 44 Wikimedia Commons Known for being an artist haven, Sag Harbor is one of the prettiest villages with its cute storefronts and old-school Hamptons appeal. It also has fantastic real estate that draws celebrities like Christy Brinkley. And if you want to see the celebs out and about, check out Italian resto Tutto Il Giorno (Donna Karan‚Äôs daughter Gabby is a partner). Beaches: 7Restaurants: 9Shopping: 6Celebrity Sightings: 7Nightlife: 6Real Estate: 10TOTAL: 45 Flicker/offmetro.com During the day, surfers flock to Montauk's Ditch Plains Beach for the best waves on Long Island. Then at night, the pubs take over with a nightlife scene that draws both hipster and local crowds to this fisherman's village. Plus, Montauk has some of the most succulent seafood in the Hamptons at restaurants like Dave's Grill and Harvest on Fort Pond. Beaches: 10Restaurants: 9Shopping: 7Celebrity Sightings: 8Nightlife: 10Real Estate: 6TOTAL: 50 Flickr/Eugene Remm When it comes to nightlife, East Hampton has you covered with raging dance clubs like SL East and the Pink Elephant. It also has stellar beaches, tons of shopping, top-notch restaurants, and plenty of celeb spottings. Essentially, East Hampton has everything. Beaches: 9Restaurants: 8Shopping: 9Celebrity Sightings: 9Nightlife: 8Real Estate: 8TOTAL: 51 Via Capri Southampton Southampton puts all other villages to shame when it comes to three things: Shopping, celebrities, and real estate. Southampton is packed with any kind of men's, women's, children's, home goods, or artsy store you could possibly name. It's also a favorite spot among the rich and famous ‚Äî mainly because the epic, multi-million dollar mansions that line the ocean are only affordable if you have deep pockets. Beaches: 7Restaurants: 9Shopping: 10Celebrity Sightings: 10Nightlife: 6Real Estate: 10TOTAL: 52 Disagree on our ranking? Tell us your favorite Hamptons town in the comments!
Hedge fund god David Einhorn dumped his stake in Microsoft, making a bit of a profit. The stock was up after another fund, ValueAct, started buying shares in Microsoft. ValueAct poured $2 billion into Microsoft. It's lately been agitating for a seat on the board.† Einhorn explained his decision to get out while he could with a pretty brutal burn of the company, comparing it to Alex Rodriguez, the troubled Yankees star: Microsoft (long): In 2006 we compared Microsoft to A-Rod, which was a compliment at the time. In 2013, the comparison is still apt, but it is no longer a compliment. Windows 8 appears to be a flop, and a decade of mismanagement has put Microsoft at risk of becoming a shrinking company. We were pleased when an activist gave the stock a boost, giving us the opportunity to exit with an annualized high single-digit return that slightly outpaced the market during our lengthy holding period. Einhorn and Microsoft have had a long, contentious relationship. In 2011, he called for Microsoft to fire CEO Steve Ballmer. Obviously, that didn't happen. He's also an investor in Apple. Here's his take on Apple:† Apple (AAPL) completed its assessment of its capital management policy and decided to return $100 billion to shareholders over three years in dividends and share repurchases. At quarter end, AAPLís market capitalization was $372 billion, implying a 9% annual return of capital to shareholders. Sentiment towards the stock is incredibly bearish. Early in the quarter, the concern was that AAPL was losing market share to Samsung. When Samsungís latest Galaxy phone failed to impress, rather than re-assess AAPLís better competitive position, the consensus story shifted to concerns about market saturation of high end phones. Sometimes, you just canít win. AAPL was our largest loser in the quarter falling from $442.66 to $396.53 per share. Unless operating results are about to head off a cliff, we expect the shares to stage a recovery. Greenlight Capital Q2 2013 shareholder letter 
My Fox DetroitOne visual image has come to symbolize Detroit's historic bankruptcy filing last week: a vacant, weatherbeaten home -- photographers have plenty to choose from -- standing abandoned in a weed-choked expanse. For Motown to break its downward spiral of depopulation and decay, the troubled city needs to fire up its bulldozers. It must clear tens of thousands of deserted houses and garbage-strewn lots. It has to move fast, or the blight that makes much of Detroit unlivable will continue to fester and grow. This is where bankruptcy could bring relief. We hope Detroit's gutsy filing will give it a fresh start. If the city succeeds in getting out from under the debt and retirement obligations that overwhelm it, Detroit has an aggressive plan for dealing with blight and, over time, downsizing the services it now provides to its least populated areas. Other cities could follow Detroit's bold example. As is, Detroit has managed only fitful progress. Problems have dogged its efforts at urban renewal: Disputed property titles. Backlogged courts. Asbestos, lead paint and other hazards in dead structures. Overweening concerns about history being lost and sparsely settled communities being relocated as old buildings come down. Those same problems hold back Chicago and other cities from more rapidly remaking neighborhoods devastated by real-estate bust and recession. That said, no other major city has a blight problem as widespread and withering as Detroit's. Neglected, empty structures dot not only areas impoverished for decades, but also once-elite neighborhoods of baronial homes. In Chicago, by contrast, blight is more tightly concentrated, mostly in poorer areas on the West and South sides. Chicago's City Hall also is better organized than Detroit's. This city has several avenues to take action on abandoned buildings. Often, police here write tickets for failure to secure vacant properties. If the city can't track down owners to hold them responsible, it turns to mortgage lenders. As of mid-May, according to court records, 2,895 owners and 2,109 mortgage-holders had paid $2.8 million in fees to register vacant buildings with the city -- a first step in remediating those properties. Still, much remediation remains to be accomplished. Chicago's leaders can glance east to see the consequences of unaddressed decay. They should look, because Detroit now may show the way. In May, Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr unveiled a financial and operating plan that calls for an intensified program of foreclosures, demolition, and public/private partnerships to clear or redevelop newly opened land. This isn't a scorched-city approach: The plan also calls for targeted investments to revive neighborhoods that have faltered but still could be revitalized. If Orr manages to exit some areas while bolstering others, we suspect the results will be transformative. Removing blight decreases crime, stabilizes consolidated neighborhoods and eliminates public-safety risks. Getting rid of vacant buildings improves a city's quality of life. In time, it raises property values. It also leads to rationalization. As Detroit went under, it failed to reliably provide such basic services as safety, transportation and street lighting. The city lacks money to meet those needs at a sufficient level across its 139-square-mile geography -- which holds 60 percent fewer residents than it did in 1950. The key is to put unwanted properties under centralized, local control. Turn abandoned homes into side lots for other homes, or combine them with other properties for green space or eventual development. Land banks have empowered cities to clear away unwanted structures and debris, giving the sites around them new life -- most notably in Flint, Mich., not far from Detroit. With its bankruptcy, Detroit could move even faster. The city has an opportunity to focus its resources where residents want to live, and clear out the lifeless, depopulated parts, essentially mothballing them until the population starts to rise again. We understand that encouraging longtime residents to relocate is a sensitive task fraught with potential for injustice and discrimination. For Detroit to stage a comeback, it is a necessary step, but also one that demands the intense scrutiny it would receive. Detroit is set to embark on a huge urban experiment. Chicago and other U.S. cities will be watching. Here's hoping for progress in a city that has had precious little of it lately. ___ (c)2013 the Chicago Tribune Visit the Chicago Tribune at www.chicagotribune.com Distributed by MCT Information Services 
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorA waiter smokes as he takes a break from work in the city of London.The Dow was down by as much as 155 points this morning. And after spending much of the day in the red, stocks climbed back and closed positively. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Mutual Fund Managers Pass The Taleb Test On Manager Compensation (Morningstar) Nassim Taleb argues that managers while they get rewarded for success should also pay for their failures and this includes reputational damage. John Rekenthaler writes that mutual fund managers pass the Taleb test.¬† "Unlike almost every other type of manager, the fund manager's performance is measured precisely, against a benchmark, and publicly. These three factors lead to severe penalties--damage, as it were--if the portfolio manager bungles. Precision means that a fund manager cannot dodge blame by arguing the result or by pointing to co-workers. The benchmark forces the severity of a relative comparison, which prevents the fund manager from dodging criticism by riding the tailwind of a winning market. Public means that everybody sees the results. There can be no hiding.¬† "‚Ä¶Taleb's thesis addresses non-cash damage. For example, he writes that in local governments, "[government officials] are typically kept in check by feelings of shame upon harming others with their mistakes." Fund managers would seem to run an even greater risk of reputational, noncash damage than do local government officials. Fund managers pass the Taleb test."  There Is An Increased Use Of Professionally Managed Allocations  (Vanguard) Vanguard is out with its annual How America Saves report. The latest report shows that average and median account balances rose 10% in 2012. The average account balance was $86,000 and the median account balance was $28,000. The biggest transformation they saw was the move to professionally managed allocations.¬† Many participants do make portfolio construction errors by holding too many or too few stocks, according to Vanguard. But an increased use of professionally managed allocations is changing portfolio construction. In 2004 only 37% had balanced investment strategies holding portfolios with stock allocations in the 40-90% range. Now 63% have balanced strategies. Vanguard JPMorgan's Tom Lee Now Has The Most Bullish Stock Market Forecast On Wall Street (Business Insider) JP Morgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee raised his year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1775, from 1715. Lee is now the most bullish equity strategist on Wall Street. Four things drove the upgrade 1. "Better Europe and eventually EM." 2. "There is pent-up demand in U.S. and to an extent in Europe." 3. "Corporate bonds have recovered over 60% of the recent sell-off, supportive of risky assets." 4. Equities need to re-rate higher vs corporate bonds‚Äî16X? Yes. The 'Great Rotation' Is Really A Cycle Of Poorly Timed Investment Decisions (Street Talk Live)  The rotations out of stocks and into bonds reflect bad investor behavior rather than a "secular shift in sentiment," writes Lance Roberts of Street Talk Live.¬† "Retail investor's actions are driven by emotion rather than logic.¬† The chart below shows the investor psychology cycle of investment behavior overlaid against the S&amp;P 500 index.¬† The bar graph in the chart is the 3-month average of net monthly inflows by retail investors into equity based mutual funds.¬† (Note: the data provided by ICI only goes back to 2007, however, I wanted to include the previous market cycle for comparative purposes.)¬† Not surprisingly, net equity inflows have turned positive at the peak of the market in 2011, just prior to the debt ceiling debate debacle, and the current QE driven asset inflation." Street Talk Live Advisors Should Focus On Reducing Taxes For Clients In Retirement (The Wall Street Journal)  Many advisors focus on high returns for clients to help them in retirement. But Annette Findling a Chicago-based financial planner with Stonebridge Wealth Advisors writes writes in a WSJ column that they should also focus on lowering taxes.¬† She advises clients to¬† use qualified accounts like IRAs and 401k(s) pre-retirement. "If all their assets are in qualified accounts they will be taxed only at the ordinary income-tax rate in retirement, which can be higher than the capital-gains rate, they would otherwise be paying in a taxable account." She also advises clients to have tax-free investments like Roth IRAs if they qualify for them, municipal bonds with tax-free interest, and life insurance
YouTube/ColumbiaBusinessBlythe Masters, Head of Global Commodities at JPMorgan ChaseJPMorgan, a major player in commodities on Wall Street, said in a press release that it "is pursuing strategic alternatives for its physical commodities business, including its remaining holdings of commodities assets and its physical trading operations." The announcement comes hot on the heels of a New York Times piece detailing a Goldman Sachs aluminum warehousing scheme it asserts has cost consumers $5 billion over the last three years. Goldman's foray into the warehousing business is a prime example of the ingenuity displayed by investment banks over the past decade since they first became involved in physical commodities in coming up with new ways to generate revenue. The New York Times piece also took aim at JPMorgan: As Goldman has benefited from its wildly lucrative foray into the aluminum market, JPMorgan has been moving ahead with plans to establish its own profit center involving an even more crucial metal: copper, an industrial commodity that is so widely used in homes, electronics, cars and other products that many economists track it as a barometer for the global economy. In 2010, JPMorgan quietly embarked on a huge buying spree in the copper market. Within weeks ‚Äî by the time it had been identified as the mystery buyer ‚Äî the bank had amassed $1.5 billion in copper, more than half of the available amount held in all of the warehouses on the exchange. Copper prices spiked in response. At the same time, JPMorgan, which also controls metal warehouses, began seeking approval of a plan that would ultimately allow it, Goldman Sachs and BlackRock, a large money management firm, to buy 80 percent of the copper available on the market on behalf of investors and hold it in warehouses. The firms have told regulators that these stockpiles, which would be used to back new copper exchange-traded funds, would not affect copper prices. But manufacturers and copper wholesalers warned that the arrangement would squeeze the market and send prices soaring. They asked the S.E.C. to reject the proposal. The Times noted that separately, JPMorgan faces a potential $500 million settlement for electricity price rigging. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported that the Department of Justice has opened a probe into the metals warehousing industry. The move is part of a larger campaign against investment bank involvement in commodities gathering steam in Washington, D.C. JPMorgan's full statement is included below. -------------------------------------------------- New York, July 26, 2013¬†- JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (NYSE: JPM) announced today that it has concluded an internal review and is pursuing strategic alternatives for its physical commodities business, including its remaining holdings of commodities assets and its physical trading operations. To maximize value, the firm will explore a full range of options over time including, but not limited to: a sale, spin off or strategic partnership of its physical commodities business. During the process, the firm will continue to run its physical commodities business as a going concern and fully support ongoing client activities. J.P. Morgan has built a leading commodities franchise in recent years, achieving a top-ranked revenue position. The business has been consistently named as a top client business in Greenwich Associates' annual client surveys and was recently named Derivatives House of the Year by¬†Energy Risk¬†magazine. Following the internal review, J.P. Morgan has also reaffirmed that it will remain fully committed to its traditional banking activities in the commodity markets, including financial derivatives and the vaulting and trading of precious metals. The firm will continue to make markets, provide liquidity and offer advice to global companies and institutions that have, for years, relied on J.P. Morgan's global risk management expertise. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2.4 trillion and operations worldwide. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Information about JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. is available at¬†www.jpmorganchase.com.
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidHedge fund manager David Einhorn, who runs $8 billion Greenlight Capital, sent out his second-quarter letter to investors.† In it, the famed fund manager gives his observation of what he thinks is going on in the stock market. † "The marketís rapid advance in the face of a challenging earnings backdrop may be creating an unstable condition. This could resolve itself in a few ways: the market could melt-up, melt-down, or even do the former followed by the latter," Einhorn writes. In his letter, Einhorn discusses the Fed and Chairman Ben Bernanke. †He even gives Wall Street Journal reporter Jon Hilsenrath a shout out even though it's not by name.† Here's an excerpt [via ValueWalk's Jacob Wolinsky]: (emphasis ours) After Wall Streetís knee-jerk sell-off following President Obamaís re-election, the market proceeded to march upward at a steady pace until first quarter earnings season, when the rate of appreciation accelerated. Between mid-April and mid-May, the S&amp;P 500 gained 8.5%, the Russell 2000 advanced 11% and the Japanese Nikkei 225 advanced 18%. During the first few years of the market recovery, the formula for higher stock prices was ìbeat estimates and raise guidance.î Not anymore. Now itís enough to beat the current quarter, and make it easier to beat the next one too by simultaneously lowering forward expectations. ìBeat and Raiseî has become ìBeat and Lowerî and seems just as effective at driving stocks higher. Indeed, in the recent quarter, 70% of companies in the S&amp;P 500 ìbeatî the official street estimates, while forward estimates fell for roughly the same percentage of companies. At this point in the cycle, lowering the bar seems to be treated as bullish because it increases the likelihood of future earnings beats. So if lackluster annual earnings growth in the low single-digits does not explain the rising market, what does? The consensus view is that the Federal Reserveís easy money policy is driving the growth. It is now undeniable that the market is watching the Fed, perhaps more closely than ever. At a press conference in mid-June, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke raised the possibility that the Fed might reduce its quantitative easing program in September, and end it by the middle of 2014, triggering the first notable stock sell-off in months. What is equally obvious is that Chairman Bernanke is watching the market just as closely. It didnít even take two days of negative reaction from the financial markets before a plugged-in journalist (who is widely believed to be the Fedís unofficial spokesperson) reported that ñ oops! ñ it was all a big misunderstanding. That the Fed canít stand a couple of bad days in the market without reversing course suggests that the Fed will follow the path of least resistance and continue with its counterproductive policy rather than accept†the transitory market effects of ending it. The Fedís pain tolerance for market declines†(even on the heels of large gains) appears to be strikingly low. The marketís rapid advance in the face of a challenging earnings backdrop may be creating an unstable condition. This could resolve itself in a few ways: the market could melt-up, melt-down, or even do the former followed by the latter. By the middle of May, the postelection run-up helped raise the Partnershipsí gross exposure to record levels. Accordingly, we made considerable reductions in both our long and short portfolios, positioning us to ride out future volatility and to take advantage of new opportunities. During the sell-off in late June, we found a few new opportunities which slightly increased our net long exposure. Read the full letter below:† Greenlight Capital Q2 2013 shareholder letter by ValueWalk.com 

One of the tasks of Wall Street's equity analysts is to forecast earnings, which is more or less the culmination of all of their research and expertise. And as this chart from Bank of America Merrill Lynch shows, analysts' earnings estimates are increasingly in line with each other. Some speculate that this is proof that they're herding. "The average estimate dispersion for S&amp;P 500 companies currently sits at 10%, below the long-term average of 18%," writes BAML's Equity and Quant Strategy team led by Savita Subramanian. "This indicates that analysts remain clustered around consensus in EPS estimates, which we believe suggests a reluctance to diverge from the pack or rather than a strong conviction in earnings. Dispersion has remained in this narrow range of ~10- 15% since 2010." Bank of America Merrill Lynch / Business Insider
"J.C. Penney (short): This was our most profitable short of 2012. Though the retailer was poorly positioned, the shares rocketed in early 2012 based on overhyped promises put forth by a highly promotional CEO. Following the presentation of its strategy, the new CEO dumped a bunch of his personal stock on the market. We doubted the new strategy would ¬†succeed. We covered when the Board fired the CEO before he could turn the company into a penney stock," Einhorn wrote in the letter. It's trading higher in the wake of the news. JCPenney's stock was last trading up about 2% in today's session. The struggling retailer is the stock that activist investor Bill Ackman has been publicly cheerleading for over the past couple of years.¬† So far, Ackman, who has has 17.74% stake in JCPenney,¬†has taken a bath betting on the retailer. Bloomberg
YahooCiti's chief commodities analyst Ed Morse says oil prices have peaked for the year. In a taped segment with Yahoo finance today, he also reiterates his call that the "peak oil" theory is dead. First, he says, we are already at or beyond peak driving season, and prices will soon come down. "We think prices have hit their peak for the year, if not exactly today, certainly in Q3," he said. WTI currently sits at $104.64, while Brent is about $107. Brent is up about $7 since mid-June but has subsided in recent days as Middle East unrest subsided.  WTI has surged about $10 over the past few weeks, and Morse explained why. Over the last six weeks we have had this gush of oil coming through the pipeline system, and it's made our prices reach a world equilibrium. So our prices have gone up; world prices have been steady or are actually going down. And he says this about future production: The U.S. is the fastest growing oil and [natural] gas producing country in the world,î Morse says. ìWeíve now gone above Russia as the largest [natural] gas producing countryÖ all of this will lead to softer and softer markets and lower prices in the years to come.† Watch the whole clip below: 
Wikimedia CommonsBusiness school costs a lot of money. Period. But when you're factoring in the cost of business school, it's not the tuition alone‚Äîwhich costs more than $60,000 on average‚Äîthat you have to consider. You also have to think about everything from the cost of health insurance to books, a computer, and other supplies. Then there are the hidden fees that you probably don't factor in, like loan fees, transportation, business attire, and networking costs (taking people out to lunch, attending conferences, and more). Add in the cost of living (which can be quite high in a city like New York), and you've got yourself a lot of debt. We looked at each school's total cost estimate for the first year of business school‚Äîmost of which assume that students are living a very modest lifestyle.¬†We didn't even include extras like study abroad costs‚Äîwhich are popular add-ons in business school‚Äîor miscellaneous fees like club dues.¬†Schools that provided tuition costs for the entire duration of the program were excluded. We found that the cost of tuition pales in comparison to the total cost of these MBA programs‚Äîin fact, the true cost of a MBA is often double the cost of tuition.
REUTERS/Jerry LampenAs Chinese economic data continues to disappoint, investors are bracing for trouble in the emerging market. Some economists have warned of a possible "hard landing," a scenario where Chinese growth slows enough to cause unemployment to spike. The upshot of that, economists estimate, would spell financial instability for China and drain global demand, particularly in Asia. "At this juncture, the principal downside risk concerns major emerging economies where the dataflow has remained poor and where the outlook is less promising," writes UBS's Larry Hatheway in a new note to clients. "The slowdown in China has already had clear negative impacts on commodity-producing economies, something that is likely to continue." But it's not all bad news. Hatheway lays out five potential offsets to a Chinese slowdown.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleValuewalk has obtained Hugh Hendry's June investor letter in which he argues that the storm across financial markets isn't over yet. Hendry, manager of the hedge fund Eclectica Asset Management, writes that higher U.S. yields drove up yields across global markets. Emerging markets were especially hard hit. "Countries from Brazil to China are now dealing with a combination of money outflows, worsening current and fiscal accounts, depleting reserves and social unrest. The days of easy money are coming to an end. In Brazil for instance, the biggest emerging debt market, no company has been able to raise debt abroad since mid-May as borrowing costs soared to a four-year high in June, at 7.1%. Confronted with the biggest street protests since 1992, Brazilian authorities are now forced to engage with ramping inflation. The Bank of Brazil recently raised the benchmark SELIC rate to 8.5%, giving continuity to the worldís biggest tightening cycle and adding pressure on local businesses. "Moreover with the on-going economic slowdown in China, companies and currencies of commodity producers that rely heavily on sales to China continued to weaken in June. This was particularly the case in Australia and Brazil where exports to China account for 29% and 16% of total shipments respectively. This structural weakness benefited our EM currency basket, which made a modest gain for the month but was outweighed by losses elsewhere in FX." He also highlighted the liquidity squeeze and surge in Chinese interbank rates in June. With all of this in mind he writes that "the storm that caused chaos across financial markets since May should not dissipate any time soon." Hendry continues to be short China and emerging market currencies.
Comedy CentralThe "Daily Show"†took Goldman Sachs to task†last night over its alleged aluminum manipulation, a story†first reported in the New York Times before it grabbed headlines all week. Goldman's aluminum gambit is a bit complicated (and to most, boring). So to clear it up, John Oliver ó†guest hosting this summer while Jon Stewart produces a film ó†brought us a new riveting segment: "John Oliver's Arcane Details of Boron-Group Metals Pricing Update." So how did Oliver feel about Goldman shuffling the commodity market to rake in profit and flank regulation? "In the stock market, that's what's known as insider trading," Oliver said. "In the commodities market, that's known as simply, Thursday... or Monday or Tuesday, Friday, or Wednesday." Watch the full clip below, via Comedy Central: The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Indecision Political Humor,The Daily Show on Facebook
One might like to think FedEx employees make sure one's packages are handled with care in transit. The video below suggests otherwise. A FedEx spokesperson told the Gothamist in response to the video, "We are very disappointed to see this. FedEx sets high standards of behavior and performance for our team members and this behavior falls far short of what is expected. We pick up and deliver millions of packages in a professional manner each year, and the actions in this video do not reflect our professional expectations. We have already contacted the management personnel responsible for this employee and the appropriate corrective action will be taken."  (via New York Magazine's Joe Coscarelli) At least they're successfully loading their cargo, though. The same can't be said for this guy: 
HARC.eduGeorge P. Mitchell, the man credited with inventing modern hydraulic fracturing for natural gas, has died, the Houston Chronicle is reporting. Mitchell had recently come out in favor of stricter regulation of fracking in recent years. He was 94. The son of Greek immigrants, Mitchell turned his oil development firm into a $3.5 billion powerhouse. He sold the firm to Devon Energy in 2002, becoming Devon's largest shareholder. estimated his net worth at $2 billion.
IISH/Stefan R. Landsberger Collections via ChinesePosters.NetAfter the Chinese leadership handover one of the biggest debates among China watchers was whether the new make-up of the Communist Party would be more open to political and economic reform.†  In the time since, China has been pushing economic reforms along, surprising many. But on the political front, reforms have barely materialized. We have seen a reorganization of some departments, and a crackdown on corruption, but liberalization in the top tiers of the Communist Party seems unlikely. After a two-week visit to China and Hong Kong, Arthur Dong, professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University told Business Insider that he is seeing more party indoctrination. "I met with a party member, who happens to be a high ranking member of the party. I had lunch with him and what he expressed to me, was all senior level party members are being sent to an essentially re-education. They're being sent to the equivalent of their West Point and they're undergoing more party indoctrination, where they have to wear uniform. "He showed me a picture where they're donning their uniforms of Mao's long march. They're all being required to partake in this sort of party cleansing exercise, where they have to be reminded of the roots of their past, wear the uniforms of the long march, go through this sort of reeducation process to remind them about party loyalty, and also to be faithful to the party's ideals." Chinese president Xi Jinping has previously said that his early years working in the countryside continue to inform his thinking today. He is also described as as "redder than red". We also recently saw "Document Number Nine" being circulated among party members which called for party members to "denounce any dissent and be on guard against Westernersí subversive plots and such ìextremely maliciousî notions as universal values, civil society and constitutional democracy," The Economist pointed out. "I don't necessarily see any political reform on the horizon. Any liberalization. If anything, we might even see more hardening based on my observations of what's going on with party leadership," Professor Dong said.
REUTERS/Mike SegarUnited States Attorney Preet Bharara speaks at a July 25th news conference about SAC.Here's a fact likely in the back of Steve Cohen's mind:¬†Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara's office has won convictions or guilty pleas in 100% of presented cases. And regulators are even more eager to sound the death knell for Cohen's elusively profitable SAC, a $13.9 billion hedge fund (of which $7.5 billion is Cohen's own fortune). For regulators, the case has been years in the making. The government ‚Äî which will likely seek to bleed the company through unprecedented restitution and fines¬†‚Äî¬†argues that SAC's insider trading scheme dates back to 1999. It wasn't long after that SAC emerged on regulators' radar. From a 2003 New York Times article¬†(via Matt Goldstein): The regulatory inquiry, which began almost two years ago, centers on whether information from Ms. Becker's firm, Lehman Brothers, was made available to her husband, Michael J. Zimmerman, a stock trader at SAC Capital Advisors, a hedge fund with offices in Connecticut and New York, according to people involved in the inquiry. Investigators are trying to determine whether he knew about research reports by Lehman analysts before they were released to clients and whether he profited by trading in those securities. That inquiry into SAC ended, but nevertheless piqued interest in the firm (the kind of interest a firm doesn't want). It's with that in mind that we get the government indictment, which has a less than charitable understanding of the instant messages sent between traders and Steve Cohen. Dealbreaker's Matt Levine sums up the complaint: "Despite the euphemism training, people kept emailing Cohen saying 'here‚Äôs a trade based on inside information' and he kept replying, in essence, 'cool.'" This case is the Holy Grail for regulators. It has been for a long time. Institutional investors have already fled Cohen's warm embrace. As the case progresses, more investors could do the same.  And while¬†Bharara has said he's not trying to push SAC out of business, after billions in fines, it could very well happen.
Jeff Saut, the veteran investment strategist at Raymond James, caught everyone's attention when he said that his models told him that the stock market would see its top on July 19 and then plunge by 10% to 12%. The S&amp;P 500 closed at a then all-time closing high of 1,692 that day. After closing at 1,695 on July 22, the S&amp;P has been trending lower. And today, it's down to 1,675. So, if Saut is right (plus or minus a day), would it be his best call ever? Saut told Eric King of King World News that it might be one of his three best.† Here's Saut: ìI think two of the best calls Iíve made in my career, one is credited to Dow Theory which had a sell signal in September of 1999.† Raymond James is the only investment bank or brokerage firm that wrote about that sell signal, and if you listened to that it saved you a lot of money.... ìI was then on TV on March 2nd, 2009 saying, ìThe market bottoms this week.î† I think those are two of the best calls Iíve ever made.† I would just add by the way that Iíve made some bad calls (laughter ensues).† But I am focused on the overall markets because if you do get this 10% or 12% hit, I think itís going to be across the board, and I also think there are going to be select stocks that are going to go down a lot more than 10% or 12%. I would add that if we do get this hit I think it will be for buying.† Right now I think this earnings season is going to disappoint and this is one of the main reasons I believe the market is susceptible to a significant downturn here.î Read more of King's interview with Saut at KingWorldNews.com.

Starbucks shares are up 7% after reporting what CEO Howard Schultz called "the best across-the-board third-quarter performance in our 42-year history.‚Äù Total net revenues increased 13% to¬†$3.7 billion, in line with estimates. Earnings came in at $417.8 million for $0.55 EPS, versus $0.53 expected and $333.1 million/$0.43 a year ago. Here's the chart:
Stocks and gold have taken a sharp turn downward. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading around 1676, down 0.8%. Gold is trading at $1315 an ounce, down 1.1%. The only economic data release in the United States this morning was consumer confidence, which unexpectedly soared to a six-year high in July. It's unclear what is driving the current move. Stocks have been drifting lower for most of the morning, though, after the Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 3.0% Friday, turning in its worst daily performance in a month. A monthly data release on consumer prices showed Japan's headline inflation rate rose to 0.3% in June from -0.2% the month before, suggesting that Japan had achieved inflation for the first time in over a year.¬†However, stripping out food and energy, the economy remained in deflation. This measure of prices was still down 0.2% year over year, indicating that¬†higher energy prices were the main driver of headline inflation in June. New¬†fund flow data showed record inflows¬†into high yield debt and junk bond funds this week. U.S. equity-oriented funds expanded assets under management by $4.3 billion. And this morning, JPMorgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee¬†hiked his year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500¬†to 1775 from 1715, making him the most bullish equity strategist on Wall Street. His forecast implies an additional 5% upside for the index for the rest of the year and is largely driven by an improving economic picture in Europe. The chart below shows S&amp;P 500 futures. Thinkorswim The next chart shows gold futures. Thinkorswim
REUTERS/Muhammad Hamed We could be entering a vicious cycle of oil price volatility. Paul Stevens, a fellow at the London-based think tank Chatham House, laid out his scenario in a new FT op-ed. It goes like this: The Arab Spring is forcing Middle Eastern governments to spend more on social policies. This will prompt oil producing countries to seek higher prices, through production curbs. That, in turn, will be met by demand destruction from the rest of the world. Plus, supplies are already increasing thanks to shale development.¬† So prices will begin to flag. Normally, the Saudis would step in as the "swing producer" to keep prices stable. But Stevens says the Saudis may not have enough of a financial cushion to do so. The last time the Saudis abandoned this role, in 1986, prices fell about 60%. Meanwhile, the falling prices will only serve to further aggravate social unrest. Unlike in 1986, Stevens notes, there are now huge volumes of futures trades in crude markets. So more unrest could enable paper markets to push prices back up.¬† The market is thus ripe for large price swings, Stevens concludes:¬† The result would be much greater oil price volatility. In that case, security of supply concerns ‚Äì based on fears of physical disruption ‚Äì would be overtaken by concerns about the macroeconomic impact of oil price volatility. Strap it down.
LearnVest, a financial planning startup founded by Alexa Von Tobel, has raised $16.5 million to continue building an affordable money management solution. Investors include Accel Partners, which led LearnVest's earlier $20 million round of financing; American Express Ventures; Claritas Capital; Carlyle Group's Ed Mathias; and former T. Rowe Price CEO Todd Ruppert. LearnVest has raised more than $40 million to date. Its last round of financing valued the company at about $100 million. Von Tobel, a former Morgan Stanley trader and Harvard Business School drop-out, likens her company to "Weight Watchers for money." And in fact, the former CFO of Weight Watchers, Ann Sardini, is one of LearnVest's four new advisors. Others include Gilt Groupe's Susan Lyne, Mathias and Ruppert. LearnVest is also opening a new office in Phoenix, Arizona,where it will train the Certified Financial Planners (CFPs) it hires. LearnVest currently has 25 on staff and between 80 and 100 employees total. LearnVest's CFPs work one-on-one with clients to help them save money. They can not, however, buy and sell stocks for them.¬†Unlike traditional financial planners which may take between 2 and 2.5 percent of an account with less than $100,000 under management, LearnVest costs a few hundred dollars to use. Its rates resemble gym memberships with a set up fee followed by monthly charges of $19. Once users sign up, they have an initial call and are assigned to one of LearnVest's CFPs. Then they enter a customized 7-part program to set goals and get their savings on track. It's a great idea in theory, but Von Tobel made a casual comment during our call which could actually hint at a flaw in her business model. "Alyson, I'm sure you don't think about financial planning much, but I think about it every second of every single day," she joked. She's right. I don't think about financial planning at all. I pay monthly bills, stay out of debt, keep an eye on savings and call it a day. I'm self-reliant and thus unwilling to pay even a few hundred dollars for Von Tobel's service. But I'm LearnVest's target demographic. Von Tobel says LearnVest's subscribers are men and women between the ages of 25 and 55, they are college educated and have household incomes that exceed $60,000.¬† With that said, Von Tobel says people are more likely to subscribe to LearnVest after a big life moment: buying a house, having a child or getting married. None of those describe me. And on the opposite end of the spectrum, Von Tobel has a few millionaires using her service¬†because it's a relatively cheap and easy solution. There's another concern. While LearnVest may be a steal from a consumer perspective, it's not clear if the low prices will sustain the company. With LearnVest's current pricing structure, it only generates $300 to $600 per customer in the first year and $228 every year after. LearnVest needs nearly 2,000 paying customers to generate $1 million.¬† Von Tobel wouldn't say how many paying subscribers LearnVest has, just that the company has grown 200% in the past year. It grew 300% the year prior. Her new investor, American Express, may help boost growth even more. Von Tobel hinted that her product would soon be "distributed to a lot of people quickly."¬† American Express Ventures' Managing Partner Harshul Sanghi indicated a strategic partnership in a release. He said: "As we seek to¬†expand our portfolio of products across American Express, we believe LearnVest Planning can¬†be an important¬†partner in helping us to bring customers more convenient, affordable and transparent ways to manage their money." For more on Von Tobel's plans to take on Wall Street, or for how LearnVest works, click here.
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinAn exterior view of the headquarters of SAC Capital Advisors, L.P. in Stamford, Connecticut on July 25, 2013. Federal prosecutors took a double-barreled approach against hedge fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen on Thursday, unveiling criminal fraud charges against his SAC Capital Advisors LP and a separate civil case seeking to freeze assets and money laundering penalties.Defense lawyers for Steve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors pleaded not guilty to all five criminal charges of insider trading during an arraignment this morning at a federal court in Lower Manhattan, CNBC's Kayla Tausche reports. This was expected and this also allows the fund to continue operations.† Yesterday, a federal grand jury indicted SAC. †The fund was charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud, the indictment states.†According to the indictment, U.S. prosecutors are also seeking the forfeiture of profits from ill-gotten gains. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said during a press conference yesterday that the indictment "is more broadly an account of a firm with zero tolerance of low returns, but seemingly questionable tolerance for bad behavior."†Bharara added that the firm had a "compliance system that appeared to talk the talk, but almost never walked the walk."† SAC said in a statement yesterday afternoon†following the U.S. Attorney's presser that it has "never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance and management obligations seriously." † Bharara has a 100% success track record in prosecuting insider trading cases, CNBC's Tausche pointed out. ††
There has been a significant number of articles written since the beginning of this year pronouncing that the "Great Rotation" of money from bonds into equities has finally arrived.† Most recently, my colleague Josh Brown, posted a note stating: "My argument was a very simple one...Capital does not chase value, it follows performance, and stocks had been winning for too long to continue to escape notice. Once the bonds started looking shaky, it had become a fait accompli. The debates had tapered off by late spring and now the evidence has become undeniable. It took a few relevant periods (one-year, six-months, etc) of stock vs bond outperformance to do the trick, but Americans are back to investing for their futures again. It's a shame they're coming in so late, but this is the nature of the beast." The reality, unfortunately for most investors, is summed up best by the last part of Josh's statement.† It is much more likely that the current "rotation" of money from stocks into bonds is more likely a continuation of the bad investment behavior by retail investors rather than a secular shift in sentiment. Retail investor's actions are driven by emotion rather than logic.† The chart below shows the investor psychology cycle of investment behavior overlaid against the S&amp;P 500 index.† The bar graph in the chart is the 3-month average of net monthly inflows by retail investors into equity based mutual funds.† (Note: the data provided by ICI only goes back to 2007, however, I wanted to include the previous market cycle for comparative purposes.)† Not surprisingly, net equity inflows have turned positive at the peak of the market in 2011, just prior to the debt ceiling debate debacle, and the current QE driven asset inflation.  As I recently discussed in "Is This A 2007 Redux" the similarities in the current market environment, and the 2007 peak, are surprisingly similar from the perspective of leverage, earnings and economic growth.† We can now add investor behavior to that list. Tyler Durden at Zero Hedge recently posted the following which further supports my concern: "Much has been made of the inflows into US equity markets in the last few weeks with the heralding of The Great Rotation that will lift us to Dow 36,000 and beyond. The only problem...is that, as BofAML notes, institutional investors have never (that's a long time) sold as much stock as they have in the last 4 weeks - as retail has been piling in.  On a four-week average basis, net sales by the Institutional clients group are the largest in our data history (since 2008). Private clients have been net buyers of US stocks on a four-week average basis since early June. Private clients' net buying streak is currently their longest since late 2011. So it would appear the 'real' great rotation is passing the hot-potato of liquidity-driven stocks from the 'smart' money to the 'dumb' money once again." I very much agree with this sentiment.† As article after article is written chastising investors for not "jumping into the market" the psychological "fear" of being "missing out" is dragging the remaining retail holdouts back into the market. † The reality is that we have witnessed this same behavior by retail investors time and time again the outcome of which has never been good.† Despite words of advice from some of the great investors of our time that the road to investment success is paved by knowing when to: Retail investors repeatedly do the opposite.† As markets rise, and reach extreme levels of exuberance, it is only then that retail investors believe it is time to jump in.† Unfortunately, as shown by the BofAML study, much of that belief is driven by the self-serving interests of the Wall Street community that profits the most from retail investors emotionally driven decisions. When will we ever learn?
REUTERS/Stephen Lam Count Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves in the Tesla love camp. In a note this morning, Galves upgrades the company to buy, and sets a $160 price target. The stock is up 3% on the news. Galves lays out five arguments for the upgrade: 1) "The stellar Consumer Reports review lessened our concern on quality issues that were experienced by early customers." 2) "U.S. orders have risen to 20k annualized (vs 12k-13k in Q1), reducing concerns on sustainability of demand." 3) "Supercharger network build-out has potential to extend and sustain TSLAís competitive advantage." 4) "Weíve become more comfortable with the walk to 25% gross margins in Q4 (in fact, we expect an upside surprise in Q2). And now see potential for 35%+ on volís &gt;50k." 5) "Based on proprietary work, we now expect the Gen3 veh to fully close the cost gap to non-EV competition with margins in the 25% range." He then proceeds to flat-out gush over the company, writing for example: ...the addition of the latest connectivity/infotainment technology reinforces the view that Tesla has produced a truly futuristic vehicle.† Meanwhile, he dumps shade on the rest of the auto industry's ability to pump out electric cars: As far as EV competition, we believe that traditional automakers are years behind TSLA in terms of the overall powertrain system and many still attribute limited success of their own EVís to lack of consumer interest instead of on poor initial EV products / value propositions. We believe the vision of traditional automakers is being clouded by their own massively complex enterprises and the risks of disruption to core, legacy Internal Combustion Engine intellectual property and assets. This gives a company like TSLA a significant opportunity to sustain and possibly extend their initial competitive advantage. And what about the range issue, memorably highlighted by The New York Times' John Broder? Galves doesn't address Branch's concerns directly, but believes Tesla has designed a higher-quality battery compared with the electric cars produced by the rest of the auto industry.  Galves concludes by suggesting that†even after a 400% rise over the last year, Tesla could still more than double inside of 3-4 years. Wow.
Gregory Shamus/Getty ImagesThe final results from the University of Michigan's July consumer confidence survey are out. The headline index rose to 85.1 in July from June's 84.1 reading. Economists were expecting the index to fall to 84.0. Earlier this month, preliminary results¬†published by the university showed the index falling to 83.9. The index of current conditions rose to 98.6 in July from 93.8 in June. The preliminary July reading was 99.7. The economic outlook sub-index fell to 76.5 in July from 77.8 in June. The preliminary July reading was 73.8. Inflation expectations one year ahead were 3.1% versus 3.0% in June and 3.3% earlier this month. Inflation expectations five years ahead were 2.8% versus 2.9% last month. "Rising confidence comes despite surging gas prices throughout the latter half of July," says Andrew Wilkinson, chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak. "In the first week of the month when the preliminary survey was prepared the price per gallon at the pump fell to $3.47 and has since reached $3.67. We believe that the diffusion of improved payroll data and growing chatter regarding soon-to-end Fed stimulus have boosted consumers‚Äô perceptions of the overall health of the economy."
Getty / Michael NagleDominique Strauss-Kahn, the former IMF head and onetime potential French president, will face trial for pimping charges, his lawyer confirmed to Reuters on Friday. Strauss-Kahn, also known as "DSK," had a spectacular fall from grace when he was accused of rape by a New York City hotel maid in 2010. While the case never went to trial, it cost Strauss-Kahn his job and presidential ambitions. Strauss-Kahn was forced to borrow millions from his wife Anne Sinclair to pay a civil settlement reached with the maid (they later divorced). The new pimping charges relate to a French investigation of Strauss-Kahn's alleged involvement in a prostitution ring at the Carlton Lille hotel. Strauss-Kahn has admitted to attending the parties, but denies any knowledge that prostitutes were in attendance.
Getty ImagesYesterday Steve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors was slapped with an indictment from a federal grand jury on charges of criminal insider trading.† The Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund and three of its subsidiaries were charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud, according to the indictment.† Now people are starting to wonder how this could potentially affect other Wall Street firms. † SAC manages about $14 billion in assets. †About $9 billion of that AUM belongs to Cohen and SAC employees and the rest is outsider money. † But remember, the fund was also recently†hit with redemptions from outside investors and now it's estimated that the firm would be left with about $1 billion in outside capital.† The real reason why folks on Wall Street care about what's going with SAC is because the hedge fund is a major player when it comes to generating revenue for brokerage firms. † The brokerage business depends on trading volume. †It doesn't matter whether a stock is going up or down. It's about the amount of shares being traded. That's because brokers earn†commission for each share traded. †A broker could make anywhere from half a penny per share or five cents a share. † SAC Capital is seen as a huge player on the Street. Back in 2006,†the Wall Street Journal reported that SAC's trading alone accounted for 2%†of all of the stock market activity. †It's unclear what the number is nowadays, but it's easy to see why they would be a desired client for a broker.† Just before the indictment came out,†Bloomberg News Michael J. Moore and Zeke Faux reported†that banks were weighing whether or not to suspend trading, lending, and prime brokerage services with SAC Capital. According to Bloomberg, SAC is one of the biggest clients for Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. †The fund has also been a client for prime brokerage services to JPMorgan, Credit Suisse and Barclays, the report said. † It's not just banks that are worried.†DealBook's Peter Eavis reports that it's possible the impact could go further down the line.† Not only does Wall Street support the fundís stock and derivatives trades, but the firm is also a reliable client for those further down the food chain, like technology equipment providers. Now, the fundís banks face an uncomfortable choice. Should they keep acting as a broker to SAC Capital? There will be strong temptation to maintain full ties with the fund. The payments from SAC Capital are welcome during these leaner times on Wall Street. And banks may be reluctant to drop a client that has not yet been proved guilty. Cohen started SAC in 1992 with $25 million AUM. †Today the hedge fund behemoth employs about 900 people globally.†
Bloomberg TVBloomberg TV's Dominic Chu markets reporter is joining CNBC, "Squawk on the Street" co-anchor Carl Quintanilla Tweeted. He will start on August 12, according to Quintanilla. Chu joined Bloomberg TV in 2010. †Prior to his career as a financial reporter, Chu worked on Wall Street for several years.†
Investors and business leaders hate uncertainty more than anything else. When the year ends, Ben Bernanke's term as Federal Reserve Chairman ends. Most expect him to retire, and many expect that vacated seat to be filled by either current Vice Chair Janet Yellen. However, former Treasury Secretary and controversial figure Larry Summers has recently emerged as another frontrunner. Would Larry Summers-run Fed be so bad? Well, that may not be the biggest impending concern. Politico's Ben White points to some interesting commentary from Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson: Pantheon‚Äôs Ian Shepherdson on this point: ‚ÄúThe danger for the market ‚Ä¶ is not that the next Chairman is likely to change the policy course dramatically, but that an attempt to appoint Mr. Summers backfires and his nomination is held up for an extended period. That means the Fed could find itself rudderless at the same time Congressional fighting over the debt ceiling reaches its peak. This is an uncomfortable prospect, to say the least.‚Äù ‚Ä¶ This does not mean the White House won‚Äôt still nominate Summers. But the prospect of a long and bruising fight hurting a fragile market has got to enter the calculus, especially as the noise ratchets up. Uncomfortable indeed. Read White's morning must-read Morning Money at Politico.com.
flickr / Takato MaruiU.S. stock futures are negative after a rough day in Japan. The Japanese Nikkei 225 fell 3.0% Friday as the Japanese yen strengthened against the U.S. dollar, despite a better-than-expected inflation reading there. The June consumer price index revealed an annual inflation rate of 0.2%, up from -0.3% in May and ahead of the consensus estimate of 0.1% inflation. The release suggests that "Abenomics," the experimental stimulus program designed to reflate the Japanese economy after more than a decade of persistent consumer price deflation, may finally be kicking in. However, stripping out food and energy, the economy remained in deflation. This measure of prices was still down 0.2% year over year, indicating that higher energy prices were the main driver of headline inflation in June. Following the release, the dollar is 0.7% lower against a strengthening yen today, currently trading around ¬•98.55. Though futures in the U.S. are down, European markets are mixed in morning trading. The French CAC 4o is up 0.4%, and the Spanish IBEX 35 is up 0.9%. However, the German DAX is down 0.6%, the London FTSE is down 0.3%, and the Italian FTSE MIB 35 is 0.1% lower. New fund flow data showed record inflows into high yield debt and junk bond funds this week. U.S. equity-oriented funds expanded assets under management by $4.3 billion. And this morning, JPMorgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee hiked his year-end price target for the S&amp;P 500 to 1775 from 1715, making him the most bullish equity strategist on Wall Street. His forecast implies an additional 5% upside for the index for the rest of the year and is largely driven by an improving economic picture in Europe.

REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinAn exterior view of the headquarters of SAC Capital Advisors, L.P. in Stamford, Connecticut on July 25, 2013. Federal prosecutors took a double-barreled approach against hedge fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen on Thursday, unveiling criminal fraud charges against his SAC Capital Advisors LP and a separate civil case seeking to freeze assets and money laundering penalties.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Sharon Hwang/FacebookAfter reporting its second quarter earnings on Wednesday, Facebook's stock is surging and so is Mark Zuckerberg's net worth. It is trading at the highest price since Facebook's IPO in May 2012. The stock opened then at $38 per share; it closed yesterday at $34.36 up from the low 20s. The nearly 30% increase means Mark Zuckerberg, who vowed not to sell any of his shares during Facebook's first year as a publicly-traded company,¬†is worth $3.7 billion more today than he was yesterday morning. That brings his total net worth to about $16.1 billion. The sudden faith in Facebook stems from its visible improvement in mobile. During Wednesday's earnings call, Zuckerberg noted that 41% of Facebook's total ad revenue was coming from mobile, up from 30% the quarter prior. Mobile monetization is something investors are watching closely; the unsuccessful transition from a desktop to a mobile experience is killing other companies quickly. Facebook's revenue also beat Wall Street expectations on Wednesday. The social network reported revenue of $1.81 billion versus the $1.62 billion analysts were expecting. Importantly, Facebook's mobile monthly active users are also rising. Facebook reported mobile MAUs of 819 million, up 51 percent year over year.
Wikimedia CommonsAt 9:55 a.m. ET, we'll get the final July reading of consumer sentiment as measured by the University of Michigan. The headline index is expected to tick up to 84.0 from the preliminary number of 83.9. "After reaching† recovery-to-date high of 84.5 in May, the index fell marginally, to 84.1 in June and 83.9 in early July," noted High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan. "The index probably started rising agin in late July, helped by the bounceback in equities and ongoing improvement in the labor market." "The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index has been trending higher, consistent with an improving labor market," said UBS's Kevin Cummins. "The latest data for early July show the lowest proportion of consumers reporting hearing unfavorable news on unemployment since July 2007. Those positive perceptions likely continued into late July." Both O'Sullivan and Cummins expect the headline number to come in at 84.5, which is significantly above the consensus. Bloomberg
Adnan Abidi / REUTERSBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko KurodaJapan's monthly consumer prices release Friday showed the highest inflation rate in over a year, suggesting that "Abenomics,"¬†the experimental stimulus program designed to reflate the Japanese economy after more than a decade of persistent consumer price deflation, may finally be kicking in. However, it appears that the first positive inflation reading in 14 months was merely a function of high energy prices. The headline consumer price inflation rate rose to 0.2% in June from -0.3% in May, exceeding estimates for a smaller advance to 0.1%. Stripping out food prices, the inflation rate was 0.4% ‚Äì ahead of expectations for a rise to 0.3% from a flat reading in May. However, when energy prices are also taken out of the calculation, the Japanese economy continued to grapple with deflation in June. Consumer prices excluding food¬†and energy were down 0.2%. "Electricity rates rose 9.8% YoY, accelerating from an 8.8% increase in May," say economists at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley. "Gasoline prices rose 6.4%, the first YoY increase for three months, due to weaker year-earlier figures. There were marked price rises in the energy sector overall, with gas rates (manufactured and piped) up 4.7% and kerosene prices rising 6.2%." The economists break down the data in a note to clients: CPI still in negative territory when energy prices stripped out: The chances are that higher energy prices and the upward pressure on import prices from the weak yen will keep the CPI positive over the near term. That said, while US-style core CPI (which excludes energy prices and food (but not alcohol)), is now declining at a slower rate YoY, on a seasonally-adjusted MoM basis the index fell back into negative territory for the first time since February, dipping 0.1%. This suggests to us that the recent upswing in the CPI is not due to price increases across the board. July data for metropolitan Tokyo, released one month earlier than nationwide indices, shows that the pace of decline in US-style CPI was unchanged from last month, falling 0.4% YoY, contrary to the nationwide trend towards milder decline. At its monetary policy meeting on July 10-11, the BoJ reaffirmed its average CPI growth forecasts of April (+1.4% in FY14, +1.9% in FY15, both excluding the effects of the consumption tax hikes), but meeting these targets will, in our view, be challenging.¬† In short, the latest consumer prices release in Japan is probably more indicative of high energy prices than the success of Abenomics at this stage.
SG Cross Asset ResearchSovereign bond yields in the eurozone have declined significantly over the past year, both in absolute terms and relative to German bunds (pictured above).One year ago today, ECB President Mario Draghi assured global investors in a speech that the ECB would "do whatever it takes to save the euro." At the time, fears of a eurozone breakup topped the list of biggest tail risks facing investors, and the ECB was viewed as the only institution that could step in and calm the turmoil in sovereign bond markets. Draghi's reassurances a year ago, followed up by the introduction of the "Outright Monetary Transactions" (OMT) framework a month later, finally convinced investors that the ECB was willing to take action. Since Draghi's speech, government borrowing costs in troubled eurozone periphery countries like Spain and Italy have fallen precipitously as investors have bought up government debt of those countries, forcing down bond yields. "In the realm of market perceptions, Mr Draghi almost single-handedly put an end to the eurozone crisis," says Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy. "In assuaging investors' fears about a break-up of the bloc, Mr Draghi's intervention stemmed financial contagion and made Spanish and Italian bond markets much more resilient to country-specific risks." In a note this morning, Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Kit Juckes reflects on Draghi's "whatever it takes" moment: One year on from Mario Draghi‚Äôs ‚Äúwhatever it takes‚Äù speech, the correlation between the spreads of Bunds and BTPs relative to German debt is around 90%. Which makes sense if you see the OMT as the monetary equivalent of a nuclear deterrent ‚Äì a powerful source of support to Europe‚Äôs markets, but one whose actual use would open a huge can of worms. Spain and Italy are both ‚ÄòOK‚Äô as long as the status quo is maintained, with funding for banks through the ECB, funding of government debt through the banks, reassurance for all that Mr Draghi will hold everything together. I still prefer Spain to Italy, still look for spreads to grind tighter. Within the ‚Äòsoft core‚Äô, correlations are not as tight, but with more yield and certainly no worse fundamentals, I definitely prefer French bonds to Dutch ones. Perhaps the most interesting thing about OMT is that the ECB hasn't actually had to implement it yet. Just the threat of its existence has been enough to reassure investors in eurozone sovereign debt. "Everything but the kitchen sink has been thrown at Spanish and Italian debt markets this year - an inconclusive Italian election, a shift from a 'bail-out' to a 'bail-in' regime for banks, Portugal's political crisis and, most importantly, the US Federal Reserve's planned exit from QE - and yields have still remained more or less at pre-crisis levels," says Spiro. "Despite being a heavily conditional bond-buying programme, and almost certainly because it has not been activated, the OMT - or, more precisely, Mr Draghi's bold pledge - is still perceived as credible by investors."
Bloomberg TelevisionIn a note to clients this morning, JPMorgan's chief U.S. equity strategist Tom Lee jacks up his year-end S&amp;P 500 price target to 1775 from 1715. The new forecast implies an additional 5% upside from Thursday's close at 1690, and it makes Lee the most bullish equity strategist on the Street. Lee attributes much of the decision to better-than-expected economic data out of the euro area. "With both U.S. and Europe expected to see better growth in [the second half of 2013], we believe the Street will be in a position to raise 2014E EPS," says Lee. "We are raising 2014E EPS to $120 (vs $117) and also raising our YE 2013E S&amp;P 500 Target to 1775 (up 3.5% vs prior 1715)." The JPMorgan strategist outlines four reasons for the upgrade: What is the surprise? Better Europe and eventually EM. Naturally, the question is what will ìsurpriseî the market to drive increased EPS and P/E multiples. In our view, this is driven by improving economic momentum broadly and captured well by the eco surprise indices. As shown in Figure 7, economic surprises have improved sharply for Europe (CESIEUR) and US (CESIUSD) and given the historical GDP beta, should lift Emerging markets as well.  There is pent-up demand in U.S. and to an extent in Europe. As for the U.S. and to a lesser extent for Europe, this is more than ìeasing financial conditionsî but a story of pent-up demand. As shown in Figure 8, investment/durables spending in the U.S. remains at 60-year lows. And at time when the age of capital-stock is near record highs (see Figure 9/Figure 10). This is a formula, in our view, for obsolescence asserting itself in the form of an eventual sharp rise in spending.  Corporate bonds have recovered over 60% of the recent sell-off, supportive of risky assets. Corporate bondsóboth high-grade (J.P. Morgan's JULI Index) and high-yield (CSSWHYI Index) exhibited instability (somewhat surprising) in May following the rise in 10-year yields (see Figure 11/Figure 12). Fortunately, much of the dislocation has been retraced. IG spreads have recovered 76% of the widening back to 158bp and, similarly, high-yield spreads have since recovered to 506bp STW, or about 60% of the widening. The point of this is that the tightening of spreads is a positive signal for both risky market "depth" and "liquidity" which are positive for equity relative value.  Equities need to re-rate higher vs corporate bondsó16X? Yes. As we have stated for some time, the equity P/E should be seen via the lens of corporate bond yields (invert a bond yield to derive its P/E). Corporates are payer of both bonds and equities, and as equity earnings (EPS) grow over time (with nominal GDP at least, while coupons are fixed), equity P/E should be higher. Since 1950, equity P/E has been consistently and logically higher than investment-grade P/E. Since 2009, however, as shown in Figure 13, the S&amp;P 500 P/E has been stable at around 13X- 14X for the past 3 years and trades at a steep discount to both investment grade bonds (25X) and to HY (16.2X). At a minimum, we see the equity P/E converging with HY, driven by higher equity P/Es. What could go wrong? Lee identifies further deceleration in Chinese economic growth and concerns regarding tapering back of Federal Reserve bond purchases as the two main risks to his target. "Recent data from China is disappointing (IP, GDP) and despite tempered expectations, the government is likely to exercise patience (vs stimulate)," says Lee. "The risk, therefore, is a faster deceleration in GDP growth, something not expected. As for the Fed, the primary concern is how equity markets will hand the start of tapering (rising rates, loss of visibility)."
REUTERS/Alex DomanskiThe European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi speaks during the monthly news conference in Frankfurt, January 12, 2012.One of the oh-so-many unintended consequences of what we‚Äôve seen in the market for the last five years is the widespread belief that no matter what happens policy makers are in almost full control of the events. Moreover, we seem to be more willing to take their word for granted rather than analyse what they‚Äôre actually doing (which reminds me of this old¬†Genesis song, hence also the title of the post). Think of it. Trust me, I do have many more examples of when we either wish for or treat policy makers‚Äô decisions as the ultimate solutions. Whereas if you think of it, many times it is a very twisted logic, which a friendly portfolio manager summarised as ‚Äúwhen we turn left, a road to the left will appear‚Äù. It didn‚Äôt use to be like this. Our faith in policy makers‚Äô ability to reverse the course of the market has proven correct in many cases (see¬†whatever it takes) but I think that oftentimes it‚Äôs just a reflection of the laziness of the market. After all, it‚Äôs much easier to buy bonds in Slovenia or Italy because the ECB says it will defend them rather than to look into the fundamentals. Or it‚Äôs much easier to buy the Turkish lira because the CBRT¬†says¬†it is hawkish rather than to think whether it‚Äôs actually true (NB it most definitely isn‚Äôt, in my opinion). I am not denying the fact that the policy makers control developments in the very short term no matter how much you disagree with them but we need to be very careful when extrapolating that. I strongly believe that there are still things which are beyond fixing and that sometimes it really is too late. The following points are not necessarily things I am convinced about but I think you can make such counterarguments to the propositions I presented above: Some of those things sound less plausible than others but I guess the message is that don‚Äôt let the policy makers whisper the reality and pull the wool over your eyes. Granted, they can and should impact your trading decisions in the short-run but if the brightest and best-paid minds working in the financial industry are having problems with forecasting what is going to happen in the marketplace then how can you assume that people who ‚Äì for the most part ‚Äì are politicians constantly make the best possible decisions?
YouTube ScreengrabBig flows into stock market mutual funds and ETFs continued this week, while investors continued to redeem money from funds invested in government bonds. BofA Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett points out that "in [the] past four weeks, equity inflows of $47 billion outstrip [year-to-date] bond inflows of $45 billion." Despite outflows from government bonds, though, riskier fixed income markets ‚Äì like high yield debt (junk bonds) and leveraged loans ‚Äì had their biggest week ever as investors piled into higher-yielding products. High-yield bond funds expanded assets under management by a record $5.4 billion in the week ended July 24, while leverage loan funds took in a record $2.2 billion. Below is a complete breakdown of this week's flows, via Hartnett: Asset Class Flows  Equities: $8.0bn inflows ($4.5bn via LO funds)  Bonds: $4.4bn inflows (largest in 11 weeks) Commodities: $0.5bn outflows (24 straight weeks)  MMF: $12bn outflows ($130bn outflows YTD)  Fixed Income Flows  Record $5.4bn inflows to HY bond funds (on absolute terms) Record $2.2bn into leveraged loan funds (57 straight weeks) (on absolute¬†terms)  First inflows to IG funds in 7 weeks (albeit small $0.4bn) But $1.1bn out of EM debt (9 straight weeks and longest outflow streak since Jan'09)  Chunky outflows from Munis ($1.1bn and 9 straight weeks) 10 straight weeks of outflows from MBS ($0.3bn) $0.7bn out of govt/tsy  Equity Flows  $0.8bn inflows to EM equity funds = largest in 10 weeks but note chunky $0.3bn outflows from Brazil Since EM Flow Trading Rule gave a "buy" signal on 6/27, MSCI EM up 512bps  Big $1.6bn inflows to European equity funds  Solid inflows to US ($4.3bn) and Japan ($0.6bn)  By sector, financials ($0.8bn) and healthcare ($0.9bn) are clear winners this week¬†
