Like many California residents, Elon Musk hates driving on Interstate 405 at rush hour. Unlike them, he contributed $50,000 to an advocacy group working to improve the freeway, the LA Times reported. I-405 is one of the country's worst roads for traffic, and a large-scale project to widen the freeway is more than a year behind schedule and almost $100 million over budget, according to ABC. Musk's donation, made in July, went to Angelenos Against Gridlock, a group that works to improve LA's transportation systems by drawing public attention to the issue and putting pressure on the government to remain accountable. David C. Murphy, the group's president, told Business Insider Musk's donation will help it draw attention to the 405 project: "Astonishingly as it may be, no public policy group was focusing on this exceptionally expensive and impactful project before... "We really credit Elon for not just cursing traffic and delays as so many Angelenos do, but for wanting to fight for all of us who commute on this parking lot (freeway) and deserve better than the status quo." Musk told the LA Times his $50,000 is "a contribution to the city and my own happiness. If it can actually make a difference, I would gladly contribute funds and ideas. I've super had it."
Twitter is buzzing about the cover of next month's Boston Magazine (shown below). Writer Seth Mnookin, who teaches at MIT and did a hell of a job covering the bombings, calls it an "absolute masterpiece." The words in the center of the heart say, "We will finish the race. The stories behind these shoes begin on page 79." Boston Magazine Boston Magazine tells the story about the cover here.
Flickr/Niels LinnebergHercules versus the HydraThere remain a lot of misunderstandings and all-out myths out there about the state of the U.S. economy. The Bureau Economic Analysis is here to help. They've put together a presentation (via Barry Ritholtz) to sort through what's real and what's hearsay. Taxes, debt, offshoring and wages are all covered. It's pretty eye-opening.
YouTubeGalleon Group's co-founder Gary Rosenbach has been spending his time riding horses on a ranch in Weatherford, Texas since leaving the now-defunct hedge fund firm, Dealbook's Peter Lattman reports. Rosenbach left Galleon citing family health reasons months before its chief Raj Rajaratnam was arrested in 2009 for insider trading, the report said. Rajaratnam was sentenced to 11 years in prison. †Rosenbach was never accused of any wrongdoing, but he disappeared from the finance world.† Dealbook located him in the "cutting horse capital of the world."†Cutting is a sport where the rider is judged on how well they can†separate a cow from its herd. Earlier this month, he won the†National Cutting Horse Association (NCHA) Super Stakes Derby Amateur Championship. There's money to be made, too. †Although it's nothing compared to Wall Street bonuses, Rosenbach took home†$5,138 in prize money, according to Quarter Horse News. You can see him in this YouTube video:†  [Hat Tip: Dealbreaker]
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How To Admit An Error (And How Not To) (Barry Ritholz) Errors are inevitable, but Barry Ritholz says the best fund managers have developed methods for reducing career-threatening mistakes into mere inconveniences. "Admitting error should be part of your regular process. I have observed two ways to do this that seem to get good results: 1) Identify the error in a professional capacity to relevant parties. This can be to you, your co-workers and colleagues. 2) Perform regular reviews of your errors with the hope of avoiding them in the future. I do this with my annual¬†mea culpas. Ray Dalio‚Äôs Bridgewater hedge fund is notorious for¬†brutal self-examination ‚Äî and they are (arguably) the most successful hedge fund in the world." Jim O'Neill Says It's Okay For Central Banks To Eye Equities (CNBC) A recent RBS survey showed central banks could soon start ramping up investments in equities. Is that odd? In a CNBC interview, Goldman Sachs' Jim O'Neill believes it is not.¬†"I don't think people should worry about that," he said, adding many sovereign wealth funds ¬†tied to central banks already invest in stocks.¬†"Frankly, it makes a huge amount of sense in a world of floating exchange rates and such incredible opportunity, why should central banks keep so much money in very short term, liquid things when they're not going to ever need it?" O'Neill said. "To help their future returns for their citizens, why would they not invest in equity?" The Number Of New Financial Securities Being Issued Has Been Plummeting¬†(Citi via Pragmatic Capitalism) Here's a graph from Citi showing the rate of all new financial assets issued in the past decade. Not only are we back to pre-crisis levels, we're beyond it. In other words, the growth of all markets is slowing down. Citi Citi: "Adding up the bars (still ignoring CB interventions in orange) shows that the growth in the investible universe has slowed from around $3.5-4tn annually before the crisis, to less than $2.5tn over the last couple of years. In other words, the rate of expansion of financial securities has slowed by more than $1tn. That‚Äôs a pretty penny, when you think about it." Tech Will Be The Best Performing Sector By Year's End (Capital Observer) Technology has been one of the poorest performing sectors in 2013 and over the past 12 months. So what, says Capital Observer's Tsachy Mishal. He says he's positioned to have tech finish 2013 as the market's best-performing sector. "Apple has pledged to return $100 billion to shareholders before the end of 2015. That works out to over $33 billion a year, a little over 8.6% of its current market cap. With this announcement technology has joined the float shrinkage party and the sector is likely to play catch up. Its also possible that Apple‚Äôs technology peers will follow its example." Friday's Q1 GDP Print Was Actually Impressive (Capital Economics) "The pick-up in first-quarter GDP growth to 2.5% annualised, from 0.4% in the final quarter of last year, was a little below the consensus forecast at 3.0%, but still impressive in a quarter that was marked by an almost unprecedented fiscal squeeze," CE's Paul Ashworh writes. Q2's print should be more modest given the recent earnings data, but housing starts are still trending higher, and residential investment should stay in double digits for the rest of the year. ¬†¬†
Flickr / John BruckmanMarkets ended the week with very low volatility despite a disappointing GDP report. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,712, +11.7 pts, +0.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,582, -2.9 pts, -0.1%NASDAQ: 3,279, -10.7 pts, -0.3% And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
This just in from CNBC's David Faber... ALERT: Goldman rounds up financing for $JCP, has commitment for $1.75B loan w/no equity component backed by real estate, other assets. Yahoo! Finance
Oh boy ... there is a lot of VC money trapped in web-based money-tracking startups and online wealth whatevers ‚Äî "We're going to disrupt the investment advice industry!" ‚Äî yeah, no you're not. I know of like 20 of these services off the top of my head. Mostly, they offer the mass¬†affluent¬†a way to keep track of all their finances and bank accounts and investment portfolios. Many of them offer automated financial advice or portfolio management or plain vanilla analytics. There are well-done ones and wannabes but it's still early. This new Bloomberg Black service, currently being tested very quietly, will not be music to their ears ... The Reformed Boker Enjoy these benefits for a fixed monthly fee of $100: ¬† Gain greater control¬†as we help you easily monitor and manage all your investment accounts in one place. (You won‚Äôt have to move any existing accounts.) Feel more confident¬†knowing that BloombergBlack is watching over your investment strategy ‚Äì tracking your goals, helping you find funds that best match your preferences and proactively alerting you about opportunities and risks in the markets. Make smarter decisions¬†with guidance from BloombergBlack investment strategists and content culled from across our vast resources and then targeted to you. Talk to your team of investment professionals, whose job is to help make you a better manager of your wealth. There are firms you compete with on data, analytics and user interface and there are firms you just don't. Bloomberg is in the latter camp. Check it out here: Bloomberg Black hat tip Scott Bell
BofA Merrill Lynch economist Ethan Harris has been banging the table about the risks that disinflation (falling, but positive inflation) poses to Federal Reserve monetary policy for a while now. As the chart below shows, several measures of inflation are trending lower on a year-over-year basis. With each new data release, it seems like the amount of annual inflation in the United States economy is moving further and further away from the FOMC's 2% target. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg All that means, according to Harris, is that the Federal Reserve is unlikely to stop buying bonds through its quantitative easing program any time soon. And it seems like even some of the most hawkish Fed policymakers agree. In a new report, Harris points to evidence of this from recent speeches: More recently, Fed officials, including some notable hawks, have caught on to the disinflation risks. Richmond President Lacker reiterated his call for ending QE, but acknowledged that ‚ÄúIf I thought [inflation] was going to persist this low or even fall further, I‚Äôd of course be giving serious thought to providing monetary stimulus to get the inflation rate back to 2‚Äù percent. On a similar note, Minneapolis President Kocherlakota argued for guarding the inflation target ‚Äúfrom below‚Äù and St Louis President Bullard said ‚Äúwe should defend the inflation target from the low side.‚Äù¬† In fact, the FOMC may even elect to increase the amount of bonds it buys under the program if disinflation persists. Harris cites the BAML rates team in saying that there is probably room for the Fed to increase its buying of Treasury bonds from $45 billion a month to $70 billion a month. "Whether the Fed increases QE or not," writes Harris, "as we have seen repeatedly in the last four years, the press, Fed watchers and the market have gotten ahead of themselves in predicting an early exit by the Fed." The exit, of course, is what everyone is buzzing about. The Federal Reserve's balance sheet recently crossed $3 trillion mark. How does it unwind such a massive portfolio without decimating the bond market? That's what everyone wants to know. Predicting the bond market's reaction to such an event, Harris says, "involves a complex calculation of (1) how the Fed reacts to the economy, (2) how the bond market responds to the change in Fed policy and (3) how the Fed responds if it doesn‚Äôt like the bond market reaction." No one really knows, because quantitative easing is a new policy tool and there is no historical precedent. Yet, as Harris points out, "many investors believe each step to the exit‚Äîtapering [bond buying], stopping, rolling-off and selling‚Äîare fraught with danger." Ultimately, though, the whole conversation surrounding the Fed exit misses the point on some levels. Besides, the FOMC might find itself in a position when it comes time to unwind its balance sheet where¬†it¬†needs to engineer a major sell-off in the bond market. Harris explains why in his report (emphasis added): In our view, all of this is interesting from a short term trading point of view, but in forecasting the market over the medium term, we think a much simpler approach is warranted. The Fed‚Äôs goal is not to manage the size of its portfolio‚Äîthat is a very uncertain means to an end. What the Fed wants is to manage financial conditions to be consistent with its growth and inflation objectives. If our forecast is correct‚Äîgrowth picks up above 3% in 2014 and 2015, but inflation remains below target‚Äîthen we think the Fed will want to engineer a modest sell-off in the bond market. If that means keeping a large portfolio, so be it; if it means selling bonds, that is fine as well. By contrast, if unemployment threatens to drop too far or if inflation picks up notably, then we think the Fed will engineer a major sell-off in the bond market. In the former case, the stock market should rally through the exit, while in the second case, it will likely sell-off.  In other words, investors should not get tangled up in the debate about how the Fed manages its balance sheet. Ultimately, this Fed exit depends on growth and inflation the way it always does. There are two second order differences. On the one hand, the Fed is entering unexplored territory, making mistakes more likely. On the other hand, the Fed has more tools to correct its mistakes, including asset buying and guidance along with its control of short term interest rates. Look for the Fed to aim for a comfortable middle ground. An eventual orchestrated bond market sell-off may be inevitable, but the bottom line is that investors ought to keep inflation and unemployment ‚Äì the central bank's two mandates ‚Äì top of mind.
The tobacco industry has a big problem: people are smoking less. Morgan Stanley's David Adelman sees at least eight reasons why this is happening. From his latest note to clients: Secular pressure on US cigarette consumption continues unabated, and includes: (i) An aging and more health conscious population; (ii) A substantial decade long decline in youth smoking incidence; (iii) A lower incidence of smoking across all age levels for each successive age cohort; (iv) A shift amongst Caucasian males towards use of moist smokeless tobacco (drives menthol growth); (v) A shift in the US ethic composition towards groups with far lower cigarette consumption (e.g., Asia and Hispanic-Americans); (vi) More prevalent indoor smoking bans; (vii) A considerable shift towards far lower federally taxed pipe tobacco; and (viii) Shifts in societal pressure and changes in social norms/attitudes. There's also a very new, very small, yet very rapidly growing problem: e-cigarettes. These are the smoking devices that deliver nicotine without producing actual smoke.¬† Rather, they produce vapor. Tobacco giant Lorillard recently said that e-cigarettes may have taken 1% of the U.S. cigarette volume. As you can see in the chart below, Adelman estimates that e-cigarettes will take the place of around 1.5 billion cigarettes this year, up from around 600 million last year. Morgan Stanley
This week G.E. Capital Finance announced that it would no longer finance gun purchases, becoming the latest in a string of companies that have decided to leave a large amount of money on the table rather than risk their reputations on the gun business.¬† It's one of the few places where the high-profile publicity campaign in support of increased gun control has led to a real world result. Last week advocates for gun control were dealt a humbling blow when legislation to require background checks at gun shows publicly flopped on the floor of the Senate after weeks of work.¬† Despite the political defeat, however, something very interesting has happened in the private sector.¬† GE is based in Fairfield, Conn., and several employees have children in Sandy Hook¬†Elementary School, the site of the December mass shooting, according to the WSJ. Jeff Immelt, the CEO of GE, had a meeting with employees after the shooting. This, among other reasons, led to the lender ending financing for guns.¬† GE is the fifth-largest lender in the country. While their decision to stop lending to gun buyers will only impact a very small portion of the market, the optics of it are not good for the business of guns.¬† The decision brings GE in line with Wells Fargo and Citigroup, both of which stopped financing gun purchases several years ago. But firms directly involved in the gun trade are having an even harder time.¬† Cerberus Capital, the private investment company that owns Freedom Group ‚Äî the manufacturer of the assault weapon Adam Lanza used to murder 20 children and 6 adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School ‚Äî announced days after the shooting that they planned to unload the company from their portfolio.¬† But Cerberus has been having difficulties finding a buyer for the company. Other gun manufacturers are using this opportunity to kick Freedom Group's tires, so to speak, and investigate their financials while a buyer remains elusive, according to the Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg News.¬† It's come to the point where several individual Cerberus partners are pursuing a bid as a way to put a floor on the auction. Multiple investment banks ‚Äî reportedly including JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Barclays ‚Äî¬†declined to aid Cerberus in the sale¬†and have refused to represent buyers¬†to avoid getting pulled into a politically contentious gun debate. The sale is worth millions in fees ‚Äî Freedom Group could fetch as much as $1 billion ‚Äî and yet multiple banks have decided that getting in the gun business isn't even worth all the money when reputations are at risk.¬† According to Bloomberg news, "Cerberus may have to take a lower price or be unable to sell the business because so many banks are unwilling to work on the deal, said one of the people with knowledge of the matter."
The regulation proposed by Senators David Vitter (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) intended to end 'Too Big To Fail' was obviously going to make Wall Street nervous ó but we didn't expect Standard and Poor's to call it the end of the world. The "Terminating Bailouts for Taxpayer Fairness Act of 2013," raises the amount of cash that Wall Street banks need to based on the assets on their balance sheets. Big banks will have to keep cash equal to 15% of assets on their balance sheets, for small banks the number is 8%. S&amp;P estimates that banks would have to raise cashed between $1.2 trillion and $160 billion depending on their size. Additionally, they say, the Brown Vitter measure would hurt shareholders, make banks less competitive internationally, and possibly send us into another recession. The banks may even have to break up. From S&amp;P's report: We would be most concerned about the impact on the economy because it appears banks would need to build significantly more capital, which would likely impede their ability to extend credit. In addition, the proposal does not appear to be comprehensive--it focuses primarily on capital and does not address liquidity. Under our methodology, we would potentially no longer factor in government support if we believed that once large banks are broken up, we would not classify these banks as having high systemic importance. Clearly, if enacted, a transition period will be required as many moving parts in this legislation are absorbed by management teams and investors alike. Woof.
Donald Trump's mastery of issues regarding U.S. citizenship and immigration is well-known. He is also well-known for his sensitivity and tact. He demonstrated both on Twitter earlier today. In an interview with CNN,†Zubeidat Tsarnaev, the mother of Boston bombing suspects, the Tsarnaev brothers, was breathless and incredulous saying that her sons couldn't possibly be responsible for the attack on the Boston Marathon. From CNN: "This is really crazy. I can't even, I can't even describe it," she told Paton Walsh, looking drained. "I have no strength. I have nothing. I have no sleep. I am just like dead. Like a dead person." Trump's reaction was not so much incredulous as incredible. From his Twitter feed: Twitter
APIt took only four days of complaints from angry travelers for Congress to act and fix the delays piling up at airports as a result of the across-the-board cuts known as the sequester. White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said Friday that President Barack Obama would sign the "Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013," which passed both the House and Senate in sweeping bipartisan votes. This is¬†a massive cave from both Obama and Congressional Democrats on sequestration cuts, giving the party little-to-no leverage to address other cuts to domestic programs. It's also a huge win for Republicans, who have adopted a brilliant strategy toward the sequester thus far. In the White House press briefing Friday, Carney basically admitted defeat.¬† "I think you're imagining leverage here," he said, in response to a question about why the administration isn't holding the FAA hostage for a more comprehensive fix to the sequester. The White House will be hard-pressed to find another situation in which it can gain better leverage. Until now,¬†Obama has banked on public outrage over the cuts¬†to¬†bring Republicans to the table for a bigger solution that included tax increases.¬† But that opportunity vanished in just four days. Republicans masterfully controlled the messaging on flight delays this week, and in the end, they were the more unified party.  Majority Leader Eric Cantor noted this in a memo to House Republicans after the House's vote Friday. "Consider that the Democrats' opening position was they would only replace the sequester with tax increases," Cantor wrote in the memo, which was provided to Business Insider by a House leadership source. "By the first of this week, Senator Reid proposed replacing the whole sequester with phony war savings. And by last night, Senate Democrats were adopting our targeted 'cut this, not that' approach. This victory is in large part a result of our standing together under the banner of #Obamaflightdelays."
CNBCAs the Bank of Japan ramps up its monetary stimulus to include buying equities, Jim O'Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said it makes sense for central banks to own stocks. O'Neill spoke with CNBC at the Goldman Sachs Growth Markets Summit in New York. After a survey by RBS was published earlier this month that showed a greater appetite for central banks to invest in equities, "I don't think people should worry about that," said O'Neill. He added that many sovereign wealth funds are tied to central banks and are already investing in stocks. Earlier this month, the Bank of Japan promised to pump $1.4 trillion into the economy in less than two years to combat deflation through open-ended asset purchases. The central bank said on April 4 that it will more than double investments in equity exchange-traded funds by the end of 2014. The Bank currently holds •1.4 trillion ($14.1 billion) in ETFs with a target of •3.5 trillion ($35.3 billion) in 2014. "Frankly, it makes a huge amount of sense in a world of floating exchange rates and such incredible opportunity, why should central banks keep so much money in very short term, liquid things when they're not going to ever need it?" O'Neill said. "To help their future returns for their citizens, why would they not invest in equity?" For individual investors, O'Neill said that "it's a great time to own equities," because the equity risk premium over the risk free rate ó a major factor in the widely used capital asset pricing model ó is "still so high," despite many fears in the market. "There are many different parts of the world, despite the rally, where I think that is still the case." O'Neill is best known for coining the "BRIC" acronym in 2001, which points to Brazil, Russia, India and China as the emerging markets to drive growth through the middle of the 21st century. O'Neill also said the economic landscape is shifting for China as it becomes an increasingly important export market for U.S. companies, who are set to be major beneficiaries. "It's all about the quality of growth as opposed to quantity. We are in the really early stages ó deliberately done ó where (China) is prepared to slow growth and shift away to more domestic driven consumption of a more sustainable and better quality," he said. "In this interim phase it's probably going to continue to surprise some people. It's fantastically important." O'Neill predicts that China will become the second-largest export market for the United States by 2020, overtaking Mexico. "The evidence is shifting that more and more U.S. companies are benefitting from the growth of their consumer," he said. ó Reuters contributed to this report.  ó By CNBC's Paul Toscano. Follow him on Twitter and get the latest stories from "Squawk on the Street" @ToscanoPaul
Adam Goldberg/A Life Worth EatingThe famous L'Arpege "oeuf √† la coque"One of the best ways for foodies to truly experience the world's best restaurants is by ordering a multi-course tasting menu. But these carefully crafted and elaborate meals can easily cost upwards of $150 a head, not including wine, tax, or gratuity. And that's a modest estimate. Most of the 26 restaurants on this list blow that cost out of the water, with prices ranging from $200 to over $600 per person. These are the 25 most expensive tasting menus we could find, but if you know of another, tell us in the comments! NOTE: We calculated the cost of a meal for two people, and included the price of a wine pairing where applicable. Unless otherwise indicated, the listed cost does not include gratuity or tax. Foreign prices were converted at today's conversion rates.
The German Parliament's upper house (Bundesrat) rejected a deal in November that Prime Minister Angela Merkel was willing to sign with Switzerland that would have allowed German account holders to pay tax anonymously. (As I reported on April 12, automatic exchange of information is rapidly becoming the standard to which even Luxembourg will adhere, so Switzerland will come under great pressure to do the same, thus ending bank secrecy.) Now, Naomi Fowler of Tax Justice Network points me to new enforcement actions based on leaked account information. Last week the southwest German state of Rhineland-Palatinate conducted searches of over 200 homes in connection with alleged tax evasion. The raids were based on a CD with data on thousands of German citizens with Swiss bank accounts, for which the state had paid an informant 4 million euros ($5.2 million). However, tax authorities estimated that they would have an over 100-fold return on this investment, expecting to collect 500 million euros ($654 million) as a result of the investigation. Investigators in Rhineland-Palatinate stated that they were investigating Credit Suisse and its German subsidiaries for assisting in tax evasion as a result of data on the CD. This comes on top of a 2011 settlement by the bank to pay 150 million euros for facilitating German tax evasion.How often do governments get a 100-fold return on investment? The U.S. routinely pays drug informants; it should be more aggressive in finding tax evasion informants. Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ª
On Saturday, Parliament reelected President Giorgio Napolitano for an unprecedented second 7-year term. The office was largely ceremonial, but he could dissolve Parliament and call for new elections. ìCunning coup díÈtat,î a furious Beppe Grillo called it in an interview. ìThe political class is fighting for survival,î he said. His anti-establishment 5-Star Movement that had garnered 25.6% of the popular vote in February has refused to form a coalition with either of the two major groups ñ and brought the political machinery to a clattering halt. ìThose wanting to prevent change are willing to do anything,î he griped on his blog. ìThey are desperate. Four people, Napolitano, Bersani, Berlusconi, and Monti, met in a living room and decided to keep Napolitano at the Quirinal....î Theyíd ganged up on him. Yet, he was confident that his movement could bring down the corrupt political machinery. ìWe donít sabotage anything,î he told the Bild. ìThe parties sabotage themselves.î In September or October, the government would ìrun out of moneyî and would have difficulties paying pensions and wages. The system would crash. ìWeíre experiencing a historic fracture: the established parties are in the process of disappearing,î he said. ìItís the birth of new movements like mine that come from below.î On Wednesday, the machinery lurched forward again; Napolitano nominated a prime minister: Enrico Letta, deputy head of the Democratic Party (PD). He is also tied to Silvio Berlusconiís People of Freedom Party (PdL) through his uncle, Gianni Letta, who has been Berlusconiís chief-of-staff for 10 years. Letta was ìthe only possible solution,î Napolitano explained. Heíd be the only guy who could rally ìa broad convergence of the political forces that can assure a majority in both houses.î Outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti was on board. Letta would ìbe able to consolidate Italyís international credibility,î he said. Letta announced that heíd meet with the political leaders ñ not including Grillo ñ to discuss the ìfragile and unprecedentedî situation. Once heís confident that he has the backing to form a government, heíll accept the nomination and present the ministers for his cabinet. A vote of confidence in both houses of Parliament will seal the deal. His goal was to build support for the political class that he said ìhas lost all credibility.î Grillo, as he was watching his movement getting run over by the political machinery, lashed out on his blog: ìIn Rome, they are sharing the spoils and the armchairs of the Second Republic. Meanwhile, the economy canít wait. Every minute, a company shuts down. By this fall, we could get to the point of no return.î One of his top priorities was the plight of small and medium-size enterprises (SME) ñ the core of Italyís industry. "The entire fabric of the environment for SMEs is disintegrating like a massive spider web whose silken threads are breaking one by one until itís completely destroyed. Without this network of businesses, Italy is finished. Thatís what supports public finances.... They are asking us to help them survive." He blamed austerity policies that have jacked up taxes on individuals, companies, and consumption. ìA suicidal position that is transforming the country into a desert.î Objective of these policies: ìmaintain the current privileges... and elevate banks and finance to the top of the pyramid, instead of production.î His solutions: First, abolition of the ìabsurd tax on employment,î where ìthe more people a business hires and the more it borrows in order to grow, the more it is taxed.î Second, a change in when businesses have to pay the value-added tax. And third, ìthe immediate payment of about Ä120 billionî that the government and public entities owe the private sector. The governmentís refusal to pay suppliers violates EU rules. But the EU has soft-pedaled it; payment of arrears would not only force Italy to sell a truckload of bonds when there might not be a lot of demand, but it would also raise the official deficit beyond the 3% of GDP allowed under the Maastricht Treaty. Thanks to cash accounting for government spending, Italy has achieved its austerity goals by not paying it suppliers. And itís strangling them. Grillo proposed to limit the payment delay to 60 days. Beyond that, the government would have to pay interest on the balance at a punitive rate, plus other ìdocumented costsî caused by the excess delay. All three measures, Grillo wrote, would need to be approved by Parliament as soon as possible. ìThereís no time left,î he pleaded. But Italyís political machinery kept lurching forward. Italian stocks rallied. Yields on government bonds plunged. Because what large international investors like is a political machinery, no matter how corrupt, that keeps lurching forward ñ even if those who propose reasonable measures to resuscitate the core of the economy get run over. In German politics, at the epicenter of power, the euro has been a sacred concept, a religion of sorts, worth saving no matter what ñ until an insider suddenly offered an alternative, a heresy for Germans, an exit strategy if you will, a ìPlan B.î And he predicted that the euro might not last another five years! Read....† Germanyís Trial Balloon Of A ìPlan†Bî
Outspoken billionaire financier Ken Langone¬†appeared Friday on Bloomberg TV to discuss generational theft ‚Äî the idea that the old are stealing from the young to pay for entitlements and retirement. Langone, 77, believes it. He told Eric Schatzker that "we're stealing from the young." He even said that the government should "start with me" in terms of where to cut entitlements for the elderly. "If I had to pay for my own health insurance, that's okay. I can afford it ... by the way I think it's going to turn up that way with Obamacare." His point was that everyone needs some skin in the game. That's when Langone pulled a ... Langone. Bloomberg anchor Sarah Eisen took the other side of the argument, noting that economist Paul Krugman believes Americans needn't worry about the deficit. Langone countered that while Krugman is brilliant, he doesn't know about profit margins or businessmen. "The thing about 1% like me there's a limit. What's the limit 100% of my income. Unless you say now he's got no income let's go after his assets. We may get there ... The money either comes from taxes or other activities... or a willing and compliant Fed saying how many bars you got? $1 billion? Turn the presses on! This is simple stuff! My problem with the Krugmans of the world is that they're brilliant ... they just may be too brilliant ... Losing weight is not a very scientific endeavor you consume less calories than you burn you lose weight ... so let's stop all this crap with all of these high fallutin' thoughts and ideas. You know what happens to people their eyes glaze over, I don't know what the hell he's saying." He went ont to say that he really respects investor Stanley Druckenmiller because he applies practical math to these problems, adding that if Krugman and Druckenmiller were to brawl it would be "TKO in about 5 seconds." Watch a clip below: 
Wikimedia CommonsReal GDP grew at a 2.5% rate in Q1, which was below economists' expectations for 3.0% growth. The biggest disappointment in the report was clearly defense spending. "The unexpectedly large drag from defense spending was likely due in part to the first effects of sequestration, but could also be explained by constraints imposed by operating under a continuing resolution, which funded the government through March 27," said Goldman Sachs' Jan Hatzius. Real defense spending contracted at an 11.5% rate in Q1, following a 22.0% rate of contraction in Q4. JP Morgan's Michael Feroli observed that this was "the weakest two quarter run for defense spending since the end of the Korean War."
Screenshot via BloombergTVIt had seemed like a done deal ‚Äî¬† billionaire hedge fund manager Marc Lasry would be ambassador to France. Even Bill Clinton was liberal with the information, confirming the news for Politico. But earlier this week Lasry told his investors that he would not be heading overseas. He gave no reason, but the¬†The New York Post's Kaja Whitehouse and Jennifer Gould Keil report that he had to give up the position because of his ties to a Russian Mafia gambling ring busted last week. Earlier this month, the FBI charged more than thirty people in an¬†illegal gambling, money laundering, and extortion scheme tied to Russian organized crime, according to a federal indictment. Those named ran the gamut from a Russian national who was accused of fixing the Salt Lake City Olympics to the NYC-based heir to an art dealing empire, and their alleged gambling and extortion ring spanned from L.A., to NYC, to Moscow. Authorities allege that the organization hosted¬†high-stakes poker games frequented by Wall Streeters, pro-athletes and Hollywood stars. No names of financiers were mentioned in the indictment.¬† However, according to the Post, Lasry had a "close friendship" with Illya Trincher, 27, who was named in the indictment.¬† From the Post:¬† Lasry, 53, turned down the post only days after the White House asked the FBI to probe whether he was tied to anyone involved in the criminal enterprise, sources said. His name surfaced in FBI tapes probing the matter as a person who likes to play in exclusive high-stakes poker games, sources said. Because ambassadorships require Senate approval ‚Äî normally a pro-forma step ‚Äî Lasry faced the prospect of being grilled about the ring. To be clear, Lasry hasn't been accused of any wrongdoing. ¬†He didn't comment for the Post's piece.¬† A source familiar tells Business Insider that Lasry withdrew from consideration for the ambassadorship for basic business reasons. ¬†The source said it was¬†becoming clear that he would have to divest himself of his holdings in Avenue and his interests in the funds. The source said the¬†Post‚Äôs characterization¬†of Lasry's decision to withdraw as being prompted by "ties to an alleged Russian mob-run poker ring" was "ridiculous." The source said Lasry has certainly has played poker with friends and others for recreation, but¬†such participation is legal and he has received no contact from anyone involved in the investigation of the matter.
The Japanese yen continues to surge against the dollar this morning. One of the most consensus trades on the planet is betting that the yen will decline against the dollar as Japan implements aggressive monetary policy designed to reflate the economy. Yet last night's Japanese consumer prices release revealed that deflation is getting worse. And while the Bank of Japan upped its economic forecasts at its policy meeting overnight and said it would hit its lofty 2% inflation target within two years, the market appears to be expressing serious doubts over the BoJ's ability to further weaken the yen today. As Deutsche Bank FX strategist Taisuke Tanaka pointed out in a note to clients this morning, "On past occasions when the BoJ expanded QE in a risk-off environment, the yen rose as a creditor currency and Japanese equities underperformed, with the result that easing had no real impact. However, we can expect a substantial impact from the new dimension easing as the U.S. macro-economy is improving." However, a†worse-than-expected U.S. GDP release†put downward pressure on the dollar this morning,†contributing to the short-yen trade unwind. The dollar-yen exchange rate is trading at 97.70, down 1.6% and just off its lows of the day. It keeps moving further and further away from that landmark 100 level, which hasn't been seen since April 14, 2009. Thinkorswimclick to enlarge
Two years ago, Vijay Brihmadesam had a cushy finance job at a private equity firm in Palo Alto, Calif.¬† But that all changed after Brihmadesam ran into Jason Pate, a former classmate at Duke University. The two happened to be on the same plane and struck up a conversation about their dissatisfaction with their jobs.  "The economy was bad at the time, so we were happy for our jobs in finance," Brihmadesam told Business Insider. "But we wanted to be doing more than the rat race of Wall Street and start contributing to the community in a way that felt meaningful to us."¬† The friends came up with an idea to open a fast-casual restaurant with Indian food. When Brihmadesam got back to San Francisco, he got another friend, Hasnain Zaidi, on board.¬† "There was no cheap, convenient, place to get healthy Indian food at the time," Brihmadesam said. "I wanted to serve Indian food in a casual setting that was like what I ate growing up."¬† Thus, the concept for¬†Tava Indian Kitchen was born.¬† But before launching into a completely new industry, Brihmadesam and his two friends decided they needed some on the ground experience. ¬†And so the trio applied to work at Chipotle. They were hired on the assembly line and worked there for several weeks.¬† "Chipotle is great because they took authentic Mexican food and made it accessible to the masses," Brihmadesam said. "I wanted Tava to do that for Indian food."¬† Tava also implemented some of Chipotle's ethical sensibilities. It gets its produce from local sources and only serves hormone-free meat. Brihmadesam's colleagues in finance didn't hold a grudge: his first investment came from Bob Gay, the co-founder Huntsman Gay,¬†Brihmadesam's former emloyer. By February 2012, the trio opened the first Tava Indian kitchen in Palo Alto. Six months later, they opened a second store in San Francisco. ¬† The restaurant has become wildly popular in the Bay Area and has received rave reviews from hundreds of people on Yelp.¬† Today, Brihmadesam¬†and his partners are working with on a plan to expand Tava.¬† He says he's thrilled that he took a risk two years ago.¬† "A chance encounter changed the path of my life," Brihmadesam said. "Taking the risk was scary, but I couldn't be more thrilled with my career today."¬†
Bloomberg TelevisionEarlier today, we learned that real GDP grew at a 2.5% rate in Q1. While this was much lower than the 3.0% growth rate forecasted by economists, it still seems to be a clear indicator of economic growth. But not everyone sees it that way. Lakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute has long argued that the U.S. economy slipped into a recession in mid-2012. And he is convinced that we continue to be in a recession now. We asked Achuthan how today's GDP report fit into his thesis.† Here's his response: So, with U.S. GDP growth at 2.5%, how can we be in recession? Few realize that GDP data for almost all the early quarters of recent recessions have been revised down dramatically. Recall that the GDP release on August 28, 2008 ñ with the economy eight months inside the Great Recession ñ revised Q2/08 GDP growth to 3.3% from 1.9%, up from 0.9% in Q1/08. But both of those data points, as well as GDP data for the first two quarters of the 2001 and 1990-91 recessions, were revised by 2 to 4 percentage points over time. This is how real-time data often behave during recessions. Furthermore, yoy nominal GDP growth at or below 3.7% has occurred only in recessionary context. Q1 2013 read is 3.4%, the second straight quarter below 3.7%. In summary, revisions have historically been negative, real GDP appeared to grow handily in the last recession, and nominal GDP (which combines real GDP with inflation) is still very low.
Douglas EllimanMartha Stewart may be growing tired of her 153-acre Cantitoe Corners estate in Bedford, N.Y., because according to the NY Post, she checked out another amazing Bedford estate belonging to financier Marvin Schwartz. Schwartz is a managing director and portfolio manager at Neuberger Berman. His eclectic house, known as Twin Ponds, is on sale for $30 million. The place is called Twin Ponds† because one of the ponds is under the house. The 6 bedroom, 3,600 square foot house†sits on 21.7 acres of land and boasts floor to ceilings windows, but it's really the grounds that will take your breath away. The pool and massive wine cellar aren't too shabby either. Sally Slater at Douglas Elliman has the listing.
Frac Daddy/FacebookWhat do you call your horse if you made your millions in the oil business? Frac Daddy, of course. But it's one thing to have your cheekily named mare toil in obscurity. It's another to have the whole world watch it run for the roses. Montana oil men Carter Stewart and Ken Schlenker will see their three-year-old thoroughbred in the Kentucky Derby after it recently placed in the Arkansas Derby, pushing the steed over the race's minimum points threshold, the Billings Gazette reports¬†(via Fuel Fix). From the Gazette: Stewart and Schlenker haven't been partners in the racing industry for very long, but they've been friends for a long time and have worked together for years on oilfield projects. "Ken and I kind of consider this horse, named Frac Daddy with all the fracking going on, as a tribute to the oilfield workers of America," Stewart said. Early odds have the horse at 45-1. The race is May 4.
Henry Kravis Much of the talk in the hedge fund space lately has been about the American Federation of Teachers "watch list"¬†of hedge funds¬†that was released last week.¬† The AFT's report "Ranking Asset Managers" was sent to pension trustees and listed a bunch of money managers who support education reform organizations. The reaction from hedge fund sources consulted by Business Insider was that the list was "thuggish" because it aims to scare away potential investors or get current investors to divest. ¬†Others viewed their inclusion as a "badge of honor."¬† It appears private equity giant KKR has figured out how to get off the blacklist, though. ¬† The AFT named KKR on it's so-called "watch list" because "a foundation connected to co-founder Henry R. Kravis previously contributed to the Manhattan Institute." ¬† It's a pretty loose connection. KKR sent the AFT a letter making it clear that they actually support defined benefit plans.¬† Here's an excerpt from the letter: kkr It worked. ¬† The AFT's president Randi Weingarten took KKR off the list. ¬†Here's an excerpt:¬† AFT So if you want off the list, here's a strategy for you.
Getty Images/ Gareth CattermoleHedge funder Warren Lichtenstein says that Andrew Cader, a former Goldman exec, conspired with British socialite Annabelle Bond to inflate her child support payments from him, New York Times Peter Lattman reports. Lichtenstein, who runs New York-based hedge fund Steel Partners, has a five-year-old daughter with Bond, his former fianc√©e.¬† He alleges that Cader, the current boyfriend who also owns part of the Tampa Bay Rays baseball team, conspired with Bond, the daughter of a former HSBC chairman, to conceal her financial standing so she could get more than $50,000 monthly in child support, the report said. Lichtenstein's suit says that Bond and their daughter had been living in Cader's $26,000 per month apartment in Hong Kong, according to the report. ¬†Lichtenstein's suit also claims that the apartment and more than $3.5 million in cash were disguised as loans.¬† The fund manager's suit said that because of this, a Hong Kong court awarded his ex "one of the largest" child support payments in Hong Kong consisting of $41,800 a month and other expenses including school, medical and travel.
AP ImagesThe University of Michigan's April consumer confidence survey results are out. The headline index fell to 76.4 from last month's 78.6 reading. However, 76.4 is well above both the flash estimate published by Michigan earlier this month (72.3) and economists' predictions for today's release (73.5). The sub-component index of current conditions came in at 89.9, below last month's 90.7 reading but above the April flash estimate of 84.8. The economic outlook sub-component fell to 67.8 from last month's 70.8 reading, but was above the flash estimate of 64.2. In short, consumer confidence in April was lower than it was in March, but there seems to have been a bit of a rebound in confidence in the second half of the month. Inflation expectations 1 year ahead fell to 3.1% in April from 3.2% in March. Inflation expectations 5 years ahead rose to 2.9% from 2.8% last month. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Adobe of Chaos via FlickrLarry Page and Sergey Brin.Story #1:† One time Barry Diller was visiting Sergey Brin and Larry Page. The topic of the meeting was to see how the greatest media mogul could work with the greatest Internet moguls. It was like two galaxies colliding to create something beautiful when seen from light years away. Larry Page was texting or doing something on his phone. Barry Diller was disgusted: ìEither choose me or the phoneî. Larry Page, without even lifting his head from his phone, said to the biggest media mogul in history, ìI choose thisî. Referring to his phone. So Diller spent the rest of the meeting talking to Sergey Brin. ñ Story #2: Itís very hard to get a job at Google. They are even making a movie out of the process. They used to make movies about things like the Vietnam War. Or about preventing Mars from crashing into Earth. Or about a young blonde boy being chosen by a wizened hermit with psychic powers to save the galaxy against his father who wears a black helmet all the time. Now they are making a movie about how hard it is to get a job at Google. ìA sort of Hunger Games for nerdsî as Vince Vaughn says in the trailer. But in the early days, Sergey Brin would interview every candidate. Like, on a date, you immediately know within five seconds whether you want to have sex eventually with the person you are on the date with. Sergey Brin would know right away if he was interested in hiring the person. If he wasnít interested, he said, ìI would try to spend the next hour trying to learn at least one thing from the person so that the meeting wasnít a waste for me.î ñ From Story #1 I learn the most important rule of my life: donít have meetings with someone you donít want to have a meeting with. Claudia said to me, sounds like Larry Page was just being rude. I donít know. I donít want to judge. Who knows the dynamics of these billionaire meetings. Too complicated for me. But you are what you eat. I donít have meetings with people I donít like. Ever. Else I can feel it somewhere in my bodyÖI feel bad. Why feel bad? Itís my choice to feel bad or good. If I ate glue Iíd probably feel sick. I wonít do that either. Larry Page couldíve been busy kissing his wife instead of meeting with Barry Diller. Instead, he was probably texting his wife. He was probably texting, ìI hate Barry Dillerî. Texting? Kissing? Kissing? Texting? Of course itís nice that heís so honest and blunt. Maybe I could learn that also. I feel I am pretty blunt but the way to avoid being rude is to not be blunt to people you donít like. So itís simple again: avoid people I donít like. Larry Page doesnít like Barry Diller. So Lesson number one, donít have meetings with people you donít like. Life will be better for me if Iím sitting in a park thinking about nothing instead of having meetings with people I donít like. ó The second story is a little harder. Yes, itís good to learn from everyone you meet. But if I just hoard everything I learn, I might end up with a very big head. I feel bad for these guys being interviewed. They are probably scared shitless. And hereís Sergey, already decided heís going to pick some fact from their brain. Like maybe the person Sergey is interviewing is an expert on whales. No need for whale people at Google! But can I eat whale flesh? Does whale loin make a good sandwich? Are whale fats healthy for my testosterone? Too many facts! I donít need to know so much about whales. I think Sergeyís rule should be to do the opposite of what he does.† Should I urn a rule on itís head if itís a rule coming from the most successful, the smartest, and perhaps the sexiest man on the planet? I donít know. I want to be a good person. I want to be free from worry. People say, ìare you the signal or the noise?î Huh? I donít need to be the signal or the noise. So I make my own rules for me. What if I try to GIVE to each person I meet, even if I know there will be no further contact. Even if I donít learn anything. Donít do it in a creepy way. Like, ìHere are some chocolates little boy!î And you donít want to be patronizing either. Like, ìyou should really be up on your Shakespeare, young man.î But what if you really listen to the person, not to steal away his few morsels of knowledge but just to listen to him. Or just be kind. Maybe thatís the gift he needs. I donít know. What can you do to give to everyone you meet? Or everyone you see. Itís hard! Iím going to try it. [See, "Give and you Will Receive"] ñ I admit: Iím jealous of Larry Page and Sergey Brin. I want to play with my phone while saying, ìI choose thisî to Barry Diller. I want to make the worldís biggest website and cure cancer at the same time. I want to be the cool guy on the subway with $18 billion and wearing the first wearable computing on the planet. I want. Give me. But maybe I also want to kiss instead of text. Be QUIET instead of MEET. And feel like I have something to offer to everything around me, even in the smallest of ways. I want to exude abundance when I give to everyone I meet. I donít need to take more facts. That makes sense. Iíll never have a job at Google. Iíll never be the master of the galaxy. But I like having Sergey Brin and Larry Page as my reverse-mentors. Thank you very much. ñ [Follow me on Google+ please!]
Partners at the New York law firm Wachtell, Lipton Rosen &amp; Katz make $4.9 million a year on average, according to the American Lawyer Magazine's new law firm ranking. Wachtell's partners make more on average than any partners at any other United States law firm, according to the 2013 AM Law 100 Survey. Quinn Emanuel partners came in second but earned just $3.5 million on average. Wachtell, which handles complex corporate deals, has a stellar reputation among lawyers. A Vault Law survey of 12,000 associates around the U.S. in 2012 found Wachtell was America's most prestigious law firm. Although partners at Wachtell make a lot more money than young lawyers there,¬†associate lawyers do well too, making anywhere from $164,000 to $204,554,¬†according to¬†postings on the jobs website Glass Door. (Law firms in major cities usually pay first-year associates around $160,000.) While Wachtell's partners pulled in the most money on average, the firm itself didn't have the highest revenue. That honor went to DLA Piper, which is also the world's biggest law firm.
Last week, $3.7 billion flowed out of equity mutual funds and ETFs ‚Äì the first weekly outflow from funds investing in the stock market since the rally began all the way back in November. BofAML Global Research, EPFR Global And following the brutal sell-off in the commodity complex that caused so much market turmoil last week, commodity funds lost 1.3% of total assets under management to redemptions, with precious metals-oriented funds alone recording $2.3 billion in outflows. That's 11 straight weeks of outflows from precious metals funds now ‚Äì the longest streak on record, according to BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett. "The mid-April plunge in gold prices [is] the most likely culprit for the first week of equity redemptions since November," says Hartnett. All of the equity outflows were from ETFs like SPY, IWM, and EEM. Assets under management at long-only equity funds were flat on the week. On the other hand, bond funds saw their biggest weekly inflows ‚Äì $7.6 billion ‚Äì since November. Below is a breakdown of the damage. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, EPFR Global
The yen has been strengthening against the U.S. dollar all morning, ever since last night's Japanese consumer prices release, which revealed that deflation is accelerating in Japan. The U.S. GDP release at 8:30 AM ET missed expectations and put downward pressure on the dollar, giving the yen another catalyst for continued strengthening. Right now, the yen is trading at 98.28 to the dollar, as it moves further away from the landmark 100 level that has yet to be broken. The chart below shows the move this morning. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Though few people have heard of Penang today, it once ranked among the most opulent destinations in the world. Ceded to the British East India Company in 1786, Penang was a critical trading hub for European imperialists; it thrived as a free port along critical eastern trade routes and rivaled even Singapore‚Äôs importance. By the early 20th century, cosmopolitan Penang was famed as a must-visit for the international elite‚Äì from silent film stars such as Charlie Chaplin and Douglas Fairbanks to celebrated authors like Rudyard Kipling and Joseph Conrad. Fast forward 100 years and Penang‚Äôs reputation for glamour and intrigue has been supplanted by Hong Kong and Dubai. But it‚Äôs still an amazing place. First of all, it‚Äôs incredibly civilized. Most folks come to this little Malaysian island expecting rural Cambodia. Instead they get coastal Portugal. The infrastructure, from roads to digital communication, is first rate. It‚Äôs clean‚Ä¶ and in many cases, polished and sophisticated. It‚Äôs also multicultural. Penang‚Äôs history has made the island a pan-Asian melting pot, plus a very healthy mix of Westerners‚Äì Portuguese, British, and even Dutch. Nowhere is this more obvious than in local cuisine, among the finest in Asia. Restaurants are fantastic, serving some of the most eclectic fusion dishes imaginable. One of the best parts about Penang, and Malaysia in general, though, is the price. It‚Äôs shockingly cheap to live here without having to sacrifice quality‚Ä¶ all wrapped up in an entrepreneurial economy that still thrives on its freewheeling tradition. Today, Penang functions as an export processing zone whereby entrepreneurs import raw materials duty free, add value, and export. Rather than manufacture socks and underwear like much of Asia, though, Penang‚Äôs highly skilled workforce produces microchips. And everywhere you look, it seems, are help wanted signs. Another nice thing is that there are several ways to obtain residency here, including purchasing a home or demonstrating basic financial solvency (less than $200,000 in cash and roughly $3,300 per month in offshore income). See Malaysia‚Äôs My Second Home program (www.mm2h.gov.my) for details. Let‚Äôs be honest; if history is any indicator, there may come a time when getting out of dodge is the only choice left. Throughout history, there have been periods of intense chaos and turmoil. And in each instance, there were always people who were ahead of the trend‚Äì from Bourbon landowners who left before Robespierre‚Äôs Reign of Terror, to Jews under Nazi Germany. Again, this isn‚Äôt a doomsday prediction. Far from it. But given the potential for epic financial failure in the world, it certainly behooves a rational, thinking person to consider options overseas. And, as history shows, sometimes this even means a foreign residence. Trust me on this‚Äì if it ever comes down to you having to hit the eject button, you won‚Äôt want to start the planning process while you‚Äôre packing your bags. Knowing where you would go should the need ever arise, and even having residency lined up, is a good idea‚Ä¶ no matter what happens. You won‚Äôt be worse off for it. And if you‚Äôre going to start that planning, Penang is definitely a destination you may want to consider. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ¬ª
Flickr / quinn.anyaThe Q1 GDP report is out. The headline number grew by 2.5%, but missed expectations calling for 3.0%. Dow futures are down 42 points. S&amp;P futures are down 5.1 points. Just before the report, Dow futures were down 26 points, S&amp;P futures were down 3.5 points, and Nasdaq futures were down 9.7 points. Click Here For Full Coverage Of The GDP Report &gt;
Paul Goyette, FlickrThe first estimate for first quarter U.S. GDP is out. The U.S. economy expanded 2.5% in the first quarter, below expectations for 3.0% growth. However, personal consumption growth was 3.2 percent, better than expectations for 2.8% growth. Below is the full text from the release. -------------------------------------- Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property†located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.5 percent in the first quarter of 2013 (that†is, from the fourth quarter to the first quarter), according to the "advance" estimate released by the†Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the fourth quarter, real GDP increased 0.4 percent. The Bureau emphasized that the first-quarter advance estimate released today is based on source†data that are incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency (see the box on page 3 and†"Comparisons of Revisions to GDP" on page 5). The "second" estimate for the first quarter, based on†more complete data, will be released on May 30, 2013. The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from†personal consumption expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, residential investment,†and nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset by negative contributions from federal†government spending and state and local government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the†calculation of GDP, increased. BEA plans to release the results of the 14th comprehensive (or benchmark) revision of the national†income and product accounts (NIPAs) in conjunction with the second quarter 2013 "advance" estimate†on July 31, 2013. More information on the revision is available on BEAís Web site at†www.bea.gov/gdp-revisions, including a link to an article in the March 2013 issue of the Survey of†Current Business that discusses the upcoming changes in definitions and presentations, including†capitalizing spending on research and development and on entertainment originals and measuring†transactions of defined benefit pension plans on an accrual accounting basis. An article in the May†Survey will describe changes in statistical methods, and an article in the September Survey will describe†the estimates in detail. Revised NIPA table stubs and news release stubs will be available in June. Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise†specified. Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences between these published estimates. Percent†changes are calculated from unrounded data and are annualized. "Real" estimates are in chained (2005)†dollars. Price indexes are chain-type measures. This news release is available on www.bea.gov along with the Technical Note and highlights related to this release. The acceleration in real GDP in the first quarter primarily reflected an upturn in private†inventory investment, an acceleration in PCE, an upturn in exports, and a smaller decrease in federal†government spending that were partly offset by an upturn in imports and a deceleration in nonresidential†fixed investment. Motor vehicle output added 0.24 percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP after†adding 0.18 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change. Final sales of computers subtracted 0.01†percentage point from the first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.10 percentage point to the†fourth-quarter change. The price index for gross domestic purchases, which measures prices paid by U.S. residents,†increased 1.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent in the fourth.†Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic purchases increased 1.3 percent in†the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the fourth. Real personal consumption expenditures increased 3.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with†an increase of 1.8 percent in the fourth. Durable goods increased 8.1 percent, compared with an increase†of 13.6 percent. Nondurable goods increased 1.0 percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent. Services increased 3.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent. Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 2.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with an†increase of 13.2 percent in the fourth. Nonresidential structures decreased 0.3 percent, in contrast to an†increase of 16.7 percent. Equipment and software increased 3.0 percent, compared with an increase of†11.8 percent. Real residential fixed investment increased 12.6 percent, compared with an increase of†17.6 percent. Real exports of goods and services increased 2.9 percent in the first quarter, in contrast to a†decrease of 2.8 percent in the fourth. Real imports of goods and services increased 5.4 percent, in†contrast to a decrease of 4.2 percent. Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 8.4 percent†in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of 14.8 percent in the fourth. National defense decreased†11.5 percent, compared with a decrease of 22.1 percent. Nondefense decreased 2.0 percent, in contrast†to an increase of 1.7 percent. Real state and local government consumption expenditures and gross†investment decreased 1.2 percent, compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent. The change in real private inventories added 1.03 percentage points to the first-quarter change in†real GDP after subtracting 1.52 percentage points from the fourth-quarter change. Private businesses†increased inventories $50.3 billion in the first quarter, following increases of $13.3 billion in the fourth†quarter and $60.3 billion in the third. Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in private inventories -- increased 1.5†percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.9 percent in the fourth. Gross domestic purchases Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S. residents of goods and services wherever†produced -- increased 2.9 percent in the first quarter; it was unchanged in the fourth quarter. Disposition of personal income Current-dollar personal income decreased $109.1 billion (3.2 percent) in the first quarter, in†contrast to an increase of $262.3 billion (8.1 percent) in the fourth. The downturn in personal income†primarily reflected a sharp downturn in personal dividend income and a sharp acceleration in†contributions for government social insurance -- a subtraction in the calculation of personal income. Fourth-quarter personal dividend income was boosted by the payment of accelerated and special†dividends. The acceleration in contributions for government social insurance in the first quarter resulted†from the expiration of the "payroll tax holiday." Personal current taxes increased $27.2 billion in the first quarter, compared with an increase of$34.3 billion in the fourth. Disposable personal income decreased $136.3 billion (4.4 percent) in the first quarter, in contrast†to an increase of $228.0 billion (7.9 percent) in the fourth. Real disposable personal income decreased†5.3 percent, in contrast to an increase of 6.2 percent. Personal outlays increased $116.3 billion (4.1 percent) in the first quarter, compared with an†increase of $97.0 billion (3.4 percent) in the fourth. Personal saving -- disposable personal income less†personal outlays -- was $313.3 billion in the first quarter, compared with $566.0 billion in the fourth. The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a percentage of disposable personal income -- was†2.6 percent in the first quarter, compared with 4.7 percent in the fourth. For a comparison of personal†saving in BEAís national income and product accounts with personal saving in the Federal Reserve†Boardís flow of funds accounts and data on changes in net worth, go to†www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp. Current-dollar GDP Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation's output of goods and services -- increased†3.7 percent, or $146.1 billion, in the first quarter to a level of $16,010.2 billion. In the fourth quarter,†current-dollar GDP increased 1.3 percent, or $53.1 billion. Click here for the full release &gt;
">baileyraeweaver via FlickrThe first reading of Q1 GDP will be released at 8:30 AM ET. Economists are looking for a 3.0% growth rate. But High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan notes that this headline number won't necessarily be met with cheers.† From his note: A solid rise in GDP in todayís Q1 report is likely to be downplayed, with some of the strength due to inventory building rather than final sales. Also, the monthly data for March suggest a sharp slowing as the quarter ended. We agree that the Q1 pace should not be ex- trapolated, and that Q2 growth is likely to be more modest, although we are also increasingly confident that the sudden slowing in March was mainly just payback for exaggerated strength earlier. Click Here For Full Coverage Of The GDP Report &gt;

Deutsche Bank's new "Equity House View" report includes a map highlighting anecdotal optimism from around the world from early economic cycle business. Check it out. Deutsche Bank
One of the common misconceptions is that the gain in housing demand owes primarily to investors and international buyers. In Q1, investors made up about 22% of sales, which is close to the average since mid-2010. International buyers made up about 2% of sales in Q1, which again matches the historical average over the past three years. Of course, in certain markets investors and international buyers play a bigger role. Investors buy a disproportionate share of distressed properties, making them more relevant in markets with high delinquencies. Similarly, in big cities such as New York, Miami and San Francisco, international buyers account for a much larger share of sales. Primary homebuyers are still the largest share of the market, by far. However, the constraint for primary homebuyers is tight credit conditions. This has resulted in a greater share of all-cash purchases. Over 20% of buyers who are looking to relocate (turnover) and 60% of second home buyers use only cash. First-time homebuyers are still reliant on financing as only 11% of sales are all cash among this cohort. And of course, the most extreme is investors and international buyers where about three-quarters of purchases are all-cash. All together, about a third of sales are made without financing. As credit conditions gradually ease, which we anticipate, the housing market will open to a wider range of buyers, particularly first-time owners. Meyer argues a large percentage of the cash buyers are not investors. Friday economic releases: ï At 8:30 AM ET, the BEA will release the advance Q1 GDP report. The consensus is that real GDP increased 3.1% annualized in Q1. ï At 9:55 AM, Reuters's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for April). The consensus is for a reading of 73.0, up from 72.3.
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Flickr/Uli H.The Graefekiez neighborhood of Berlin, GermanyNadim Chebli remembers well the first of his customers who decided to pay for the records they bought with virtual currency rather than cash or credit cards. "I'd only just agreed to accept Bitcoins," said the 36-year-old owner of the Long Player record shop, "and the first sales I made in it came pretty quickly, from a guy about my age who bought Tom Waits's The Big Time and a young woman who bought a Beatles compilation from 1967." In the few months since Chebli signed up to the peer-to-peer electronic cash system, he finds it hard to come up with definitive characteristics for the "typical" Bitcoin user who walks off the street into what he describes as his "vinyl living room". "There's no typical age group, or sex, just, well, regular folk," he said. Florentina Martens has had the same experience since opening her Parisian-style cafe Floor's two months ago just a couple of streets away. "There is not a prototype Bitcoin payer," she said. "It's random people. Not only nerds, let me put it that way." Like Chebli, Martens, whose Kersenvlaai (cherry cake) from her native Maastricht is rated as one of the best culinary offerings of the area, says she decided to accept Bitcoins because of the ease, cheapness and transparency of its payment system. "It's an easier way of digital payment than credit cards, which cost me a lot of money as a business and to which I'm forced to sign up for years," she says. These two tradespeople are among around a dozen in the Graefekiez, a cosy neighbourhood established in the 19th century in the southern Berlin district of Kreuzberg, which currently boasts the highest density of businesses accepting the currency in the world. Its growing list of Bitcoin establishments includes a restaurant, a printing shop, a bar and boutique. Community leaders believe that Bitcoin's ethos is embedded in a similar political consciousness to that of Kreuzberg. The payments system, which has been viewed with scepticism elsewhere, arguably fits in well with the district's rebellious, critical, leftwing history, not least its residents' willingness to protest against the rising influence of capitalism, in particular the creeping gentrification that is threatening to envelop the district as Berlin undergoes a property boom. "Kreuzberg is traditionally an area in which people are very politically aware, critical towards existing systems and are constantly discussing and looking for alternatives to them, which makes it the perfect breeding ground for Bitcoin," says Joerg Patzer, a staunch Bitcoin advocate who roams the neighbourhood with a missionary zeal in search of new recruits. Patzer, 47, who typically trades by night and sleeps by day, is also the owner of Room 77, a popular bar in the Graefekiez, which has become a magnet for Bitcoin enthusiasts in the German capital. On a recent Tuesday evening with a jazz trio providing the music, law student Jeff Gallas, the owner of a few thousand euros' worth of Bitcoins, was tucking into a beefburger. "Bitcoin is the first global money we have," he says, when asked to explain his enthusiasm for a currency that has been criticised for the ease with which drug and child porn dealers can use it and which many economists have called nothing but a craze, comparable to the Dutch tulip bubble of the 1600s. "It could be from a science fiction novel, but the fact is we have it in the here and the now," Gallas said, listing the items he has bought with Bitcoins, including "honey from Thailand, historic flags from the United States, gold and silver, concert tickets", and of course, his beer and burgers. He taps the amount he owes Room 77 into the virtual Bitcoin wallet on his Android phone and, aligning it with a code on the bar's device, presses a button to process the payment. A theatrical "kerching" sound follows and Gallas is grinning from ear to ear. "It could hardly be easier," he insisted. Heidi Leyton, a British tour guide who takes business people around Berlin, said she was first drawn to the currency when two Spanish friends demonstrated their trust in it by deciding to use their entire inheritance to purchase Bitcoins. "They were very worried about the way the economy was going in Spain and so decided to invest their ‚Ç¨30,000 inheritance in Bitcoins. I was really shocked, thinking what a gamble it was," Leyton admits. "But that was about three and a half years ago and their 30,000 has grown to 600,000, so they did very well. On the back of her friends' experience, she too decided to buy into the currency and to accept fees for her tours in Bitcoins. "Looking at the way the economy is going and the way we're dealing with it, particularly after what's just happened in Cyprus, I don't really trust having my money in the banks," she said. As with any currency, trust and the willingness of users to accept it is vital to Bitcoin's success or failure, and that mechanism is arguably clearer to see in a small community like the Graefekiez than anywhere else. Patzer buys the beer for Room 77 from the nearby Rollberg brewery, owned and run by qualified brew and malt meister Wilko Bereit. He pays for the barrels with Bitcoins and, while Bereit says he doesn't fully understand the workings of the payment system, he is willing to trust it. "There is no middle man involved," he said, talking in his hop-scented brewing parlour with its gleaming copper kettles, and casually dropping into the conversation that the German president is among his customers. "It's just a deal between Joerg and me and after I've opened my Easy Wallet, which is easier than sending an email, we have a beer together." Bereit recently followed events as Bitcoin's value halved in less than six hours as a result of recent panic buying. But he remains unperturbed. "As my grandmother would say, it's only money, and it won't kill me if it doesn't work," he said. "The truth is, I really want to believe in it. And I like the fact that Bitcoin scares people in suits, because if this thing were to really take off, it would bankrupt a lot of bankers." Crypto-currency experts meeting Patzer at a recent Bitcoin soiree in the back of Floor's cafe prefer to talk of the recent dip as a correction rather than a crash, which has brought Bitcoin back to a realistic price while it has retained its underlying value. "I would look at these spikes and corrections as the birth pangs of an entirely new system," said Mike Gogulski, a Bitcoin developer. "It represents an opportunity to transform the way we deal with the flows of wealth and human energy." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Here‚Äôs more excellent commentary from Citi: ‚ÄúThe blue/grey bars quantify the net issuance of securities across broad asset classes on a rolling 4-quarter basis in the Eurozone, the US and in Japan. The orange bars capture the effects of central bank interventions. The red line is the net amount of issuance left after those¬†interventions ‚Äì in other words, it is a proxy for the change in the size of the universe of securities that investors can buy. As you would expect, the chart shows a surge in net government debt issuance in 2009-10 as fiscal deficits ballooned. These have fallen back over the last couple of years but remain significantly higher than before the crisis. The surge in corporate issuance of bonds since 2007 is perhaps less intuitive, considering that companies have generally run their balance sheets very¬†conservatively, cutting capex and M&amp;A. However, a big shift from loan to bond¬†funding has more than compensated for that. Net equity issuance remains a¬†relatively small component. There was a brief flurry of equity issuance in 2009-10, but as leverage has come down corporates have reverted to the more normal pattern of retiring shares on a net basis. The biggest shift has been the drop in net issuance from financials and GSEs (like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). Having dominated securities markets before the crisis, their net issuance has dwindled to next to nothing in recent years. Adding up the bars (still ignoring CB interventions in orange) shows that the growth in the investible universe has slowed from around $3.5-4tn annually before the crisis, to less than $2.5tn over the last couple of years. In other words, the rate of expansion of financial securities has slowed by more than $1tn. That‚Äôs a pretty penny, when you think about it. When the effect of central bank interventions (quantitative easing and LTROs3) in orange is subtracted, the reduction in the supply of new assets available to financial investors becomes even more dramatic: Apart from a brief period in H1 2011 (where markets incidentally did not perform particularly well), the investible universe of financial assets has grown by less than $2tr per year over the last three years ‚Äì half the run-rate that we were used to. In fact, in some quarters net issuance of securities been virtually zero. ¬†We think this ‚Äòsupply effect‚Äô on financial markets of central bank interventions is widely underestimated.‚Äù
As the evidence of an economic slowdown continues to mount, corporate revenues are feeling the pressure and the effects of the sequester are beginning to seep into the economy. Last week we enumerated the overwhelming majority of economic reports that declined or fell short of expectations.¬† These included payroll employment, the ISM manufacturing and non-manufacturing indices, retail sales, the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey, the NAHB housing market index, single-family housing starts, the NFIB small business index, the Empire State index and manufacturing production.¬† Since then, additional releases have shown a meager 0.2% increase in March core capex orders following a drop of 8% in February.¬† The Philadelphia Fed Index dropped in April, while the Richmond Fed index was down in both March and April.¬† Overall, the ISM weighted composition was the lowest since November.¬† Existing home sales have been about flat since November.¬† The Chicago Fed National Activity Index was also down in March. At the same time corporate earnings are flattening while revenues and guidance are disappointing.¬† With 47% of the S&amp;P 500 companies having now reported 1st quarter results, it appears that 69% have beaten their recently downward revised estimates, which are significantly under the projections made just a few months ago. Overall, first quarter earnings are tending toward an increase of about 3% over a year-earlier after being down in the prior two quarters.¬† Importantly, however, only 35% of the companies beat their revenue estimates, compared to an average of 62% since 2002, and 52% over the last four quarters.¬† Equally or even more troubling is the fact that negative guidance for 2013 exceeded positive guidance by a ratio of 14:1, compared to the historical average of 2:1.¬† This indicates the probability of a lot of earnings problems in coming quarters. The political controversy over the air controller furloughs and related airline delays are the canary in the coal mine indicating that the effects of the sequester are starting to be felt in the economy.¬† The protests over the cuts are an indicator of what will happen as the pain and inconvenience spread through the economy.¬† But, after all, this is just what the sequester was supposed to do----make the cuts so onerous that the authorities couldn‚Äôt let it happen.¬† Unfortunately they did let it happen and unless something is changed, the economy will feel the dire effects. All in all, we believe that economic growth and corporate earnings will be highly disappointing in coming quarters and that investors will drop the pretense that the Fed can fix everything that ails the economy.¬† Although Bernanke, himself, has been virtually begging for help from fiscal policy, it does not seem likely that he will get it anytime soon. ¬†¬†¬†
TOKYO (AP) ‚Äî Japan's consumer price index fell 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier, underlining the challenge of ending a long spell of debilitating deflation despite an onslaught of monetary easing and stimulus spending. Citing expectations that the policies will soon turn take hold, the central bank raised its inflation forecast for the coming two years. The Bank of Japan, whose policy board met Friday but left monetary policy unchanged, said it expects inflation to hit a 2 percent target within that time despite uncertainties in both the domestic and global economies. In its revised outlook, the central bank said the economy was likely to grow at a "pace above its potential" and return to a moderate recovery by mid-2013. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office in December vowing to vanquish deflation, or falling prices, that tend to discourage business investment and weaken growth. Bank of Japan Gov. Haruhiko Kuroda, appointed in late March, has thrown his support behind that effort, committing to reaching the inflation target within two years by stepping up monetary easing so as to double the monetary base ‚Äî the amount of cash circulating in the economy and held as bank reserves. So far there has been scant sign of any shift, though the economy did emerge from recession, barely, in the last quarter of 2012. The 0.9 percent decline in prices in March compared with a 0.7 percent drop in February, though the inflation benchmark rose 0.2 percent from the month before. Core consumer prices excluding food fell 0.5 percent year-on-year. The central bank's forecast on Friday noted a slew of uncertainties that could skew trends in either direction, saying its outlook was based on an assumption that global financial markets will remain stable and that a weakening of the yen would help boost Japan's exports. It also is assuming a tightening in the labor market that would push wages higher, and increased investment by businesses. "Given these assumptions, in fiscal 2013 a virtuous cycle among production, income and spending is expected to start working, triggered by increases in public investment and exports," its report said. Inflation may be boosted by rising costs for imported energy and other commodities due to the weakening of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar and other currencies, the BOJ said. The inflation forecast includes the impact from anticipated increases in the sales tax, by 3 percentage points in 2014 and another 2 points in 2015. The BOJ said it also took into account expectations that consumers would increase spending so as to make purchases before the tax hikes take effect, as well as the expected ensuing decline in demand. The weakening of the yen due to Japan's effort to reflate its economy and get growth back on track has raised concerns over possible competitive devaluations by other countries. The Group of 20 leading economies and organizations such as the International Monetary Fund have backed Tokyo's approach but warned it must act to reduce its public debt, which is the highest among major industrial economies. Despite the upbeat revision in the BOJ's outlook, the fragility of the economic recovery so far is raising doubts over whether Abe's government will fulfill a commitment by the previous administration to raise the sales tax to help balance public finances. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters Friday that the government still intends to undertake "fiscal rehabilitation." But he said the government may need to reassess how quickly it can reduce its deficit spending. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
asfal.TO / FlickrAfter staging a nice rally on Thursday, markets seem to be ending the week on a lower note. England's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.8%. Germany's DAX is down 0.6%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.9%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.8%. This follows a mixed day in Asia where Japan's Nikkei fell 0.3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 0.6%. The marquee event of the day will come from the U.S. where we will get the first reading of Q1 GDP.
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozEconomists Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff have been the targets of vicious attacks after UMass graduate students exposed an error in their research. Specifically, Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash and Robert Pollin found that Reinhart and Rogoff made a computational error in their 2010 paper¬†‚ÄúGrowth in a Time of Debt.‚Äù This paper has been used around the world by political leaders to advance austerity because it appeared to show that economic growth slowed significantly when debt-to-GDP exceeded 90%. Since the UMass paper was published, Reinhart and Rogoff have furiously defended their work, arguing that their basic conclusion connecting high debt with low growth is intact. In a new op-ed in The New York Times, Reinhart and Rogoff continue their defense. They address the topic of austerity head-on by noting that they never specifically made a call for austerity: The politically charged discussion, especially sharp in the past week or so, has falsely equated our finding of a negative association between debt and growth with an unambiguous call for austerity. We agree that growth is an elusive goal at times of high debt. We know that cutting spending and raising taxes is tough in a slow-growth economy with persistent unemployment. Austerity seldom works without structural reforms ‚Äî for example, changes in taxes, regulations and labor market policies ‚Äî and if poorly designed, can disproportionately hit the poor and middle class. Our consistent advice has been to avoid withdrawing fiscal stimulus too quickly, a position identical to that of most mainstream economists. In some cases, we have favored more radical proposals, including debt restructuring (a polite term for partial default) of public and private debts. Such restructurings helped deal with the debt buildup during World War I and the Depression. We have long favored write-downs of sovereign debt and senior bank debt in the European periphery (Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain) to unlock growth. So, while you may criticize them for their Excel error, you should be careful not to associate all of the world's ills with their work. Indeed, Reinhart and Rogoff write that the attacks have gone too far. Our research, and even our credentials and integrity, have been furiously attacked in newspapers and on television. Each of us has received hate-filled, even threatening, e-mail messages, some of them blaming us for layoffs of public employees, cutbacks in government services and tax increases. As career academic economists (our only senior public service has been in the research department at the International Monetary Fund) we find these attacks a sad commentary on the politicization of social science research. But our feelings are not what‚Äôs important here. Read the whole Op-Ed at NYTimes.com.
