">Daniel Goodman / Business Insider THE United States Postal Service has made a perfectly sensible decision. In light of the move by most Americans to electronic mail and online bill pay, it will no longer deliver the post on Saturdays. The volume of mail has plummeted over the past five years, and the service is deep in the red. Taking Saturdays off will save it about $2 billion a year. It's a smart move. But the way it came about is a portent of doom. The Postal Service has been asking to move to five-day delivery for some time. They've been supported in this effort by a large majority of Americans. One need only look at the examples of Canada, Sweden, Australia or Germany (where Saturday delivery is charged extra) to see the non-disastrous effects of such a policy. Few reforms to major institutions are so popular and obvious. Unfortunately for the Postal Service, this is but a baby step in the right direction. The whole concept behind the service is broken. Over three-quarters of America's post offices do not turn a profit. The requirement to deliver anywhere and everywhere in America, at a set price, is a noose around its neck. Congress, meanwhile, is pulling on its feet, requiring the service to pre-pay health-care obligations for retirees well into the future. But this is not why we are doomed. We are doomed because last year the House and Senate considered separate measures aimed at reforming the Postal Service. Neither of them made it out of Congress. The farther-reaching House bill never came to a vote. The Senate bill passed, but was not taken up by the House. And, really, it wasn't a reform bill at all. Rather, it delayed the reforms sought by the service, and put off a decision on Saturday delivery for two years. Even with the American people pushing at their backs, the senators could not take that baby step. The service had to use some dubious legal reasoning to finally pull off the move. Consider that for a moment. Most people don't rate mail delivery as one of their top concerns. It isn't the third rail of American politics. Yet Congress could not even pass a reform supported by seven in ten Americans. Now consider America's attitude towards Social Security, Medicare¬†and Medicaid. Those programmes, primarily the health-related ones, will bankrupt the country if they're not changed or taxes aren't raised. No workable solution has anywhere near the backing of 70% of Americans. And the debate over what to do about them is highly charged. Does anyone truly believe Congress is up to the challenge? (Photo credit: AFP) Click here to subscribe to The Economist  Now Watch ... KRUGMAN: It Looks Like The Deficit Wars Are Over, And The Economy Is Entering A 'Virtuous Circle'
Stefan / FlickrHONG KONG (AP) ‚Äî Asian stock markets mostly held steady on Thursday but Japanese stocks slid as investors took profits following a huge rally the day before. Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 0.8 percent to 11,374.26 as investors cashed in their gains after the benchmark rose to its highest since Sept. 2008 in the previous session. The rally was sparked by the weakness of the yen, which hit a three-year low against the dollar. The currency regained some strength on Thursday, with the dollar buying 93.41 yen, down from 93.68 yen the day before. In other Asian markets, South Korea's Kospi edged down less than 0.1 percent to 1,934.33 while Hong Kong's Hang Seng retreated 0.4 percent to 23,160.69. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index in mainland China lost 0.8 percent to 2,416.05 while the smaller Shenzhen Composite Index gained 0.2 percent to 953.26. Benchmarks in New Zealand and Singapore also fell but Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 gained 0.3 percent to 4,936.80. "Markets appear to be entering into a more nervous period" as investors take stock following recent gains, strategists at Credit Agricole CIB wrote in a note to clients. Complicating factors include upcoming elections in Italy, currency frictions, deadlock in the U.S. over spending cuts or "simply a market that has overtaken reality." Shares of News Corp. fell 0.5 percent in Sydney after the media conglomerate cut its forecast for annual earnings, citing underperformance at several businesses including its Fox broadcast network. U.S. stocks were flat on Wednesday as the latest earnings reports failed to impress investors. The Dow Jones industrial average rose less than 0.1 percent to 13,986.52 and the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,512.12. The Nasdaq composite was 0.1 percent lower at 3,168.48 In energy markets, benchmark crude for March delivery was up 14 cents to $96.76 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract fell 2 cents to end at $96.62 on Wednesday. The euro weakened to $1.3504 from $1.3525 in late trading Wednesday.
NEW YORK (AP) ‚Äî Barclays Capital says it plans to lay off 275 employees at three offices in New York. The investment bank disclosed the plans Wednesday to the Department of Labor, which posted the details on its website. Barclays says the layoffs will take place during a 14-day period beginning May 15. The company listed economic factors as the reason for the layoffs. The federal Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act requires employers of companies with 100 workers or more to provide notice 60 days in advance of a plant closing or mass layoffs. Barclays Capital is the investment banking division of British lender Barclays PLC. In October, Barclays PLC reported a net loss of 200 million pounds ($322 million) for the third quarter.
It has been more than a year since JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson unveiled his plan to turn around the struggling department store. Johnson sat down with CNBC to talk about his first year at the retailer and he was immediately put on the spot: what's the deal with sales at JCPenney? After all, he had originally tried to kill traditional event-driven sales at JCPenney and wean people off of coupons. Now, JCPenney is getting back into the sales game. Exactly one year after switching over to Johnson's new pricing model, JCPenney held a sales event for fine jewelry. So, what exactly is going on? Here's what Johnson had to say: "A year ago we were going to run sales but they'd last a month and we called them a 'month-long value.' And customers didn't understand the new term. And we just said lets go to language they understand and rather than having sales that last a month, target them to when they're needed most. So we're going to reintroduce sales at times like Valentine's Day or Easter, just to make sure we deliver the best value we can." And what about coupons? After all, JCPenney is offering a $10 "gift" if a customer spends $10. That's pretty much just a coupon with a different name. "It's similar, it's veryÖ it performs just like a coupon. And we are doing that. Because our customer has told us at times they like to have additional value. As we approach this year, our number one priority is return to growth. It's also the number two priority. It's the number three priority. We want to return to growth. We think we key to that is communicating value and we'll do that in whatever way it takes to return to growth. But it all is rooted in the first price being the right price." He doesn't regret taking such a hard line on the word "sale" either. "I really don't. If anything I'm sorry we didn't start with it.† Because we always want to deliver value, but we thought we could articulate value in a different way. Customers didn't hear that as much as investors. What customers care about is the value delivered every day." Watch the full interview below: 
So many articles have been written recently about Apple ‚Äî defending it or explaining why this glorious fruit will turn into a shriveling pumpkin by midnight (with Samsung‚Äôs help) ‚Äî that I really haven‚Äôt felt the need to contribute to the unending debate. But then Apple‚Äôs stock crashed to $450 last month, and we bought a little for our clients. After receiving an outraged e-mail from one of them calling the purchase ‚Äúirresponsible‚Äù and proclaiming that everyone (including his neighbor) knows that Apple is going down to $300, I decided it was time to join the discourse. Clients rarely (almost never) contact us about stocks we own in their accounts. More important, this is far from the most ‚Äúradioactive‚Äù stock we own or have owned. Here, in the first of two columns on Apple, I have no intention of defending or prosecuting the company, but I would like to share some thoughts about it that many pundits have either overlooked or ignored. What makes Apple stock difficult to own is psychology. The company‚Äôs success since 2000 is a black swan. We tend to think of Nassim Nicholas Taleb‚Äôs black swans as significant random negative events, but Apple is a positive one. When co-founder Steve Jobs came back to the company in the late ‚Äô90s, Apple was about to take its last breath. Jobs pulled off a miracle. He revived the company‚Äôs computer product line, making Macs exciting again, and then came out with three revolutionary ‚Äúi‚Äù products in a row: the iPod, iPhone and iPad. You could argue that the success of each ‚Äúi‚Äù product in itself was a black swan, exceeding all rational expectations and revolutionizing, transforming and in some cases creating new categories of merchandise that had never existed before. Apple‚Äôs revenue and market capitalization deservedly surpassed those of almighty Microsoft Corp. ‚Äî the hairy monster with stinky breath that performed CPR on dying Apple in the late ‚Äô90s by injecting liquidity into the company by buying its preferred stock. We have a hard time processing this highly improbable success and an even harder time imagining that there is another black swan about to take flight from the Apple labs, especially with no Steve Jobs around to sit on the egg. Black swans come out of nowhere, unannounced, but their impact may be long-lasting. The wildly successful ‚Äúi‚Äù gadgets dug a formidable moat around Apple. They created the most valuable and still most inspirational brand in the world, funded an enormous research and development effort, enabled huge buying power (Apple locks up supply and pays much lower prices than many of its competitors for parts), filled out a mature product ecosystem and stuffed Apple‚Äôs debt-free balance sheet with $137 billion ‚Äî half the market capitalization of Microsoft. The moat is wide, deep and unlikely to be breached any time soon. One reason the psychology of owning Apple stock is so difficult: its high price. (Note: I am talking not about its valuation but purely about its price.) Apple has had only one stock split since the late ‚Äô90s, when it was trading in double digits, and it now changes hands at about $450 (down from $700 just a few months ago). Stock splits create zero economic value in the long run ‚Äî absolutely none. Apple could split its stock ten to one and you‚Äôd have ten $45 shares, and nothing about the company or its business would change. But I‚Äôd argue that a 3 percent ‚Äúslide‚Äù of $1.35 would grab fewer headlines than a $13.50 ‚Äúdrop‚Äù ‚Äî there is a media magnification factor that is hard to ignore. Read the rest of this article at InstitutionalInvestor.com &gt;
 There's a debate in Ireland happening tonight designed to help reduce the massive debt burden the country is still facing since the collapse of the country's banks in the financial crisis. Virtually everyone is confused, and the reports on what it's all about aren't clear. Lorcan Roche Kelly of Trend Macrolytics has emailed us a fantastic explainer of what's going on in Ireland. This is the clearest explanation we've seen yet, and we're very grateful for Lorcan's clarity on this. Be sure to follow him on Twitter @lorcanrk. His note to us is below the dotted line. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- In the wake of the collapse of the irish property market, two of the worst Irish banks -- Anglo Irish Bank and Irish Nationwide Building Society -- were nationalised and turned into a new institution called Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC) with the intention of working the institution down over a number of years.The new institution had funding needs of over Ä30 billion that were met by the government -- as owner of the institution -- writing a debt instrument called a Promissory Note. This note was repoed through the Irish Central Bank through a mechanism called Extraordinary Liquidity Assistance (ELA). Under ECB rules, ELA is outside normal ECB lending and is done at a national central bank level with ECB oversight.The terms of the Promissory notes require payment at the end of each March of Ä3.1 billion from current spending.The current government -- elected in 2011 -- promised to reform the Promissory notes to end the arrangement requiring Ä3.1 bn annual payments.In the approach to to next payment -- due in 8 weeks the government has promised not to make the payment.Two weeks ago a government proposal to exchange the prom notes with longer term debt on the Irish Central Bank balance sheet was rejected by the ECB.Today's developments are the government trying to skin the cat another way. First, they are ending IBRC. After the passage of the legislation currently in front of the D·il, it will no longer exist.The IBRC assets will be moved to NAMA (Ireland's bad bank). The prom note will be replaced at the Irish Central Bank with NAMA issued bonds that are covered by a government guarantee.The NAMA bonds will be structured like normal bonds -- only requiring annual interest payments until the end of their term -- and so will lead to reduced current expenditure in the short term.However, this deal still has to be given the ok from the ECB who have oversight of the Irish Central Bank. They may make their decision tomorrow, if so it will be announced by Mario Draghi at the ECB press conference at 1:30 GMT.
Jeopardy screengrabWe totally geeked out when 'Teen Jeopardy' featured a category for the Federal Reserve on tonight's episode.¬† The teens made it through the category answering all the questions. ¬†There were a couple stumbles from two of the contestants, but overall we were impressed.¬† We've included the answers in the slides that follow. See if your Fed knowledge is on par with these Jeopardy teens.¬†
NTSBBoeing is considering a fix for the batteries in its Dreamliner jet that appears to take into account criticism by Elon Musk, founder of Tesla and SpaceX. According to the Wall Street Journal, Boeing may increase the amount of space between the cells in the lithium-ion batteries, as a way to limit the spread of "thermal runaway," the term for when uncontrollable heat damages the battery. In a recent email to the aviation publication Flightglobal, Musk wrote: Unfortunately, the pack architecture supplied to Boeing is inherently unsafe. Large cells without enough space between them to isolate against the cell-to-cell thermal domino effect means it is simply a matter of time before there are more incidents of this nature. In a Wall Street Journal video report today, Jon Ostrower reported Boeing has told stakeholders and clients it hopes to have a fix for the battery in place by the end of February, but that it is also focusing on finding to root causes of the failures. Meanwhile, the NTSB's probe of the lithium-ion batteries continues. The Board is expected to announce Thursday that its investigation will turn its focus to the initial decision by the Federal Aviation Administration to approve the plane for flight. Boeing did get a spot of good news today: The FAA has approved a one-time "ferry flight" for the 787, so a grounded jet can be moved from Texas to Everett, Washington, where Boeing is based, on Thursday.
CPSL via VimeoLegendary investor Jeremy Grantham has just published his Q4 2012 letter to GMO clients. Much of the letter is an extension of the extremely bearish message of his Q3 letter, in which he predicted GDP growth to decelerate from around 0.9 percent per year to 0.4 percent from 2030 to 2050. Those who are invested in today's markets, however, may find one part of his letter particularly frightening. In a section sub-titled Engineered Low Interest Rates, Grantham discusses the impact of the Federal Reserve's ultra-easy monetary policy.¬† He warns that asset price inflation will work its way up from asset class to asset class until things fall back into place through "exciting crashes." From Grantham's letter (emphasis ours): The Fed‚Äôs negative real rates regime, designed to badger us into riskier investments in order to push up equity prices and grab a short-term wealth effect (that must be given back one day when least comfortable and least expected), has gone on for a long and, for me, boring time. This low interest rate period is serving, therefore, as a sneak preview of what a permanently lower rate regime might look like (although any permanently lower rates reflecting lower GDP growth would be by no means as low as these engineered rates that we are currently experiencing). So what are some of these effects? The artificially low T-Bill rates first work their way slowly up the curve. Next, the most obviously competitive type of equities ‚Äì high yield stocks ‚Äì begin to be bid up ahead of the rest of the market, as has happened. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve just got to squeeze out some higher rates somewhere, anywhere,‚Äù is the pension fund plea. Then, this low rate competition begins to filter into other securities, historically sought after for their higher yields: higher-grade real estate, where the ‚Äúcap rates‚Äù slowly fall; and, unfortunately, also forestry and farmland, mainly of the larger and more standard varieties that appeal to institutions, which show declines in their required yields, i.e., their prices rise. The longer the engineered rates stay below true market rates, the higher asset prices become until, yes, you‚Äôve got it, corporate assets begin to sell way over replacement cost. Then, if the heart of capitalism is still beating at all, a long period of over-investment begins and returns are bid down and everything moves into balance, often helped along if asset prices get too high, as in 2000 and 2007, by a good healthy market crunch. (This strategy will be seen in future years as archetypical of the Greenspan-Bernanke era: badger and bully investors into taking more risk and eventually pushing assets ‚Äì houses or stocks or both ‚Äì far over replacement value, followed eventually, at long and hard-to- predict intervals, by exciting crashes. No way to run a ship, but it does produce an environment that contrarians like us, who can take a few licks, can thrive in.) So, how does one invest in this hazardous investment environment?¬† Grantham offers some guidance. ...asset prices are not uniformly overpriced: emerging markets and, we believe, Japan are only moderately overpriced. European stocks are also only a little expensive, but in today‚Äôs world are substantially more risky than normal. The great global franchise companies also seem only moderately overpriced. Forestry and farmland, which is not super-prime Midwestern, is also only moderately overpriced but comes with our nook and cranny sticker attached. But much of everything else is once again brutally overpriced. Notably, U.S. stocks (ex ‚Äúquality‚Äù) now sell at a negative seven-year imputed return on our numbers and most global growth stocks are close to zero expected return. As for fixed income ‚Äì fugetaboutit! Most of it has negative estimated returns on our data, and longer debt, as always, carries that risk that may be slight in any period, but is horrific if it occurs ‚Äì accelerating inflation. Download the whole letter at GMO.com. SEE ALSO: GRANTHAM: Here Are The Basic Forces That Will Send Growth To Near-Zero For Decades &gt;
Seabreeze Partners portfolio manager Doug Kass has been sounding the alarm bells on the stock market for a while. In his 2013 outlook published on January 9, Kass warned that the market would make its high for 2013 in the first two weeks of January. That, of course, didn't happen, as stocks have continued to grind higher. Now, more and more people are talking about a sell-off than at any point during this rally that started in November, due to increasing signs of excessive bullishness among investors. Kass was just on CNBC, and he made some rather dramatic comments. "I'm getting the 'summer of 1987 feeling' in the U.S. equity market," Kass told CNBC, "which means we're headed for a sharp fall." For those who don't remember the summer of 1987, here is what it looked like: Wikimedia Commons Kass also said that he thinks "fair market value of the S&amp;P 500 is roughly 80 or 90 points lower." This view has Kass at his highest net short position of the year. Watch the full appearance below:  SEE ALSO:†Doug Kass Predicted 15 Big Surprises For 2012 ó Here's How They Did &gt;
BloombergCiti's Willem BuiterCiti chief economist Willem Buiter ñ who has maintained a pretty bearish tack on the euro zone throughout the euro crisis that has plagued the continent in recent years ñ is out with his latest missive. In a note to clients titled "New and old risks in the Euro Area," Buiter says that the big rally in European equity and bond markets in recent months "can be only partially explained by economic fundamentals, and most of it represents a bubble driven by ëpositive contagioní." Buiter explains: "Much of the improvement is driven by liquidity, unprecedentedly low safe nominal and real interest rates, an increasingly frantic ësearch for yieldí, unrealistic expectations about what policy will be able to deliver and other forms of irrational optimism and exuberance." Buiter acknowledges that yes, economic fundamentals have improved somewhat since ECB President Mario Draghi's game-changing "whatever it takes to save the euro" speech quelled fears in euro-area asset markets back in July. The fundamentals haven't improved enough to justify the gains in euro-zone stock and bond markets shown below, though, writes Buiter. Bloomberg, Markit, Citi Research In his note, Buiter writes: However, in our view, the improvement in sentiment appears to have long overshot its fundamental basis and was driven in part by unrealistic policy and growth expectations, an abundance of liquidity and an increasingly frantic search for yield. The key word in the recovery globally and in particular in Europe growth is and remains that it is fragile. To us the key word about the post summer 2012 Euro Area asset boom is that most of it is a bubble, and one which will burst at a time of its own choosing, even though we concede that ample liquidity can often keep bubbles afloat for a long time.  We recognise that, in a decentralised market economy where expectations of the future, moods, hopes and fears drive private (and sometimes also government) behaviour directly and through their effect on the prices of real and financial assets, todayís subjective expectations and other psychological characteristics in part determine what tomorrowís fundamentals will be. Irreversible or costly-to-reverse decisions like capital expenditure, human capital formation, resource extraction etc, are driven by subjective expectations and moods, making the distinction between a fundamentally warranted asset boom and a bubble slightly fuzzy at the edges. But†this indeterminacy, bootstrapping, self-validating characteristic of complex dynamic economic systems inhabited by partially forward-looking households, firms and policy makers ñ called reflexivity by George Soros ñ can be taken too far.1 Mere optimism and confidence will not permit the authors of this note to bootstrap themselves into winning the menís doubles at Wimbledon 2013. The fact that financial markets have radically reduced their implied estimates of the likelihood of sovereign default in the periphery of the EA (other than in Greece) and of senior unsecured bank debt restructuring throughout the EA, core as well as periphery, should not stop us from continuing to analyse carefully the fundamental drivers of both sovereign credit risk and senior unsecured bank debt credit risk. When we do this, the conclusion that the markets materially underestimate these risks is, in our view, unavoidable. Won't policymakers ñ especially those at the ECB ñ step in and prevent anything serious from transpiring in the market? Buiter says no: A counterargument to our assessment that the risks of sovereign and bank debt restructuring in the euro area are widely underestimated is that when it comes to these events, policymakers and the ECB will always ëblinkí and end up bailing out the insolvent debtors for fear of more adverse political and financial stability implications. In our view, the only institution that could blink effectively is the ECB. The rest of the creditors (mostly the governments in the ëcoreí) likely do not have the necessary fiscal resources for full bailouts of all insolvent sovereigns and banks, nor the political capacity to deliver all of the capacity they have. The ECB likely has the technical capacity although it would probably exhaust its substantial non-inflationary loss absorption capacity (NILAC) in the process and risk a serious surge in inflation.7 In our view, the ECB too will not deliver all it can. If it did, it would probably threaten an EA breakup through an exit of the strong. Buiter's comments echo those from other economists and strategists in recent days. Natixis Chief Economist Patrick Artus recently compared Mario Draghi to former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan in the 1990s, saying that Draghi wouldn't be able to keep the bubble in Europe from bursting. ECB Morgan Stanley interest rate strategist Laurence Mutkin just sent out a note to clients on the Europe situation a few days ago sporting the title, "Now We're Getting Worried." Robert Crossley, an interest rate strategist at Citi, sent out a note this week ñ titled "Cracks are starting to appear in Europe" ñ explaining why the disproportionate flow into Spanish bonds over the last month has him particularly concerned. It seems like the sentiment may be starting to turn, which only makes tomorrow's ECB press conference all the more interesting. SEE ALSO: 7 Things Mario Draghi Can Do To Weaken The Euro &gt;
Ever since I started writing about Apple about five years ago, the company has been a stone fortress to me. I have tried reaching out a couple of times, to establish what I hoped would be a mutually beneficial relationship, but my emails have gone unanswered. So I have just worked with Apple information from other sources. And, over the last five years, I have probably written a hundred thousand words about the company. (That's the equivalent of a book.) From reading other reports about Apple, I gather that some journalists have been welcomed into the Apple fold--given tickets to hot product launch events, given "review" models of new gadgets, given private access to Apple executives, and so forth. I certainly wouldn't mind having those things--it would be fun and informative to actually talk to someone who works at Apple sometime. I'd probably learn something. And whatever I learned would be helpful to you, our readers, because then I'd be smarter and better-informed when I wrote about Apple. And who wouldn't want to be the only guy on the block who has a new Apple gadget that hasn't even been released yet? For whatever reason, though, I haven't been invited into the Apple fold. Colleagues tell me that this is because I have occasionally written things about Apple that Apple doesn't like. They say Apple carefully selects and cultivates certain journalists and that the silent treatment that I get is actually a tactic that Apple uses to try to get other journalists to shut up. If that's the reason Apple hasn't responded to my emails, it certainly wouldn't be the first time a company has tried this tack. Companies often behave this way when everything is great, and they're on top of the world. In these periods, the companies are so red hot, and journalists and analysts are so desperate to talk to them, that the companies can often influence coverage merely by bestowing gifts (access, previews, information) on some people and shutting out others. But, eventually, the "untouchable" period always comes to an end. At that point, the companies often become human again. And when they do, they often drop the chips from their shoulders and start to behave more fairly and professionally. As a journalist who writes about Apple all the time, I hope that Apple's recent travails will eventually lead to a similar transformation in the company's communications approach. Importantly, a new approach would only help the company. And it would be better for the world's Apple readers, too. Speaking personally, I'm sure that there are a lot of things that Apple executives could tell me that would help me understand Apple and Apple's industry better. And if I understand Apple better, I can help you understand it better. The good news is, based on a report this morning from the Wall Street Journal, it sounds like Apple's ice fortress may indeed be starting to thaw. Apple has apparently gotten so frustrated with all the gloomy stories that are being written about its prospects that it has started proactively emailing some journalists with good news about the company. I, personally, am a big fan of Apple--my household owns about a dozen Apple products--and I write about Apple constantly. So if there's some good Apple news that I have been unaware of, I would certainly like to be made aware of it. But I'm not going to beg. And I'm tired of sending emails into a black hole. So I'll just ask nicely one more time. And, hopefully, someday, for both Apple's sake and mine, I'll get a response. Dear Apple, I write about you all the time, and I would love to establish a relationship with you. I will be glad to stop by and visit you next time I am in the Valley. I will also give you my email and phone number. I will invite you to call or email me anytime you think I (or anyone on my team) has written something in which you think I/we are missing something important. I won't embarrass you by instantly printing your email--I will assume that you want almost all of our communications to be on background.† I will take what you have to say seriously, and, if I feel I have made a mistake or been unfair, I will change what I have said. In return, I would like to be able to email or call you once in a while when I have some serious questions to ask you that won't be a waste of your time. I would like to have you respond to my emails--and then, hopefully, sometimes, actually discuss some of my questions with me.† This prospective relationship, I should stress, will only help you.† As many other companies that I have relationships with will tell you, I am reasonable and professional.† I also have been writing about this industry for a long time, both as a Wall Street analyst and a journalist, so I (hopefully) won't waste your time with a lot of dumb questions. Importantly, I don't have an agenda when it comes to Apple.† And it just feels a bit weird to write thousands of words a week about your company without ever once having a conversation or communication with you.† Thank you in advance. Henry SEE ALSO: Apple's Stock Looks Cheap
New York is bracing itself for a storm ("Nemo") this weekend, and under one estimate, showed earlier today on NBC New York, things could be a little crazy. According to one RPM computer model, New York could see over 38 inches of snow. That is considerably more than the most snowfall on record, 26.9 inches.  Before we go further, we must say one thing:¬†DON'T PANIC. As NYMag's Daily Intel have pointed out, there are a number of wildly different predictions about the storm ‚Äî most veering much lower in terms of snowfall. The latest NBC New York report¬†has a smaller estimate in the RPM model ‚Äî 19.8 inches. According to Accuweather, a history-making snowstorm will only be possible if two storms, one coming from the west and one coming from the south, merge. "While this is a possibility, it would be difficult for a storm to do this without a blocking area of high pressure to the northeast," Winter Weather Expert Rob Miller told Accuweather. Generally, it seems to be one to keep an eye on, but right now even the experts have little idea what will happen, though most expect New England to see snow. The WSJ's Eric Holthaus points out that "the coming storm looks to be as close to a meteorologist‚Äôs worst nightmare as can be imagined," though he adds that 30+ inches of snow in New York City would be "virtually impossible."
We got a big reminder of the importance of government spending in the Q4 GDP report. The damn military delayed some expenditures for a few months, and it knocked 1.3% of the quarter‚Äôs growth rate. If it weren‚Äôt for the pikers at the Pentagon, we would have been in the black. GDP = Jobs, and everyone wants jobs, so it would be ‚Äúpatriotic‚Äù if the Generals and Admirals got off of their asses and and got back to spending. Right? As it turns out, the Top Brass can‚Äôt move the economy‚Äôs needle, at least not compared to other parts of the government that are spending the bucks that keeps things humming. The pride of the military is the aircraft carrier. We have 11 of them floating around today. There‚Äôs good reason to believe these ships, with their monster offensive capability might come in handy, so for that reason, and the good of the economy, we should build some more. These babies cost $12B Photographer's Mate Airman Ryan O'Connor  ¬† $12B sounds like a lot, but compare it to what Social Security has paid out in just the month of February ‚Äì $66b went out the door. SS is now spending at the rate of five aircraft carriers a month! Of course if you‚Äôre going to build the odd dozen carriers, you will need lots of new planes to go with them. Each ship needs 70 of the F/A -18 attack bombers.¬† Wikimedia Commons ¬† The F/A-18 goes for $60m, about 90 minutes worth of SS payments. Some other comparisons of military hardware and SS: The M1 Abrams Tank (a monster) cost the same as 3 minutes worth of SS‚Äôs annual cost. via Wikimedia Commons ¬† We could probably use a few more of these B1 bombers. They must be a blast to fly. They are very expensive, each one costs about two hours of the tab for SS.  U.S. Air Force ¬† The future is drones. What better way to fight a war but behind a TV screen, right? The MQV-1 Predator is just what we need. The good news is that these killers only cost the equivalent of 3 minutes of SS. The Hell Fire Missiles the MQV fires leave a big hole in what ever they hit, the cost is negligible. SS is spending at a rate equal to the cost of 15 Hell Fires ‚Äì every second.  U.S. Air Force photo/Lt Col Leslie Pratt ¬† Okay, I‚Äôm kidding a bit with this. But the comparisons are legit. America can‚Äôt change spending by reducing the carrier fleet 10%. The cost of the extra ship is a rounding error when compared to SS. Please don‚Äôt take this to read that I want to increase military spending as a vehicle to create jobs. This is just another effort of mine to make some comparisons of what is going on at SS. The numbers are mind boggling. Yet in the next several weeks, as the sequester talks hit the pavement, SS will not be addressed. There will be some talk, but there will be no action.
If you're looking to stretch your dollar on a global scale, you should definitely consider a move to the Far East. In the Economist's latest World Cost Of Living Index, Asian countries make up more than half of the world's 20 least expensive cities ññ and six are in the top 10. The bi-annual index ranks countries based on the prices of 160 commodities*, including†food, drink,†clothing, †housing, transport, utility bills, and private schools.† These types of lists are typically used by companies to determine how much to adjust employee salaries based on where they are stationed, but we think it's a pretty fascinating snapshot of global life in and of itself.† For one thing, half the top 10 cheapest places to live are widely known for under-performing economies, high income inequality and political unrest.† *The index is based on the cost of living in New York City, which is fixed at a base of 100.
Credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's will have the "god of First Amendment law" in its corner as it fights the federal government's fraud lawsuit. Floyd Abrams, who represented The New York Times in the famous Pentagon Papers case, is defending S&amp;P against claims it knowingly gave residential mortgage-backed securities ratings that were way too high. Back in 2009, The Times reported on how Abrams would defend S&amp;P in litigation brought by investors. The Times said Abrams would contend that "S&amp;P's ratings deserve exactly the sort of free-speech protections afforded to journalists, on the theory that a bond rating is like an editorial ñ an opinion based on an educated guess about the future." But Abrams won't rely on the First Amendment defense in the case brought by the government, Bloomberg reports. "I don't have any magic First Amendment wand in my pocket for this one," Abrams told Bloomberg TV's Sara Eisen. "It's not a First Amendment case. The government is alleging that S&amp;P didn't believe what it said; the First Amendment doesn't protect against that."
flickr/kgnixer Stocks wobbled a bit today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,986, +7.2, +0.0 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,512, +0.8, +0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,168, -3.1, -0.1 percent And now the top stories:
ECBOne of the hottest topics in global markets over the past month has been the euro's surge in value against other currencies like the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. With the Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan engaged in monetary easing and ECB President Mario Draghi squashing hopes of an imminent interest rate cut at last month's policy meeting, analysts have gone so far as to speculate that the ECB is actually beginning to stage an exit from the loose monetary policies it has pursued in recent years. However, leaders in Germany don't like the strength in the euro, leaders in France don't like it, and it's even prompted the Greek finance minister to warn of the dangers it poses. The general consensus view is that a strong euro means reduced competitiveness in the euro area on a global level because global trade partners will have to pay more to purchase exports from the currency bloc. Mario Draghi's response to the euro's recent rise at tomorrow's press conference will be crucial. While exchange-rate intervention is not part of the ECB's mandate, that doesn't mean Draghi has no options for weakening the euro, should it come to that. BNP Paribas economist Paul Mortimer-Lee says this could happen perhaps "as a result of political pressure, but maybe as a result of worries about where [the euro] might otherwise go." According to Mortimer-Lee, Draghi essentially has seven options. In a note to clients, he writes:
UPDATE:¬†Green Mountain's earnings release is out. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; The company reported earnings of $0.76 per share versus estimates of $0.65. Sales came right in line with analysts' estimates and company guidance of $1.33 billion. The company sees sales growth of 14 to 18 percent year-over-year in the coming quarter. It offered guidance of $1.03 billion in sales, below analysts' estimates of $1.06 billion. EPS is expected to come in a range of $0.70-0.75 next quarter, says Green Mountain. Analysts were expecting $0.72 EPS. Right now, the stock is trading down more than 8 percent in after-hours trading. Below is Green Mountain's outlook (from the press release): ‚ÄúFor the remainder of the year, we expect to see continued year-over-year gross margin improvement due to lower green coffee costs and ongoing brewer quality improvements,‚Äù said Kelley. ‚ÄúWhile we expect growth will continue to moderate in the overall total coffee and espresso maker category, we also expect our share of the category to continue to increase driving further expansion of our installed Keurig¬Æ¬†brewer base. Consistent with our previous outlook, we estimate total fiscal year 2013 net sales growth in the range of 15% to 20% over fiscal year 2012.‚Äù Company Estimates for Second Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 The Company provided its outlook for its second quarter of fiscal year 2013 as follows: The Company reiterated its net sales growth and free cash flow estimates and refined its non-GAAP earnings per share and capital expenditure outlook for its fiscal year 2013 as follows: Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up: Green Mountain Coffee Roasters is minutes away from reporting fourth-quarter earnings. The release is due out sometime after the closing bell at 4 PM ET. Analysts expect earnings to rise to $0.65 per share in Q4, up from $0.59 per share in Q3 (in line with company guidance). Sales are expected to rise to $1.33 billion, slightly below company guidance for $1.34 billion but up from the $946.7 million in revenues collected in Q3. The stock remains a controversial pick among investors.¬†Green Mountain has been involved in a spat with high-profile hedge fund manager David Einhorn, who in late 2011 announced he was short the stock and called into question a number of the company's practices, including possible fraud. However, the stock has rebounded since November 2012 when the company appointed a new CEO and boosted its earnings guidance for 2013. On the other hand,¬†patents on Green Mountain's popular "K-Cup" recently expired, leaving the door open for others like Starbucks to move into the market. We will have the full release after the closing bell at 4 PM ET. Click here to refresh for LIVE updates &gt; DON'T MISS: The 22 Most Controversial Stocks In America &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsMorgan Stanley's Adam Parker is one of the most bearish strategist on Wall Street.¬† He expects the S&amp;P 500 to fall to 1,434 by the end of the year. But this is not to say the firm doesn't expect some stocks to do well. Morgan Stanley recently published their list of Best Ideas from around the world. The list included seven stocks from North America.
Everyone who watched the Superbowl's probably remembers Dodge Ram's two-minute-long "God Made A Farmer" ad. And not because it was funny or hip ó this $16 million spot was all earnestness. The late Paul Harvey's workingman voice painted a romantic picture of why America needs farmers. "Somebody to seed, weed, feed, breed, and brake, and disk, and plow, and plant, and tie the fleece and strain the milk." But God made bankers too, right? Though that might need some fact-checking, columnist Brett Arends, working on that assumption, hypothesized as to why God made bankers on MarketWatch today. Farmers are very good at making stuff, but what the world really needs is someone "who will borrow money from the public at 0% interest and then lend it back to the public at 2% or 5% or 10% and pay himself a bonus for doing so," riffs Arends. "God said, 'I need someone to lend money to people with bad credit at 30% interest in order to get his stock price up, and then, just before the loans turn bad, cash out his stock and walk away. And who, when asked later, will, with a tearful eye, say the government made him do it.' "God said, 'And I need somebody who will tell everyone else to stand on their own two feet, but who will then run to the government for a bailout as soon as he gets into trouble ó and who will then use that bailout money to help elect a Congress that will look the other way. And then pay himself another bonus.'" Read the full column here.
Screenshot via CNBC.comThis afternoon CNBC's "Closing Bell" had a segment about Wall Street's embarrassing emails being made public. The Justice Department released a bunch of emails and IMs from Standard &amp; Poor's†analysts†in its $5 billion complaint filed this week.† Our CEO and Editor-In-Chief Henry Blodget, who had some emails made public by the government during his analyst days, was on set, too. † Toward the end of the segment, anchor Maria Bartiromo said that one of her New Year's resolutions was to "start emailing like a guy." Well, that sounds strange.† The reason, she explained, is that women tend to go on and on in emails with phrases such a "how are you" and "hope all is well" blah, blah, blah before they make their point. † Men, on the other hand, will just give you a one-word response such as "yup."† Makes sense now.† Here's the video (Bartiromo's point starts at the 6:30 minute mark):† 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Financial Advisors Say Tax Identity Theft Is On The Rise (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors say more of their clients are becoming victims of identity theft. Thieves are using social security number to file a bogus tax return and claim a refund. Besides being an administrative nightmare, it is also a blow to client's financial plans.¬† Byron Shinn who has an accounting firm in Brandenton says clients should opt for special identification numbers available from the IRS. One Should Be Suspect About The Need For A Great Rotation And Its Timing (Barron's) Citi's Tobias Levkovich writes that it is easy to get excited about a trend if that is what people are hoping would happen. And he says this is what is happening with those that are excited about the Great Rotation in which money rotates from bonds to equities.¬† "Yet, one has to be suspect of the alleged need for a shift from one asset class to another and its timing. It took two very severe bear markets in the S&amp;P 500 (of more than 50% declines) within a 12-year span to shake individual investors out of the equity market which drove more than $500 billion out of U.S.-oriented equity mutual funds over the past five years, giving these people ample cash to plow into bond funds.¬† "‚Ä¶Unfortunately, losing money in bonds may not cause a huge outflow from bond funds which would then pour into stock funds. The tech bubble and the equity market may have peaked in early 2000 but it took almost two years to witness sustained equity fund outflows¬† as people initially saw the pullbacks as opportunities to step up to "cheaper" names, rather than giving up on the 1980s and 1990s stock price appreciation dream when buying the dip was handsomely rewarded. Thus, believing in a rotation now seems fairly premature." The 10 Themes Driving Global Markets Right Now (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs Noah Weisberger and Aleksandar Timcenko have highlighted the top 10 themes driving global markets now.   Flagstar Ruling Shows Banks Are Being Held Accountable For Losses From Financial Crisis (Reuters News &amp; Insight) A Manhattan court ordered Flagstar Bancorp to pay $90.1 million to bond insurer Assured Guaranty Ltd in a dispute over loans underlying $900 million in mortgage-backed securities (MBS).¬† "The closely watched lawsuit has been seen as a test of the ability of bond insurers to hold banks accountable for losses incurred insuring securities at the heart of the financial crisis." Hedge Funds Are Now Buying Stocks (Bank of America) In the past weeks BofA had pointed out that hedge funds had been sellers of stocks, while individual investors were buying them up quickly. Latest data¬†¬† however shows a role reversal with hedge funds becoming net buyers of stocks, while individual investors are selling and taking profits.
AP ImagesSixteen year-old actress Rachel Fox, who is known for playing Kayla Scavo on the hit series "Desperate Housewives," has taken up day trading when she's not on the big screen. She says that she's really good at it, too. Fox, who has a blog and video episodes called†"Fox On Stocks", says that she earns more than 64 percent on her investments per year. † We reached out to Fox to find out more about her stock trading career. In the meantime, we'll take this as a sign that the stock market really is back. Check out one of her video tutorials here:†  †(HT:†Josh Brown)
cassicat / FlickrAccording to Barron's columnist Steven Sears, someone made a big bet against the financials ETF yesterday (ticker symbol XLF), and it has everybody buzzing. The trader bought 100,000 put options on the ETF (a put option increases in value when the price of the underlying asset, in this case, the ETF, goes down). To put that number in perspective, Sears writes, "Few investors ever trade more than 500 contracts, so a 100,000 order tends to stop traffic and prompt all sorts of speculation about what's motivating the trade." According to Sears, the trade "has sparked conversations across the market." The trade makes money if the ETF drops below $16. It's trading just north of $17.50 today. While the bet has everyone scratching their heads, Sears offers one possible explanation: bank stocks have been on a tear lately, so it make sense for someone who own bank stocks to hedge against a reversal by purchasing put options on the ETF that tracks bank stocks. However, Sears says a trader trying to hedge against a short-term reversal didn't need to set up the trade this way: To be sure, it makes perfect sense to hedge a hot fund like the financial sector SPDR. The fund has surged this year, and gained about 7.2%. But if the mystery hedger was simply concerned the financial sector exchange-traded fund would retreat from its 52-week high of 17.66, which is reasonable, there are shorter-term hedges. For instance, he could have bought puts that expire no later than March, because they would be more sensitive to near-term changes. By choosing April puts, the mystery investor has some traders concerned that they, along with the majority of investors, are too optimistic ahead of the coming budget fight. Read the rest at Barrons.com &gt; Interestingly, Art Cashin alerted readers of his daily note to a similarly large and bearish but separate trade this morning. Read about it here &gt; ALSO:¬†Hedge Funds Are Now Buying Stocks While Retail Investors Sell &gt;
I just wanted to post a quick note of thanks to every blogger, media organization, and reader who has ever shared our work and spread the word about Business Insider. Thanks to you, we're now privileged enough to have more than 23 million unique readers a month--a milestone we would never have achieved if so many of you weren't writing about and linking to our work every day. We occasionally hear other media organizations speak ill of such "aggregation," as though it's some sort of a bad thing. This has always been mystifying to us.¬† It is not mystifying because we have a large readership. It was also mystifying five years ago, when we were a tiny tech site and needed every reader and page view we could get. We were thrilled when our stories spawned a follow-on story that earned us a mention in, say, the New York Times, even without a link. The New York Times chose to share our existence and story with their readers! Cool! Now, to be clear, there are good and bad forms of aggregation, and we're certainly not in favor of the latter. If another site completely rewrites one of our stories and doesn't credit or link to us, we get frustrated. Our policy here is to use others' work the way we want our own work used--which is usually to say, "provide full credit with our names and a link" or just "direct-link."¬† If a writer who chooses to aggregate us in that way gets more pageviews from our story than we get from it, that's fine. It takes the writer and publication time to write their article, and we're grateful that they found our work important enough to share it with their readers.* We assume the knee-jerk anti-aggregation attitude at some companies stems from the era in which big media organizations were like hydrants in the desert--the only place to find news and information--and therefore came to view their immense power, control, and profits as something they were entitled to. Now, of course, media organizations are like hydrants in the ocean and readers are drowning in choices¬† So the idea that we would frown on someone for recognizing and highlighting our work sounds not just ungracious, but self-defeating. Another thing to remember about aggregation is that media companies have always aggregated from each other. When I worked at CNN in the early 1990s, much of the news we reported came from Reuters. The New York Times frequently runs stories on stories that were first reported by the Wall Street Journal (and vice versa)--and the Wall Street Journal doesn't get anything more than credit for that. TV networks constantly broadcast news uncovered by print and digital publications, often without credit. The fact that digital companies often build on each others' stories, therefore, is certainly nothing new. The key is to do it in a way that is a win-win for both sides. In short, your aggregation of our stories helps spread the word about our work to a wider audience. In the past, publications like ours would have had to hire PR firms to send their articles around and beg other journalists to write about them. Now you not only choose to read our posts with no prodding, you write about them, link to us, raise awareness of our brand and writers, and make it easy for more readers to find us. And we're grateful for every mention and link. We know that you and your readers are busy people with millions of articles and sites you can visit every day. So the fact that you're reading us and telling your readers about our work is a huge compliment. We're thrilled you enjoy our site, and we look forward to continuing to get better every day. In the meantime, thank you for aggregating us! * Yesterday, for example, I had a back-and-forth with the editor of an excellent ad-industry site called Digiday, Brian Morrissey, who was unhappy with the way we had written about one of his stories. This is rare for us: Other publications email us frequently in the hope that we will write about their stories, and normally we get thank-you notes from other writers for highlighting their work, not frustration. We gave Brian enthusiastic and full credit for the story, but we used a screenshot from his story and more people read our story about his story than clicked through to read his story. Brian felt both were unfair. We would not look at it that way, but we're not Brian, and we never want someone to be frustrated with our use of their work. So on behalf of Business Insider, I apologize to Brian for that. 
Flickr / breezy421The Great Recession may have delayed the plans of many recent college graduates. But the "Echo Boom" generation ó the sons and daughters of Baby Boomers ó are too numerous to be kept down. There are 80 million of them, and they're out to save the American economy. All of the normal things that drive the economy ó household formation, entering the workforce, etc. ó will be driven by this slice of the population. Thanks to the Echo Boom... We wanted to explain why, despite the licks they've taken, this group will end up bailing out the economy.
The World Bank just published its Commodity Market Outlook. "Most commodity prices are expected to ease marginally in 2013," they write. "[C]rude oil will average US$102/bbl in 2013, just 3 percent lower than in 2012. Agricultural commodity prices are also forecast to decline: food by 3.2 percent, beverages by 4.7 percent, and raw materials by 2.2 percent. Metal prices are expected to rise slightly but still average 14 percent lower than in 2011. Fertilizer prices are set to decline 2.9 percent, while precious metal prices will increase almost 2 percent." Among other things, the report also examines what has driven food inflation, which has been on a tear in the last decade. According to their econometric models, rising oil prices were the biggest driver followed by the stocks-to-use ratio, which is a measure of the supply-demand balance. Other significant factors include protectionist trading policies, financial institutions adding commodities to their portfolios, weather, and diversion to biofuels (e.g. ethanol). The World Bank's warning: most of the conditions that have driven food inflation are still in place. Here's a complete breakdown.† Note the far right column, which indicates whether the factor has been a headwind or tailwind to prices. 
JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson spoke with CNBC today to talk about his first year at the helm of the struggling department store chain and he addressed the recent controversy involving bondholders. Lawyers who say they represent half of the holders of a tranche of JCPenney¬†bonds due in 2037 sent the company a letter earlier this week alleging that it breached a bond agreement. He fired one back at the bondholders making the allegations. "In the old days people hold stocks and make money on how the company performs," he said. "Today, a lot of people try to make money in very short, kind of artificial ways." He simply denied the claims that JCPenney violated a covenant. "We think this is totally groundless," said Johnson. "There's a lot of opinions that support that." JCPenney¬†has filed a lawsuit¬†to block the accusations. Its rebuttal complaint states¬†that it has been exposed to¬†‚Äúto imminent, irreparable harm,‚Äù and that the company at risk of demands for payment on upwards of $2.8 billion. "I don't think there's any truth to [the claims]," concluded Johnson. "We don't believe there is. We have to let this play out."
Lisa Du, Business InsiderCharlie Gasparino just appeared on Fox Biz. He was commenting on the fact that Geithner is going to write a book, and as we noted, Gasparino himself had some harsh suggestions. Why was Gasparino so hard on him? He said "I hate that SOB." Why? Because of how much money Tim Geithner will make on his new book.. more than Charlie himself has made on all of his books. He then added: "I hate you Tim Geithner." This tweet earlier from Charlie basically sums it up. #geithnerbooktitles who's got the last laugh now; how idiot reporters like @cgasparino hate it when jerks like me get better book advances
After a slow, steady grind higher throughout the month of January, stocks hit a rough patch at the end of last week. Since then, the S&amp;P 500 has been trading sideways. We have noted how, based on weekly data from BofA Merrill Lynch, it appears that hedge funds have been sellers of stocks for the last several weeks, while on the flip-side of the coin, individual investors have been buying up stocks at a rapid pace over the same timeframe. Now ‚Äì coincident with the "rough patch" the S&amp;P 500 has run into (the market hasn't really gone down, just sideways) ‚Äì those roles appear to have reversed. According to the latest data from BofA Merrill Lynch, hedge funds became net buyers of stocks, while individual investors have started selling ‚Äì taking profits, BofA suggests. The chart below shows the role reversal: BofA Merrill Lynch Which stocks are hedge funds buying? BofA says activity is concentrated in consumer discretionaries, industrials, energy, and healthcare: BofA Merrill Lynch Meanwhile, the biggest selling by private clients was concentrated in consumer discretionaries, tech, financials, and industrials. Thus, it looks like hedge funds were willing to take the other side of those trades in at least two instances.
To buy a stock you must quote the right price. The "right" price is known as the National Best Bid and Offer (NBBO) and is determined, of course, by the market's demand for a stock. Quote the right price, and you can buy. It's as simple as that. Until it's not. Nanex, a Chicago-based market research firm, sent us a chart that illustrates what can stand in a trader's way when they're trying to quote the right price. What's happening below is a snapshot of 1/3 of a second of one stock's life while it's being bombed by a high frequency algorithm. One thousand quotes are firing off at this stock, the¬†SPDR BofA ML Crossover Corp Bond ETF, every tenth of a second and then canceling, so no trades are actually being executed. Those are fake quotes. The thing is, the market sees those quotes as demand anyway, and it changes the NBBO. So every triangle you see there (color coded for what exchange they're appearing on) is a quote that is impacting the price (NBBO). The gray background shows how the price is dipping up and down. According to Nanex CEO Eric Hunsader, those black spaces you see (showing a change in price) are happening in intervals so fast that this chart can't even catch them. "It happens all the time," Hunsader told Business Insider. "It crowds out legitimate prices... it's like SPAM. Maybe one of these guys is a legit offer but there's no way of knowing." Check it out below, from Nanex: Nanex Pretty wild. What's even wilder is that looking at a chart that shows activity in minute intervals (like say, a Bloomberg terminal) would miss this activity. Even over one second, the activity doesn't look so bad. Here's another chart from Nanex: Nanex Another problem with this activity is that in gums up computers at exchanges, slowing activity for this stock and any stock that may be listed near it. "I think it's a high frequency trader, connected to multiple exchanges testing one algorithm, but I could be wrong," said Hunsader. It's worth noting that back in September, the SEC and FINRA fined a trading firm for this exact activity, except the firm only sprayed out about a dozen quotes. These charts show thousands fo quotes. "It's like somebody got a fine for pick pocketing, and this guy is robbing the Fed," added Hunsader. Fair enough.
It's official, Tim Geithner is writing a book. And the twitterverse is going nuts with suggestions for what its title should be. But Charlie Gasparino's suggestions take the cake: @cgasparino #Geithnerbooktitles: how i threw tony james resume in the garbage; why cnbc is always the last to find out stuff #Geithnerbooktitles @cgasparino: how to screw up a perfectly good bailout; unemployment never felt so good; i hate @cgasparino #Geithnerbooktitles: how i wasted 4 years of my life; whats its like to take orders from a community activist; why didnt i go to law school #geithnerbooktitles cgasparino @thestalwart what i saw at the (socialist) revolution; how did i get myself in this mess; #geithnerbooktitles @cgasparino: me and a special friend; living and loving the guy in the white house
There have been several articles as of late discussing that the next great secular bull market has arrived.¬† Historically, secular bear markets have averaged about 14 years, and considering that we began writing about the current secular bear market cycle in early 2000, that would put the current cycle about 2 years away from it historic average.¬† However, the reality is that this cycle is currently unlike anything that we have potentially witnessed in the past.¬† With massive central bank interventions, artificially suppressed interest rates, sub-par economic growth, high unemployment and elevated stock market prices it is likely that the current secular bear market may be longer than the historical average.¬† In either event we are likely closer to the end than the beginning and the next major stock market correction will likely be the last for this cycle. There are several fundamental reasons from valuations to the current level of interest rates that support this viewpoint.¬† The first chart shows the inflation adjusted, or ‚Äúreal‚Äù, ratio of the stock market to the economy as measured by GDP. With the economic recovery, such as it is, currently in its fourth year, the market to GDP ratio is beginning to push levels that are normally consistent with cyclical bull market peaks rather than where secular bear markets have ended. Street Talk Live Furthermore, secular bull markets do not begin when prices are already stretched well above their long term growth trend. I often use the ‚Äúrubber ball‚Äù analogy to express the movement of prices relative to their trends. Like throwing a rubber ball into the air ‚Äì the momentum of the throw can make it seem like it is temporarily defying the laws of gravity. However, the effect of momentum will fade as the pull from gravity increases on the ball until it reaches its maximum height. The ball will then quickly revert back to earth. The same goes for the financial markets. The chart below shows, very importantly, that secular BULL markets do not begin when prices are already trading well above their long term growth trend. Very much like past secular bear markets ‚Äì prices can remain above their long term growth trend for quite some time until they eventually ‚Äúmean revert.‚Äù Street Talk Live These reversions take prices to a position that is an equal distance below the long term growth trend. As the chart shows ‚Äì if you had moved out of the market in early 2000 and gone into bonds you will still be well ahead of those that had stayed in the stock market. Not surprisingly, when prices are elevated well beyond their long term trends, valuations are at levels that are normally associated with secular bull market peaks rather than the troughs where secular bull markets are usually born. The chart below uses the Shiller Cyclically Adjusted P/E (price to earnings) ratio which has been inflation adjusted. The immediate argument to this analysis is that some analyst on television stated the ‚Äúvaluations are cheap based on ‚Äòforward earnings expectations‚Äô which are below the long term average.‚Äù There are two huge flaws in that statement: ¬†¬†¬† 1) The long term median P/E as shown below is based on TRAILING REPORTED earnings. Not forward operating earnings which are full of accounting issues. This is an ‚Äúapples to oranges‚Äù comparison.¬†¬†¬† 2) More importantly, forward earnings are ALWAYS overly optimistic by as much as 33% historically. Therefore, the valuation argument is generally wrong at the outset. Street Talk Live This brings us to the ‚Äústocks are cheap based on interest rates‚Äù argument. Despite the fact that prices and valuations are stretched well above their historic norms this does not deter the media from finding some other flawed argument to try and lure ‚Äúsuckers‚Äù‚Ä¶ um‚Ä¶I mean‚Ä¶investors into the Wall Street casino. The chart below is the ‚ÄúFed Model‚Äù which is the basis for the ‚Äústocks are cheap because earnings yield is higher than bond yields.‚Äù Street Talk Live Following this model would have kept you out of stocks primarily when you should have been in and vice versa. This is due to the intervention by the Fed to suppress interest rates to support economic growth. These suppressions have driven interest rates consistently lower over time and have been the primary factor in the creation of one bubble after the next. Subsequently, when the Fed raises interest rates, it causes a dislocation in the markets. The fallacy of the model is quite simple. THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS EARNINGS YIELD. The earnings yield is simply the inverse of the P/E ratio whereby corporate earnings are divided by the price of the market. However, as an investor in a stock you do not receive the earnings yield in the form of a cash payment.¬†¬† However, YOU DO receive the interest yield from bonds. This is a very, very flawed analysis and one that should be forever stricken from your investment valuation models. Nothing Organic About It No matter how you slice the data - the simple fact is that we are still years away from the end of the current secular bear market. The mistake that analysts, economists and the media continue to make is that the current ebbs and flows of the economy are part of a natural, and organic, economic cycle. If this was the case then there would be no need for continued injections of liquidity into the system in an ongoing attempt to artificially suppress interest rates, boost housing or inflate asset markets. Nothing shows this more clearly than the amount of excess bank reserves, which is the direct byproduct of QE programs, which exploded higher last week by $46.4 billion. Street Talk Live These liquidity pushes directly correlate with market ramp ups ‚Äì not improving economics or fundamentals. Of course, this is also why each time these programs come to an end the financial markets face steep corrections and economic growth plunges. Into The Danger Zone It is with this background that we continue to harp upon the dangers that are currently building in the markets. While no two market cycles are ever the same - they generally behave similarly over time. I have posted the following chart several times lately showing the high degree of correlation between the market bubble prior to 2007 and currently. I expect that the chart will begin to decouple somewhat in the months ahead as there is not a relative crisis immediately available.¬†¬† However, come May when the debt ceiling issue resurfaces, or there is a resurgence of the Eurozone crisis, or some other exogenous event crops up ‚Äì stock prices are likely to correct very sharply. Street Talk Live Using a weekly analysis, to slow down the day to day volatility of the market ‚Äì the market currently cannot achieve a higher level of its overbought status. It is ‚Äúpegged out‚Äù, ‚Äúmaxed,‚Äù or whatever other term you want to use to describe the extreme nature of the overbought condition that currently exists. Street Talk Live The chart on the next page overlays this overbought/oversold long term weekly indicator with a weekly chart of the S&amp;P 500. Street Talk Live See the potential problem here? The next chart shows the STA Risk Ratio indicator which is a composite index of the rate of change in the S&amp;P 500, bullish versus bearish sentiment, the volatility index, and a ratio of new highs to new lows. Currently, that index is approaching levels normally only seen at very significant market tops. Street Talk Live I could show you chart after chart after chart. They all say the same thing ‚Äì the market is extremely overbought and is currently pushing the limits of the current upside advance. What I Am NOT Saying The bulk of the mainstream media‚Äôs, and analyst‚Äôs, blathering is more akin to a parade of idiots rather than something you should actually spend your time paying attention to. Pay attention to the data. While I have spilled and exorbitant amount of ink this week on all the reasons why the market is getting extremely overbought and into very dangerous territory ‚Äì I am not saying that you should sell everything and hide in cash. This may sound very counter-intuitive but the markets are being driven by the expansion of the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet. Therefore, due to this artificial influence, the market can move higher, for longer, than you can possibly fathom. It will end, eventually, and it will end badly. However, in the meantime, this is how to approach the current market.¬†¬†¬† 1) Do not add to equity exposure at this time no matter how emotionally conflicted you become. Emotions lead to bad investment decisions - always.¬†¬†¬† 2) Sell some, not all, of positions that are speculative in nature and have a lot of volatility. When the correction comes these will be hit the hardest.¬†¬†¬† 3) Increasing stock markets suppress bond prices. Therefore, rotate some money into bonds which will benefit from a stock market correction ‚Äì ‚ÄúBuy where the money ain‚Äôt goin‚Äô.‚Äù¬†¬†¬† 4) Hoard cash ‚Äì you can‚Äôt be a buyer when things get ‚Äúcheap‚Äù when you don‚Äôt have any cash to buy with.¬†¬†¬† 5) Rotate from very aggressive equity exposure to more defensive positions that have an income stream. (ie utilities, staples, and healthcare) However, these positions WILL lose money when the market corrects ‚Äì just not as much.¬†¬†¬† 6) Beware of high-dividend plays particularly REITS and MLP‚Äôs. The majority of these positions are GROSSLY overbought and overvalued and a correction of magnitude will lead to larger losses than you can currently comprehend.¬†¬†¬† 7) Fundamental valuations HAVE NO bearing on a stock market correction. No matter how fundamentally strong you think your investments are they will generally correct as much, or more, than the market. Fundamental value is only effective for eliminating bankruptcy risk. In a market environment driven primarily by programmed trading it is only PRICE ANALYSIS that matters.¬†¬†¬† 8) Did I mention hoarding cash?¬†¬†¬† 9) Pay attention to the trend. The trend is currently positive and we want to mindful of that. It will require a VERY substantial price correction at this point before a SELL signal is issued. This is why profit taking, and keeping new savings in cash, is the best way to stay invested but reduce overall portfolio risk.¬†¬†¬† 10) Just because you take profits, or sell a position today, DOES NOT mean that you can‚Äôt buy it back after it corrects.¬†¬† That is just a good portfolio management practice. There IS NO successful investor ‚Äì ever in history ‚Äì that only ‚Äúbought and held.‚Äù There will be corrections which are buying opportunities and there will be corrections that aren't.¬† Unfortunately, you will never know which is which until it is too late.¬† This is why employing rudimentary rebalancing processes, or even basic risk management tools, to your investment portfolio will work to protect your investment principal overtime.¬† Are you going to get out at the tops and in at the bottoms? No.¬† Are you going to be the next great market timer?¬† No.¬† Will you keep from setting yourself back years from reaching your retirement goals?¬† Definitely. [This article is extracted from this week's X-Factor Report subscribe for free automatic delivery]
Via the latest global macro slide deck from Goldman Sachs analysts Noah Weisberger and¬†Aleksandar Timcenko, here are the top 10 themes the bank says are driving global markets right now:  DON'T MISS:¬†FROM DREAM TO REALITY: SocGen's Awesome Presentation On The Risks And Debates Driving Markets Right Now &gt;
ìI think the Republicans will do what [House Majority Leader Eric] Cantor is suggesting, which is to do nothing,î Krauthammer said. ìThis is the one time since Election Day where Obama does not have the upper hand. "He had the upper hand in the fiscal cliff negotiations, because we would have had automatic hikes in taxes, which is what Republicans did not want. So they had no good options. This time the shoe is on the other foot. "This time, if the Republicans do nothing then you will get these severe cuts ó $1.2 trillion, half in domestic, half in defense spending. Obama suggested it in negotiations on the debt ceiling in 2011. But now he doesnít want any domestic cuts.î The Fox News contributor said Republicans should continue to oppose tax hikes, because the benefits outweigh the risks for the party. ìHe has to do something about this, and itís unbelievable he would have offered the Republicans a deal in which there are extra tax increases as part of the deal. Republicans will do nothing, and they should do nothing and demand if the president wants to avoid this, you do the cuts ó do them somewhere else. But no tax increases.î
Grow and Driver are the same reporters who ran a series of reports last summer highlighting alleged conflict of interest by Aubrey McClendon, the CEO of Chesapeake Energy. McClendon just announced he will be stepping down in April.¬† Through what Reuters describes as recent, "little-noticed" changes to his contract, Ward is now able to ink¬†deals with SandRidge competitors as well as do business with SandRidge on any land that he owns or acquires.¬†Before the changes, Ward was only allowed to make deals on land he owned prior to joining the company in 2006.¬† The language in Ward's contract "doesn't pass the smell test," said Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance for the California pension fund CalSTRS, which owns 880,000 SandRidge shares. "This board has sanctioned what Ward is doing." Read the full story on Reuters.com &gt;
davidooms/FlickrTokyo is back on top as the most expensive city in the world, according to new data from the Economist Intelligence Unit. In the company's new worldwide cost of living survey, the Japanese city has outpaced last year's winner Zurich for the undesirable ranking as the world's priciest city. This is nothing new for Tokyo, which has only dropped below the number one spot a handful of times in the last 20 years. Zurich sank from number one to number seven on the list, declining a whopping 39 percentage points from last year due to a weakening Swiss Franc. Geneva also didn't fare well, seeing a steep decline from a number three ranking in 2012 to barely making the list at number 10 this year. The survey calculates cost of living based on prices for products and services, including food, clothing, rent, and transportation. Each cost of living index is set in relation to New York's, which is fixed at a base of 100.
Shares of the nutritional supplement company are down 20 percent since the hedge fund managers duked it out by telephone on cable television station CNBC on Jan 25., exchanging barbs about Ackman's bold $1 billion bet that Herbalife is an unsustainable pyramid scheme destined to collapse. But a big concern for investors in Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management is whether Icahn, who boldly predicted Ackman will get caught in the "mother of all short squeezes," will have the last laugh in this battle of hedge fund titans. A short squeeze is a trading scenario that occurs from time to time in heavily shorted stocks, when bearish traders are forced to buy shares to avoid big losses - something that ends up pushing the stock only higher. A short squeeze could be particularly punishing for Ackman's Pershing Square, which has shorted some 20 million shares of Herbalife. That accounts for roughly 56 percent of the shares sold short, according to Jan. 15 data released by Nasdaq. Short squeezes can quickly wash out bearish traders with weak stomachs who used a loan to borrow shares from a broker. And in a worst case scenario the losses can be unlimited if a stock keeps rising and a trader waits too long to buy shares to close out the short position. But Pershing Square may be better positioned than other short sellers in Herbalife. A person familiar with the hedge fund said Pershing Square largely used cash on hand to build its short position last year. Paul Irvine, a finance professor at the University of Georgia who has done research on short squeezes, said because Ackman did not use borrowed money, he does not face the additional risk of a margin call and is less likely to be forced out of his position. Ackman then may be better able to stand by his conviction that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that generates most of its revenues from sales to its network of distributors and not from outside consumers. But it could take years for his view to pan out, if ever, setting the stage for a protracted battle with Herbalife's more bullish investors. Herbalife has denied Ackman's claim it is pyramid scheme and said the company is "financially strong and successful" and operates in 88 markets around the world after 32 years in business. Pershing Square already weathered an initial short squeeze in Herbalife that began a week after Ackman went public with his criticisms of the company on Dec. 20. That first squeeze began before the Jan. 9 disclosure by Daniel Loeb's Third Point hedge fund that it had amassed an 8 percent equity stake in Herbalife. Loeb has told his investors Herbalife is a strong financial performer that could see its stock trade up to $55 to $68 a share. Icahn won't confirm whether he owns Herbalife shares but the Wall Street Journal reported he acquired a small position around the same time as Loeb. "Less than a week after Ackman's announcement on December 20th, we saw a sharp increase in traders covering their short positions, seemingly resulting in a squeeze," said Karl Loomes, market analyst at SunGard's Astec Analytics, a provider of data on securities lending. Shares of Herbalife, which initially plunged 40 percent after Ackman's presentation, surged 76 percent during the height of that initial short squeeze, which took place approximately from December 24 to January 15. During the period Herbalife shares were roaring back from $26.06 to $46.19, the cost of borrowing Herbalife shares from a broker surged from 1 percent to a peak of over 7 percent on an annualized basis, according to data from Astec Analytics. Since the squeeze ended, the cost of borrowing Herbalife shares has fallen to around 2 percent annually. Ackman's Pershing Square, according to sources familiar with the fund, has not covered any of its short positions in Herbalife. It ended January up roughly 4 percent, compared to a roughly 1.74 percent gain for the average hedge fund, according to a Bank of America/Merrill Lynch research analyst. It's not known at what price Ackman began shorting shares of Herbalife but he has said he began doing so last May when the stock was trading around $45 a share. The stock closed trading on Tuesday at $35.75 a share. Pershing Square's better than average performance came mainly from the performance of other stocks in its portfolio such as Canadian Pacific Railway and Procter &amp; Gamble , which both rose sharply in January. Meanwhile, Loeb's flagship Third Point Offshore fund was up 4.8 percent in January. Still, there are some indications that another short squeeze could be in the offing, which raises the question of just how much pain and volatility Ackman and his investors can withstand. Thomson Reuters StarMine compiles an indicator using a stock's volatility over the past 3 and 12 months and the level of short interest to predict the likelihood of a short squeeze over the next 30 days. On a scale of 1 to 100, with 100 meaning a short squeeze is very likely, Herbalife scores a 95. Another way in which Ackman's big short could go against him is if Herbalife bought back a number of its outstanding shares, or if another company decided to make an offer for Herbalife. "Companies often increase share repurchases when short selling increases," said Edward Swanson, a professor at the Mays Business School at Texas A&amp;M University. Herbalife already did exactly that when it increased a share buyback program in May after short-seller David Einhorn questioned the company's disclosures about its network of distributors [ID: nL4E8G37GU]. Einhorn recently told his Greenlight Capital investors he is no longer short the stock. It's not known when he began shorting the company's shares. (Reporting By Peter Rudegeair and Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Matthew Goldstein and Claudia Parsons) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
If you‚Äôve been a hibernating bear lately, you‚Äôve missed a ton of positive news, as U.S. construction spending rose, ISM manufacturing data beat expectations and the country added 157,000 jobs. In addition, the JP Morgan Global Purchasing Managers‚Äô Index rose to 51.5, staying above the expansion level for a second month in a row. The strengthening data, as well as improving investor sentiment, helped the Dow hit 14,000 for the first time since 2007. For the month of January, U.S. stocks experienced the best month in two decades. Per the Stock Traders‚Äô Almanac market indicator, the ‚ÄúJanuary Barometer,‚Äù the performance of the S&amp;P 500 Index in the first month of the year dictates where stock prices will head for the year. Let‚Äôs hope so. As Adam Shell from USA Today writes, ‚ÄúWhile there's no guarantee that what happens in the first month of a new year will continue for the remaining 11 months, history is on the side of investors.‚Äù Shell asked for my thoughts on this trend and I told him that sentiment has improved in part because several uncertainties have been removed from the market. Read the rest of the story here. Sentiment among individuals, advisors and traders has experienced a sudden spike recently, says BCA Research. Its latest Bloomberg numbers show that 53 percent of those surveyed expect equities to be the best-performing asset class over the next year. This represents a ‚Äú17-point jump over the previous poll in November, and the highest reading in the four-year history of the survey,‚Äù says BCA.  My anecdotal experience this week at the World Money Show in Orlando, Florida supports the view that investors are going ‚Äúall-in‚Äù for equities, as the exhibit hall and conference rooms were packed with thousands of enthusiastic investors looking to gain insights. We enjoyed good conversations and I‚Äôm happy to have contributed a few ideas at the general session that attendees could immediately put into action. As a result of the sentiment that rose faster than the summer heat in the Sunshine State, it‚Äôs common to question if the market has climbed so high that it might correct and revert to a long-term mean. Take a look at the oscillator to see today‚Äôs incredible shift in context with its historical moves. Using 10 years of data, the S&amp;P 500 Index has moved one standard deviation from its mean over the past 60 trading days. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is only about a half of a standard deviation from its mean over the same time frame. These charts indicate that the indices are not at extreme levels, like the low we experienced in 2009 or the high a few months later. Rather, the stocks are moving within their normal band of volatility.  This gauge has been a reliable indicator for our investment team, as markets that enter the extreme territory have historically reverted back to their mean. However, don‚Äôt panic if a correction should occur, as it would be healthy and reflective of the normal volatility inherent in both U.S. and emerging markets. BCA believes, ‚Äúequities should outperform Treasurys over a cyclical horizon of two-to-three years.‚Äù The research firm points to the relatively strong earnings season in the U.S. and the Federal Reserve‚Äôs ongoing monetary stimulus, ‚Äúwhich should provide a tailwind for stocks.‚Äù Here are three more reasons to be positive on equities: 1. U.S. businesses and households are deleveraging  After hitting a peak, you can see in each of the charts below that there has been progress in bringing down the levels of debt across businesses as well as individual households. Less debt gives consumers and companies more confidence to invest, spend and hire.  2. New Home Sales Should Increase Home builders have become increasingly optimistic, as measured by the NAHB Homebuilder Sentiment Index, which has climbed significantly higher in recent months. Historically, new home sales have eventually followed, which is positive for employment, commodity demand, collateral stimulation, cars and appliances.  3. Inflation Remains Low As you can see in the chart, inflation remains low in Japan, Europe, the U.S. and the U.K., with core consumer price inflation falling below 1.5 percent, according to BCA Research. Even though many developed nations are printing money and are experiencing the ‚Äúmost extreme monetary stimulus in modern times,‚Äù inflation is stable.  So will the Dow go beyond 14,000? Although you can‚Äôt predict how hot the weather will be this summer, the clouds appear to be parting to reveal the sun today. Make sure your asset allocation positions your portfolio to shine. U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds. By clicking the link above, you will be directed to a third-party website. U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this website and is not responsible for its content. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a price-weighted average of 30 blue chip stocks that are generally leaders in their industry. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure equity market performance in the global emerging markets.  The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. The NAHB Housing Market Index is derived from a monthly survey, and gauges builder perceptions of current single-family home sales and sales expectations for the next six months, as well as rating traffic of prospective buyers. Scores from each component are then used to calculate a seasonally adjusted index where any number over 50 indicates that more builders view conditions as good than poor.

Comrade Foot via flickrWomen make up half of the workforce, yet they're still hugely underrepresented on corporate boards.¬† "There must be cohesiveness on the board to get the work moving¬†forward,"¬†Carol Evans, CEO of the¬†National Association for Female Executives (NAFE), told us. "Women add their own perspectives, experience and knowledge to the board, which cannot be found any other way than by having gender diversity." And having women on boards just makes good business sense. Research shows that companies perform better when they have more female executives.  To identify which companies most support women in leadership roles,¬†NAFE¬†asked for nominations from the public,¬†which required applicants to answer more than¬†200 questions about female representation at their companies. Of the 200 applications submitted, NAFE narrowed the list down to the top 50, which is featured in this month's issue of Working Mother.  Thanks to NAFE for also sharing the list with Business Insider.
Legendary fund manager Bill Miller of Legg Mason ran the best performing mutual fund last year ‚Äì up 40 percent, thanks to a big bet on homebuilding stocks, which killed it in 2012. In an interview with the Financial Times, Miller had some kind words for Apple stock, which has been subjected to a brutal sell-off since September. Apple shares, says Miller, are coming under fire because investors are starting to think the company's products may be losing their luster. However, he doesn't see this as the case. The FT's Dan McCrum writes: In [Miller's] opinion, "Apple is much more like Nike,¬†a consumer brand with great loyalty."¬†It is a typically contrarian and optimistic view from the 63-year-old former military intelligence officer, who appears to be enjoying a second youth as stock picking comes back into fashion, rescuing a reputation as both one of the best and one of the worst investors of recent decades. ... For instance, were Apple to keep all $137bn on its balance sheet and just put future free cash flow into the dividend, "that alone would put the stock up close to 50 per cent." Miller told the FT he liked big technology names like Apple ‚Äì even "priced with no regard to the underlying fundamentals." Click here to read more at the FT &gt;
Overall, Gasoline Exports net loss for economic productivity¬† The gasoline market is well supplied, but if it weren`t for gasoline exports, the united states would have much cheaper gasoline, and the economy would reap the benefits of cheaper inputs which would fuel greater growth in the US. For example, I imagine college students, truck drivers and small business owners would be much more profitable paying a dollar less per gallon for gas over a year`s time.¬† ¬† Gulf Coast Refiners The refiners along the gulf coast have a strategic advantage in using the WTI oil input price, making refined products, and then selling them based upon globally benchmarked Brent Oil inputs. So quite the incentive to export as much refined products as possible with these attractive margins. Econmatters Consumers vs. Corporations¬†¬† As with most transactions there are winners and losers, and US consumers are the big loser while refiners and the corporations that own them are the big winners. In short, the US consumer is subsidizing the refiners‚Äô profit margins.¬† ¬† LNG Export Debate¬†¬† It is ironic that another industry the Petrochemical Industry is lobbying heavily against LNG exports, saying that they could contribute to raising natural gas prices, which they use as a feedstock, and this would hurt their profitability and operating margins. Dow Chemical Company has been a vocal critic of ramping up LNG exports, and Exxon Corporation has been on the other side of this issue. Exxon would benefit from higher natural gas prices due to their increased presence in natural gas over the last decade, and Dow Chemical who has moved operations to the US to take advantage of cheaper input costs would be hurt by rising natural gas prices. ¬† Consumers Need Voice in Washington¬†¬† I guess it is too bad consumers don`t have a large advocate group in Washington looking out for their interests when it comes to gasoline exports unlike the powerful fortune 500 companies. It is obvious that congressional loyalties go to the powerful lobbyist groups representing large highly profitable corporations, and not to consumers who elect these individuals into office.¬† ¬† When in doubt always follow the money, and US consumers are not organized on issues that affect them, and they lack the money to influence politicians on issues that affect their bottom line.¬† ¬† Salt in the Wound¬†¬† If that wasn`t depressing enough for US consumers, here is a little salt to rub into that wound. If the US wasn`t exporting so much gasoline and refined products it is obvious that given the lack of demand, the abundance of oil, the sizable refining capacity, and the need to generate revenue, gasoline and refined products would be much cheaper in the US. If you don`t believe me, ask the experts in Dow Chemical why they are fighting LNG exports so vigorously? ¬† ¬† ¬† Econmatters Venezuelan Subsidies¬†¬†¬† Here is the salt, Venezuela whose government under President Hugo Ch√°vez subsidizes gasoline for their citizens, so Venezuelans pay in the neighborhood of 18 cents a gallon, and much of this gasoline comes from the US in the form of exports. For example, U.S. exports of gasoline to Venezuela climbed to a record high of 85,000 barrels a day in November of 2012, and total petroleum products are well over 200,000 barrels per day of refined products being imported from US refinery operators. ¬† No Incentives¬†¬†¬† Ergo, the US has a tighter than otherwise refined products market due to increased exports to countries like Venezuela, so US citizens pay higher prices for the illusion of a tighter end products market, and Venezuelans who have no incentive to use fuel efficiently due to below market subsidies, demand more and more exports from the US, raising fuel costs on US consumers, while they pay ridiculously low consumption prices.¬† ¬† What do US Consumers get out of Exporting Gasoline to South America?¬†¬† Furthermore, Venezuela is a country with leadership via Chavez who routinely bad mouths the US, and nationalized the entire Oil industry in Venezuela, and has neglected to properly upgrade their oil and refining infrastructure.¬† ¬† Why should US citizens be subsidizing big oil refiners, and in the process subsidizing Chavez`s inefficient use of energy, when these resources could be better used at home. ¬† Let Chavez procure all his refined products from China, it would raise his costs enormously, and he would have to modernize his oil operations thus boosting efficiencies, given the higher costs of importing refined products from China.¬† ¬† What`s in it for the US, besides higher profits for US refiners? It isn`t good for US consumers, or our political interests in the region. The sooner the Chavez regime is forced by market forces to embrace capitalistic ideas the faster the economy in Venezuela starts to use energy more responsibly and efficiently. ¬† In fact, if Venezuela had their act together given their cheap input oil cost structure, provided they upgrade their infrastructure, the US should be importing gasoline and refined products from Venezuela at much lower costs than products cost today. The Adam Smith argument for maximizing global economic goods and services through country specific efficiencies and scale is underlying my assertion here. ¬† Econmatters Exports shouldn`t sacrifice US Consumers in the process¬†¬† I am all for exporting, but not at the expense of our own citizens, and not for the purpose of subsidizing inefficient uses of energy, and governmental policies worse than our own, and we are pretty bad on a lot of governmental policy fronts.¬† ¬† The US should be encouraging Venezuela which is sitting on the second largest supply of proven oil reserves, to enable free market forces to come in and maximize those resources, so the world can benefit from cheaper energy.¬† ¬† The last thing the US should be doing is helping subsidize Venezuelan socialism through cheaper refined products at the expense of US citizens than they could otherwise get from China or other parts of the globe. It‚Äôs just bad policy all the way around unless you‚Äôre a US refinery along the gulf coast! Econmatters Yes, 18 Cents a Gallon The next time your filling up at the pump for $4 a gallon just take solace in the fact that Venezuelans are paying 18 cents a gallon, too bad Dow Chemical hasn`t represented your interests on this issue in the past!
But now the government is worried about a ìradicalizationî of these angry workers. A major quandary: on one hand, the Socialists promised during the election to side with the workers; but on the other hand, they must somehow figure out how to create an environment where the private sector can survive. And the private sector is gasping for air. The Services Purchasing Managersí Index fell to 43.6 in January, from 45.2 in December (below 50 = contraction), the fastest rate of contraction since March 2009. Particularly worrisome was the steep decline in employment. Manufacturing was even worse. Its index fell to 42.9 in January. New orders plunged at the fastest rate since March 2009, with domestic demand the primary culprit. Employment skidded as excess capacity led companies to slash their headcount. That these references to March 2009, the dark days of the financial crisis, keep cropping up in economic data is troubling. The report speaks of a ìdeepening malaiseî and ìa broad-based deterioration in the private sectorî with ìsignificant headwinds,î ìaccelerated job cutting,î and ìheightened levels of uncertainty.î President FranÁois Hollande and his government should be in panic mode. Plant shut-downs and layoffs, or merely the announcement of these events often months or even years down the road, make bold headlines. Video clips of protests associated with them show up on TV, with angry men and women blocking the site. There are images of fires and mayhem. Managers are taken hostage. Politicians weigh in gravely and speak of ìdialogue.î Layoffs and plant closures donít go down smoothly in France. A series of big-name companies, some of them part-owned by the state, has become part of the nightly layoff blues: Air France, steelmaker ArcelorMittal, Texas Instruments, Goodyear, refiner Petroplus, or automakers PSA PeugeotCitroÎn and Renault, whose unit sales in France had plunged 17% and 20% respectively last year. But it doesnít stop there. Now home sales are grinding to a halt [read... The Next Shoe To Drop In†France]. The numbers are adding up: in 2012, according to Trendeo, which tracks the creation and destruction of jobs in France, 266 industrial plants were closed last year, a 42% jump from 2011! Since 2009, a total of 1,087 old factories were shuttered while only 703 new ones were brought to life, for a net loss of 384 plants. And these new factories have on average 8.5% fewer employees than factories that are being shut down. Just how deeply the government is worried about the growing labor unrest emerged during an interview on BFMTV on Tuesday. And not in a propitious location: Interior Minister Manuel Valls was discussing the hunt for Islamist terrorists in Franceóefforts that the government has redoubled since its military involvement in Maliówhen suddenly the topic shifted to the governmentís fear of ìexcesses and violenceî during the next labor-related demonstrations. ìSocial angerîómeaning, anger by unionized workersóìas a consequence of the financial and economic crisis, job insecurity, unemployment, and layoffs is here and has been rumbling for years,î admitted Valls. ìBut what weíre seeing today are less social movements but social implosions or explosions.î Turns out, the government is already preparing for them. A memo to that effect, dated January 30, bubbled to the surface. Sent to regional directors of the police intelligence service, it underlines ìthe risks of incidentsî or possible ìthreats to production equipment in case of radicalization of the conflict.î To get a handle on the situation, the government has instructed its police intelligence apparatus to gather information on the movements and to follow teetering companies ìvery closelyî in order to anticipate a possible ìradicalizationî of the labor unrest. Valls confirmed the police surveillance. ìYou have to carefully analyze it,î he said about the social anger. And that was the job specifically of the intelligence services of the police, he added. Ever the likeable Socialist, he found the right words. ìWe have to try to understand the reasons that push men and women into desperation,î he said. ìMen and women who are in the process of losing their jobs.î What about vandalism and destruction of production equipment often associated with these movements? ìWe have to try to understand them, but we cannot permit them,î he said firmly, as the interview drifted to the next topic: rising violence and property crimes against individuals. The heightened police presence at these sites during times of labor unrest, often in unmarked cars, has the unions worried. And Bernard Thibault, Secretary General of the CGT, warned that it would be seen as a ìprovocation.î And so the second largest economy of the Eurozone enters into a phase where fear of a labor revolt hangs over every economic decision the government makes. So, the unemployment rate has become treacherous. While all countries use inscrutable statistical systems to make unemployment look better, France also has an administrative tool: removing tens of thousands of people every month from the unemployment rolls for spurious reasons. Read.... ìThe Politics of Removalî: Dressing Up French†Unemployment
A few snippets of data from the Congressional Budget Office‚Äôs Budget and Economic Outlook 2003. Estimated 10-year budge surplus = $5.6T.¬† Reality = $6.6T deficit. A 200+% miss. ¬† Estimate for 2012 Debt Held by Public = $1.2T (5% of GDP). Reality = Debt Held by Public = $11.6T. A 1000% miss. ¬† Estimate for fiscal 2012 GDP = $17.4T. Reality = $15.8T. A 25% miss. ¬† Okay, it was not an easy period to forecast. But the fact is, no period is easy to model and forecast. The CBO assumed that there would be no recessions in the 2004-2012 period. The CBO got hit on the head with that assumption. I think the CBO is making the same mistakes again in 2013. It has a crystal ball of what the future will look like.¬† The CBO assessment is that there is nothing but blue skies ahead. Some more snippets; this time from the just released 2013 CBO report on our future: - GDP is about to soar! It‚Äôs going to grow at more than double the current rate! Happy days are right around the corner. The economy is going to experience a period of sustained economic growth ‚Äì and it‚Äôs going to star in just ten-months! Wow! - Debt is not a problem any longer. Don‚Äôt worry about it any more. After shooting up the past five years, the Debt to GDP is going to flatten out, starting really soon.  ¬† - Unemployment will be no problem. The rate is going back to 5.5% in a couple of years, and it is going to stay low for the remaining 7-years. There is Zero, repeat Zero (as in nada, no-way-no how) chance for a recession over the next decade. I find this very comforting. ¬† - Inflation is not going to be an issue.¬†¬† Not too cold, not too hot ‚Äì the CPI will average less than 2% for well into the 2020‚Äôs. No chance of inflation picking up ‚Äì it‚Äôs silly to worry about inflation risks ‚Äì really, it‚Äôs a non issue for at least a decade. - There is even good news for savers. Interest rates will be going up very sharply. By 2015 the 10-year T-bond will be back to 4.5%, more than double where it is today. This backup in interest rates will have no consequence to the economy at, in fact the higher interest rates will help propel the economy higher. Not to worry about this assumption, interest rates don‚Äôt matter any more.. - There is a reason that the future is so bright. The economy will prosper. GDP will grow to $26T in 2023. This comes to a 67% increase. Think of that! We haven‚Äôt seen that kind of performance since‚Ä¶well, actually, we‚Äôve never seen it. But who knows? You have to believe in miracles if you work for the CBO. You can argue with me all you want about those CBO estimates. The fact is, no one really knows what will happen. But the CBO is using one assumption that is almost certain to be proven wrong. It is a very critical assumption: What will labor‚Äôs role be in the economy of the future? - Labor income, as a percent of GDP, has been in a multi-decade decline (rise of the robots). The CBO is anticipating that the trend will not only stabilize, but will substantially reverse.  ¬† I think the CBO is out on a limb with this critical assumption. I think they are all wet with the generally rosy outlook it says is in our future. If you believe the CBO, the last thing you would do would be to address some of America‚Äôs daunting problems. After all, everything is going to be on easy street, so why sweat the small stuff? If we just do ‚Äúnothing‚Äù -¬† everything will turn out just fine. I think the CBO has done our legislators, and the country a disservice with this report. A great excuse to do nothing for a few more years has been created. I‚Äôll be generous, and give the CBO a D+for this effort.
APBenjamin GrahamKnown to those on Wall St. as the father of value investing, Benjamin Graham's teachings were critical to the successes of many investors that are now household names‚Äî like Warren Buffett. "Ben was this incredible teacher, I mean he was a natural," said Buffet, in an interview with the¬†Heilbrunn Center for Graham and Dodd Investing. Buffett said that Graham's book, The Intelligent Investor changed his life. "If I hadn‚Äôt read that book in 1949, I‚Äôd have had a different future," he said. That's huge coming from an investor with Buffett's pristine track record. Columbia Business School put together a video of Graham's most important teachings and we've broken them down for you here. Graham had a keen understanding of how Wall Street worked, though his methods and ideas weren't always popular. Once, at a lecture, he was asked if Wall Street professionals were better at forecasting what would happen to market, and if not, then why, and here's what he said: "Well, we‚Äôve been following that same question for a generation or more, and I must say frankly that our studies indicate that you have your choice between tossing coins and taking the consensus of expert opinion and the result is just about the same in each case. Everybody in Wall St. is so smart that their brilliance offsets each other. And that whatever they know is already reflected in the level of stock prices for the much, and consequently what happens in the future represents what they don‚Äôt know." As Weinberg said in an interview, "Everyone I know that followed Ben had one thing in common, they never lost money. Because we were taught to buy so cheap, that no matter what happened, we were fine." Here's a round up of what Wall Street biggest winners learned from Graham.
Gallup's Job Creation index fell to¬†+16 in January, the lowest monthly index level in 11 months. The decline was largely due weak federal hiring: Gallup¬† However, it's worth noting that hiring has actually outpaced firing since 2010: Gallup Gallup warns that political uncertainty will be a big driver of what happens in the labor market for the balance of the year. Several economic factors emerging in 2013 could affect these trends. These include potential drags on the economy from continued debate in the Washington over the budget and the debt ceiling, business uncertainty over the Affordable Care Act, and an apparent slowing of GDP growth in the fourth quarter. At the same time, potential economic spurs include recent major gains in the U.S. stock market, reports of increased consumer spending, and January's major advance in public confidence in the economy. SEE MORE: Meet The Generation Of Americans Who Will Save The Economy &gt;
49% of the private work force has neither defined benefit (traditional pensions) nor defined contribution (401(k)) retirement plans, while public sector pensions are coming under increasing attack. The United States has the highest elder poverty rate, 25% (measured as 50% of median income), of any industrialized nation bigger than Ireland. An estimated $6.6 trillion shortfall in retirement savings shows how the shift from traditional pensions to 401(k) plans has been totally inadequate to meet people's future needs. Yet what passes for wisdom among the Very Serious People (VSP) is that we need to make a stealth cut to Social Security via a less generous inflation adjustment, while Republican plans for Medicare would shift an astounding $34 trillion in medical costs on to seniors whose income would be falling in real terms. This is a recipe for disaster. So what do we really need to do now? Several different proposals are currently in the mix, all of which would address the income shortfall to varying degrees. Iowa Senator Tom Harkin, chair of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee, released a report in July 2010, "The Retirement Crisis and a Plan to Solve It." It proposes a fairly small increase to Social Security benefits (about $60 monthly to the lowest earners) and replaces the current inflation factor (CPI-Urban wage earners) not with the chintzy "chained CPI" the VSP want, but with the more generous CPI-Elderly, which recognizes that seniors consume a larger share of rapidly rising cost products, most obviously health care. The other innovation in the Harkin plan is the introduction of "USA" (Universal, Secure, and Adaptable) retirement funds which would require both employer and employee contributions, with special tax credits for low-income workers. These funds would provide what might be called a "semi-defined benefit" that could be adjusted downward if there were a prolonged stock market slump, but otherwise would provide a predictable level of benefit to its recipients. As pension expert Jane White contends, this proposal is vague when it is not simply inadequate. She argues for a plan like the Australian "Superannuation" plan, where employers are required to put in 9% of the worker's income. Her proposal for the U.S. would be a 9% contribution for large companies and 6% for small firms. It would be portable among companies, and employees would immediately own their employer's contribution (vesting), in contrast to the current situation where that can take years. She argues that the big problem with U.S. pensions isn't that not enough people have 401(k)'s (though with 49% of private workers not having one, I'm not sure I'm persuaded), but that the employer contribution is so small. By contrast, Harkin's USA plan does not specify a level of employer contributions, which is definitely a drawback when the savings shortfall is so severe. Of course, White's proposal still subjects retirement funds to market risk that Social Security does not, and gives Wall Street a huge new pool of funds to play with. One logical alternative is simply a dramatic expansion of Social Security. Obviously, it is already portable between employers, and companies already have to deduct FICA and Medicare taxes, so there would be no difference administratively from what firms already do. The funding would come from an end to the cap on earnings subject to the Social Security tax, currently $113,700 for 2013. A little-known fact is that while the payroll tax is regressive (flat to the cap, then 0), the payout structure counteracts this by reducing the share of earnings replaced in retirement the greater the person's income. As the Harkin report¬† explains: The replacement factor for a person‚Äôs first $767 of Average Indexed Monthly Earnings (‚ÄúAIME‚Äù) is 90%. The replacement factor drops to 32% for AIME between $767 and $4,624 and 15% for AIME between $4,624 and $8,532. The report goes on to propose a replacement factor of just 5% for income over the current cap. It further reports that Social Security only replaces an average of 40% of people's pre-retirement income, rather than the 65-85% that is widely recommended for retirees. This suggests an obvious solution: increase the replacement factor substantially for middle-income people. While the numbers would need to be worked out precisely, middle class workers would be much more secure with, for example, 100% replacement of their first $2000 per month in income, 50% replacement of their next $2000 per month in income, 25% for the rest up to the current cap, and then Harkin's proposed 5% over the current cap. When I say "obvious," that's not to say that it will be easy. Republicans still want to gut Social Security, even though it is supported by most Americans. But a deeper problem is that few people realize just how severe the retirement crisis will be, first for younger Baby Boomers, but much more so for their children and grandchildren. As a first step, you should follow White's suggestion to contact Harkin's committee asking for hearings on the coming crisis. The email is Retirement_Security@help.senate.govBut we will need many more steps to ensure that the crisis is solved in our lifetimes. Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ¬ª
Five risks, three big-picture themes, and six debates ñ those are the contents of the latest presentation by SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale strategists Paul Jackson and Alain Kayayan. The presentation provides a tight, yet comprehensive snapshot of the conversation in markets right now. Stocks are expected to outperform other asset classes, and the general view is starting to coalesce around the idea that the big negative "tail risks" are receding. However, investors need to take a realistic assessment of those risks ñ and if they can be mitigated, then the question becomes where to invest. Jackson and Kayayan provide a few ideas. Note: Thanks to SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale for allowing us to feature this presentation.
APCongressional Republicans are preparing their first counteroffer to President Barack Obama to avert the across-the-board cuts of the looming sequester, a House GOP aide confirmed this morning.† Politico, which first reported the news, said that top Republican members of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees are formulating a proposal that would delay the sequester for a year by slashing the federal workforce by 10 percent. The House GOP aide said this would be done solely through attrition, a gradual reduction in the federal workforce. The Republican plan will be led by Rep. Buck McKeon, the chair of the House Armed Services Committee, and Sen. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.). It's unlikely to gain much traction, however, as McKeon has been pushing for a similar proposal for more than a year now. On Tuesday, President Barack Obama spoke publicly for the first time in the renewed debate over whether and how to avert the sequester's cuts, which†are†expected to amount to $1.2 trillion over 10 years ó including $85.3 billion in fiscal year 2013 alone. In his press conference, Obama called for a "balanced mix" of spending cuts and tax reform for a short-term fix to avert the sequester. McKeon, among other Republicans including House Speaker John Boehner, balked at the President's offer.
On the night of the Super Bowl, I started seeing the hashtag #Lastman pop up on Twitter. Folks like John Carney of CNBC, Lockhart Steele of Curbed, and the blogger Brendan Loy were tweeting about wanting to become the #Lastman to learn #TheKnowledge. I quickly figured out that all of these folks were in a big game to go as long as possible without learning the result of the Super Bowl. The game is still ongoing, but the remaining players are dropping like flies. CNBC's John Carney -- who had told colleagues on Monday not to tell him the result, and who was only using Twitter by following certain key words -- got knocked out today. Argh! In the final minute if this morning‚Äôs news meeting, #theknowledge caught up with me. Godspeed #runners. #lastman Yesterday we caught up with Brendan Loy, a father of 3 who works at a law firm in Denver, who we first started following on Twitter thanks to his surprisingly awesome analysis of the weather events surrounding Hurricane Sandy. He's still in the hunt to be the #Lastman to learn #TheKnowledge. In our discussion, he told us about the origin of the game and why he's playing. Said Loy "Last Man was a game invented by Kyle Whelliston, founder of the MidMajority when I want to say, he was in high school, back in the 80s I think, 1989 I believe was the first year he did it, where he tried to avoid finding out who won the superbowl for as long as possible and the idea of it was just sort of a competition, of Kyle competing against himself to see how long he could go. And then once he founded MidMajority and player community around here and he started to blog and tweet about it, and other people who found it interesting, first started in the past few years, a lot of people on twitter started playing it. And this year I decided to do it for the first time and see how long I could go." Loy is a Broncos fan, and only played because he didn't have a dog in the San Francisco vs. Baltimore fight. So how does Loy avoid learning #TheKnowledge? He explained: "It changes day to day, and I‚Äôm only on my second day here but on Monday, you have to be very careful with newspapers, because every newspaper is going to have it on the front page. So you have to be aware of, newspaper boxes, convenience stores, anything like that you have to be sure to be sort of thinking ahead to okay, I know there‚Äôs newspaper boxes so I cant look there, I know there‚Äôs a break room in my office, and there‚Äôs the Post on my table so I have to be careful not to look at that, stay away from the break room. Also, you want to like stay away from human interaction as much as possible, because people talk a lot about it the day after. I had my door closed all day." Electronically, Loy is only following a whitelist of safe people on Twitter, he's not looking at any of his Twitter @-replies, and he's not checking his personal email. When he recently had to search for something in GMail, he only looked at the computer from askance, while also squinting, so that he wouldn't be able to make out any subject headlines. He took a picture to show what he looked like when searching GMail: Brendan Loy, Flickr So what did Loy do on the night of the Super Bowl? Basically watched Puppy Bowl re-reruns with his kids, aged 1, 3, 5. "I‚Äôve got three kids, ages 1, 3 and 5, so we were just playing and then we had dinner and we were going to watch the puppybowl, but actually we don't have cable, we do pretty much everything through internet, or broadcast TV, so I couldn‚Äôt find a stream of the puppybowl, so we ended up watching some prior year‚Äôs puppybowl, which to me is all the same. We watched some of that and we put them all to bed and it was while i was putting them to bed that the blackout happened and i didn‚Äôt realize that until later on when I saw LastMan tweeting about it, and then once they were in bed, and the game was still going on, I was just doing some work and checking my safe-twitter account, and you know, I wasn‚Äôt watching anything." So what has Loy learned in this experience? A few things. One is that it really drives home what a unifying experience the Super Bowl is. He also realized how much concentration it takes to avoid media. He almost reflexively typed the letters "D... R...." into his browser to go to the Drudgereport, but thankfully he had installed a filter on it before the game. At another point in his office, even when he was thinking about not looking at the newspaper in his office's breakroom, he forgot and briefly saw the front page, but averted his eyes before he was able to register it. How far does he want to go with it?  The winner from last year...he still doesn‚Äôt know. He‚Äôs still sticking with it, he still doesn‚Äôt know who won last year‚Äôs superbowl. He‚Äôs not a football fan, obviously. Some people who play it, including Kyle, do it because they don‚Äôt like football. I‚Äôm not in that camp, I like football. I‚Äôm more of a college fan than pro, but pro too. So for me it‚Äôs just an oddity. For some people it‚Äôs an ideological thing, where they‚Äôre like rebelling against the cultural norm that we all have to care about this superbowl. Good luck Brendan! We're pulling for you.
Business InsiderPast President of Merrill Lynch, US Trust, Smith BarneyThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>¬† In a little-noticed ‚Äì but bracing ‚Äì article, ‚ÄúAmerican Banker‚Äù recently reported that US bank regulators have determined that the Boards of Directors of only¬†two of the 19 largest national banks exercise proper oversight. (!!!) As those Boards now work overtime to improve governance, here is one thing to change in 2013: senior executive compensation. Coming out of the crisis, the national discussion focused on ‚Äúpay them less‚Äù and very little on ‚Äúpay them better.‚Äù Instead, the long-term conventional wisdom that senior executives should be aligned with equity holders remained unexamined: the¬†amount¬†they are paid is often based on stockholder metrics (like ROE), and the¬†form of payment¬†is in increasing proportions of stock. But we have learned (and I have certainly learned) that banking is not like any other business ‚Äì not even close ‚Äì and the Boards should thus approach management compensation differently. Here are 10 reasons why the move to more equity ownership for senior bank executives is a move in exactly the wrong direction: 1. Equities encourage risk.¬†An equity‚Äôs downside is capped (it can‚Äôt go below $0), but its upside is not. Therefore, the right ‚Äúplay‚Äù over time is to take on more risk, to try to capture that asynchronous upside. 2. Equities encourage risk, part 2.¬†We understand this asynchronous play intuitively. Did you ever buy a stock because you hoped to get back just your principal? No. You bought it because you wanted it to go up (ok, plus dividends). And the way it goes up is by the management team taking some form of business risk in order to increase earnings and returns. 3. Equity holders have short-term time horizons.¬†And equity holders want that upside quickly. The conventional wisdom that shareholders have a long-term perspective is outdated. There is only one Warren Buffett because there is only one Warren Buffett (or close to it; you get the point). In contrast, bank shareholders‚Äô holding period averages 3 months. I can‚Äôt tell you how many times I‚Äôve been in meetings with equity investors in which they encouraged / pushed the bank management team to grow earnings more quickly (and the only quick way to do that is to take on more risk). No, not always hedge fund managers; also conventional mutual fund managers looking to reap the benefits of short-term performance for their own hugely important quarterly performance reporting periods. 4. Banks already have plenty of risk: consumer credit risk, corporate credit risk, interest rate risk, market risk, currency risk, operational risk, balance sheet risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, reputational risk, regulatory risk, complexity risk, interconnectedness risk, legal risk, compliance risk, people risk, to name just a few. And yet we encourage more risk through a risk-encouraging instrument. 5. The impact of mis-judging and mismanaging that risk extends beyond equity holders.¬†Equity is just a small part of a bank‚Äôs capitalization, with big US banks currently funding themselves with an average of $13.5 of debt and deposits for every $1 of equity. With equity compensation, bank executives‚Äô incentives are directly aligned with only one of their funding sources‚Ä¶and by far the smallest one at that. 6. The impact of mis-judging and mis-managing risk extends even further.¬†Uniquely, banks sit at the center of economic activity; as we have seen, their mistakes have a significant multiplier effect on markets, economic growth, the psyche of ‚ÄúMain Street‚Äù and, at extremes, on governments and taxpayers. Why should bank executives only be aligned with equity holders? 7. The margin of error for mistakes is low.¬†As noted, big US banks now average $13.5 of assets for every $1 of equity (much better than the $40:$1 that some had before the financial crisis). But what exactly does this mean? It means that a loss equating to just 7.4% of a bank‚Äôs net assets completely wipes out equity. That‚Äôs right: just 7.4%. (Of course, in reality, the bank would go under well before this decline, as its funding would dry up.) 8. And the chances of these types of declines has been increasing, as the volatility of bank assets has gone up. According to Andy Haldane, Executive Director for Financial Stability at the Bank of England, the volatility of bank asset returns has increased 2.5 times over the past 100 years. 9. Big banks are bigger than ever.¬†With the biggest banks bigger than they have ever been, the impact of a single management team making a mistake is amplified. The top five banks account for 52% of bank assets, up from 30% in 2001 and 17% in 1970, according to Fed numbers. It used to be that many management teams had to make mistakes simultaneously for it to matter; now that risk is no longer as diversified. 10. And, finally, look at the evidence.¬†The biggest CEO equity holders in 2007 were at Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Countrywide. ‚ÄòNuff said. Bonus Reason: a study out of the London School of Economics and Manchester Business School showed that banks whose Boards were more insulated from shareholders engaged in less risky behavior in the run-up to the crisis, thus performing better during the crisis. A thoughtful reevaluation of senior bank compensation is called for, and a more balanced¬†approach is merited.¬†For example, Boards could also pay executives in bonds, which are fundamentally risk-discouraging.¬†Regardless, it is the responsibility of the Boards of Directors of the large banks to look past stale, unexamined conventional wisdom on executive compensation, to protect their banks (and the economy) from incenting excessive risks‚Ä¶and to demonstrate that they are now exercising thoughtful, engaged oversight. More to come on these topics‚Ä¶..
Silvio Berlusconi's younger brother Paolo is the publisher of an Italian right wing newspaper called Il Giornale and the vice president of soccer club AC Milan. At an electoral campaign meeting for his brother, Paolo referred to the newest member of AC Milan, 22-year old striker Mario Balotelli, as "our household little n*****," according to the International Business Times. Paolo said to a crowd roaring with laughter [translated by IB Times]: "Let's go and watch our household's little n***** [playing]. The girls here are all invited as well. They can have the chance to meet with Silvio Berlusconi." Balotelli, a very controversial soccer player, signed with AC Milan last week. He has faced racism in the past and threatened to "kill racists" at the Euro Cup in Ukraine in the Summer of 2012, saying: "I will not accept racism at all.... If someone throws a banana at me in the street, I will go to jail because I will kill them. It was lucky the police arrived quickly because I swear, I would have beaten them. I would really have destroyed them." Here's video from the event:
RBS is the latest bank to have all its dirty laundry aired in the Libor scandal that rocked banks around the world this summer. This morning, the CFTC and England's financial regulator, the FSA, both released a treasure trove of instant messages between employees involved with rate rigging. That's embarrassing, of course, but it's also costly. According to the Wall Street Journal, the RBS will pay a $610 million fine for manipulating the interest rate. A quick look into what was going on at the bank through the conversations RBS employees were having tells you how widespread rate fixing was. The conversations are unabashed, sometimes filthy, and a little appalling ‚Äî no one knows how to get caught with their pants down like Wall Street. We already caught one instant classic in the mix. One RBS trader compared himself to a "whore's drawers."         These are probably going to sting for a while.
CNBCStocks have been rallying relentlessly to post-crisis highs. Meanwhile, the volatility index (aka the VIX, aka the "fear index") is near historic lows. But according to UBS's Art Cashin, some options trader has made an enormous $11.25 million bet that the VIX will explode higher very soon. And a rally in the VIX is usually accompanied by a drop in the stock markets. From this morning's Cashin's Comments (emphasis ours): A Very Big Bet In A Somewhat Unlikely Instrument ‚Äì My friend, Jim Brown, the ever-alert consummate professional over at Option Investor pointed us to a rather unusual trade.¬† Here's what he wrote in last night's edition of his valuable newsletter: In past years I have reported on trades that were so large it appeared someone had inside knowledge of a pending event. Sometimes those were massive put positions on the S&amp;P. A new trade just appeared that suggests there will be a market event in the near future. Last week somebody put on a call spread on the VIX using the April 20 and 25 puts. They bought 150,000 contracts for a net of $75 per contract. That is an $11,250,000 bet that the VIX will move over 20 over the next 60 days. You would have to be VERY confident in your outlook to risk $11 million on a directional position with the VIX at five year lows and the markets trying to break out to new highs. Jim then goes on to list some of the scheduled events and deadlines visible over the next 60 days (mostly in Washington).¬† When you add in the broad variety of geo-political possibilities, it's a decent reason to stay extra alert. Hopefully, this person is wrong. UPDATE: Art Cashin issued a correction in his February 8, 2012 Cashin's Comments.¬† Here's what he said: Optionland Errata ‚Äì Several of our ever-alert readers pounced on an incongruity in our citation about that big volatility bet in the VIX options.¬† As usual, they were correct.¬† Jim Brown says there was a typo (damn computers).¬† The spread should have read "call spread" (long the April 20 and short the April 25).¬† At $75 per contract, the value of the bet was over $11 million.¬† Mea culpa. SEE ALSO: The Stupidest Reason To Sell Stocks &gt;
In many ways, the sports betting world can be described as the Las Vegas version of Wall Street. †† "Sports betting is the moral equivalent of Wall Street. It really is. Instead of betting on companies to rise or fall, I'm betting on sports teams to rise or fall. There's no difference between the two," said Teddy Covers, a professional sports bettor and ESPN columnist, in the newly released film,†"Life On The Line." Click to meet the stars of the film &gt; "The sports bettor's problem is that we haven't marketed ourselves well. It's my job to change that," he added. † The 55-minute film gives an inside look into the secretive world of sports betting by following a group of professional sports bettors and bookies around the time of Super Bowl XLV (Steelers v. Green Bay Packers).† The film's director, Isaac Feder, told Business Insider that he thinks it's the "most†authentic sports betting story ever made."† Feder explained that the sports bettors granted him access in order to show them accurately. †He described them as diligent, hard working, "brilliant masterminds."† "They really are the best at what they do. †It isn't different from what a Wall Street trader does or a stock broker," he said. †"They just have terrible press and PR."† A lot of sports bettors are called "wiseguys" and that has a negative connotation nationwide, Covers explained in the film. But in Vegas being a "wiseguy" is a "badge of honor" because it means you're beating the books, he said. The movie premier was hosted at the LVH in Las Vegas this past weekend. †We're told that about 300 people were in attendance for the screening, which was held in the same theater Elvis used to perform in.† Feder was kind enough to share with us some photos from the red carpet event, so let's meet these "wiseguys."†
Denmark's Politiken via Presseurop reports that thanks to global warming, Greenland's icy surface is melting away, and many believe it's too poor to refuse the opportunity. The country sits on top of the fifth-largest uranium deposit in the world. Revenues from fishing are falling, and so are grants from Denmark (which controls Greenland), which is forcing the Greenlanders to experiment. Few who do not know Greenland can grasp the extent of the poverty there.† Chinese and South Korean firms, as well as Alcoa, have already begun circling the landmass. "Chinese companies don't need to rush," Su Jianjing, a Chinese national working for the Copenhagen law firm Bech-Bruun, told Caixin. "They can first let Alcoa charge to the front" by introducing large-scale Chinese labor to Greenland." Since 2009, Greenland has enjoyed greater autonomy to manage its natural resources itself. But with that autonomy came the end of millions in subsidies from Copenhagen. "It is difficult to live from prawns alone. That is why uranium has become so interesting," Brussels-based De Standaard explains. The plan has Irked some environmentalists. And technically,†the Danish parliament would still have to approve a final decision. But a majority in the Danish parliament is prepared for the first time to repeal Denmarkís nominal zero-tolerance policy on the radioactive metal, according to Euractiv.
The Atlantic published a lengthy analysis Tuesday about the state of the job market for law school grads and when we can expect it to recover. And that story gives us a glimpse at just how badly the banking crisis destroyed the legal industry. From The Atlantic: When the financial industry melted down in 2008, it burned a hole straight through the finances of America's big corporate law firms. They in turn cut back on hiring, and that destabilized the rest of the market, as graduates who would have landed a plumb firm job opted for lower-paying positions in government, small firms, and public interest that in past years would have gone to the alums of less prestigious institutions. This graph The Atlantic obtained from the legal industry group NALP shows just how much legal employment dropped post-2008: NALP via The Atlantic And things don't seem to be improving any time soon. The legal industry lost 2,400 jobs in January, according to the Labor Department. DON'T MISS: Former Child Actor Isn't Scared Of The Law School Bubble &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsOn March 1, cuts will automatically be made to defense and other spending if no deal is reached to avert. Having seen the tax part of the fiscal cliff and the the debt ceiling go by so far without incident, the sequester is not the subject of much concern, it would seem. In a note, BofA/ML FX and rates strategist David Woo gives three reasons why investors are too complacent. We summarize: Says Woo: In the event of either a full or close to full implementation of the sequestration, it is reasonable to think that consumer confidence will weaken further. Non-defense cuts will hit both discretionary and mandatory spending and defense cuts could involve significant lay-offs (Pentagon announced last week that it has begun laying off many of its 46,000 temporary and contract employees). Our model suggests that a decline of the Michigan consumer expectations to the level of summer of 2011 during the debt ceiling crisis could shave 1.2pp alone from consumption growth.
Today, in embarrassing Wall Street instant message news, Britain's Financial regulator, the FSA has released communication between RBS employees working with the LIBOR. Reuters reports that RBS faces fines of up to $627 million for rigging the London Interbank Offering Rate (Libor), a scandal that came to light last summer and hit banks around the world. RBS' fine would be the second largest in the investigation, and Sky News reports that the bank could face harsh criminal charges as well. One look at the instant messages the FSA released this morning and you can understand why regulators are taking this issue so seriously. The FSA says that even when they knew they were being investigated, RBS employees continued manipulating the Libor for their benefit. And they seemed pretty happy doing it. In fact, they managed to throw out some one-liners that are sure to go down in Wall Street instant message history (along with "sh---y deal", and what not). †  We'll let you know when we see more of these gems from the FSA's report.
APTim Geithner is joining the Council On Foreign Relations. Here's the press release we just got. ------------------------------------------ February 6, 2013‚ÄîTimothy F. Geithner, the 75th Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, will join the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) later this month as a distinguished fellow. Geithner, who was previously a senior fellow at CFR in 2001, will be based at the organization's headquarters in New York.¬† "We are thrilled to welcome Tim back to the Council on Foreign Relations," said CFR President Richard N. Haass. "Both at Treasury and at the New York Federal Reserve, Tim was a tireless, creative, and responsible custodian of the public trust. His coming to CFR only strengthens our capacity to produce thoughtful analysis of issues at the intersection of economic, political, and strategic developments."¬† As President Obama's treasury secretary, Geithner played a central role in formulating U.S. domestic and international economic policy for the past four years. He was a principal architect of the president's strategy to avert economic collapse and to reform the financial system, while also tackling a broad set of international economic challenges. He served in this position from January 26, 2009 through January 25, 2013.¬† Geithner previously served as president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, between 2003 and 2009.¬† He first joined the Department of Treasury in 1988 and worked in a variety of positions in three administrations. From 1999 to 2001, Geithner served as under secretary of the treasury for international affairs, under Secretaries Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers.¬† He was director of the Policy Development and Review Department at the International Monetary Fund from 2001 until 2003. Previously, he worked for Kissinger Associates, Inc.¬† Geithner earned his undergraduate degree in government and Asian studies from Dartmouth College. He was awarded an MA in International Economics and East Asian Studies from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
I was fortunate enough to guest host this morning on Surveillance on Bloomberg TV. The big word that everyone was using: SEISMIC. That's the best way to describe what's going on in Japan, where the yen is plummeting and the Nikkei is just going bonkers. The stock market rallied 3.7% (!) while the dollar surged to 93.7 against the yen. The premature departure of the current Bank of Japan governor is the latest catalyst. But more generally, investors are starting to get convinced that the new prime minister Shinzo Abe will apply monetary and fiscal shock therapy to the economy. Via Nikkei.com, here are the moves in both the Nikkei and the yn. 
According to the OECD, the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate is 39 percent.† This is a combination of the 35 percent federal statutory rate and a weighted average of state marginal income tax rates. But thanks to a complicated tax code riddled with breaks, subsidies, and loopholes, the (effective) rate actually paid is much lower. From Goldman Sachs' David Kostin: However, statutory rates do not reflect the effective taxes paid by large-cap US firms.For the last 45 years, the median S&amp;P 500 firm has paid an effective tax rate averaging more than 5 percentage points below the statutory rate. Despite statutory rates hovering near 39% for the last 25 years, effective tax rates have been gradually decreasing (see Exhibit 2). At 30%, the current S&amp;P 500 median effective tax rate is almost 10 percentage points below the statutory level, and close to the global statutory average. The aggregate tax rate has averaged 33% over the past 10 years and was 26% over the past four quarters. According to Kostin's research, less than 10 percent of firms pay at least the statutory rate of 39 percent. "The tax preferences that create the gap between effective and statutory rates willlikely receive scrutiny from policymakers as they attempt to reform the tax code," writes Kostin. "By closing the gap between effective and mandated tax rates, the government could raise revenues while lowering the statutory rate, thus presenting the change as a tax cut. Democratic leaders, including President Obama and Minority Leader Pelosi, have specifically mentioned targeting corporate tax strategies that create this gap." Here's the chart from Kostin's note: Goldman Sachs
BlackBerry's new keyboard-equipped phone, the BlackBerry Q10, likely won't launch until late May or early June in the U.S., according to CEO Thorsten Heins.† In an interview with the Associated Press, Heins said the Q10 wouldn't launch until eight to 10 weeks after the touchscreen-only Z10 phone. The Z10 is supposed to launch in mid-March. Specific release dates and pricing will vary by carrier. Each carrier is currently testing the new BlackBerry 10 software on the phones and will have to approve the operating system (that is, load it up with a bunch of apps you probably don't want) before it can start selling. Don't Miss: The Surface Pro Review &gt;
APGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Flickr/Ashwin Nellore PhotographyEveryone knows that the U.S. housing market is on its way up. But housing is a local story; the U.S. market is made up of many smaller markets with their own idiosyncrasies. There is, however, one quality that clearly distinguishes two types of U.S. housing markets: the foreclosure process. Specifically, the type of foreclosure process (judicial or non-judicial) has determined how quickly a market has been able to clear out inventory. "The non-judicial foreclosure process used in most Western markets has allowed lenders to efficiently clear the distress, while at the same time facilitating strong investor activity and a home price recovery," says Adam Artunian, an analyst with John Burns Real Estate Consulting.¬† "Ironically, the judicial foreclosure process, which was designed to protect homeowners, is delaying the recovery in those markets." Here are three key points (verbatim) from Artunian: Here's a table from John Burns that clearly shows where prices are rising: John Burns Real Estate Consulting So, the U.S. housing market is not one market.¬† It's two markets.
According to the popular stock market January Effect, "As goes January, so goes the year." And the S&amp;P 500 soared 5 percent in January. "In sum, since 1928, when the S&amp;P 500 has risen in January, it's climbed an average of 8.3% for the next 11 months and was up over that span nearly 78% of the time," writes Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. "When the S&amp;P 500 has fallen in January, it's risen only 58% of the time for an average of only 2.8%." Here's the table and chart from Sonders:  †Charles Schwab
"Below the ground, the federal government owns the rights to mineral and energy leases, from which they receive royalties, rents, and bonus payment," writes the Institute for Energy Research, an industry group. According to their estimates, those assets are worth $128 trillion.¬† That's around eight times the national debt. Here's their map. Green=Bureau of Land Management, Orange=Indian reservations, Blue=other:¬† IER From IER: These resources could be leased under the right government policies to earn the state and national government royalties, rents, and bonus payments that CBO conservatively estimates could total almost $150 billion over 10 years for the oil and gas leases alone. That figure excludes tax payments that would be provided to state and national governments from the direct and indirect effects of unleashing tens of trillions of dollars of economic activity here in the United States and the extended benefits of more supplies on reducing the costs of energy for consumers and businesses. ¬† "It is well known that abundant, reliable and affordable energy supplies act as fertilizer for economic growth that in turn generates new revenue sources," they write.¬† "It is time to better utilize government assets owned by the U.S. taxpayer, and in turn, unleash the U.S. economy‚Äôs potential." SEE MORE: 36 Maps That Explain The World &gt;
JohnGoode / FlickrUPDATE:After a nice early start, markets in Europe have erased gains, and now they're tumbling. Germany's Dax is down 0.3%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.7%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.6%. ORIGINAL (4:13 AM ET): Stock markets are staging a nice rally early in the European trading session, following a 99 point rally in the Dow Jones Industrials and a 3.7 percent surge in Japan's Nikkei. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.5%. Germany's Dax is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.2%. It's a particularly quiet day today with no major U.S. economic news being announced.¬† Later this morning we'll get a German bond auction. Tomorrow should be more interesting with an ECB meeting, initial jobless claims in the U.S., and the grilling of incoming Bank of England governor Mark Carney. Click Here For Updates &gt;
The S&amp;P 500 has more than doubled since its 2009 low. Many have missed the rally. Some don't even know there has been a rally.† At least that's what the results of a recent investor survey revealed. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders wrote about this recently: In 2012, FT asked a large group of investors whether they thought the stock market was up or down in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Let me reiterate that this set of questions was asked after the three-year period was in the books. As you can see in the graphic below, around half of surveyed investors weren't even aware the market had gone up each year post-crisis. And of course, we can now add 2012 to the string. I'm guessing if FT were to conduct the survey again about 2012, a larger percentage of investors would at least be aware of last year's stellar 16% gain for the S&amp;P 500Æ Index. For those who have missed out on the rally, perhaps ignorance is bliss. Here's a chart from Sonders. Charles Schwab
A PeakProsperity.com reader recently lamented: I have been trying to get my head around the mechanism of QE. Not being an economist or experienced investor I don't really understand a lot of the jargon. The usual simple definition of QE as "thin air money printing" does not satisfy my need for understanding either. Have hunted for a description of QE for dummies that leaves me feeling like I get it, but with no luck. My difficulty is in understanding how thin air money gets into circulation. So I'm going to do my best to answer this plea in as intuitive and straightforward a manner as I can. I, too, share the need to understand the mechanism of a process in order to feel like I have a grasp of it. ¬†And I think it's critically important to understand QE (also known by its full name, "quantitative easing") and what it really represents. Because it is, without a doubt, one of the largest market-shaping forces of our times.¬† Further, it presents extraordinary risks and may well turn out to be a decisive shaping process for the future, as well. And not in a good way. Despite its sophisticated-sounding name, QE is nothing more complicated than the Fed buying "assets" from commercial banks and other private financial institutions.¬† I put assets in quotes because the Fed does not buy things like land, Stradivarius violins, diamonds, gold, or silver from these institutions, but rather various forms of debt. The main forms of debt purchased are Treasury bills/notes/bonds and Mortgage Backed Security (MBS) paper.¬† There could well be other forms, too, but we currently have no visibility into the composition of the sizable portion of the Fed's balance sheet that comprises the "other assets" line.¬† I'll get into that in more detail in a minute. First, here's the an explanation of QE: Quantitative easing¬†(QE) is an¬†unconventional monetary policy¬†used by¬†central banks¬†to stimulate the national economy when conventional monetary policy has become ineffective.¬† A central bank implements quantitative easing by buying¬†financial assets¬†from¬†commercial banks¬†and other private institutions, thus¬†creating money¬†and injecting a pre-determined¬†quantity¬†of money into the economy. Quantitative easing increases the¬†excess reserves¬†of the banks, and raises the prices of the financial assets bought, which lowers their¬†yield. (Source - Wikipedia) The reason that QE differs from normal monetary policy is that, in the normal case, the purchase of various bond types by the Fed does two things: It lowers interest rates, and it increases the amount of money in the system. QE, on the other hand, cannot lower interbank interest rates any further than they already are, because they are at 0%.¬† So a different name is used for the process in which the only thing being eased is the quantity of money.¬† Hence Quantitative Easing (QE). This is just a fancy way of saying that the central bank, via prior errors and miscalculations, has found itself stuck in a trap where it has lost one of its most potent tools: the price of money.¬† And now it can only fiddle with the quantity of money. Here's a simple picture that I drew to illustrate just how simple this fancy-sounding process really is:  When the Fed performs this trick, what happens is that the assets end up on its balance sheet as ‚Äì well, assets of course.¬† Luckily the Fed provides reasonable clarity in a timely manner on the expansion of its balance sheet.¬† So we can see pretty well what's going on here as it happens. In graph form, we can see that the Fed's asset balance had been holding steady at around $2.75 trillion for a bit over a year.¬† But then the latest round of QE (QE4) began, which has swelled the Fed balance sheet above than $3 trillion ‚Äì and it's way to (at least) $4 trillion by year end (2013).  Here's a nice short description of the process of QE: A central bank [performs QE] ¬†by first crediting its own account with money it has created¬†ex nihilo¬†("out of nothing").¬†It then purchases financial assets, including¬†government bonds¬†and¬†corporate bonds, from¬†banks¬†and other¬†financial institutions¬†in a process referred to as¬†open market operations. The purchases, by way of account deposits, give banks the excess reserves required for them to create new money by the process of¬†deposit multiplication¬†from increased lending in the fractional reserve banking system. The increase in the money supply thus stimulates the economy. Risks include the policy being more effective than intended, spurring¬†hyperinflation, or the risk of not being effective enough, if banks opt simply to pocket the additional cash in order to increase their capital reserves in a climate of increasing defaults in their present loan portfolio. (Source - Business Insider) At this point you might be thinking, where did the Fed get the money to buy these assets?¬† The answer to that is simple:¬† It was created out of thin air.¬† Or ex nihilo, if you want to use Latin to make it sound more official.¬† In these modern times, no actual paper money was created and exchanged, of course; just a few clicks on a computer keyboard.¬† And ‚Äì voila! ‚Äì billions and billions of dollars are created. There are several critical risks to flooding the world with invented money.¬† Once we understand them, it becomes clearer how the Fed's decision to pursue QE has put it in a box, where its available options are becoming fewer and fewer.¬† And it explains why the Fed is continuing ‚Äì and will continue until it simply can't ‚Äì with its aggressive money printing.¬† In Part II: Why You Really, Really Need to Care about the Implications of QE, we lay out these risks and identify the markers you can follow to track them. We then detail how the QE process is destined to devolve and the implications this will have for your wealth and well-being. To make our situation clear, we are living through the largest and most outlandish monetary experiment ever conducted by humans upon themselves.¬† These are extraordinary times, and no matter how many times the mainstream press tries to convince you that a rising stock market or a rebounding housing market implies that we are returning to healthy economic balance, don't fall for it. The Fed is in uncharted territory, having created a monster it can no longer control.¬† In the process, it is blowing new asset bubbles that are benefiting those with first access to the newly-printed money (banks and corporations) at the expense of savers, pensioners, and anyone exercising fiscal prudence.¬† This, of course, is creating a vast and growing inequality between the top 1% and everyone else. When this misadventure in monetary policy ends, as both math and history says it must, it will be messy, uncontrolled, and very painful for holders of just about every sort of financial instrument out there (stocks, bonds, derivatives, etc).¬† That's why understanding the root causes and risks of QE is so important, in order to identify the best shelters for protecting the purchasing power of your wealth through this transition. Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access).

AP Photo / Gregorio BorgiaSIENA, Italy (Reuters) - Monte dei Paschi &lt;BMPS.MI &gt; was expected to raise its estimate for the loss on derivatives trades that recently came to light and are now at the center of an investigation against former executives at Italy's third-biggest bank. A source close to the situation said the final loss would be announced Wednesday and should be higher than a preliminary estimate from October of around 720 million euros ($974 million). The findings of a review of the trades and their impact on the bank's accounts by external consultants are to be submitted to the bank's board, chaired by former UniCredit chief executive Alessandro Profumo. "In the meeting with the board we will give very clear numbers about these transactions. Tomorrow evening we will have total clarity," Profumo said on Italian television on Tuesday. Il Sole 24 Ore daily reported the bank would reveal losses of 920 million euros from the three derivative trades, plus a further loss of 120 million in "personnel costs". "The numbers in Il Sole are not correct," said a source at the bank. The three derivative transactions are the "Nota Italia" trade with J.P. Morgan in 2006, the 2008 "Santorini" trade with Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, and the 2009 "Alexandria" trade with Nomura &lt;8604.T&gt;. The loss from these trades will likely lead to a restatement of past accounts and increase the overall 2012 losses for the Tuscan lender, which had already posted a net loss of 1.66 billion euros in the first nine months. The scandal surrounding the derivatives deals has thrust Monte dei Paschi, which last year requested 3.9 billion euros state aid, to the center of the campaign ahead of national elections on February 24-25. Sources close to the situation have told Reuters the lender, the world's oldest, had been negotiating with banks involved to restructure or close the deals. One source said the negotiations with Deutsche Bank were going well while those with Nomura were dragging. Deutsche Bank and Nomura declined to comment. Profumo and Monte dei Paschi chief executive Fabrizio Viola, who say they discovered the extent of the derivatives deals in October, are keen to clean up a balance sheet burdened by hedging bets gone wrong. "They want to pull out this painful bad tooth, which is also a drag on revenues, and then there will be no more skeletons in the closet," the source close to the matter said. RATING CUT In November, Monte dei Paschi raised its request for state aid by 500 million euros, citing a possible hit from unspecified structured transactions. It has since said that cash buffer will be enough to cushion any loss from the trades under review. Standard &amp; Poor's last week cut the bank's rating to "BB" - one notch below junk status - because of concern the shortfall might be bigger than anticipated. "The main concern at this time lies in the potential operating impacts (stability of direct deposits, access conditions to the wholesale market) of the recent events which are causing serious damage to the reputational capital of the bank," said Luca Comi of ICBPI in a report. Monte dei Paschi can at least take comfort from a fall in the spread between Italian 10-year government bonds and equivalent German Bunds in recent weeks, which is cutting the capital shortfall deriving from a mark-to-market of its huge Italian government bond portfolio. Mediobanca and Merrill Lynch analysts estimate that shortfall to have narrowed to around 2 billion euros now from more than 3 billion six months ago - although that does not take into account the impact of losses on structured transactions. Even before the derivatives scandal emerged last month, Monte dei Paschi was being investigated over its costly 2007 acquisition of smaller rival Antonveneta, which stretched its finances to the limit months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers. In the first nine months of 2012 Monte dei Paschi, hit hard by the euro zone crisis because it has the biggest Italian government bond portfolio relative to assets among Italian banks, reported a 15.6 percent annual fall in customer deposits and securities issued. The bank also had gross impaired loans worth 28.3 billion euros, representing a higher proportion of total loans than the average for other Italian lenders. (Editing by Hans-Juergen Peters) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
(AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)TOKYO (AP) ó Asian shares rose Wednesday as Japan's benchmark surged to its highest level since Sept. 2008 though wariness over corporate earnings pulled European indexes lower in early trading. The Japanese yen's slide to a three-year low on news the Bank of Japan governor will resign early spurred a 3.8 percent jump in the Nikkei 225 stock index. It gained 416.83 points to 11,463.75 as export shares soared on expectations of stronger sales thanks to the yen's slide against other major currencies. Toyota Motor Corp. jumped 6 percent, Honda Motor Corp. added 3.3 percent and Sony climbed 3.8 percent. The Japanese yen was trading at 93.68 yen per U.S. dollar, its lowest level in almost three years after BOJ Gov. Masaaki Shirakawa said he will step down three weeks early, for logistical reasons. Some investors took it as sign that whoever replaces Shirakawa will be likely to comply with pressure from the government to ease monetary policy to help stimulate economic growth. Shirakawa said he is stepping down in tandem with his top deputies on Mar. 19 instead of when his own five-year term ends on April 8 and that his decision was not motivated by political pressure. But the central bank has been perceived as resisting pressure for more drastic monetary easing, despite its agreement last month to set a 2 percent inflation benchmark as demanded by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. In early European trading, Britain's FTSE 100 edged down 0.6 percent to 6,278.84. The CAC-40 in France fell 0.2 percent to 3,686.10 and Germany's DAX lost 0.3 percent to 7,641.81. Arcelor-Mittal SA, the world's largest steelmaker, posted a larger loss for the fourth quarter due to write-downs and charges related to its European business while Vinci SA, Europe's biggest builder, also reported a drop in 2012 profitability. Wall Street was set for modest gains with Dow Jones industrial futures up 0.2 percent at 13,941. S&amp;P 500 futures added 0.2 percent to 1,508.20. Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose 0.5 percent to 23,256.93, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 gained 0.8 to 4,921. In mainland China, the Shenzhen Composite Index added 0.5 to 951.52 while the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index added 0.1 to 2,434.48. South Korea's Kospi erased early gains to fall for the fifth straight day, edging down 0.1 percent to 1,936.19. Shares in Malaysia and New Zealand fell, while benchmarks in Singapore, Taiwan and Indonesia rose. "The recovery in overseas markets provided an excuse for the market to bounce back" after falls earlier in the week, said Kwong Man Bun, chief operating officer at KGI Securities in Hong Kong. Strong gains in regional markets are partly being driven by higher liquidity thanks to the yen's weakness, which has brought on a flurry of carry trades in which traders borrow in a weaker currency with low interest rates, such as the yen, and use the funds to buy higher-risk shares in other markets, such as Hong Kong. Wall Street and European stock markets pushed higher Tuesday after new indicators suggested the combined economy of the 17 euro countries is past the worst of its recession and the U.S. recovery remains on track. A surge in U.S. home and stronger earnings helped push U.S. shares higher. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 99.22 points to 13,979.30, recovering much of what it lost Monday in the worst sell-off so far this year. The index traded above 14,000 during the day before falling back in the last hour. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 gained 15.58 points to 1,511.29. The Nasdaq composite was up 40.41 points to 3,171.58. In energy markets, benchmark crude for March delivery was up 3 cents to $96.33 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The euro was down 0.2 percent at $1.3536.
