REUTERS/Nigel RoddisThe Bank of England's latest inflation report is set to be released at 5:30 a.m. ET on November 13. Markets will be watching to see if the central bank upgrades its economic forecasts. This comes after the economy grew 0.8% in the third quarter and as the UK economy has recovered faster than expected. Bank of England's Mark Carney introduced forward guidance back in August. At the time, Carney said the Bank wouldn't raise rates until unemployment had fallen to 7%. He also said "guidance will cease to apply" if "material risks to price stability or financial stability are judged to have arisen." Even back in August, some questioned whether forward guidance was necessary as the economy was getting back on track. "The mistake the MPC has made is to set the threshold rate too high," writes Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard. Here's why: Labor data will be released an hour before the inflation report and it is likely to show that the unemployment rate eased to 7.6% in the three months to September. This would be six months earlier than forecast.¬† "Only three months in to the three-year forecasting period, one quarter of the gap to the¬† 7% threshold has already been closed," explains Hilliard. "...It is stretching credibility a little for the MPC to continue to predict that the unemployment rate will not reach 7% in three years‚Äô time." If the Bank of England does predict a 7% rate in three years it will also have to reiterate that 7% is not a trigger for a rate increase," but that it would be a time to reassess the health of the economy. Hilliard expects the BoE to "forcefully rebuff"calls for early rate hikes. In fact the Bank of England could lower its threshold. But doing so would be "embarrassing" and it would "sorely test the credibility of the framework," writes Hilliard. Unlike Hilliard, British think tank¬†National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR)¬†believes that the central bank could raise rates in 2015 even if unemployment doesn't fall below 7%. "There may be a sense that consumer spending and possibly house prices are rising in a way that makes an ultra loose policy unnecessary," NIESR director Jonathan Portes told Reuters. NIESR projects that the unemployment rate will not fall below 7% until 2016.¬† Credit Suisse analysts expect the Bank of England to bring forward the time by which it expects the jobless rate to fall below 7% into early 2016 or even 2015.¬† "This would reflect the persistently firmer pace of UK GDP expansion; such a shift would most likely be interpreted by markets most likely be interpreted by markets as an indication of when the MPC envisages the first tightening of the policy rate." But a recent survey of 4,000 people by KPMG showed that only 39% believed a "national economic recovery was underway," reports the Financial Times, while¬†38% said they saw no recovery. On November 7, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) chose to keep rates at a record low of 0.5%, which is where they have been since March 2009. It also kept its¬†¬£375 billion asset purchase program unchanged.
After a bit of a drop in the US, things are pretty quiet in Asia, though lower. The Nikkei is modestly lower Nikkei.com Meanwhile, Australia is down 0.7%, and Korea is down 1.0%.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton A record breaking moment in the art world. From NYT: For at least 10 minutes Christieís overflowing salesroom watched in rapt attention as a 1969 triptych by Francis Bacon sold for $142.4 million, described as the highest price ever paid for an artwork at auction. There were apparently 7 bidders going for it, both in the room and by phone. Here's another view of the triptych, a 1969 work titled "Three Studies of Lucian Freud": Christie's The previous record holder for most valuable work of art sold at auction was Edvard Munch's "The Scream," which reportedly sold to financier Leon Black for $120 million at a Sotheby's auction in May. In addition to the Bacon record, Jeff Koons' sculpture "Balloon Dog (Orange)" sold this evening for $58.4 million, making it the most expensive work of art ever sold by a living artist, according to the auction house.
www.youtube.comEditor's note: Crispus Knight '03 recently published a memoir about Dartmouth College's unique form of beer pong and an obsession with it that nearly ruined him, called "Three For Ship." Here's an excerpt: On any given night you can be sure that in Dartmouth's [Coed, Fraternity, and Sorority] houses, basement Beer Pong games are being played.¬†In Beer Pong, two teams compete on a flat playing surface (at Dartmouth about the size and shape of a standard Ping Pong table) on which a predetermined number of beers are distributed into plastic cups and arranged into one of many formations. The object of the game is to successfully hit a Ping Pong ball into the opposing team‚Äôs cups using a paddle; the team whose cup is hit or sunk drinks the beer inside. A game typically ends when all the cups on one side of the table have been hit or sunk away. There is a special connection between this drinking game and Dartmouth students and a certain pride in the fact that our school was likely the origin for all existing forms of Beer Pong. One variation in particular, called Beirut, has become a familiar staple across the country and can be found under every nook and cranny where young adults are prone to binge drink. When high school and college kids refer to Pong, as in: ‚ÄúCome over to my place, we're going to play some beer-pong in my dad's garage!‚Äù the game they are actually referring to is what we call Beirut, where teams take turns throwing the ball across the table at their opponent's cups.¬†Having played both versions extensively, I can tell you quite honestly that our version is light-years more fun. Not to knock Beirut, but it is a much simpler game that requires less setup, space, and equipment‚Äîthis adaptability is also probably why it is much more popular. It's easy enough to get the basics down so that anyone can play a game and the skill gap so minor for the majority of players that most games result in toss ups. Hand someone a Ping-Pong ball and ask them to throw it at a grouping of cups ten feet away and anyone who has the use of their arms and can see further than a few feet will be able to play with some reasonable amount of success. Anyone should be able to come within a foot or two of the cups after a throw or two. Hand someone a Pong paddle on the other hand and ask them to make difficult lob shots from a variety of angles and locations, having never done anything similar before, and most of them won‚Äôt be able to even keep the ball on the table. I have introduced many first timers to the game over the years and it usually takes a full game before the person has even grasped the concept of how to serve and return the ball fluidly. Hitting cups with regularity¬† doesn't come until much later. A superior Pong player will almost never lose to an inferior one if their¬†partners are more or less equal in skill, while in Beirut, drastic upsets can and will occur on long enough time-lines. www.amazon.comSince the game was first conceived at Dartmouth‚Äîteams using paddles to return the ball back and forth across the table rather than each team taking turns throwing it‚Äîwe claim our version as the original and most pure manifestation. The history of American Beer Pong has almost mythological qualities. If you believe certain sources, the invention of Beer Pong can be attributed to table-tennis playing Dartmouth fraternity members who would rest their beer mugs on the table while they played.¬† It was eventually discovered that it was actually more fun to aim for the mugs of beer rather than¬† follow traditional Ping-Pong rules. At first the game was played at full speed with high velocity, close to the net shots. I imagine that the constant breakages in play this style presents eventually led to the switch to lob shots, which slows the game down and makes it more about finesse and less about brute strength. Now, almost universally so, the game of Pong at Dartmouth is played with a continuous back and forth of high arching paddle shots where a hit on a cup costs a half a beer and a sink the whole thing. This paddle version is much more fluid, requires players to possess a sufficient level of hand eye coordination, and heightens the level of athletic competitiveness in a game. We find this to be vastly superior and don‚Äôt play Pong solely as a means to get drunk; to us it is a recreational activity first, a drinking game second. Many Dartmouth students, believe it or not, are actually as competitive about their Pong ability as they are about their grades. The obsession is so complete that in every basement, off campus house, or student controlled social space on campus, you could be assured of one thing each evening: Pong is being played. The first group of students you see materialize in these places set up the first contest. The last standing are those participants of the final game. In between, the ball never stops bouncing. A second major difference between Beirut and true Dartmouth Beer Pong, in addition to the use of paddles, is the quantity of beer that the participants are required to drink. With a Beirut game it is common practice to use a single can of beer to fill between three and five cups. Each ‚Äúbeer‚Äù on the Beirut table actually contains only a few ounces of liquid. With Dartmouth style Pong, a plastic cup is¬†filled as close to the brim as possible‚Äîto the very top line of the molded ridges of the clear plastic cups that are so common on campus. This amounts to a full eight ounces per cup and there is no exception to this rule. Because these cups were clear, it was easy to tell how high your opponents‚Äô beers were filled and you would often hear one team tell another to add additional beer to not quite full cups because they were too weak. So even with your standard Dartmouth game of Pong, you are drinking three, four, sometimes five times as much as you would drink in a normal Beirut game. And the only way to do so comfortably and with expertise is through dedicated repetition. Dartmouth students have devised many variations of the game, the most basic of which is called Shrub and uses a triangle formation of six beers with one beer serving as the stem of the ‚Äúshrub.‚Äù From above, one side of the table looks like so: threeforship.com A Tree formation is similar but employs either eleven or twelve beers per side, depending on if house rules call for a one or two beer stem. The main difference between Tree and Shrub is the speed in which you drink. The opening of either game is normally a barrage of hits and sinks, and with Tree you are basically just drinking four more beers in roughly the same amount of time. A single two-stem Tree (fairly unusual) looks like this: threeforship.com Variations of Shrub and Tree are the most common formations found on campus‚Äîhowever the possibilities are practically endless for creative minds bent on dreaming up ever new ways of tactically arranging the campus' inexhaustible supply of plastic cups. Games of Death, Two-Cup, Corners, Line,¬†World Cup, Enchanted Forest, Social, Harbor and so on are played on a nightly basis in the CFS basements and occasionally games were even made up on the spot by enterprising players and subsequently never played again. Then there was Ship, which had an allure all its own. This is what half of a Ship game looks like: threeforship.com Ship certainly deserves some added attention but what is important here is that freshman year I fell in love with Pong and to play Pong I had to brave fraternity basements. Almost completely devoid of bars, clubs, or local hang-outs and with a limited selection of off- campus residential spaces, Hanover doesn't at first seem like it would be entirely conducive to supporting a binge drinking culture, until you consider Dartmouth's location, size, and history of male- dominated drinking clubs. At Ivy's like Harvard, Columbia, U-Penn, Brown, or even Cornell to an extent due to its huge undergraduate population, students never had to rely on Greek organizations as a social outlet the same way Dartmouth kids do, as they had access to a varied citywide social and cultural infrastructure. At the smaller elite schools the necessary infrastructure wasn't in place because of a lack of historic precedence and alumni voice. As opposed to Dartmouth's sixty percent affiliation rate, only a relatively small number of the eligible student body at these other elite schools fully invests itself in Greek culture. When out in the real world, these students had to handle themselves somewhat responsibly‚Äîthe boundaries of the ‚Äúcollege bubble‚Äù extend only to edges of their own urban-enclosed¬†campuses. Blacking out and strolling through downtown Boston or Philadelphia at two in the morning is not a recommended practice but in Hanover one could do so with near impunity‚Äîthe biggest danger coming from the laughably ineffective Safety and Security vans that patrolled the campus at night in an attempt to capture zig-zagging, homeward-bound drinkers. Hanover was Dartmouth‚Äîwe never had any reason to go elsewhere. As a result, Greek organizations have played an important role in student life for a hundred and fifty years; the integration of women in the nineteen-seventies did little to alter that landscape. Sororities and coed houses quickly sprung up alongside the fraternities and adopted many of their drinking practices‚ÄîPong, Meetings, and parties for starters and since Dartmouth CFS houses are the only places for students to socialize in large groups while using alcohol, they could safely foster as extreme a drinking culture as they themselves could tolerate. Over time this has evolved into a drinking tradition and a certain pride has arisen that this was both a place of academic excellence and extreme partying. And since this isn't a few rotten apples we're talking about‚Äîit's the whole beer- soaked system really‚Äîthe college administration has historically been at a loss at how to address a problem that much of the student body and alumni dismiss as being a problem altogether. Support for the system until the last decade and a half has been near universal. The existence of the SLI now threatened what has always been taken for granted on campus and many feared that this strange, wonderful world we had newly discovered was in the process of being altered irrevocably. My own drinking habits were fairly normal during that first year and I found myself doing what most other kids did at Dartmouth and many other schools across the country‚ÄîI studied and went to class during the week, while partying in freshman dorm rooms and fraternity houses during the weekends. I had struck a sustainable balance between academics and social experimentation and was enjoying my newly discovered weekend rager lifestyle. It was surprising and refreshing to see such a vibrant and engaging social scene at an Ivy-League school. Crispus Knight's enjoyment of pong would soon become a dangerous obsession. Click here to see how he turned into an alcoholic and failed out of Dartmouth College &gt; Click here to buy his memoir, "Three For Ship" &gt;
REUTERS/Danish SiddiquiA man jumps over a water stream on a beach along the Arabian Sea in Mumbai, September 2, 2013.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. What Advisors Should Ask Themselves Before Switching To RIAs (The Wall Street Journal)  It has become increasingly popular for advisors to make the switch to registered investment advisors (RIAs). Tom Daley of Illinois-based The Advisor Center says there are three types of RIAs that advisors can switch to 1. Broker-dealer model 2. RIA-only model 3. The hybrid model. Advisors should pick the model that's right for them based on where they are in their business cycle and what services they want to offer their clients.¬† "If the adviser would prefer to be independent, then tucking into the RIA-only or hybrid model may be the right move," he writes in a Wall Street Journal column. "...Going the hybrid route, meanwhile, lets advisers recruit the broadest range of financial advisers to work alongside them and use multiple custodians." The #1 Thing Hedge Fund Managers Are Worried About Right Now (Bank of America)¬† Hedge fund managers are most concerned about a Chinese hard landing and a collapse in commodity prices according to BofA Merrill Lynch's November Global Fund Manager Survey. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream $900 Million Team Leaves UBS To Start New Firm (Investment News) Five UBS advisors that managed $900 million in clients assets have left to start independent investment advisory firm, Fusion Family Wealth, according to Joyce Hanson at Investment News. The firm was founded by Jonathan Blau, and includes Harvey Radler, Jeffrey Blick, Joel Bodner, and James Cloudman, all from UBS. Three RIAs Are Celebrated By Charles Schwab At IMPACT Conference (FA Mag) Charles Schwab has honored three registered investment advisors (RIAs) at the Schwab IMPACT 2013 conference in Washington, D.C. Atlanta-based Homrich Berg won Schwab's Best-In-Business Award, reports FA Mag. This award goes to independent advisory firms that have been in business for 10 year and have a "track record of growth and excellence and technology solutions that have helped expand market reach, responsiveness and operational efficiencies," according to FA Mag. Paracle Advisors has won the Pacesetter Award, which goes to firms that have been in business for 10 years or less and that have shown promise. Meanwhile, Evensky &amp; Katz Wealth Management won the Trailblazer Award, for "combining entrepreneurial spirit with a drive to advance the industry‚Äôs interests as a whole," reports FA Mag. Russ Koesterich: 4 Reasons We're Not In A Bubble (BlackRock) Despite investor concerns about a stock market bubble. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich points to four reasons to show why they're not. 1. Valuations aren't cheap but they're far from previous cycle peaks. 2. Valuations are more "reasonable" outside the U.S. Stocks look cheap compared to bonds. 4. Many investors are still underweight stocks. As long as margins are high and interest rates are low Koesterich sees room¬† for stocks to move higher.
Getty Images/FlickrYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer and Facebook CEO Mark ZuckerbergThe Wall Street Journal's MarketWatch will issue its CEO of the Year award on Thursday, naming the person that's done the most for shareholders, employees and customers in 2013. MarketWatch readers cast 12,000 votes to choose the winner among the field of nominees picked by MarketWatch editors. The nominees are: Reed Hastings, CEO NetFlix, who turned the company around after a major meltdown in the summer of 2011. Gary Kelly, CEO of Southwest, one of the few airlines that has a good reputation for customer service. Marissa Mayer, CEO Yahoo, who, 18 months into the job has managed to shake up a troubled company, including her surprise $1.1 billion buy of Tumblr. Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla, who disregarded the naysayers, paid off a huge department of energy loan early, and is generally regarded as one of the most inspirational people in business today. Jeff Weiner, CEO of LinkedIn, who has maintained steady growth every quarter since LinkedIn debut as a public company. Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, when Facebook's IPO flopped, the talk was that the young Zuckerberg wasn't ready to be a strong leader of a major company. But he's delivered consistent revenue growth, especially of mobile.
Mike Nudelman / Business Insider It's not just Occupy Wall Street protesters that are worried about wealth and income inequality. Now people like Bill Gross, manager¬†of the world's largest bond fund at Pimco, are warning that the problem is making the U.S. less productive, while star investors like Jim Chanos worry that people will have less incentive to participate in the economy if they have decided that "the game isn't fair," reports¬†¬†The Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart. As noted by¬†Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Albert Edwards, "you don't have to be¬†a communist to conclude that high levels of inequality not only adversely affects long-term growth, but also increases the economy‚Äôs vulnerability to recession." Despite this growing consensus, wealth and income inequality in America is still getting worse by many measures.¬†To see what's really happening, we encourage everyone to view our new series of charts.
Twitter.com/LeftHashBilly Lee's tattoo of junk bond czar Michael Milken's faceFamed financier and convicted felon Michael Milken is banned from the securities industry for life, but that did not stop one trader from inking the junk bond architect's visage on his arm ‚Äî also for life. Billy Lee of Providence Trading in Chicago says his stipple-style Milken tattoo was "years in the making." After reading Connie Bruck's "The Predators' Ball" ‚Äî about Milken's rise at Drexel Burnham Lambert ‚Äî Lee was inspired to get into trading. He took the book with him to Chicago where he shared it among finance friends. "I used him as an example," Lee, 37, told Business Insider. "The work ethic part." Lee talked about Milken so much that his buddies started to rib him about getting a tattoo. They never thought he would do it, and two of his friends even offered to pay. So they were both out $100 each when Lee called them up about eight years ago and said he was ready. Now, "They own a piece of real estate on me." Lee told the tattoo artist he wanted it to look like the Wall Street Journal's famous dot-riddled "hedcut" rendering. "The tattoo artist shook his head," Lee says. "He felt like he was making a good bet he'd never again make another Michael Milken." "Everybody's horrified," Lee admits, but he doesn't regret it one bit. For one, Lee is happy that he's the only person with an original Michael Milken. Plus: "He's a genius. The financing he originated did more to bring the U.S. economy out of doldrums in 80s than most people understand." As for Milken's ethics: "It was a black eye on a story otherwise about a man with great courage," Lee says.¬†"He's a revolutionary." Photo courtesy of Left Hash, a host of online TV network¬†BTFDtv.com.¬† Do you have a better finance tattoo? Or know someone who does? Email me at sperlberg@businessinsider.com
Screengrab One year ago, a fascinating plan emerged out of the Occupy movement ó the group would crowdsource money to buy consumer debt for "pennies on the dollar" on the secondary market, and then, once they owned the debt, they would cancel it. The plan was called "Rolling Jubilee," because the hope was that the liberated debtors would then donate to the fund, "rolling" the jubilee forward. The idea received a lot of buzz, but there were real doubts it could work ó Felix Salmon wondered if lenders would really be happy to sell the debts to the Rolling Jubilee if they were just going to cancel it, and there were serious concerns that if debts were canceled it might be technically considered income for those for whom it had been repaid (and thus subject to taxation that would eclipse its benefits). After 12 months, however, the concerns are beginning to fall by the wayside. The organization behind Rolling Jubilee, Strike Debt, announced this week that they have been able to buy and forgive $14.7 million of debt over four separate purchases, the most recent of which forgave $13.5 million of debt for 2,693 people across 45 states and Puerto Rico. According to the Guardian, the group has†raised around $620,000 so far, though it has spent only†only $400,000. By any measure, these figures sound like a success, though it has not come easily. "It's a very complex and slow process, involves accountants and lawyers," Mike Andrews, a writer and editor who has been involved in Strike Debt from the start, told Business Insider in a phone interview. "It's why we've had four buys over the course of the year, with long time spans in between. It's a complex process which takes a lot of time." At least one of the potential problems raised by critics has not appeared, Andrews says. Lenders have been happy to sell the group debt on the secondary market. "It hasn't been an issue at all," Andrews explains. "I'm not sure why. Maybe they aren't aware that Rolling Jubilee is buying their debt, or that we're buying their debt to abolish it, but maybe they're happy to get paid any amount for it, and they don't care what happens with it after it's bought." The tax issue hasn't reared its head, at least not so far. However, Andrews admits that a lot of the debtors haven't got back in touch with the group yet (Rolling Jubilee knows little about the debtors' identities until after the purchase has been made but sends a letter to the individual informing them that their debt has been forgiven). "Unfortunately, we haven't heard from a lot of folks whose debt we abolished, even though we send them letters announcing that the debt was bought," Andrews says. "I would guess that some of them are just kind of astonished that someone bought their debt and just canceled it. And some of them may not have heard of Strike Debt before. We haven't heard directly from many debtors, but we have heard from a couple and they seem incredibly enthusiastic." Those who have got in touch have tended to be people in low-income communities. "They have to go to the emergency room, and they're uninsured, they decide to go to the emergency room and they incur this debt to the hospitals," Andrews says. Of course, even if Rolling Jubilee is a success, in the grand scheme of things it isn't that big a success. Strike Debt concedes that $15 million is a tiny fraction of the secondary debt market, and so far the plan has been limited to medical debt ó Andrews says that while the group would like to target student debt, it is difficult as much of that debt is held by the government and not listed on secondary markets (the group is looking into ways to buy the smaller portion of student debt that is private). Even so, Rolling Jubilee's ability to create dialogue about debt marks it as perhaps the most successful legacy of the Occupy movement. The hope is that this dialogue can grow and help create real change. "When we launched Rolling Jubilee we knew it would be temporary," Andrews says. "Of course we wanted to do some material good by actually abolishing peoples debt, but another major motivation was to just highlight the existence of this secondary debt market, and the fact that the original lenders are actually selling the debt for a very small amount of money, and unfortunately they won't do that to the actual debtor."
Bank of America-Merrill LynchTing LuChina's ruling Communist Party wrapped up its so-called "3rd Plenum" meetings today. And there wasn't anything too exciting that came out of it. Early media reports suggested that the China's leaders wanted the markets to play a bigger role in the economy. But Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu warned that it was extremely unclear if they actually said anything new. From Lu's note: Not so meaningful semantic change on the role of ìmarketîThe communique changes the role of ìMarket Economyî from ì<U+57FA><U+7840><U+6027> (Jichuxing)î (used in the past 20 years) to ì<U+51B3><U+5B9A><U+6027> (juedingxing)î. For native Chinese speakers like us with years of intensive training in Chinese (and we did well on the grueling GRE too), we found it very difficult to tell the real difference. Bloomberg translated ì <U+57FA><U+7840><U+6027> (Jichuxing)î to ìbasicî, but we think it could be translated to ìfundamental (foundational)î or ìessentialî as well. Regarding ì<U+51B3><U+5B9A><U+6027> (juedingxing)î, it could be translated to ìdecidingî, ìdeterminingî or ìdecisiveî. We suspect the Chinese people wonít interpret too much from this change. No matter how you interpret it, it's clearly not a game-changer.

Screenshot via The Pruitt-Igoe MythA simple idea for eliminating poverty is garnering greater attention in recent weeks: automatically have the government give every adult a basic income. The Atlantic's Matt Bruenig and Elizabeth Stoker brought up the idea a few weeks ago when they contemplated cutting poverty in half and Annie Lowrey revisited it today in the New York Times. Real wages have been stagnant in America for decades now and income inequality has grown immensely.In the aftermath of the Great Recession, itís only gotten worse. The Census Bureau reported in September that the 15 percent of Americans (46.5 million) live below the poverty line. Government benefits like food stamps and TANF help lift some of them above the line, but millions still live below it. So here's what you need to know about it. How would it work? Itís exactly how it sounds. The government would mail every American over the age of 21 a check each month. Thatís it. Everyone is free to do what they like with it. How would it be funded? In 2012, there were 179 million Americans between the ages of 21 and 65 (when Social Security would kick in). The poverty line was $11,945. Thus, giving each working-age American a basic income equal to the poverty line would cost $2.14 trillion. For some comparison, U.S. GDP was almost $16 trillion in 2012 and the defense budget was $700 billion. But a minimum income would also allow us to eliminate every government benefit as well. Get rid of SNAP, TANF, housing vouchers, the Earned Income tax credit and many others. Get rid of them all. A 2012 Congressional Research Service report found that the federal government spends approximately $750 billion each year on benefits for low-income Americans and that rises to a clean trillion when you factor in state programs. Eliminate all of those and the net figure comes out to $1.2 trillion needed to pay for a universal basic income, still a hefty sum. That doesnít mean there arenít ways to pay for it. The CBO found that a carbon tax would bring in nearly $100 billion a year for instance. Revenue would also increase automatically since everyone would have a basic income on which to pay taxes. The government could also offer a basic income of $6,000 a year instead of up to the poverty line. Funding a basic income for all working-age adults would not be easy and would require a substantial increase in the size of government, but it's not impossible either. What are the benefits of a basic income? The clear one is that no American would live below the poverty line. The U.S. has been waging the War on Poverty for a generation now and still nearly 50 million Americans are below the line. This would end that war with a decisive victory. There are knock on effects as well. Americans would have greater leverage to demand higher wages and better working conditions from their employer thanks to the increased income security. Families could allow one parent to take time off to raise their kids. Eliminating the numerous different government welfare programs would also lead to efficiency gains as adults would simply receive their check in the mail and not have to waste time filling out paperwork at numerous different offices. What are the drawbacks of a basic income? Economists have long shuddered at the thought of a basic income, because it strongly disincentives work. However, a basic income is just that: basic. Most adults would continue to work to earn extra money. The employment effects would not be non-existent and there may be an increase in part-time work. As Lowrey points out, different studies have found the disincentive effects on work are not as strong as economists feared. Are there any real world examples? Perhaps in the near future. Switzerlandís citizens will soon vote on a referendum to give each working-age adult in Switzerland a basic income of $2,800 (2,500 francs) per month. Supporters of the initiative unloaded a dump truck of eight million coins, one for every Swiss citizen, after they successfully gained 125,000 signatures and triggered the referendum. Other countries have experimented with basic income in small areas, but none has done so throughout an entire country as Switzerland is considering. If the referendum passes, economists will certainly watch intently to see its effects. Does it have a chance in Congress? No. Congress can't even keep the government open or pass a budget, much less revamp our entire benefits program into a basic income. However, there is some bipartisan agreement in academic circles on the idea of a basic income. The American Enterprise Institute's Charles Murray has written a book on the subject and liberals have long dreamed of a guaranteed basic income. Nevertheless, it will not be coming to the U.S. anytime soon.
According to BofA Merrill Lynch's November Global Fund Manager Survey, a majority of investors believe the global economy is half-way from the last recession to the next one. "With respect to the economic cycle, an overwhelming 54% of investors think the global economy is in mid-cycle," write BAML strategists in a note to clients. "Only 1% thinks we are currently in recession." The remaining 45% are split pretty evenly between "early cycle" and "late cycle." The chart below shows fund managers' monthly views on where the global economy is in the business cycle going back to 2004. A key inflection in views seems to have occurred in the summer of 2012, when European Central Bank president Mario Draghi reassured market participants that the ECB would do "whatever it takes to save the euro," and just before the Federal Reserve launched its third round of quantitative easing. That's when the percentage of fund managers perceiving the global economy as in a "late cycle" stage began falling, and the percentage of fund managers perceiving the global economy as in a "mid cycle" stage began rising. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream
REUTERS/Alex GrimmA bull and bear statue are silhouetted in front of the Frankfurt stock exchange, September 18, 2008.Stocks made a move lower today. Still, the sell-off was modest and markets are within points of their all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
Since New Yorkers don't have space for the McMansions of suburban America, they're settling for massive condos, says The WSJ. The average condos size in 2007 was 1,265 square feet. Since then, it's jumped 24% to 1,564 square feet, according to Corcoran†Sunshine Marketing Group. Plus, now the condos have to have sick amenities like *gasp* a built-in garage. Of course, this means some may think that Manhattan's space isn't being used as economically as it should be (some like incoming Mayor Bill de Blasio, for example). From WSJ: When work on the Charles, a 32-story glass and limestone tower designed by Ismael Leyva, resumed earlier this year on First Avenue on the far Upper East Side, it had fewer condos: only 29 four-bedroom apartments of at least 3,100 square feet each. Building plans filed in 2008 called for 51 units. The developer, Bluerock Real Estate, announced last week that buyers had signed contracts on $73 million worth of apartments, with interiors designed by the late David Collins. This included five apartments on the top six floors of the building, for more than $10 million each, including a $16.5 million duplex penthouse with two terraces. This trend isn't confined to the Upper East Side either, developments like this are popping up in Flatiron, the West Village... We'll see how this turns out.
REUTERS/Eric GaillardU.S. stocks have been near all-time highs. Investors have also been pouring money into Europe as well.  Some investors are now worried that stocks are in a bubble.† But BlackRock's Russ Koesterich makes four key arguments against all the bubble talk. Koesterich does admit there are two peculiar reasons that stocks look cheap: 1) profit margins are high and 2) interest rates are low. And, as long as these conditions persist, stocks can still move higher.
Milken InstituteHedge fund billionaire Ken Griffin, the founder of Citadel, Sorkin began the conversation with the topic of banking. "If I could wave a magic wand, I'd break up the banking system," Griffin said. Griffin said that he would break up the big banks because they are both too big to fail and too big to manage. He also said that he would pull the securities business out of the banking system. Sorkin asked him if he supported the Occupy Wall Street Movement. "No, I do not," Griffin replied. Griffin moved on to discuss the influence central banks have had on risk taking activities around the world. He also questioned the effectiveness of quantitative easing (QE). Sorkin asked him where he sees the market going. "We don't try to profit by picking the direction of the stock market," Griffin explained, adding that they're in the game of picking individual stocks which he believes will outperform. The conversation shifted to the recent insider trading charges against SAC Capital Advisors. Griffin noted that Steve Cohen is having "one of his darkest moments." He said it's unfortunate that a few bad apples put a cloud over the hedge fund firm. Here's how he concluded his interview:  Griffin said his home state of Illinois is a case study of what happens when one party runs the government. The state workers pension is approximately $200 billion under funded, he explained.† He also said that the Democrats have pushed off the necessary reforms to fix this and that it is a crime that young teachers, police officers and firefighters are paying into a system that will most assuredly fail.
Gold has been falling for most of the day, but it's taken a sharp turn lower this afternoon and is now trading down 1.4% at $1263 an ounce. The metal has closed lower in eight of the last nine trading sessions. "We remain cautious on the outlook for gold, as the metal faces two strong headwinds," says Michael Lewis, head of commodities research at Deutsche Bank. "The 1-month GOFO rate has moved into positive territory, suggesting an easing of physical tightness while the stronger-than-expected non-farm payroll data has strengthened the case for the Fed to begin QE tapering before year end, which we view as U.S. dollar bullish." The chart below shows the drop. Thinkorswim
The results of BofA Merrill Lynch's November Global Fund Manager Survey are out. Each month, the survey asks clients that manage hedge funds, institutional funds, and mutual funds what they perceive to be the biggest "tail risk" to markets ‚Äî i.e., which low-probability event would have the biggest impact on the way investors are positioned? Last month, amid the government shutdown in the United States, it was U.S. fiscal tightening. This month, it's China once again. "With the US govt shutdown &amp; debt ceiling debate behind us, investors are now most worried about a China hard landing and/or collapse in commodity prices," write BAML strategists in a note to clients. BofA Merrill Lynch Fund Manager Survey, DataStream
Google FinanceStocks are falling this afternoon. The sell-off, albeit modest, has picked up in the last few minutes for no obvious reason. Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota is speaking in Minnesota right now. The dovish Fed official is reiterating his endorsement of a lower unemployment rate threshold to guide monetary policy. "In previous speeches, I‚Äôve recommended that the FOMC announce its intention to keep the fed funds rate extraordinarily low at least until the unemployment rate falls below 5.5 percent [instead of 6.5 percent], as long as the one-to-two-year-ahead outlook for the inflation rate stays below 2.5 percent," he said. "A recent working paper by senior Board of Governors staff suggests that this policy stance could indeed have material benefits in terms of the evolution of prices and employment." If this idea gains traction, we could see loose monetary policy for longer.
After a sharp sell-off during the early part of the year, emerging market stocks, bonds and currencies bounced back in September after the Federal Reserve decided to delay tapering its $85 billion monthly asset purchase program. But markets are once again getting antsy in the wake of the recent FOMC statement and improving economic data, which has reminded everyone that Fed tightening is near. The major fear is that tighter U.S. monetary policy will force investors to pull money out of the emerging markets. "We see two risks ahead: the slowdown in global economic growth and the shift in US monetary policy, and both could trigger large capital outflows," warned Legland. All of this comes on top of local problems in the emerging markets where many countries may be forced to tighten their own monetary policies. India is struggling with slowing growth, high inflation, a current account deficit and a weak rupee. Its recent move to raise key rates has will have "an adverse impact on growth." Brazil and Indonesia face similar problems. Next year also sees elections in India, Indonesia, Brazil. These two charts show the performance of emerging market stocks and currencies over the past two years. This chart shows that "China, India, Brazil, Russia and Chile equity indices have been affected by global growth slowdown," according to Legland.† Currency weakness has weighed on stocks as well. Societe Generale Societe Generale
Across the globe,¬†construction spending has climbed back¬†from the doldrums of the financial crisis. Calculated Risk's Bill McBride has dubbed it "the return of the cranes." The tower cranes, that is. Look no further than Canada ‚Äî a country that managed to escape the brunt of the last few years. Our neighbor to the north has seen massive construction and an ever-bubbling housing market. In Toronto,¬†condominium construction is downright insane, with growth at a rate more than 200 deviations above the historical average. Let's take a walk down memory crane lane. REUTERS REUTERS/ Mike Cassese REUTERS/ Mark Blinch REUTERS/ Mark Blinch
Flickr/Robert KickTo rank cities based on how banker-friendly they are, we followed a pretty similar method as with the Shiftless Millennial City Index. The Banker Livability Index is a weighted average of five component sub-indexes, as follows: Length of commute: Bankers are important people, and they cannot afford to waste too much time getting around. For each city, we found the average lengths of peoples' trips to work from the¬†Selected Economic Characteristics table in the U.S. Census' 2012 American Community Survey. Length of commute makes up 20% of the full index. Length of flight times to key cities: Bankers often have to travel to hubs like New York, London, and Hong Kong. For each city, we went to expedia.com and found the shortest flight available to those hub cities, and took the average of the three times. We made a minor exception for Stamford, and used the travel time for a Metro North train to Grand Central instead of a flight time. This measure is 15% of the full index. Services: Bankers need access to various amenities to maintain their busy lives. We estimated the number of gyms (bankers need to stay in shape), maid services, late-night delivery places, and laundry/dry cleaning services by going to yelp.com and counting up the number of reviewed businesses of each type in each city. We took that number and divided by the city's population, to adjust for size. Services make up 25% of the full index. Nightlife: Bankers need good places to take clients, and to unwind and blow off some steam. Again using yelp.com, we found the number of high end restaurants and bars (taking advantage of the cost filter and only counting the most expensive establishments), and the number of strip clubs in each city. As with services, we adjusted by the size of the city. Nightlife makes up 25% of the index. High End Retail: Bankers need to dress the part, and so they need access to top of the line clothing. We chose eight high end clothing retailers ‚Äî Brooks Brothers, Allen Edmonds, Ferragamo, Gucci, Hermes, J. Crew, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Hugo Boss ‚Äî and, using the store locators on the retailers' websites, counted up the number of stores near each city. Retail makes up the final 15% of the index. We converted each of the components into an index by dividing each city's value by the average over all the cities studied and multiplying by 100. For example, Chicago had 26 of the high-end retail stores, compared to an average value of 19.5 among all 16 cities, so Chicago's retail score was 100 √ó (26/19.5) = 133. This represents the measure as a percentage of the average, so Chicago's score tells us that it had 33% more of the high end retail stores than the average among the cities. These index scores are convenient because they allow us to more easily compare and combine the different components. For the commute times and the flight times, we instead use the reciprocal of the above relationship, dividing the average by the value for each city. For example, Omaha had the shortest commute at 18.2 minutes, compared to the average of 27.6. So, Omaha's commute score was 100 √ó (27.6/18.2) = 152. This allows us to reward cities that have shorter commutes, and punish cities that have longer commutes. The final step is to put the components together, taking a weighted average of the sub-indexes using the weights indicated above, giving us the complete Banker Livability Index.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TV2013 has been a banner year for stocks. We've reached new highs, and most Wall Street analysts think the good times will continue to roll in 2014 and 2015. "This is really the mother of all liquidity rallies," Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg wrote to his subscribers today. Rosenberg points to a number of market warnings signs that often portend a stock market correction. Unfortunately, everyone is pointing to these same signs. Here's Rosenberg's explanation: Despite the hurdles from valuation, sentiment and even technicals, one of the problems for the bears is that everyone seems to acknowledge that we are due for a correction. Even the bulls are anticipating one ‚Äî hoping for one, in fact, in the name of a pause that refreshes (keep that powder dry). But it may well be this near universal perception of a correction that means we may not see one... at least one of a 10% variety which we have not seen now for 530 trading days. But the reality is that such a string isn't altogether that rare ‚Äî we didn't even have one 10% setback in that entire 2003-2007 bull run to the highs at the time. And from October 1990 to October 1997 (1,767 sessions), there was not one 10% correction. Now historically, they do tend to occur every 30 months in the context of a bull market, but while we may be long overdue for one, the main theme here is that it is not unprecedented go this long without one. Often in the markets, if everyone expects one thing, the opposite is more likely to happen. "The S&amp;P 500 is now just about 9% above its 200-day moving average," Rosenberg writes. "In other words, it could correct all the way to 1,630 and the long-term trend-lines wouldn't be violated."
Flickr/Trey RatcliffThe Department of Justice announced a settlement today that will allow American Airlines and US Airways to merge into the world's largest airline. In August, when the DOJ sued to block the merger, it argued the elimination of a major competitor would "result in passengers paying higher airfares and receiving less service." Before allowing them to get together after all, the DOJ is requiring the American and US Airways to give up key landing and takeoff spots at seven airports. Those spots will go to low-cost carriers. The idea is that giving a leg up to airlines like Southwest and JetBlue will make up for the loss of competition created by the merger, and consumers will see lower fares as a result. Along with the announcement of the settlement, the DOJ distributed two charts to support that argument. The first shows what has happened to fares and traffic on various routes when low cost carriers enter the market. The red shows how much traffic jumped, and the blue shows the drop in fares. The first bar shows that when JetBlue began flying between Boston and Newark, traffic jumped 151%, and average fares dropped 56%. US DOJ The second shows the expansion of service offered by Southwest after it was given slots at Newark Liberty Airport as part of a 2010 deal that allowed United and Continental Airlines to merge. According to the DOJ, those slots allowed it to reach these 60 cities from the airport, mostly via connecting flights. US DOJ
Screengrab It's incredible that a joke has come to this. A silly comment on ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live" has become an issue of international importance, with China's Foreign Ministry weighing in and the White House now obligated to respond. The joke occurred Oct. 16, when Kimmel held a "kids' table" segment on the government shutdown. "America owes China a lot of money, $1.3 trillion. How should we pay them back?" Kimmel asked. One child suggested "killing everyone in China." ABC has since removed the clip, but here's a version of it from the South China Morning Post:  It took a while for the controversy to snowball, but once it did, it really did ó protesters were soon outside Kimmel's Hollywood studio holding signs comparing him to Adolf Hitler: Weibo via Shanghaiist Today things got official. ìABC should face its mistake head on, and respond with a sincere attitude to the reasonable demands by Chinese in America, and prevent a similar incident from occurring again,î†Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told state-run CCTV on Monday, according to The Wall Street Journal. In America, too, an official response should be on its way. A White House petition called "Investigate Jimmy Kimmel Kid's Table Government Shutdown Show on ABC Network" has received more than 100,000 signatures, meaning that it requires a formal response from the President Barack Obama's office. According to Time, the White House is planning to address the controversy in an online post. At this point its hard to know exactly what will end the controversy ó both Kimmel and ABC have already apologized and the clip has already been removed by ABC ó and, according to The WSJ, Kimmel has been filmed telling Chinese reporters to sue him. 
REUTERS/ Paulo WhitakerSince the global financial crisis ended, construction spending has roared back. In the U.S., experts are debating whether the housing recovery has seen its top. In China, on the other hand, experts fear the country has been completely overbuilt with ghost cities, empty lots and half-finished construction projects seemingly everywhere. Calculated Risk's Bill McBride recently pointed to the "return of the cranes" in San Francisco. However, tower cranes are popping up all over the world. Since nobody is really sure where global construction is headed, perhaps it's best to tell this story in images.
A lot of things have been said about U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara ‚Äî that he's Wall Street's fiercest cop, that he has a great sense of humor, that he has no interest in politics... etc. For sure, he's a talented guy, and he could be making way more money in the private sector, but Bharara says he's happy where he is. Rumor is that's because he's independently wealthy ‚Äî at the New York Times' Dealbook conference today, reporter Peter Lattman asked him about that one. The word on the Street, said Lattman, is that Bharara's little brother made $550,000,000 selling Diaper.com to Amazon during the dot com boom of the 90s, and that Preet was an early investor. Bharara laughed at that, "well I'm not as independently wealthy as the people in this room," he said looking at the investors in the audience. Now Bharara didn't say he wasn't an investor. He didn't say he made no money off the deal, but he said he's not rich. To illustrate that point, he said that his little brother pays for dinner now. Bharara tried recently, but his brother repeated "no dude, I got it." Two more things to know about this interview: Bharara did touch on his probe into SAC Capital, and reiterated that criminal charges are not off the table. Also, Bharara had a great description of what he'd do after he leaves the Justice Department. "I'll probably walk the earth like Caine in Kung Fu," he said.
Getty Images/Matthew LloydThe International Energy Agency says world markets are unprepared for when ‚Äî and it's a when, not if, it asserts, ‚Äî the Great American Shale Boom fizzles, The FT's¬†Ajay Makan and Neil Hume¬†report. In its¬†latest World Energy Outlook¬†released this morning, the IEA forecasts unconventional oil production will require $700 billion annually ‚Äî basically about where we are now ‚Äî to sustain current output levels. Even if the industry is able to do so, production will begin to slip in a decade regardless because of shale wells' high decline rates. At that point lower-cost Middle East production will have to take over again. But¬†those countries haven't been making the necessary investments to prepare for this outcome, the agency warns, meaning the rest of the world will be caught flat-footed.¬† Here's what IEA chief economist Fatih Birol said in presenting the report this morning, per FT: "...key Gulf producers have been adopting a 'wait and see approach' to investment, because of the perception that the US shale revolution would produce an 'abundance of oil'. ‚Äú 'I am really worried that we are giving the wrong signals to the Middle East, which may end up with us not having investment in a timely manner,' [Birol] said. ‚Äú 'The wait and see behaviour is definitely not in the interest of consumers or global oil markets because it may mean significantly higher prices in the future.' ‚Äù There remains lots of debate about how long "Saudi America" can last. The EIA just explained how drilling has actually become more efficient in many major U.S. shale plays. It also have raised estimates for recoverable shale oil both at home and abroad. Meanwhile there are lots of factors weighing on oil demand including more switching to natural gas and improving fuel efficiency. All of which should help extend the life of shale plays. Plus, as Reuters' John Kemp writes this morning, and as we've pointed out in our¬†Charts That Should Terrify Saudi Arabia, the Saudis could be in trouble if shale production sprouting up in other parts of the world. But analysts including Bernstein's Bob Brackett and MercBloc's Dan Dicker say the jig will be up sooner than later: production growth is already slowing in the U.S., while global demand will continue to climb. Here's what Brackett said this spring: In order to maintain current levels of overall production, marginal conventional production must be maintained with high oil prices. We expect marginal cost inflation will continue as well productivity declines, resulting in an oil price forecast that differs significantly from the forward curves.¬†We forecast $96/bbl WTI for 2013, $101/bbl WTI for 2014, and longer term prices above $120/bbl and rising after 2017. At this point, "hope for the best but plan for the worst" might be in everyone's interest.
Homeware giant IKEA is well on its way to taking over the world. With 332 giant stores in 38 countries and plans for rapid expansion, the 70-year-old Swedish brand is just that much cheaper, better-looking, and more efficient than most competitors ‚Äî even if its products will fall apart if they take much abuse. To put it all in perspective, we've worked out some incredible facts about¬†the world's largest furniture provider: Mike Nudelman/Business Insider
Not everywhere in the world is suited to Wall Streeters. They have specific needs that are all governed by one truth ‚Äî bankers have money, but no time. Still with the little time they have, bankers need to travel, feed themselves, dress the part, impress their clients and try to have a little fun once in a while. Business Insider decided to try to figure out the truth about the best place to do all that. We took 16 of the most important financial hubs in the U.S. and ranked them by their suitability for the banker life. The Banker Livability Index has five components - length of commute (time is money), flight times to NYC, London, and Hong Kong (for getting to important meetings), services to make a banker's life easier (gyms, late night delivery, maid services, and laundry/dry cleaners), places to take clients and network (high end restaurants, high end bars, and, for special clients, strip clubs), and proximity to various luxury clothing stores. (You can read more about our methodology here.) Lets see if anyone reconsiders some of their life choices after this one.
REUTERS/Larry DowningAmerican Airlines and US Airways have reached a settlement with the Department of Justice that will allow them to merge, the DOJ announced today. Combined, the carriers will create the world's largest airline. In August, the DOJ filed a lawsuit to block the $11 billion merger, a surprise move from an office that has allowed three major airline combinations in the past five years. The DOJ argued the merger was not key to the survival of either airline, and the resulting loss of competition in the industry would "result in passengers paying higher airfares and receiving less service." The case had been set to go to trial on November 25. According to the DOJ, the airlines will give up landing and takeoff slots and gates at seven "key constrained airports." The slots will go to low cost airlines, "resulting in more choices and more competitive airfares for consumers." The airports are in or near Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, and Washington, D.C. In a press release, Assistant Attorney Bill Baer, of the DOJ's Antitrust Division, called the divestitures "extensive" and "groundbreaking." "This settlement will disrupt the cozy relaitonships among the incumbent legacy carriers, increase access to key congest airports and provide consumers with more choices and more ocmpetitive airfares on flights all across the country," he said. The deal will likely be supported by ALPA, which represents nearly 50,000 pilots at American and Canadian airlines, and by Airlines for America, the grade group who members transport more than 90% of U.S. airline passenger and cargo traffic. When the DOJ first sued to block the merger, both groups criticized the move, saying consumers are better off when airlines are stronger.
Foreign buyers are coming into London in droves to snap up high-end real estate. Things have gotten pretty out of control, with prices jumping 10% in October. And of course, it has meant that the low-end buyer/renter has gotten completely squeezed out. "London needs 50,000 new homes a year, the equivalent of 18 new Olympic Villages and roughly double the current building rate, to address its growing housing crisis," according to a new report from Savills. Since the financial crisis, home builders have "shown a preference for delivering homes aimed at wealthier income-rich purchasers rather than credit-reliant buyers on lower incomes who may struggle†to secure a mortgage," according to the report. The result? Crazy rich building in central London "at the expense of the construction of more modest homes in the less glitzy periphery." From the report: This focus must be rebalanced. Demand falls as you move up the housing market. The greatest unmet demand is at the lower end of the market where there is a shortfall of 15,000 homes a year. In the Mid and Upper Mainstream markets that gap is about 6,500 homes. In prime markets demand becomes harder to quantify because much of it has come from overseas in the past.† Here's a chart showing the shortfall: Savills
ScreenshotSuzy in Seven Up (1964) Back in 1964, the British television news show "World in Action" profiled the lives of fourteen seven-year-olds from various walks of life in the U.K.:¬†some were in an elite West London prep school, others were from the rough and tumble East End, one grew up on farm, and two were in a children's home run by a charity. The show was inspired by a Jesuit motto: "Give me a child until he is seven and I will give you the man." "Why do we bring these children together?" the show's narrator asked. "Because we want to get a glimpse of England in the year 2000. The shop steward and the executive of the year 2000 are now seven years old." Called "Seven Up," the show was a big hit in the U.K. What happened next, however, made it legendary. Michael Apted, a young man who had worked on the original show, decided to revisit the subjects seven years later, when they were 14 years old, for a show called "Seven plus 7." Seven years after that, he visited them again for "28 Up," and seven years after that, he did it again, and so forth all the way through "56 Up," released last year.  The series has became one of the most celebrated TV programs in the United Kingdom, topping a 2005 list of the greatest documentaries ever, and inspiring similar series in other countries, including the United States. Roger Ebert, writing in a series about "Great Movies" in 1998, said that the series aimed to "penetrate to the central mystery of life." But what is that mystery, and what answers can the series provide? I had never watched the series before, so I recently sat down and watched all eight episodes in a row, clocking in at more than 12 hours of footage. Here are seven things ¬†I noticed: In one of the most famous moments in the show, three boys from a Kensington prep school (Andrew, Charles, and John) list their future plans ‚Äî a certain boarding school, followed by a particular college at Oxford or Cambridge, followed by a specific career.¬†Of these three boys, two nailed their futures with remarkable accuracy, while the third failed to get into Oxbridge but made do with another well-respected university, Durham. The accuracy of these boys in predicting their lives' courses is stunning, especially in comparison to the uncertainty of¬†some of the other children in the first show. Paul, one of the boys from the charity school, doesn't know what the word "university" means ‚Äî and he goes on not to drop out of high school and become a bricklayer and handyman who struggles financially. Thankfully, childhood circumstances don't determine everything. Nick, a child from a rural village who went to a one room school four miles away, ended up being perhaps the most academically successful of all the original children. He moves to the United States and works as a professor at the University of Wisconsin‚ÄîMadison, enjoying professional and financial success. Likewise, one of the kids from the East End, Tony, becomes a London taxi driver with apparent economic stability ‚Äî enough to buy a second home in Spain.¬† Conversely, Neil, a middle-class boy who seems to be one of the brightest in the first show and had ambitions of Oxford, ends up dropping out of Aberdeen University and becoming homeless. Thankfully, professional success is not the only thing that matters. For example, two of the most downtrodden kids in the first episode, Symon and Paul, are housed at a charity school. Symon is the product of birth out-of-wedlock and continues to live at the school, away from his single mother, until he is 13. Paul is being housed at the school while his parents divorce, and seems to hate it: telling the camera awkwardly about how the older boys hit him.¬†Neither child attains financial stability or success, but both find a loving partner and ultimately build happy families. On the other hand, John, one of the poshest prep school boys who went on to go to Oxford, becomes a litigator but expresses disappointment that he never became a politician, as he had hoped he would and as many of his peers did. One of the cheeriest participants on the show is Bruce, a child from a wealthy family who goes on to work in tough East London schools and Bangladesh, before eventually working at a private school. Meanwhile, another participant who became a teacher seems far less happy ‚Äî¬†"It is not the job that makes you unhappy," Ebert observed about this in 1998. "It is whether you want to be doing it." A lot can change between episodes. Bruce is one of the few characters still single at 35, and he is clearly a little worried that he may remain a bachelor. By the next episode, however, he has found a wife, and the next time we see him after that, he has not one but two kids. Meanwhile, Tony's economic turnaround surprised even the director, who later admitted he filmed Tony at various neighborhoods with a connection to London's gangland past as he believed he would eventually end up in prison. Instead the cab driver ends up sunning himself (and his extended family) at a holiday home in Spain. One of the most remarkable stories in the show, however, is that of Neil, has become homeless by "28 Up." While that episode makes for uncomfortable viewing (Neil admits he has considered suicide), he is later able to return to some kind of normality as a local politician (crucially, a key part in this is played by his friend and fellow Seven Up participant Bruce). You can see some of Neil's story in the clip from 49 Up below:  It's hard to imagine that a similar show cast today would feature the same cross section of society. On one hand, this may have to do with the limitations on the casting process ‚Äî the first show was designed as a one-off, and Apted, who did the casting on that show, was only given ten days to find its subjects. Yet surely the casting says something about how Britain saw itself in 1964. The participants come primarily from the upper crust and lower edges of society, with almost none from the middle class.¬†Only four of the participants are female, and just one participant is not white. Apted didn't anticipate that changing economic factors that would blur the lines in the U.K. class system, inflating the numbers and significance of the middle class, nor that women would obtain a vastly more prominent position in society. He was also unaware that by the 2001 U.K. census almost one in ten people would list themselves as an ethnicity other than white. The show's content also reveals changes in the U.K. For example, almost all of those who grow up in London's East End move elsewhere, while those who stay look increasingly out of place in what has largely become a Bangladeshi neighborhood. In one sad scene, Tony goes back to the dog-racing track he hung spent a lot of time in growing up as it now stands derelict. In the most recent episode he returns to the spot again ‚Äî this time it has been turned into the new Olympic Stadium for the 2012 games, one example of the massive government spending being put into the area in recent years. When the show began, Britain was less than 20 years past the end of the Blitz, with parts of the East End still rubble. The early episodes would also deal with the economic stagnation and rising unemployment of the late 60s and 70s. Over the course of the show, however, the economy start to get better. Almost everyone seems to be able to live to a comfortable standard. Even those who had little educational opportunity seem able to move to middle class neighborhood and enjoy a lifestyle far more comfortable than they grew up with. The most obvious example is Tony with his Marbella mansion, but it is noticeable across the board. The experience of the show participants matches up with reality. According to one University College London study released in 2002, "median equivalent incomes (before housing costs) have approximately doubled in real terms over the last four decades (up by 90 per cent since 1961)." The Institute for Fiscal Studies reported last year that on average median household net incomes had grown by 1.5% per year over the past 5 decades. The problem, of course, is that economic inequality has also grown during the past five decades: Even the richest members of the show are out of place in a London that has become home to an ultra-rich global elite. Of the 14 children who were featured on the first show, only 10 have appeared in every episode. One, Kensington prep-schooler Charles, has refused to appear on any of the shows since 1977 (perhaps un-coincidentally, he now produces documentaries himself), while another says that he only participates in the shows to raise money for a charity he founded, saying that it is a "poison pill" he is forced to swallow every seven years. Part of this is simply because the show has put the participants in the uncomfortable position of having their lives picked over by the British public. One participant, Peter, refuses to take part in three episodes after he is criticized in the tabloid press for angry remarks he made about Margaret Thatcher's government in 1984. Another participant's spouse later refuses to be involved in the show after her dismay about how some of her comments came across (she later divorces her participant husband). Perhaps a bigger part of this animosity is because the director, Apted, forces them to scrutinize their own lives ‚Äî their past, their future, their successes, and their failures. Apted, to his credit, often includes scenes of the participants scolding him for his line of questioning. That so many participants have remained in the show says something about how much it has defined their lives. "My ambition as a scientist is to be more famous for doing science than being in this film," Nick says at one point, "But unfortunately that's not going to happen. If you're a Netflix Instant customer, you can watch all eight episodes of the show in a weekend; however, it is a strange experience to do so. These shows were¬†designed to be watched¬†seven years apart, with viewers who might not remember what happened in the last one. Binge-watching is frustrating, as the show constantly cuts to past episodes, repeating certain moments incessantly. As TV demands have changed, one wonders if we could pull off something so big and ambitious today¬†(most attempts to replicate the series in other countries have not been as successful). There is a huge level of public service involved in a show like this, and it could perhaps have only happened in the context of British television at the time (while it was shown on the BBC's commercial television rival, ITV, there was a conscious effort in the 1960s to avoid having the kind of "vulgar" programming on British¬†commercial television as there was seen in the United States). Apted recently said that "the fragmented state of the business all over the world will never allow anything like this to happen again," and he may be right. When the show was created, "reality TV" didn't exist, and neither did the idea of a normal person going on TV to become famous. As such the people on the show were remarkably natural and candid. They had nothing to gain from being on the show.¬†The participants' understanding of the show may have changed, however ‚Äî Peter, an angry teacher who dropped out of the series for three episodes, came back to the show last year so that he could promote his new country rock group. The show's uniqueness is becoming only more apparent as it goes on. As the show has recorded the lives of the 14 participants, it will also show them getting old and eventually dying.¬†Even though all 14 original participants of the show are still alive, many of their parents and loved ones are not. On numerous occasions the show features the participants talking about grief, often in tears. In the next one or two or three episodes, some participants will likely have died. Apted, for his part, has said he has no plans to pull the plug anytime soon, though as he is 11 years older than his subjects, his own mortality may one day be an issue. "Well, I know what I hope," Apted recently told NPR's On The Media. "I hope to do 84 Up when I‚Äôll be 99." The next episode of the Up Series is due in 2019. You can watch the episodes that have been released on Netflix streaming, or order the DVDs from Amazon or from independent distributors First Run Features.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, the founder of $14 billion Third Point LLC, wrapped up an interview with Andrew Ross Sorkin at the Dealbook Conference.¬† The combination of Loeb's recent press headlines and the infrequent nature of his interviews made this event closely watched. Loeb has been in the news a lot lately. He's been going after Sony and Sotheby's. ¬†He was also the subject of a brutal¬†Vanity Fair profile by William D. Cohan. Today, Loeb came off as deferential and well-polished. He also exhibited remarkable composure as Sorkin gave him more than enough opportunities to gloat about his investment successes. In particular, he was asked to comment on Bill Ackman, Sony and George Clooney.¬† In every instance, Loeb took the high ground and even commented that he and Clooney probably share a lot of similar views in what they both want for Sony. Here's the recap from the one on one with Loeb: Sorkin began the conversation by talking about activist investing and whether it's a good thing for society.¬† "When you're talking about activism you're really talking about shareholders and their rights," Loeb said, adding, "You're also talking about capitalism."¬† He said both are at the cornerstone of what makes this country great. ¬†Loeb said that his efforts have bought a sense of accountability at the companies his hedge fund has been involved in.¬† "I can't think of a time where we've misstepped," he said, adding that there probably will be at some point. ¬† Sorkin asked Loeb about Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square, and his stake in JCPenney, which was a failure.¬† "Certainly, a messy situation. Bill has had a lot of real successes in activism. General Growth. Canadian Pacific..." ¬†Loeb added that JCPenney's board also had a role in the retailer's whole mess.¬† Sorkin said Loeb is being "very nice" to Bill. ¬†The audience chuckled.¬† The conversation quickly changed to Sony.¬† "I don't think of us as going against Sony. I would think of our model as much more like a private equity investor....We have a role. It's expressed as a shareholder, not as a director. ¬†So far, we've had a very good relationship with Sony," Loeb said explaining that he's met with the CEO a couple of times. ¬† Sorkin then quoted George Clooney's harsh comments about Loeb regarding his involvement in Sony. ¬† "That sounds a little hyperbolic," Loeb said. "Look, I get where George is coming from...actually I'd love to meet him sometime. We'd actually agree more than we'd disagree about the company...I think we both want the same thing. We want less money spent on overhead and more money spent on making movies."¬† Sorkin asked Loeb about the Vanity Fair piece. ¬†Sorkin called it the "elephant in the room.¬† "I haven't read it," Loeb said. ¬† Sorkin said he didn't believe him. "There have been a few snippets," Loeb replied.¬† Sorkin told Loeb about the part of the feature involving his relationship with Bill Ackman over his investment with Herbalife.¬† From Vanity Fair: In February both Loeb and Ackman attended¬†Vanity Fair‚Äôs Oscar party in Los Angeles. A person there reported that Ackman went up to Loeb, said hello, then added about Herbalife, ‚ÄúLook, you really shouldn‚Äôt have done that,‚Äù to which Loeb replied, ‚ÄúWhy? Why shouldn‚Äôt I have done that?‚Äù Ackman said, ‚ÄúIt was really wrong.‚Äù Loeb replied,‚ÄúNo, why? I made $50 million. What‚Äôs wrong with that?‚Äù¬†The two men no longer speak. "Let's be clear about a couple things. I have a fiduciary duty to earn a rate of return for my investors. My fiduciary duty is to my investors, not Bill Ackman. An opportunity was created where we thought a sell off in Herbalife was overdone. I spent my Christmas vacation last year analyzing the company..."¬† After Ackman presented his big Herbalife short, Loeb¬†snapped up an 8.2%¬†stake in the company. He also called Ackman's pyramid scheme accusation "preposterous." He gave Herbalife's stock a price target of¬†$55 to $68 a share¬†. He exited the position sometime in the first quarter of this year for a nice profit when it was around $44 a share. "There was nothing disingenuous about our price target... There is no responsibility to hold a stock until it hits that price target," he explained.¬† "We decided to take the money and run. There was no pump and dump."¬† As for stepping down from Yahoo!, Loeb said that they had reached their price target.¬† ¬†Sorkin is asking Loeb about his letters he writes. Loeb has a reputation for his poison pen and the letters make for great reads.¬† "For the most part, we carry on discussions with management teams. ¬†There's generally a period of explaining what our intentions are..."¬† Loeb met with Fred Smith in Memphis the other week. ¬†He's the CEO of FedEx, Sorkin pointed out. Loeb is an owner of FedEx and he "likes" the CEO.¬† The stock shot up.¬† Yahoo! Finance  Sorkin changed the conversation to Loeb's support of education reform. The American Federation of Teachers, a large teacher's union, put Loeb on a "blacklist" earlier this year with a bunch of other fund managers telling pension trustees that shouldn't invest with them.¬† Loeb said he'll continue to advocate for kids, though.¬† Then, Sorkin talked to Loeb about the time he almost blew up in 2008. ¬† Loeb shared an interested anecdote about one of his hedge fund manager friends who withdrew $50,000 cash from an ATM because he was fearful that ATMs would stop working. ¬†
The big story today is that a former Fed employee involved in operating the QE program has published an "apology" saying that the program did nothing for the economy, and that it was just a big bailout for Wall Street. The argument is silly. First of all, the author, Andrew Huszar is not an economist or anyone who helped design the program. He was just brought in to be a trader. More importantly, his argument doesn't stand up and that can be established in a few charts. Here's a chart of initial jobless claims, which is one of the best, highest-frequency readings we have on the state of the economy. Initial jobless claims started peaking very early in 2009, not long after QE started, so very quickly, the real economy started seeing improvement. FRED One of his claims is that there was no improvement in banks' willingness to lend out money. This is also nonsense. While it's true that the credit system took a huge blow, there was very fast improvement relative to the trend in 2009. Here are some trends from the October, 2009 survey of Senior Loan Officers. As you can see, there was a decline in inclination to tighten, and an increase in inclination to lend. Again, there was incredible damage and deleverage, but not long after QE began, we started seeing real improvement in the attitudes and decisions of bank officer willingness to make loans. Fed Senior Loan Officers Survey Ultimately, this improvement in the economy and the expansion of credit caused a big turnaround in household wealth. Household wealth literally started turning around at the time that QE began. FRED There are some additional points to make. One is that there's no doubt that part of the calculus for QE1 was to rescue the collapsing financial system. This was never in doubt, and nobody in 2013 needs to pretend like this was some grand revelation. Everything was collapsing, and the Fed took stock of that and engaged in unprecedented action to stave off collapse. But it's not true that the subsequent QE programs were about the same thing. It's a fact that inflation has been non-existent and that unemployment has been above appropriate levels for a long time. The thing the Fed is supposed to do in these situations is to keep easing, but that's not easy when interest rates are at zero. Hence the (perceived) need for QE. There's more problems with the argument (including his characterization of QE as "spending" when it's really best characterized as an asset swap [cash for bonds]). But the fundamental charge that QE is just a bailout of banks with no effect on lending or the real economy is easily proven wrong.
Dan Loeb is talking to Andrew Ross Sorkin at the New York Times Dealbook Conference this morning and he just mentioned that he owns Fedex. He's talked to the CEO and sounds confident about the position. The stock spiked on that news and seems to be heading up. Right now it's up around 1.8% Here's the chart from Yahoo Finance:                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Hedge Funds                                            FedEx                                            Dan Loeb                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						0									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Dan Loeb Just Said He Owns FedEx And The Stock Is Surging    Dan Loeb Just Said He Owns FedEx And The Stock Is Surging        Dan Loeb is talking to Andrew Ross Sorkin at...
Since the invention of the Dow Jones Industrial Average at the turn of the last century, there have been eleven instances in which stocks declined by more than 35% from peak to trough, or what you would term a market crash. We'll talk about how the Dow Jones Industrial Average behaved during these crashes as it is out oldest index, there was no such thing as the S&amp;P 500 until 1957 and the Nasdaq didn't come along until later. The most benign of these eleven crashes took place between January of 2000 and October of 2002. It lasted for 999 days and lopped off 37.8% of the Dow's price, ending that fall at around 7286. The damage in the tech-heavy Nasdaq was obviously much worse but, unless you had abandoned all of your blue chips to chase dot com stocks exclusively, it wasn't the end of the world. It should be noted that the tech crash was augmented by the uncovering of massive frauds at both Enron and WorldCom and punctuated with the September 11th attacks. The worst of these eleven crashes took place from April of 1930 and ended July of 1932, investors had lost 86% of their money in just 813 days. This was the big one, far grislier than the 48% killer of the fall of 1929, although that '29 crash took place in an astonishing two months. Within a few years, stocks would crash twice more. The Dow once again dropped 47% from March 1937 through March 1938 and then another 40% between September 1939 through 1942. This was followed by the Second World War and it took until the late 1940's before stock prices had fully recovered. The very first crash in Dow Jones history happened within a year or so of the advent of the index. In June of 1901, the Dow began to fall and it didn't stop until November of 1903, handing investors (there weren't many of them in those days) a brutal loss of 46% inside of 875 days. To give you some perspective of what life in America was like during this first crash of the modern era, consider the following facts: * Life expectancy in the U.S. was 47 * Only 14% of homes had a bathtub * Maximum speed limit in most cities was 10mph * Average wage was 22 cents and hour ñ avg salary/year was about $300 * More than 95% of all births took place at home * Only 6% of the population had graduated from High School * The #1 cause of death was Pneumonia and Influenza * The American flag had 45 stars We've certainly come a long way since then, both in terms of society and the maturation of the modern markets. This is not to say that we don't remain every bit as susceptible to panics and crashes as we always have. Fear and greed are the two variables that never change throughout human history and certainly since the beginning of the stock market. Some of these eleven historic crashes had proximate causes - concrete developments we could point to that began the event. Most of them began mysteriously, with no warning or historically important reason. The cause of the 1929 crash is still shrouded in fog, all we know is that markets had been running up in a speculative fever for a decade and then one day - out of the blue - †people didn't feel like playing anymore. If you are reading this, it is likely that you will witness another Dow Jones crash of greater than 35% at some time during your life. It could begin tomorrow, or you may not see one for decades. There is no schedule and it is unlikely that anyone will be able to pinpoint the spark in advance. But it is important to remember the following before despairing over the pain that will someday come: 1. Crashes create opportunity and kings will be made during the next one. 2. Crashes clear the system of antiquated industries and business models, paving the way for new fortunes to be made and entirely new ways of doing business and improving our lives. Real estate gets cheap enough for young, innovative companies to take root and begin to change the world all over again. The latest 53% Dow crash, from October 2007 through March 2009, has arguably done exactly that. 3. There's never been a stock market crash that the Dow hasn't recovered from, and there's never been a crash that's gone on for longer than 1000 days before bottoming. 4. Crashes are extremely rare, while we've averaged one crash per decade since the Dow Jones came into existence, four of them have taken place in the span of one ten year period. 5. The Dow bottomed out at 30.88 after its very first crash. It revisited that level precisely upon bottoming out during the crash of 1906-1907 and then came close once again during the horrors of the early 1930's. The amount of subsequent wealth creation that came as a result of weathering these periods cannot be overstated. Since the dawn of the index through last year, the Dow has returned an annual average of 9.4% †- half from capital appreciation and half from dividends. Those who've attempted to dance in and out, constantly expecting a crash, have likely captured very little of that, if any at all. Most of your favorite crash-fetishists have track records that you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy. It is one thing to be aware of the potential for terrible things to happen, it is quite another to give up on life and opportunity altogether.
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins This weekend, Venezuela seized an electronics supplier¬†after they "illicitly" raised prices. This summer, Venezuelans began¬†procuring dollars en masse abroad and bringing them back home to take advantage of their government's currency controls by selling the greenbacks on the black market at a premium. It's just one of the many odd, unique things that have occurred in the Bolivarian Republic since Hugo Chavez was elected in 1998 and promptly flipped the country's regime from democratic to socialist. We've gone back and looked at 19 other instances where Venezuelan society appears to have wandered away from how most countries do things.
Shutterstock.comToday we‚Äôre looking at a very specific topic: Pairing sports jackets with denim jeans. This is a simple, relaxed look that pairs the flattering shape of a suit jacket with the casual feel of denim. It‚Äôs also highly adaptable, dressing up or down depending on the other items work. With the right pieces, it‚Äôs hard to screw up a blue jeans/sports jacket combination. The trick is to get the jeans and the jacket right in the first place. Selecting The Right Jeans to Pair with Men‚Äôs Jackets The jeans you wear with a jacket need to look dressier (if there is such a thing!) than your basic worn out work jeans for this to be a good combination. ‚ÄúDress jeans‚Äù is something of a contradiction in terms, but people should be able to tell at a glance that you don‚Äôt wear these pants for working on your car or hiking in the woods. A good pair of jeans to wear with a sports jacket should have the following ‚Äúdressy‚Äù features: Other style details that aren‚Äôt mandatory but help you look ¬†more dressed-up include contrast stitching (where the seams are done in a color that stands out, such as orange or yellow on dark blue jeans), ‚Äúnatural‚Äù dyes with an uneven fade, and in some cases designer labels or trademarked stitch patterns. You want to stay away from fashion details that make the jeans look more worn, even if it‚Äôs a deliberate fashion statement: That‚Äôs not to say that some men don‚Äôt wear deliberately distressed jeans with jackets, but it‚Äôs a fashion-plate look ‚Äî affected and a little over-the-top. Don‚Äôt experiment with it if you‚Äôre just trying to look a little sharper. via Real Men Real Style What Jacket Styles to Pair with Men‚Äôs Jeans? The other half of the equation is your jacket. There‚Äôs a huge range out there to choose from, and no one ‚Äúright‚Äù style. But think about a couple important factors when you choose one: A jacket that you‚Äôre buying to wear with jeans is also a great place to play around with unusual decorations you don‚Äôt wear on your other jackets. Ever wanted to see how you look with leather elbow patches, or with big, square, accordion-style pockets? This is the place to try them out. via Real Men Real Style What to Wear with a Jacket and Jeans The beauty of the jeans/sports jacket combination is its versatility. With a lightly-patterned dress shirt and a sporty tie it‚Äôs dressy enough to attend casual business functions or a weekend church service in confidence. Opt for a dark T-shirt and a pair of skate shoes instead and you can fit in at a dance club. It really comes down to the image you want to project. A jacket/jeans outfit can be safely traditional or more fashion-forward. Don‚Äôt believe me? ¬†Here are three examples. Dinner &amp; A Drink¬† The basics: I love wearing this outfit every time I‚Äôm down in Austin judging at the venture lab investment competition there at UT (Hook‚Äôem!). ¬†It‚Äôs not too flashy, yet it lets me seamlessly move from interviewing start-up founders to going out to dinner at one of Texas‚Äô finest steak houses without missing a beat. Classic Casual The basics: This also happens to be a good outfit for a tweed cap, if you have one lying around, and it looks good under a light wool coat in cooler months. Wear the look anywhere from the kids‚Äô sports games in the fall to Easter brunch with the grandparents. It also makes a nice dressy update for men in dress-casual offices where khakis and a blue oxford shirt are the staple uniform. Relaxed Contemporary The basics: This will look better on younger men, in artistic crowds, and in urban and evening settings. You could theoretically use the same jeans and jackets as you do for the classic dress-casual outfit described above; you just change the style and color of the other items around to adjust the feel of the outfit. via Real Men Real Style How To Start Wearing A Sports Jacket &amp; ¬†Jeans?¬† Hopefully these examples make the point for you: a sports jacket and a well fitted pair of dark jeans can go anywhere you need them to. I personally sport this look and encourage men to think of it as a ‚Äúdefault‚Äù for day-to-day life. Now if you‚Äôve made it this far you might be wondering ‚Äì this is all good and all, but how do I get started? The answer is to practice. ¬† You already have a pair of jeans that you love the fit of. ¬†If they‚Äôre not dark &amp; solid consider buying a new pair ‚Äì they can be found for well under $50. Next focus on the jacket ‚Äì nail the fit, and whether its a designer or thrift store buy ‚Äì you‚Äôll look good assuming the style is classic &amp; timeless. Now wear it. Going out to the store? Meeting a friend for a drink? First date? Throw on a jacket. It looks good. Give it a try! Now check out our video on pairing a jacket with jeans: 
Here's an interesting nugget from Goldman Sachs's presentation at BAML's financial conference in New York. Originally highlighted by the FT, Goldman notes that the average tenure for more senior employees (vice presidents and above) has increased. In 2013, the average is 9.1 years. That's up from 8.2 years in 2008 and 7.6 years in 2001. Of course, Goldman couches this development in buzzwords like "recruiting and retention," but it's probably not that Goldman employees have grown more loyal. It's likely "an indicator of the tightening market for six-and-seven figure earning traders and investment bankers on Wall Street in the wake of the financial crisis," as the FT notes. It used to be that you did your 6-8 years of indentured servitude before absconding to some hedge fund. Perhaps those days are over.                                                                         	            					                		                        More:                                                        Wall Street                                            Goldman Sachs                                            Workplace                                                                                                                                                                        facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        email                                                                                print                                                                                                                                                                window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                                _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                    Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Goldman Employees Are Staying At The Bank Longer    Goldman Employees Are Staying At The Bank Longer        Lifers?
Getty ImagesThe competitive nature of playing a sport has helped a lot of folks succeed on Wall Street. And tennis is one of the most popular sports in finance today.¬† Wall Street is littered with top tennis players. ¬†Many of them were top ranked junior players. Some were All-Americans in college. A few played professionally and were ranked globally. Hedge fund titans¬†Bill Ackman (Pershing Square), Philippe Laffont (Coatue), Ricky Sandler (Eminence) and Barry Sternlicht (Starwood Capital) are also all active in this community. People have been able to do business around their forehands and backhands. That's because many¬†of the tennis players on Wall Street know each other very well and feel comfortable doing business together. What's more, a bunch of the younger players met their employers on the court, and certain firms just love tennis players in general. We noticed in our list that Wexford Capital, ISI and Taconic Capital had a bunch of players.¬† In short, the tennis court is great place for networking in general. One big player joked that Bill Ackman seems to fill his 7:30 a.m. Saturday court with aspiring junior hedge fund analysts who happen to be stellar players. ¬†Ackman actually met former Pershing Square analyst Mariusz Adamski playing tennis.¬†Wexford Capital's Jason Pinsky is a frequent doubles partner for Ackman. Since the U.S. Open is happening right now, we thought it would be a perfect time to introduce you to some of the biggest players on Wall Street. Please note, this list is not a ranking. These names are not in any particular order. If you feel like we're missing someone, shoot an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. Please include why they should be on the list and include a photo. Thanks!¬†
REUTERS/Erik De Castro An aerial view of a coastal town, devastated by super Typhoon Haiyan, in Samar province in central Philippines November 11, 2013. Dazed survivors of super Typhoon Haiyan that swept through the central Philippines killing an estimated 10,000 people begged for help and scavenged for food, water and medicine on Monday, threatening to overwhelm military and rescue resources. The death toll from Typhoon Haiyan which hit the Philippines on Friday is believed to have reached 10,000, according to one provincial government. 9.5 million people, about one-tenth of the population, has been affected by the disaster. And the storm that has taken a human toll will also hurt the economy in the short term. But in the long run, GDP growth should recover significantly boosted by reconstruction efforts, writes Daniel Martin of Capital Economics. The government's in strong fiscal situation will help fund spending and Filipinos working overseas will likely send more money home to help relatives. A look back at the impact of natural disasters in recent years suggests the "impact on GDP has been short-lived and small." This typhoon missed the country's main commercial and industrial centers. The region that was impacted accounts for 18% of GDP and is more agricultural. Rice and sugar plantations were destroyed. "Damage to crops is likely to push up food prices over the coming months but, again, previous experiences suggest the effects will unwind quickly," said Martin. Of course, "looking at GDP alone can under-represent the negative impact of disasters and exaggerate the recovery." Over time we will also have to consider the impact on population growth and consider whether more Filipinos emigrate.
HermËsThese boxer shorts from HermËs cost as much as six months of my gas and electric bills.HermËs, the French luxury clothier, sells boxer shorts for $470. They're pleated. They also have a "storage pouch," according to the HermËs product description. Usually, the point of buying insanely high-end clothes is to impress someone with your fine taste or conspicuous wealth. But if the other person is seeing your underwear, doesn't that usually mean you've already impressed him or her? So who the hell is buying this product, and why? If you own a pair of $470 HermËs underwear, please write to me and explain why you made your purchase and whether you're a satisfied customer.
ScreenshotRay Dalio, who runs hedge fund behemoth Bridgewater Associates, spoke about economics and meditation at the DealBook Conference.† Dalio, who is one of the most successful hedge fund managers ever, said that he would not invest in Bitcoins right now. He added that he would have to understand it better. He said there's a "a lot of merit" behind it.† "That's a whole conversation," Dalio said.† Dalio, who recently published a great presentation called "How The Economic Machine Works," began the conversation saying that he's worried about future failures.† So that's where he started. The average retailer investor gets scared so they have a pattern of sell. †A pension would rebalance, he said. Andrew Ross Sorkin asked him where he thinks we are now. †He asked if the Fed printing money makes sense.† "It's working with consistently decreasing effect. It will work with even less effect." Sorkin asked him what happens as a result.† "I'd like to emphasize the machine... What I'm saying is the Federal Reserve...They normally lower interest rates...Now the Federal Reserve can only produce the purchase of financial assets. That creates a wealth effect...As we create a wealth effect, it's concentrated in the hands of those who have those financial assets...As a result the spending in the stores, it has a diminishing effect..."† He explained that the Federal Reserve has done a "masterful job" providing liquidity post financial crisis.† Dalio went on the say that he stocks returning 4% annually over the next decade. †He doesn't see the Fed raising rates for a number of years. †† "Going forward, most investors are not going to be able to produce alpha...We have 1,500 people...So that alpha is a very difficult game. I would say most investors would create a balanced portfolio against it."† Sorkin asked Dalio about his practice of meditation. He said it's the biggest part of success in his life. † Dalio said he meditates twice a day for twenty minutes each time.. † "It's such a great investment," Dalio explained adding that it creates "equanimity."† The conversation opened up to audience questions. †One audience member asked him if we would open Bridgewater Associates today.† The answer is yes. Dalio said the most important decision you would make when picking a job is finding a culture where you would flourish and be yourself. † The last question someone from the audience asked Dalio was about his view of the French economy. The hedge fund manager has been bearish in the past, and he maintains that view. France, Dalio said, is in a difficult spot with its debt. It faces a rise in debt service payments. Those payments will then need to be rolled over, but it will be tough. There will be a funding gap and wider credit spreads, making this whole process even harder. This puts France "on par with Southern Europe." Scary stuff.
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoNope, not a typo. According to the South China Morning Post, China has pledged just $100,000 in cash to victims of Typhoon Haiyan, which authorities estimated may have killed 10,000 and left physical damage¬†"so great that it is even hard to tally." The U.S. has pledged 20 million. Australia has pledged $10 million. HSBC bank alone has pledged $1 million,¬†according to The Telegraph. ‚ÄúWe will take into consideration the developments of the disaster and co-ordinate with relevant international organisations to see what we can do,‚Äù the SCMP quoted foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang as saying. China is also offering "‚Äúhumanitarian emergency relief assistance.‚Äù The stinginess stems from territorial disputes over islands in the South China Sea. Last summer, China and The Philippines had a maritime stand-off over the Scarborough Shoal (which is so small that it doesn't even register on Google Maps) that saw vessels refusing to leave the area for weeks. The Philippines (along with Vietnam) also lays claim to the Spratly islands and objects to China's claim to the Paracels. China says the area around the islands contain vast natural resource deposits,¬†according to the BBC.¬†  By comparison, because of sanctions the U.S. did not appear to offer any cash to Iran after an earthquake killed more than 300 last year. America did, however, pledge to expedite waiver applications from organizations wishing to provide relief. But Iran rejected ended up rejecting it anyway¬†(it also turned away Germany, Russia, Taiwan and Turkey). Ugly begets ugly.
Ray Dalio, the CEO of Bridgewater Associates, is at the New York Times' Dealbook conference this morning talking the machine that is our economy. But right before he came on stage, host Andrew Ross Sorkin finished an interview with Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss on the controversial alternative currency, Bitcoin. So since Dalio runs the largest hedge fund in the world and happens to be a currency master, Sorkin had to ask him what he thinks of this innovation. Would he invest, Sorkin asked. "I would not invest," said Dalio. "I need to understand it better." He said that the Winklevoss talked helped though. "I think there's a lot of merit behind it," Dalio continued. Sounds optimistic.
REUTERS/Jo Yong-HakAndrew Huszar, a former Federal Reserve employee who executed QE, has written a Wall Street Journal op-ed apologizing for the "unprecedented shopping spree." Huszar worked at the Fed for seven years before leaving for Wall Street. The central bank recruited him back in 2009 to manage "what†was at the heart of QEís bond-buying spreeña wild attempt to buy $1.25 trillion in mortgage bonds in 12 months." "I†can only say: I'm sorry, America," Huszar writes. From the Journal: It wasn't long before my old doubts resurfaced. Despite the Fed's rhetoric, my program wasn't helping to make credit any more accessible for the average American. The banks were only issuing fewer and fewer loans. More insidiously, whatever credit they were extending wasn't getting much cheaper. QE may have been driving down the wholesale cost for banks to make loans, but Wall Street was pocketing most of the extra cash. From the trenches, several other Fed managers also began voicing the concern that QE wasn't working as planned. Our warnings fell on deaf ears. In the past, Fed leadersóeven if they ultimately erredówould have worried obsessively about the costs versus the benefits of any major initiative. Now the only obsession seemed to be with the newest survey of financial-market expectations or the latest in-person feedback from Wall Street's leading bankers and hedge-fund managers. Sorry, U.S. taxpayer. Huszar argues that QE, while "dutifully compensating for the rest of Washington's dysfunction," has become Wall Street's new "too big to fail." Read the full op-ed at the Wall Street Journal†ª
One of the most fascinating markets of 2013 has been in Japanese stocks. Thereís no doubt about it. Late last year we†saw the potential†for a pretty decent sized move in the Nikkei 225, but it obnoxiously exceeded all of our expectations. What we thought could be a 10-15% upside move last November turned out to be more like an 80% move over the next 6 months. What a monster that became. The momentum chasers ripped this thing up above 16000 before the destruction eventually began. We saw a volatile 20% correction in just two short weeks ñ but thatís what happens after a big move like this. I would argue that the sell-off was both normal and well-deserved. During that correction in Japanese stocks, the Yen saw a monster rally. The negative correlation between Japanese Stocks and their currency has been off the charts over the last year. Apparently the central bank over there is like our Fed on steroids. But thatís not my expertise and Iíll leave that alone for now. Either way, the numbers donít lie ñ the negative correlation between the two is nothing to ignore. So hereís whatís happened since the monster rally and ensuing 20% correction: a whole lot of nothing. Less than nothing. Both the Nikkei 225 and the USD/JPY cross have been consolidating for over six months in a symmetrical triangle with well-defined converging trendlines. Here is what they look like (not a coincidence theyíre mirror images): And thatís when things get interestingÖ.†(see: Is Apple Stock About to Crash?) So now that we know these charts are ìobvious buysî and we canít find anyone to disagree, letís play a little devilís advocateÖ.I mean just for funÖ. One of the things that we pride ourselves on at Eagle Bay Capital is the ability to analyze securities on multiple timeframes. We start with longer-term weekly &amp; monthly charts and work our way all the way down to 10-minute candles for entries and exits. This to me is the only way to analyze markets. Otherwise, I believe youíre limiting yourself big time. Hereís what I mean. Sure, the daily bars in the charts up above are sexy as hell ñ no arguments here. But the monthlyís donít have that kind of sex appeal. Weíre basically going from Kate Upton to Rickie Incognito. This is a 25-year monthly chart of Nikkei 225 showing the 2013 rally in the first half of the year topping out at a mufti-decade long downtrend line. Should we be surprised that this is where it stalled? Would it be responsible of us as market participants to just assume that weíre going to breakout of a multi-decade downtrend, just like that?  Now, it gets better. Here is a monthly logarithmic scale chart of Dollar/Yen going back to the 1980s. We find ourselves in a similar predicament as the Nikkei runs into a multi-decade long downtrend line. But to make matters worse, we are also running into what was formerly key support late in 1999 and again in early 2005. If weíve learning anything in technical analysis is that former support should become at least some resistance. So with all that in mind, would it be responsible of us as market participants to just assume that Dollar/Yen is going to breakout of a 30 year downtrend AND break through former support on the first retest in almost 5 years?  Think about that for a minuteÖ. *** So whatís the conclusion? Well, the title of this post is ìThereís a Big Move Coming in Japanî. And I firmly believe that. When we see a six-month long consilidation coil in the ways that Nikkei and Dollar/Yen have this year, the resolution is typically violent. So yes, I think thereís definitely a big move coming. Itís the direction of that move that gets tricky. Considering I donít know a single person that thinks that resolution will be to the downside, has me thinking thatís precisely what will occur. In addition, after looking at the longer-term charts, it wouldnít surprise me one bit to see them break down. In fact, Iíd almost be surprised if they†didnít†break down, when you take all this historic resistance into account. So are you sure that Japanese Stocks are a lock to head higher? Will Yen definitely break down? You better check that conviction and figure out a way to manage risk in the small tiny slightest chance that you might be wrongÖ. I was walking down Broadway the other day with my pal Jonathan Krinsky over at MKM Partners. Heís probably the only other person I know bringing up these longer-term Japan charts. As weíre chatting about Japanese stocks, he brilliantly brought up an interesting scenario that I hadnít yet considered. How about a breakout in both of these charts to get everyoneís attention and bring out all the bulls, followed by a rollover. One last false move to crush everyoneís hopes and dreams. I must say that I think that could setup for the most incredible trade of the year. But we shall seeÖ.. Interesting no? † Tags:†$DXJ†$EWJ†$NK_F†$NKD_F†$USDJPY†$FXY † Full Disclosure: Nothing on this site should ever be considered to be advice, research or an invitation to buy or sell any securities, please see my Terms &amp; Conditions page for a full disclaimer.
While Friday‚Äôs employment report received lots of attention, the inflation data in the personal income report were mostly overlooked. The personal consumption expenditures deflator excluding food and energy (a.k.a. the ‚Äúcore‚Äù PCED) was up only 1.2% y/y during September, which was also well below the core CPI inflation rate of 1.7%. The core PCED inflation rate has been below the Fed‚Äôs 2% target since October 2008 for all but four months in early 2012 (when it was around 2%). While rent inflation has been trending higher since 2010, the inflation rates for hospital fees and physician services have declined significantly. The former is down to 1.5%, the lowest since December 1998, while the latter is down to zero, the lowest since February 2003. Why would the Fed possibly want to see these inflation rates move higher? Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Inflating Inflation. (1) Taper chatter is back. (2) There are two goals in the dual mandate. (3) Inflation remains below target. (4) Consumer durable goods prices on long decline. (5) Drug prices weighing on nondurable goods inflation rate. (6) Rent inflation is boosting services, while hospitals and doctors are not. (7) Why do central bankers want higher inflation? (8) Friedman‚Äôs truism not so true recently. (9) Liquidity is boosting asset inflation, not price inflation. (10) Central banks don‚Äôt control real incomes. (11) CPI inflation squeezing wages in Japan. (More for subscribers.)
A Chinese Bitcoin exchange that held up to $4.1 million in users' accounts has gone offline and everyone involved with it has vanished, according to CoinDesk. The GBL exchange claimed to be based in Hong Kong but turns out to have been headquartered in China. The Hong Kong Standard reports: The company appears to have launched in May 2013, with its domain btc-glb.com registered on 9th May and a post later that month by Bitcoin Talk forum user zhaoxianpeng promoting the site. Some mainlanders went to the IFC office listed on its website, but this turned out to be a false address. Fourteen of them made a report to the Hong Kong police. WantChinaTimes notes that GBL had not obtained any of the usual business licenses required to operate a financial services company. Bitcoin banks and exchanges have a habit of disappearing, the WCT says: Research conducted by Southern Methodist University assistant professor Tyler Moore and Carnegie Mellon University assistant professor Nicolas Christin found that 18 of the 40 Bitcoin trading platforms set up in the past three years had closed, including TradeHill, which was once the second largest in terms of transaction volume. Moreover, 13 of the discontinued services closed without any prior notice, while the remaining five were forced to shut down following hacker attacks. Only six of them were known to have offered refunds to users. Business Insider noted just a few days ago that an Australian Bitcoin bank, "Tradefortress," closed with $1 million in Bitcoin funds missing. The bank turned out to be operated by an 18-year-old boy who lived in a block of apartments in Hornsby, a suburb of Sydney.
REUTERS/www.khamenei.irSanctions began in 2006 to persuade Iran to stop enriching uranium that could potentially be used for a nuclear weapon.On Monday Reuters†published part one of a three-part investigation into the financial empire of Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, which was built based on billions of dollars in property seized from Iranian citizens through an organization called Setad. Part two, published today, details how Setad†solidified control over keys parts of the an economy that has been weakened by Western sanctions. And yet the organization itself is essentially sanctions proof. Here's a Setad chart that shows the organization's holdings in major banks, real estate, an insurance company, power plants, energy and construction firms, soft drinks manufacturing, and other major industries.  via ReutersAnd Reuters reports that Setad has largely avoided sanctions because the West knows that Khamenei ó "the one man with the power to halt Tehran's uranium-enrichment program" ó is ultimately behind Sedat's operations. From Reuters: Asked why Khamenei himself wasn't targeted, U.S. officials told Reuters they did not want to play into the hands of Iranian officials who maintain that Washington's ultimate goal in pressuring Iran with sanctions is to topple the government. "Regime change is not our policy," said one U.S. official. "But putting pressure on this regime certainly is." By the time Setad felt the pressure, it was already a giant. Consequently, sanctions devastate lives of normal Iranians while the supreme leader is insulated by an empire that generates "billions of dollars a year" in revenue, according to†Treasury Department Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence†David Cohen. "[Khamenei] has a huge sum at his disposal that he can spend," says Mohsen Sazegara, a co-founder of the powerful†Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps†military force, who is now living in exile in the United States. "When you have this much money, that's power itself." Check out Part II of the Reuters investigation &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsArtist's impression of a 1000km-diameter planetoid hitting a young Earth.For as long as we've had a stock market, we've had the risk that it would crash. In recent weeks, however, stocks have continued to roar to new all-time highs, far outpacing expectations for earnings growth. As such, valuations have become frothy, and many signals are telling us that the market is being dominated by complacency and euphoria. Because we may be in a bubble, the bears warn that we could see the stock market actually accelerate before we experience a violent crash. "I still see end Q4 2013, through to end Q1 2014, as the window in which we see a significant risk-on top before giving way, over the last three quarters of 2014 and through 2015, to what could be a 25% to 50% sell-off in global stock markets," warned Nomura's Bob Janjuah in a recent note to clients. What follows is a compilation of the warning signs that have been telling experts that the market is irrationally high and set up for a crash.
REUTERS/Neil Hall Last night, David Cameron gave a speech at a banquet calling for permanent austerity. From HuffPo: David Cameron has suggested that public spending should continue to be squeezed in a "fundamental culture change" that would leave the British public sector "permanently" slimmed down. Speaking at the Lord Mayor's Banquet in the City of London, he said the best way to keep the cost of living down was to take "difficult decisions on public spending" to leave "a state we can afford". What everyone is talking about though is the photo of Cameron making this call for lower spending. Among the items featured in the photo: Yay, austerity! REUTERS/Neil Hall (Via Joe Oliver)
REUTERS/Gus RuelasNouriel Roubini, Chairman and Co-Founder, Roubini Global Economics, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Global Overview" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California on April 29, 2013.  These are two great tweets from Nouriel Roubini. He tweeted these stories last night, and they get to the core economic challenge of the moment. On the one hand, there's widespread concern that financial markets are booming and bubbles are forming, especially in real estate, and that all this is a threat to financial stability. On the other hand, there's worry about super-low inflation, and the ongoing risk of outright deflation if policymakers don't keep pressing down on the stimulus. What's a central banker to do. More evidence of froth if not bubbles in financial markets http://t.co/nrjR181veK Or deflation @EconBizFin: The growing fear is that rich countries may be entering twilight zone of ultralow inflation http://t.co/ikFACWblk3
REUTERS/Mohammed SalemHamas naval police inspect parts of a car which they said was seized from two Palestinians who tried to smuggle it from Egypt by sea into Gaza City November 11, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonThe Great Hall of the People, where the Chinese Communist Party plenum is being held, is seen behinds red flags in Tiananmen square in Beijing November 12, 2013.BEIJING†(Reuters) -†China's ruling party pledged to let markets play a "decisive"†role†in allocating resources as it unveiled a reform agenda for the next decade on Tuesday, looking to overhaul the world's second-largest economy to drive future growth. China†aims to achieve "decisive results" in its reform push by 2020, with economic changes a central focus of overall reforms, the ruling†Communist Party†said in a communiquÈ released by state media at the end of a four-day closed-door meeting of the party's 205-member†Central Committee. "The core issue is to straighten out the relationship between government and the market, allowing the market to play a decisive†role†in allocating resources and improving the government's†role," the party said in its statement. It added that it would set up a central leading team for "comprehensively deepening reform," responsible for "designing reform on an overall basis, arranging and co-ordinating reform, pushing forward reform as a whole, and supervising the implementation of reform plans". In previous policy statements, the†Communist Party†had often described markets as playing a "basic"†role†in allocating resources, Xinhua news agency said, meaning the new language amounts to an upgrading of its†role†in the party philosophy. "They are looking to break away from government control, allowing the markets to take the lead. In the past, prices and investment decisions were predominantly made by the government," said†Dong Tao, Asia ex-Japan†chief regional economist with Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. "This is a revolutionary philosophy, by Chinese standards." Still, the party did not issue any bold reform plans for the country's state-owned enterprises (SOEs), saying that while both state firms and the private sector were important and it would encourage private enterprise, the dominance of the "public sector" in the economy would be maintained. While the statement was short on details, it is expected to kick off specific measures by state agencies over the coming years to reduce the†role†of the state in the economy. Historically, such third plenary sessions of a newly installed†Central Committee†have acted as a springboard for key economic reforms, and this one will also serve as a first test of the new leadership's commitment to reform. Among the issues singled out for reform, the party said it would work to deepen fiscal and tax reform, establish a unified land market in cities and the countryside, set up a sustainable social security system, and give farmers more property rights - all seen as necessary for putting the world's second-largest economy on a more sustainable footing. President†Xi Jinping†and Premier†Li Keqiang†must unleash new growth drivers as the economy, after three decades of breakneck expansion, begins to sputter, burdened by industrial overcapacity, piles of debt and eroding competitiveness. Out of a long list of areas that the meeting was expected to tackle, most analysts have singled out a push towards a greater†role†of markets in the financial sector and reforms to public finances as those most likely to get immediate attention. As part of that,†Beijing†is expected to push forward with capital account convertibility, and the 2020 target date for making significant strides on reform could set off expectations that the government will be looking to achieve breakthroughs on freeing up the closely managed yuan by then. Few†China†watchers had expected Xi and Li to take on powerful state monopolies, judging that the political costs of doing so were just too high. Many economists argue that other reforms will have only limited success if the big state-owned firms' stranglehold on key markets and financing is not tackled. But instead, the focus will be on indirect steps to limit the power of state behemoths and open up space for nimbler, private and foreign rivals - opening up key markets to private and foreign investment and deregulation tested in free trade zones. Some reforms could face stiff resistance from powerful interest groups such as local governments or state-owned monopolies, people involved in reform discussions have said. (Reporting by†Beijing†newsroom; Writing by Jason Subler and Tomasz Janowski; Editing by Neil Fullick)
"The World Atlas of Street Art and Graffiti""Red Square" by Radya in Ekaterinburg, Russia, 2011 (Page 267)Russia's Q3 GDP numbers are out and its a miss. GDP expanded by just 1.2%, which was below the 1.4% expected. "The pace of Russia's economic growth will fall behind the global average in the forecast period," said Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev last Thursday. The economy ministry sees GDP averaging 2.5% growth per year through 2030. Many blame President Vladimir Putin for not diversifying the economy away from oil, which has seen prices stagnate and demand weaken as the world becomes more energy-efficient and shifts toward cleaner alternatives.
Remember the emerging market crumble from earlier this year? For a few weeks there, we were seeing all kinds of weakness in things like the Indian Rupee, the Brazilian Real, The Indonesian Rupiah, and other assets. Well, slowly this is becoming a thing again. Via XE.com, here's a chart of the US Dollar against the rupee going back a year. Once again, the dollar has been strengthening hard against the rupee. XE.com SoberLook, meanwhile, points out that Brazilian interest rates have been spiking. SoberLook And here's the dollar against the Brazilian Real. XE.com When emerging market assets crumbled earlier this year, it was right around the time everyone was predicting that the Fed would "taper" in September. When that didn't happen, they strengthened hard. Now people are talking about a "Dectaper" (thanks to the strong US data) so it's possible that that's what's going on.
From @bondvigilantes: Twitter We mentioned earlier the sharp dropoff in UK inflation. Remember, too, this comes at a time when people imagine central banks around the world, priting or "debasing" their currencies like mad. Nothing could be further from the truth.
London's housing shortfall is running at more than 20,000 homes per year and too many of the properties under construction are aimed at wealthy buyers, according to research that warns of a growing affordability gap in the capital's new housing stock. A report by estate agency Savills warned that businesses could be forced out of London because their workforces cannot afford accommodation, while overcrowding forces young professionals to live longer with their parents. More than 50% of housing demand in London comes from households earning less than ¬£50,000 year, according to Savills, but developers are instead focusing on high-end prime properties. These cost more than ¬£2m to buy or ¬£5,000 a month to rent, with many ending up in the hands of overseas investors. "Builders' focus on wealthier, equity rich and credit-worthy buyers since the credit crunch means that a disproportionate amount of stock is being delivered at what we call 'new prime' levels," Savills said. Opposition politicians accused the government of allowing useless homes to be built, while ordinary Londoners struggled to afford to stay in the capital. In the report, London Demand, Savills said 50,000 new homes were needed annually ‚Äì almost double the 28,500 a year being built currently ‚Äì to meet the needs of a growing population. The number of people in greater London increased by 14% between 2001 and 2011 to 8.2 million, and is set to grow by another million by 2021. Susan Emmett, Savills' residential research director, said that 60,000 new homes were built per year during the capital's last population peak, in the 1930s. "Today, the signs of overcrowding lie behind closed doors: the young professionals forced to live longer with their parents, the house sharers doubling up to meet rising rents and businesses moving out of London because they can't afford to house their workforce," she said. The latest Land Registry figures show house prices in London have risen by almost 10% over the past year ‚Äì to ¬£393,462 ‚Äì and figures from mortgage lenders show that first-time buyers are having to borrow more than ever before to get on the property ladder. Meanwhile rents have hit record levels and some local authorities have resorted to moving homeless families out of the capital because of the high costs of housing them. The new prime market for wealthy buyers and renters accounts for just 6% of demand, which is currently being met with the creation of 3,000 properties a year. In contrast, there is a big supply gap in affordable homes, costing up to ¬£280,000 to buy or ¬£1,200 a month to rent. Here Savills said there was a need for 28,5000 new homes a year, but only around 13,500 were being built. The report said the biggest requirement was for homes to rent. It found that ¬£12bn a year should be invested in private rented housing, compared to the ¬£7bn currently invested. Currently ¬£2bn a year is spent on prime rental properties, almost the same as on rental homes for those earning below ¬£50,000 ‚Äì when the figures should be ¬£0.6bn and ¬£5.4bn respectively. Emmett said: "Unless we are careful, the shortage of homes will start to impact on London's ability to compete. We will start to see businesses think twice about coming to a city where they can't afford to house their employees." Darren Johnson, a Green party member of the London assembly, said developers were building "too many expensive flats for super rich investors". He added: "The mayor thinks that people renting overpriced flats on insecure tenancies will be happy to see these luxury flats go up because it means more supply, but they're useless if they're not affordable." The shadow housing minister, Emma Reynolds, said the government had "failed to get a grip" on the housing crisis, and reiterated Labour's pledge to double housebuilding by 2020. "The country is facing the biggest housing crisis in a generation and it is at its worst in London. This chronic housing shortage means that the cost of buying or renting a home in London is fast becoming unaffordable for many Londoners," she said. "Unless the government acts now to ensure more affordable homes are built then soaring prices will put homeownership out of reach for young people and families in London and across the country." Roger Harding, director of policy and campaigns at the housing charity Shelter, called on the government and mayor to "take more decisive action to build the affordable homes London desperately needs". He added: "We hear from people every day who, despite working hard and earning a decent wage, are having to cut back on essentials in a bid to keep up with their rent each month. And, with demand for properties far out-stripping supply, the prospect of a home of their own continues to slip away for many young people and families." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
It looks like China has wrapped up its "Third Plenum" where leaders of the country discuss how to reform the economy. From the BBC's Linda Yueh: Linda Yueh Other headlines we've seen include some lines about how the market should play a greater role in the economy (blah blah blah). We'll bring you more details when they come out.
Pretty much anywhere you look, at least in the developed world, inflation is just not a thing despite the best efforts of central bankers. In the UK ‚Äî where a real recovery is actually taking hold ‚Äî UK inflation just dipped hard. From the UK's Office of National Statistics: The pound is falling on the news. Via FinViz: FInViz
Morgan Stanley recently held a "Macro Ideas &amp; Insights Forum." This one slide nicely lays out how they see the world, and frankly it's a pretty good summary of how a lot of folks on Wall Street see the world right right now. The idea about "Another round of global monetary easing" having been started is a huge narrative that a lot of investors are thinking about as they make the case for further bullishness. Morgan Stanley
It may seem like inequality is getting worse. As the Wall Street Journal's Justin Lahart wrote Sunday, the last time the 1% captured nearly 20% of all income was 1928. Even Wall Street big shots are now getting worried, Lahart reported, citing Bill Gross' latest note to investors arguing inequality was reducing U.S. productivity. But Global Health Professor Hans Rosling of Stockholm's Karolinska Institutet reminds us that we've actually come a long way in addressing inequality, if by "we" you mean the rest of the planet.¬† He Tweeted the following chart, showing that on a global scale, there are now more individuals earning $10 a day than ever before. Twenty-seven years ago, the global statistical mode for daily earnings was $1. Hans Rosling His source is¬†a 2011 paper from the University of Utrecht: "The Changing Shape of Global Inequality 1820-2000: Exploring a new dataset." (The new dataset is one they create using novel proxies for inequality like height).¬†While the paper is almost three years old, Rosling says he and his team at GapMinder, an amazing global economic data site, play with it all the time. ¬† The Utrecht researchers concluded that globalization had indeed make nations more equal, but may have exacerbated inequality within the nation itself:¬† "The globalized world of the (late) nineteenth century produced a unimodal distribution. Processes of de-globalization in the middle decades of the twentieth century had two effects on global inequality: nation states acquired the freedom to build a welfare state that sharply reduced income inequality within countries (in the richer part of the world), but at the same time it seems to have lead to the emergence of a bi-model distribution on a global scale. The dramatic process of globalization of the final decades of the 20th century reversed¬†both changes: it led to a strong increase in within country inequality (bringing it back to its level from before the ‚Äòegalitarian revolution‚Äô of the twentieth century), and it resulted in the sudden appearance of a unimodal income distribution on a global scale (and a small decline in between country inequality)." In other words, living standards of less-well-off Americans may now more closely resemble those of folks half way across the world than they do their more wealthy neighbors.
Rolf Maeder, Photography SedonaMarkets are slightly lower in Europe, and US futures are pointing to a modest decline at the open. But overall, things are quiet, and are expected to be remain so for pretty much the entire week. There is very little economic data or central bank action this week, and so people are left twiddling their thumbs, talking about whether we're in a bubble or not. Seriously, check the latest WSJ, and you'll see a plethora of stories about valuation and so forth. News? Not so much.
