Alison Joyce/Getty Images A year after Hurricane Sandy knocked out power to millions in the Tri-State area, including all of downtown Manhattan, a dispute over ConEd's request to raise electric rates has created uncertainty about whether the utility has adequate resources to prepare for another megastorm.¬† As the situation deteriorated last fall, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo blasted utilities, including ConEd, which supplies power to New York City, for their performance in responding to the storm.¬† "They have failed the consumers," he said. "The management has failed the consumers." So in January, the utility proposed raising customers' electric rates to pay for upgrades. The increases requested amount to about $3 more per customer. The goal is to raise $1 billion over four years.¬† ¬†"For 2014 we have a plan to spend about $250 million in storm hardening initiatives in substations, electric distribution, gas system, and the steam system," ConEd spokesman Mike Clendenin told us in a statement. "Without proper funding we will not be able to protect the system as planned.‚Äù But ConEd already asked for, and received, a rate increase three years ago,¬†to the tune of $10 per customer.¬† And for several reasons, including its sheer age, New York's power system is among the most expensive in the country. So Gov. Cuomo is opposing the rate hike, calling it unnecessary. "Given the historically low interest¬†rates and the economic and income growth forecasts, such investments can be¬†made without the rate increase requested by the utility," he said earlier this month. New York City has also come out against the proposal. "Most or all of the funding can be derived from greater efficiencies in project design, development, and construction, provided that Con Edison‚Äôs revenue requirements are set at levels commensurate with the Company‚Äôs projected needs," it said in its statement during the rate hearing.¬† But ConEd says that without the additional funds, it would have to reassess what improvements it can pay for. In a follow-up interview, Clendenin told us plans to bring overhead cables underground, beef up protection at substations, and infrastructure that would help isolate outages may have to be put on hold. "We can't go forward with the plan we've put out without proper funding," he said. The utility hasn't been sitting on its hands.¬†It has already installed flood walls and, literally, moats, at generators like the one on the Lower East Side that blew up and caused the downtown outage.¬† But some say it's not enough, and that stronger regulation of ConEd is needed. Westchester County Assemblyman Tom Abinanti, who was critical of ConEd in the aftermath of the storm, told LoHud ‚ÄúI‚Äôve seen nothing to tell me that they‚Äôre better prepared,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI have no faith Con Ed can respond any better than they did last time.‚Äù Though the last rate hike was large, its initial price tag was eventually brought down through negotiations.¬† That could happen this time, but there's obviously less room for maneuver. The state's Public Service Commission, which has final say over the matter, could vote on the increase as soon as next month.
www.cnbc.comNo one reads Twitter stories. All right, some people do. Just not a lot. Not as many as would read a¬†Ben Bernanke¬†article or a¬†Nouriel Roubini¬†prophecy of doom. It's true. We have all sorts of software (programs with names like Omniture and Chartbeat) that count visitors and Web traffic. They tell us what people are reading. And it ain't about Twitter. For example, this past week Twitter set the offering¬†range for its IPO‚Äîbig news that set our CNBC newsroom a-buzzing. In the end, though, that story didn't even bust our Top 10 for the day. Heck, even when we made it the featured story on the website, the best popularity rank it could sustain was third place, briefly. It went straight to 15th within the hour. Just check out the above chart we whipped up comparing the traffic on the Twitter IPO story with our top stories on Thursday. People were much more interested in banking troubles and¬†Mark Zuckerberg's real estate foibles. The story is the same for other major Twitter-in-the-news days. It never breaks the Top 10. Now you could argue that the Twitter news simply coincided with news that was more important (like Zuck's living arrangements). But when you compare the reader attention paid to¬†Facebook¬†and¬†LinkedInstories on their respective "big news" days leading up to their IPOs, the argument falls flat. They hit the Top 10 every time. It's not just us, either. Our colleagues at other websites see it too. Like Owen Thomas, editor-in-chief over at ReadWrite.com: www.cnbc.com All of which reinforces a Reuters poll this week indicating that 36 percent of the folks on Twitter¬†don't actually use it. That's concerning if you are contemplating the probable success of Twitter's IPO and subsequent profit-making ability. Already Twitter is smaller than its main competition (215 million users compared to Facebook's 1.15 billion). Now if people aren't reading headlines about it and if, indeed, not that many people are really using it, then will it actually be a viable enterprise?¬†Will it be able to attract ad dollars and make its stock respected on Wall Street, a la Facebook (rocky start and all)? (Read more:¬†The differences between Facebook and Twitter). "Facebook is have to have; Twitter is nice to have," said Howard Anderson, founder of the Yankee Group and co-founder of Battery Venture Capital, in an interview. He noted that some advertisers will likely be interested in it and use it for specific purposes. "But it won't be must-see TV. It will be sometimes-watch TV." To their credit, sites like Facebook and Twitter already have the ability to slice and dice their audiences and charge advertisers prices based on the appeal of those particular pieces of audience. "Social media has allowed advertisers to target in a manner that really hasn't been done before this easily," said Jon Stemmle, a professor of communication at the Missouri School of Journalism, in an answer to emailed questions. "When you enter your info for Facebook or Twitter, begin posting information, and follow other users, all of that can be tracked and then you can be targeted for any sorts of ads based on that data. Because of this, every social media platform is trying to figure out how to take that data and monetize it, especially on mobile platforms, which is where the majority of users are." So if Twitter can shave off a particular user set‚Äîsay, celebrities under the influence‚Äîand offer it to a certain high-end advertiser‚Äîperhaps a rehab service‚Äîit has a viable business model. (Read more:¬†Twitter IPO underpriced, says pro) But not a unique one, since Facebook and others could conceivably deliver that audience too. "If Twitter does not have a unique audience to differentiate its advertising product, the question then is: 'what is special about ads on Twitter?'," said Alessandro Bonatti, a professor specializing in online advertising strategy at the¬†MIT Sloan School of Management, in an email exchange. "From this perspective, the outlook is also bleak: Twitter users (i) are very far from the point-of-purchase, and (ii) will therefore yield very noisy estimates of the returns to advertising." So Twitter may not have an inherent advertising advantage and it appears to have less interest in its fortunes than the media hype would suggest. Maybe all those folks skipping Twitter IPO headlines have it right. Allen Wastler is managing editor of CNBC Digital. Ironically, given this article, you can follow him on Twitter¬†@AWastler. You can catch his¬†commentary here¬†and onCNBC Radio. And check out his¬†fiction.
channel.nationalgeographic.comHow would the average US citizen cope in the wake of a catastrophic cyberattack? Not so well, it turns out. As the power grid goes down across the country, the streets quickly descend into chaos while consumers ransack stores for bottled water and canned goods. RECOMMENDED:†How much do you know about cybersecurity? Take our quiz. Those without sufficient cash handy are quickly in dire straits, since no electricity means no credit cards or ATMs, either. Meanwhile, the heroes of the day are ìdoomsday preppersî who have had the foresight to stockpile a couple yearsí worth of bottled water, batteries, and military-style meals-ready-to-eat in secret underground bunkers. This is the scenario explored in ìAmerican Blackout,î the National Geographic Channelís fictionalized account of a 10-day-long power outage precipitated by a cyberattack. The program airs Sunday.  RECOMMENDED:†Monitor Frontier Markets Free Trial. Intelligent analysis on events in frontier/emerging countries. ìBlackoutî draws on previous events and expert opinions to paint a rather bleak picture, its creators say. The film tends to endorse the maxim, widely held in national security circles, that society is roughly nine missed meals away from chaos. After that point, people are ìpretty well prepared to do whatever it takesî to meet their needs, David Lyle, the National Geographic Channel president, warned as he introduced the film at a premiere in Washington, D.C., this past week. US officials have echoed these concerns. ìA massive and well-coordinated cyberattack on the electric grid could devastate the economy and cause a large-scale loss of life,î warns Richard Andres, a research fellow at National Defense Universityís Institute for National Security Studies. Certainly, the average American doesnít seem to be too optimistic about the national response in the event of say, a major catastrophe like the loss of the power grid. That said, nine in ten people in a recent National Geographic Channel survey said they believe the world will experience a major catastrophe, and of those, about one third expect it to occur ìless than a year from now.î In case of such a catastrophe, 57 percent of those surveyed said they would turn to friends and family for help, while 14 percent said they believed the government would be ìthe most help.î Three quarters of the respondents said they believed the country will experience a ìcatastrophic cyberattackî in their lifetime, and more than half say they donít think the US is ready for it. So just how likely is a national power outage precipitated by a cyberattack, anyway? ìNot very likely,î former National Security Agency director Michael Hayden said in a panel following the film. That said, most of the power grid is the responsibility of the private sector, he added. For this reason, the private sector ìat the end of the day is the main bodyî that should take the lead in national cyberdefense, Mr. Hayden said in a discussion the next day at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). It was a statement that caused a ripple in the panel as Hayden argued that ìthe government has to conform its activitiesî to enable the private sector to take the lead in cyberdefense, much like the US military takes the lead in the defense of American airspace, for example. ìWe expect the government to control and defend our air space,î Hayden said. ìI donít think thatís true ñ or at least itís not as true ñ in the cyber domain.î† RECOMMENDED:†How much do you know about cybersecurity? Take our quiz.
Banksy has some interesting thoughts about the new One World Trade Center. Namely, that it's ugly and shows the terrorists won.¬† "Today‚Äôs piece was going to be an op-ed column in the New York Times,"¬†the street artist claimed on his website Sunday. "But they declined to publish what I supplied." The¬†Times¬†so far have not confirmed whether Banksy actually submitted the piece, let alone whether the¬†Times¬†rejected it. The only comment from¬†Times¬†staff was this, from Opinion news assistant Leah Finnegan: ¬† lol¬†http://t.co/zE7dejwkZi ‚Äî Leah Finnegan (@leahfinnegan)¬†October 27, 2013 Banksy's op-ed is a little short for the Opinion desk's usual Sunday offerings, for whatever that's worth, but boy does it pack a punch. He manages to insult the One World Trade Center, Canada, and the city itself in just a few paragraphs. "That building is a disaster," he writes. "Well no, disasters are interesting. One World Trade centre ¬†is a non-event. It‚Äôs vanilla. It looks like something they would build in Canada." Our northern neighbors aren't exactly known for their advancements in architecture. They built an ugly concrete spire in Toronto and called it a day. Later Banksy says, clearly joking, that the building's blandness is a sign the terrorists won after September 11th.¬† Here's the whole thing:¬† www.theatlanticwire.com Obviously the piece's stronger statements are jokes, but his point remains: One World Trade isn't exactly a world wonder. We reached out to the¬†Times¬†to see if the paper rejected Banksy's op-ed but have yet to hear back. Banksy also has new artwork up today in New York today, too. Animal New York¬†reports it can be found at the corner of Noble and West Streets¬†in Greenpoint. If the Times did reject his artwork, it would be another low moment for the artist's New York vacation. He's already had trouble¬†with the mayor and the police force. And some intrepidphotographers are determined to poorly snap "identifying" photos¬†of the anonymous Brit. But the local news paper? Aren't New Yorkers supposed to be nice, welcoming people? Want to add to this story? Let us know¬†in comments¬†or send an email to the author atconnorbsimpson@gmail.com. You can share ideas for stories on the¬†Open Wire. More from The Atlantic Wire: NYPD stuggles to hunt Banksy 'The Counserlor' could use some help Remembering Lou Reed
APVictories come in many sizes. The Battle of the Little Bighorn, for example, at first seemed an overwhelming win for the†Sioux. But it soon became clear their success would not last. Who really won the Alamo? The Mexicans? Try telling that to a Texan. So, who won the Battle of the Shutdown 2013? The conventional view is that the†Tea Party†Republicans were seen off by the congressional leadership in both parties. Having made their protest, disrupted the nation and cost Americans a great deal in anxiety, time and treasure, they lost the battle ó but promise to resume the war another day. Perhaps as early as January. While moderation appears to have triumphed and dogmatic extremism held at bay, the 800,000 federal workers and those who need their services were the obvious losers of the budget and debt ceiling battle. But so were those who hoped to derail the Affordable Care Act, freeze†federal government†spending and balance the budget. A complete audit of the shutdown, however, shows the Tea Partiers suffered a more profound setback than they would like to admit ó or perhaps even know. The exact philosophy of the†Tea Party†is hardly clear, but in as much as there is a manifesto it states: the government is too big and should shrink; government borrowing is out of control and the nation should live within its means; big business executives are unfairly propped up by government even when they make sizable mistakes; the government should stop manipulating the dollar through quantitative easing, and taxes should be reduced but never be raised. It is a visceral creed, born of anger at the government's bailout of the bankers in 2008-9 and the scale of the borrowing to prevent a full-blown slump, heavy on dogma but light on intellectual rigor. It could be called Austria Lite ó all the prejudices of the big conservative thinkers without the trouble of having to read what they wrote. The scale of the revolution that the†Tea Party†is attempting to foment is vast. It would turn the last 80 years of the†federal government's largely bipartisan social and economic policy on its head. It would entail closing government departments, privatizing popular entitlements like Social Security and†Medicare†and shrinking the military by withdrawing U.S. troops from abroad. It would mean deliberately slowing the pace of economic growth, returning to "sound money" that does not inflate and forcing†Congress†to stop spending other people's money. Eventually, it is argued by those who have faith, unhampered by democracy's dead hand, market forces will reassert themselves and the economy will boom even more than before. Like the exploration of Mars, it is a long-term project. Along with the Chinese, Christians, Islamists and old school Communists, the†Tea Partyrevolutionaries are playing a long game.†Vienna†wasn't built in a day. Or at least that was the original plan ó until Senator†Ted Cruz†(R-Texas) spotted his chance to leap ahead of the 2016 presidential pack. Instead of the†Tea Party†biding its time, making the long democratic march through the primaries, winning†Congressand the presidency, and rolling out the†Tea Party†program in a hundred days of hectic executive action, they followed Cruz into the shutdown. Cruz is a middle-aged man in a hurry. Like any good consumer, he demanded action this day. "I want it now!" is not the cry of a seasoned political operator. Only once in a while, after a landslide that sweeps the†White House†and both houses of†Congress, can big changes be achieved quickly. The rest of the time, patience is the friend of the radical, who must bide his time until the perfect opportunity arises. As the uproar surrounding the shutdown has shown, last month was not a good time to start an uprising. The†Tea Party†may never entirely recover from its intemperate adolescent foot stomping. The political cost can be measured by the evident, irrefutable slump in electoral support for the Republicans, and by bringing into the open the chasm between moderate Republican big dogs and the†Tea Party†tails that wag them. The cost of the closedown, however, moves the economic goals of the†Tea Partymovement further away than ever. If one goal the shutdown was to discredit conventional economic theory, it has failed. The economic argument implicit in the†Tea Party's thinking is that if you slow economic activity by halting federal spending the economy will do well. The 10 days of shutdown, however, cost $3.1 billion in lost gross domestic product and $24 billion in lost economic activity that can never be recovered. Rather like grasping the extent of damage done by a natural disaster, the full details of the losses Americans and the†United States†suffered as a result of the shutdown, of the threat of a shutdown and recovering from the shutdown will not become clear for some weeks. Those in the†Tea Party†who hoped the shutdown might actually save money must be sorely disappointed. An early indication of how the†Tea Party's self-harming is self-defeating can be seen from the Federal Reserve's verdict that the shutdown has prompted the delay of the "tapering" of quantitative easing (QE), the only economic policy government is left with and one the†Tea Party†particularly detests. Only a month ago the prospect of an end to QE was causing the stock market to catch the vapors. Now the markets are riding high, in the sure knowledge the shutdown has put off until next year, perhaps even March 2014, the day the†Fed†stops pumping $85 billion into the economy each month. The Federal Reserve chairman,†Ben Bernanke, and his prospective successor,Janet Yellen, have tied the end of QE to unemployment. Joblessness is now running at 7.2 percent ó and the†Fed†has announced it will continue QE until unemployment is below 6.5 percent. So long as the†Fed†is in crisis mode, business confidence will continue to wobble, and new investments will be put on hold. The best way to pay down the national debt is to prompt the economy to recover fully ó so that everyone is back to work ó and then tax them. By slowing the already laggardly economy, the shutdown has not only delayed the recovery, it has postponed the†Tea Party†revolution sine diem. What about the impending budget talks? Did the shutdown not force the Democrats to concede entitlement reform? No. It may well be that the grand bargain that emerges between now and the end of the year will trade some entitlement reforms with changes to the tax code that will increase taxes. With the Senate Majority Leader†Harry Reid†(D-Nev.) riding high, and with Senate Minority Leader†Mitch McConnell†(R-Ky.) insisting he will not threaten default in the latest negotiations, it seems even the†Tea Party's hope of not raising taxes will be dashed as a result of the shutdown. So, what was the shutdown all about? For Cruz ó and the rest of us ó it was an expensive episode in promoting his career. For†Tea Party†members, however, it was a chance to draw attention to their grievances. The fact that they left the check to be picked up by their friends and neighbors is of little concern to them. They have fully infiltrated one of the two alternating parties of government and hope it is only a matter of time before the pendulum swing lands them in government. However, that complacent narrative has been set back by the viciousness of the shutdown and it has drawn voters' attention to the†Tea Party's true aims and methods. The unpopularity of closing the government has put the†Tea Party†on notice: be nice or be defeated. There seems little indication that either†Tea Party†supporters or populists like Cruz have understood the nature of the defeat they have just suffered. Instead, heartened by friends in the press, the political wreckers and vandals are plotting their next wave of wanton destruction. (Nicholas Wapshott†is a Reuters columnist. Opinions are his own.)
Yutaka KatayamaMarkets in Asia and were solidly higher in early Monday trading. Japan's Nikkei was up 1.23%. Australia's S&amp;P ASX 200 climbed 1.16%. U.S. futures already opened flat. Don't miss BI's Sam Ro's preview of what's happening in markets this week, including FOMC day.
Studies abound showing how our mental biases thwart sound investing decisions. Value Stock Guide has compiled the five main ways this happens into a nifty infographic (via Eddy Elfenbein). You should check out the whole thing, but real quickly, the 5 common ways your brain screws you up are: Check it out: Value Stock Guide
U.S. futures opened basically flat after a quiet weekend for markets. But we've got a big week ahead, including consumer confidence and the latest FOMC meeting. Here's the chart for Dow Futures as of Sunday evening: CME Group
I recently posted an article posing the question of whether, or not, the markets had entered into the¬†"3rd Stage Of A Bull Market?"¬†¬†In the article I stated: "Are we in the third phase of a bull market?¬† Most who read this article will immediately say "no." However, those were the utterances made at the peak of every previous bull market cycle. The reality is that, as investors, we should consider the possibility, evaluate the risk and manage accordingly." During the radio program last night I was discussing the long term trends of the market and discussing the deviations from the long term moving averages.¬† Moving averages are like"gravity"¬†to stock prices.¬† The farther away (deviation) from the moving averages that prices get; the greater the probability becomes for a reversion back to the mean.¬† The chart(s) of the day is a monthly analysis of the S&amp;P 500 Index and the very broad Wilshire 5000 Index from 1970 to present.  It is worth noting that currently both markets are pushing deviation extremes only seen four times previously.¬† The difference has much to do with the "secular market" within which these deviations occurred.¬† The deviation extremes were much shorter lived during the secular¬†"bear"¬†market of the 70's which effectively ended in 1982.¬† With interest rates and inflation falling the secular¬† "bull"¬† market of the 90's, combined with the¬†"irrational exuberance"of the¬†"tech bubble", the markets were able to sustain extreme deviations from the long term average for an extended period.¬† Ultimately, however, those extremes have always been reversed. The current deviation from the long term average, fueled by Federal Reserve interventions, is approaching extremes in both deviation and duration.¬† As I stated above - as investors we should always remain mindful of the risk. My friend Cullen Roche, Pragmatic Capitalist blog,¬†picked up on an additional concern¬†that had also caught my attention: "I have to admit that I start to feel a bit uneasy about things when I see all news reported as good news because it either means the economy is getting better or more QE is coming. That wouldn't bother me so much if corporate earnings were still booming and the economy was growing strongly, but neither one is occurring. In fact, the market is just driving higher on what looks like sheer optimism of continued QE; and little else. You can see this optimism in two indicators you'll recognize. The first is Warren Buffett's favorite valuation metric ‚Äì total market cap to GNP. The latest reading of 110% has only been surpassed by the Nasdaq bubble.  I'll be honest ‚Äì I've never really understood the obsession with equities and being a macro guy I probably never will because I have so much love for so many asset classes and approaches. But if I were 100% allocated in equities at this point in the cycle I would feel rather uneasy about my positioning." I have to admit that I start to feel a bit uneasy about things when I see all news reported as good news because it either means the economy is getting better or more QE is coming. ¬†That wouldn‚Äôt bother me so much if corporate earnings were still booming and the economy was growing strongly, but neither one is occurring. ¬†In fact, the market is just driving higher on what looks like sheer optimism of continued QE and little else. You can see this optimism in two indicators you‚Äôll recognize. ¬†The first is Warren Buffett‚Äôs favorite valuation metric ‚Äì total market cap to GNP. ¬†The latest reading of 110% has only been surpassed by the Nasdaq bubble. I have to admit that I start to feel a bit uneasy about things when I see all news reported as good news because it either means the economy is getting better or more QE is coming. ¬†That wouldn‚Äôt bother me so much if corporate earnings were still booming and the economy was growing strongly, but neither one is occurring. ¬†In fact, the market is just driving higher on what looks like sheer optimism of continued QE and little else. You can see this optimism in two indicators you‚Äôll recognize. ¬†The first is Warren Buffett‚Äôs favorite valuation metric ‚Äì total market cap to GNP. ¬†The latest reading of 110% has only been surpassed by the Nasdaq bubble. ¬†I agree with his concerns, and this is something I addressed previously in¬†"There Is No Asset Bubble?" "While it is certainly conceivable that the markets could attain all-time highs. The speculative appetite, combined with the Fed‚Äôs liquidity, is a powerful combination in the short term.¬† However, the increase in speculative risks combined with excess leverage leave the markets vulnerable to a sizable correction at some point in the future.¬† The only missing ingredient for such a correction currently is simply a catalyst to put "fear" into an overly complacent marketplace.¬†¬† In the long term, it will ultimately be the fundamentals that drive the markets.¬† Currently, the deterioration in the growth rate of earnings and economic strength are not supportive of the speculative rise in asset prices or leverage.¬† The idea of whether, or not, the Federal Reserve, along with virtually every other central bank in the world, are inflating the next asset bubble is of significant importance to investors who can ill afford to lose a large chunk of their net worth. ¬† It is all reminiscent of the market peak of 1929 when Dr. Irving Fisher uttered his now famous words: "Stocks have now reached a permanently high plateau."¬† Does an asset bubble currently exist?¬† Ask anyone and they will adamantly say 'NO.'¬† However, maybe it is precisely that tacit denial which might be an indication of its existence."
The Federal Reserve holds its next Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting this week on October 29 and 30. Economists largely expect it to be a non-event. Everyone expects the Fed to keep its benchmark interest rate at at near zero (0 to 0.25%) and we can't seem to find a reputable economist predicting a tapering of the Fed's $85 billion large-scale asset purchase program, which is informally referred to as quantitative easing (QE). "[T]he government shutdown obscures readings on the economy in the current observation window," said Vincent Reinhart, Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Economist. "There is the direct drag on GDP from dropping out the hours not worked by furloughed employees, the indirect loss of businesses tied to the government, and the hesitation induced in the momentum of private spending from increased uncertainty and reduced confidence. Fed officials will not know how to disentangle these threads at the upcoming meeting." But that doesn't mean we should ignore the meeting and announcement altogether. Matthew Hornbach, Morgan Stanley's top interest rate strategist, thinks we should keep an eye on a language tweak in one key paragraph: How Risky Is the October FOMC Meeting?Just because the Fed is unlikely to taper at the October FOMC meeting does not mean the October FOMC meeting will pass quietly into the night. The market should focus on how the Fed changes the official statement because it could send important signals about future policy actions (or lack thereof). The market should focus on this part of the upcoming FOMC statement the most: The Committee sees the downside risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having diminished, on net, since last fall, but the tightening of financial conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow the pace of improvement in the economy and labor market. At some point, ìsince last fallî is going to sound confusing because we are making our way through ìthis fallî. Of course, the Fed means to say ìsince we began QE8î, so they could always clarify the statement in that way. But, the more appropriate question to answer might be, how have downside risks changed ìsince the summerî? While financial conditions in the eyes of the Fed should have loosened since the September FOMC meeting, given the decline in mortgage rates, the government shutdown introduced new uncertainties. Any hint that downside risks to the outlook have increased ìsince the summerî will put another bid into the Treasury market, in our view. Beyond changes in language, Reinhart doesn't expect any significant changes to monetary policy until next year. The Fed will publish its FOMC statement at 2:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday.
BusinessInsiderOur new app for Windows 8 is live and available in the Windows 8 Store. It‚Äôs all the great content and articles you get from our desktop site optimized for Win8 and devices like the Surface tablet. We focused on intuitive navigation and an easy to read layout while still providing all our usual content across our many verticals. The coolest feature is the live tile on the home screen that scrolls through headlines automatically. Download it now from the Windows Store. ¬†Microsoft
Wilson Dias/Abr via Wikimedia CommonsEike BatistaIt was May of 2011, and the setting was the Michael Milken conference in California. Although investor skepticism was starting to rise even then, Eike Batista, worth roughly $30 billion at the time, was still his usual, confident self. He was going to be richer than¬†Carlos Slim,¬†Warren Buffet¬†and¬†Bill Gates, he told CNBC at the time, because "I have created five companies that have in them embedded resources worth $2 trillion at a very low cost of producing." He went on to call them "idiot-proof assets." Fast-forward to today. Those assets are valued a lot closer to zero than $2 trillion. One of his five companies, oil and gas driller OGX‚Äîthe cornerstone of his short-lived mining, energy and shipping empire‚Äîis expected to file for bankruptcy any day. And he's essentially held a yard sale for his other holdings, all in an effort to find cash. Batista once compared his oil fields, located off the coast of Brazil in the Campos Basin, to those of Saudi Arabia. But today, OGX produces not a single barrel of oil. Four out of five fields are abandoned, after oil production there turned out to be dramatically below expectations. (Read more:¬†How a Brazilian tycoon lost $25 billion) "Higher than anticipated geological complexity" is the reason for the production failure, according to a recent report from Moody's, which rates the company's debt as junk. Those who lent Batista money or invested alongside him are some of the biggest names in corporate America and the investing world‚ÄîGeneral Electric,BlackRock,¬†Pimco, Loomis Sayles, Lord Abbot, the Ontario Teachers' Pension Fund. GE invested $300 million with Batista in May of 2012 only to write down the investment a little more than a year later. Considering the number of oil-drilling products and services the company's sold to OGX over the years, often announced with splashy press releases, it's possible that GE could end up in the long line of creditors hoping to get paid back. According to Morningstar data, Pimco, Blackrock and Lord Abbot are some of the largest holders of OGX bonds that are on the verge of default. Those three companies, along with Loomis Sayles, Ashmore, Spinaker and GSO, have hired legal firm Cleary Gotlieb and banking firm Rothschild to represent them in trying to negotiate a debt restructuring with OGX. Despite days of meetings this past week in Brazil, those negotiations so far have come to nothing. Blackstone &amp; Lazard are representing OGX. OGX bonds fell in value at a breath-taking pace. They were issued in the last two years and yet now are trading between 7-12 cents on the dollar. Many of the current holders, according to people familiar with the situation, bought at face value. (Read more:¬†Where now for Brazil after rates hiked for fifth month?) None of the firms mentioned above replied to CNBC's requests for comment. In May of 2011, OGX borrowed $2.56 billion with a coupon of 8.5 percent. The unsecured bonds were due to mature in 2018. Less than a year later, as OGX's offshore struggles mounted, the company went back to the capital markets for even more‚Äîborrowing $1.063 billion with a coupon payment of 8.375 percent, also unsecured, and set to mature in 2022. OGX missed an interest payment on the latter on Oct 1, setting in motion the road to a potential bankruptcy filing. Batista's 30-day grace period expires at midnight on Halloween, Oct. 31. One last hope for Batista &amp; OGX could be a lone field called Martelo. Batista is racing to bring it online in hopes of having a commercially viable well there as early as next month. It's the key reason he may file for bankruptcy as soon as this weekend. According to sources familiar with the situation, suppliers and contractors have stopped providing services to OGX for fear they won't get paid. If a company sells a service or piece of equipment before a bankruptcy filing, it falls into the list of "pre-petition creditors" and has to fight for the financial scraps along with everyone else. However, once the company has filed for bankruptcy, a judge can order that contractors be paid first in order for the company to keep functioning at its core mission‚Äîmaking it easier to pay back creditors. By CNBC's Michelle Caruso-Cabrera.¬†Follow her¬†@MCaruso_Cabrera
YouTube/TedxTalks If you're not following Ian Bremmer on Twitter, you're missing out. The political scientist and founder of the Eurasia Group is a fountain of insight on geopolitics, who is able to bring an extraordinary broad perspective to current events. He also regularly tweets fascinating nuggets and lists on things like defense, economics, financial markets, and politics. Here we picked out some favorites that, when taken together, kind of explain the whole world.               Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Ian Bremmer Now go follow Ian on Twitter!
Here's a fascinating chart that probably comports with what you're seeing in real life. The age at which people are first getting married is soaring. (Via John Podhoretz). The jump in the last decade is particularly notable. There are various theories for why people are getting married later, but one notion has to do with cultural attitudes towards marriage, and the growing perception that marriage is a "capstone" of life achievements, rather than a cornerstone. Census
Flickr/mark_donoherA heavily indebted island weighs on Americaís municipal-bond market... ALTHOUGH investors are now less jittery about a possible default by the American Treasury, they are rightly still nervous about a drama unfolding in the market for state and local debt. Since May, yields on bonds issued by Puerto Rico, a self-governing American territory, have shot up to between 8% and 10%, despite their (barely) investment-grade rating and tax-exempt interest. Puerto Rico carries outsized importance in Americaís almost $4 trillion municipal-debt market, which includes bonds issued by states and other local authorities as well as by cities. The islandís current debt, between $52 billion and $70 billion (depending on how it is measured), is the third-largest behind Californiaís and New Yorkís, despite a far smaller and poorer population. In Americaís 50 states the average ratio of state debt to personal income is 3.4%. Moodyís, a ratings agency, puts Puerto Ricoís tax-supported debt at an eye-watering 89% (see chart). Puerto Ricoís debt has long been a staple of American municipal-bond funds because of its high yields and its exemption from federal and local taxes--of particular appeal to investors in high-tax states. That let Puerto Rico keep borrowing despite its shaky economic and financial condition, until Detroitís bankruptcy in July alerted investors to the threat of default by other governments in similar penury. America won control of Puerto Rico in the Spanish-American war of 1898. Its people have American citizenship and receive American government pensions, but pay no federal tax on their local income. The EconomistThe economy has big structural problems. Participation in the labour force, at 41%, is some 20 percentage points below Americaís. The island has the federal minimum wage, even though local productivity and incomes are far lower than in the rest of America, creating a strong disincentive to hire. Inflated benefit payments, for disability for instance, discourage work. Moodyís Analytics reckons the territoryís bloated public sector accounts for 20% of employment, compared with 3.7% for the average state (though it provides some services that the federal government would on the mainland). Growth and investment are hampered by bureaucracy, stunted infrastructure and crime. Puerto Rico has been in recession virtually since 2006, when a federal tax break for corporate income expired, prompting many businesses to leave. As Puerto Ricans with prospects emigrate, the remaining population has aged and shrunk. The government has run budget deficits (prohibited for states) for the past decade, averaging 2.5% of GDP from 2009 to 2012. Its pension fund is only 7% funded, which is abysmal even by the standards of other American states and territories. The current administration has sought to shore up its finances by increasing taxes by $1.1 billion (about 1% of GDP) and raising the retirement age for government employees, as well as the share of their salaries they contribute to their pensions. It has promised to wipe out its budget deficit, projected at $820m this fiscal year, by 2016. Such austerity could further hobble growth, making it harder to shrink debt ratios. Luis FortuÒo, the previous governor, lost his job last year partly because of public anger at the cuts he oversaw. Like Greece in the euro zone, Puerto Rico has no control over monetary policy (the preserve of the Federal Reserve), and so cannot mitigate a fiscal tightening with lower interest rates or a cheaper currency. Investors meanwhile are so wary, after years of missed deficit targets, tardy financial reports and accounts opaquer than those of other states, that Puerto Rico has had to cut back on new bond issues. It is filling the gap with more shortñterm bank loans; but they come at punitive rates of interest and must be rolled over more often. Investors are now openly debating whether Puerto Rico will default. Its constitution requires that its general-obligation bonds ($10.6 billion of the total) get first claim on tax revenues. Other bonds are backed by dedicated revenue such as sales tax and power bills and by a law authorising the government to pay interest ahead of other claims. "Honouring debts is not only a constitutional but also a moral obligation," Alejandro Padilla, the governor, told investors earlier this month. Yet politically it may be tough to gratify bondholders if police, doctors and teachers go unpaid. The federal government cannot be counted on for a bail-out: fiscal hawks in Congress would almost certainly balk at the expense and the precedent. Should Puerto Rico seek to restructure its debts, it would be entering uncharted legal terrain. Unlike a city it cannot declare bankruptcy. It does not enjoy the same sovereignty the constitution grants the states; should it try to renege on its debts, Congress might intervene. Years of litigation would follow. Puerto Ricoís problems have not yet had much effect beyond its shores. Its debt is held mainly by mutual funds and individuals, although in recent months many have sold to distressed-debt specialists. Some brokers have stopped selling its bonds to their clients. Borrowing costs have risen for a few highly indebted states such as Illinois, but the majority have no trouble selling bonds, says Chris Mier of Loop Capital Markets, which specialises in municipal debt. Happily, state finances are much healthier today than in 2010. But complacency would not be wise. No state has defaulted since 1933. A default by Puerto Rico could come as a wake-up call. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
The S&amp;P 500 is trading at all-time highs. And halfway through third quarter earnings reporting season, it looks like the underlying fundamentals ó earnings per share ó are set to post new records as well. "At $26.85, 3Q 2013 EPS is on track to establish a new quarterly and trailing four-quarter high," says Goldman Sachs strategist Amanda Sneider. "Trailing four-quarter EPS totals $102.13. Despite more sales misses than usual, aggregate sales results are in line with expectations." Sneider outlines the three biggest takeaways from Q3 earnings reporting so far in a note to clients: "(1) 3Q earnings positively surprise, driven by Financials and higher than expected margins; (2) Revenues have been in line with expectations and trailing four-quarter margins remain stable despite positive surprises in 3Q;†(3) Negative revisions to 4Q EPS estimates." Compustat, FirstCall, I/B/E/S, and GS Global Investment Research"Despite negative 4Q revisions, the consensus full-year 2013 EPS estimate for the S&P 500 increased when combined with the positive surprise to 3Q estimates."óAmanda Sneider, Goldman SachsThe chart at left shows that while consensus fourth-quarter estimates among Wall Street analysts are deteriorating as companies guide expectations downward, the upside surprise to third-quarter estimates so far more than makes up for worse Q4 numbers. Despite the strong showing for Q3 earnings so far ó and the fact full-year earnings are now expected to be better than previously thought as a result ó guidance for Q4 earnings has not been pleasant. "Company guidance has been more negative than usual with 42 of 51 companies (82%) guiding down 4Q expectations," says Sneider. "In a typical quarter, 70% of guidance is negative. Bottom up consensus estimates for next quarter fell 1% in recent weeks." Compustat, FirstCall, I/B/E/S, and Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchAnd cyclical sectors are taking the brunt of the damage ó especially industrials and energy ó as the table at right shows. Meanwhile, in response to Q3 earnings, the market has been more likely to punish a stock that misses expectations than one that beats estimates. "59% of stocks that beat on earnings outperformed the market on the next trading day, while 70% of stocks that missed earnings underperformed," says Sneider. And that first number has been coming down. "The market has been less likely to reward sales and earnings beats in 2013 compared to 2011 and 2012," she writes. "Between 2011 and 2012, 62% of stocks that beat earnings estimates and 63% of stocks that beat sales estimates outperformed the market on the next trading day. This compares to 59% and 54% this quarter." In the coming week, we should get a better look at how everything will eventually shake out. "Next week is the last major earnings week of the 3Q 2013 season," Sneider says. "27% of equity cap, 126 companies, is set to report. Half of Energy and Utilities market cap will announce results next week. 30% of the Health Care, Materials, and Info Tech sectors will also report." In a separate note to clients, Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin said the three questions dominating his discussions with clients about the stock market over the past week were "(1) the forward path of the US equity market; (2) prospective return of the S&amp;P 500 compared with other global stock markets; and (3) investment strategies through year-end after a stellar 22% rally during the first 10 months of 2013." On the first question, Kostin says the debate among Goldman clients can be characterized in three words: "Fama vs. Shiller" (the names of two economists who won this year's Nobel Prize in economics). Read more here ª Follow earnings reports throughout the week LIVE on Business Insider ª
WASHINGTON (AP) ó On this, GOP budget guru Rep. Paul Ryan and top Senate Democrat Harry Reid can agree: There won't be a "grand bargain" on the budget. Instead, the Wisconsin Republican and the Nevada Democrat both say the best Washington can do in this bitterly partisan era of divided government is a small-ball bargain that tries to take the edge off of automatic budget cuts known as sequestration. Official Capitol Hill negotiations start next week, but Ryan and Reid both weighed in Thursday to tamp down any expectations that the talks might forge a large-scale agreement where several previous high-level talks have failed. Long-standing, entrenched differences over taxes make a large-scale budget pact virtually impossible, according to lawmakers, their aides and observers who will be monitoring the talks. Most Republicans say they simply won't agree to any further taxes atop the 10-year, $600 billion-plus tax increase on upper-income earners that President Barack Obama and Democrats muscled through Congress in January. Without higher taxes, Democrats say they won't yield to cuts in benefit programs like Medicare. "If we focus on some big, grand bargain then we're going to focus on our differences, and both sides are going to require that the other side compromises some core principle and then we'll get nothing done," Ryan, who chairs the House Budget Committee, said in an interview Thursday. "So we aren't focusing on a grand bargain because I don't think in this divided government you'll get one." But a fellow GOP negotiator, Oklahoma Rep. Tom Cole, said Friday that additional revenue could be part of an agreement. Added Cole: "Both sides would like to deal with the sequester. And we're willing to put more revenue on the table to do that, and we would like to do it with entitlement savings." Cole was not talking about raising tax rates; one option he mentioned would be to give corporations incentive to repatriate untaxed overseas profits. "The reality is, you're going to have to have a deal here," Cole said, appearing on Bloomberg Television's "Political Capital with Al Hunt" airing Friday night. "And a deal means everybody gives something up." In an interview Thursday with Nevada public radio station KNPR, Reid, the Senate majority leader, agreed that a large-scale grand bargain wasn't in the cards. "They have their mind set on doing nothing, nothing more on revenue, and until they get off that kick, there's not going to be a grand bargain," Reid said. "We're just going to have to do something to work our way through sequestration." Ryan, his party's vice presidential nominee a year ago, and Senate Budget Committee Chairwoman Patty Murray, D-Wash., are two of the key congressional figures in the talks. Both say they're seeking common ground between the sharply different Republican and Democratic budgets. Common ground, however, is a much different concept than compromise. It involves finding ideas upon which they can agree rather than compromising principles such as Republican opposition to tax increases or the unwillingness by many Democrats to consider cutting future Social Security benefits by decreasing the annual cost-of-living adjustments. Instead of a broad agreement encompassing tax hikes and structural curbs on the growth of benefit programs like Medicare and Medicaid, Ryan says he's seeking a "smaller, more achievable objective." The talks, he said, also will focus on alleviating another upcoming round of automatic spending cuts and replacing them with longer-term cuts. Sequestration mostly hits so-called discretionary spending, the money approved by Congress each year to run agency operations. Ryan wants to cut autopilot-like spending on entitlement programs like Medicare to ease sequestration's effects on both the Pentagon and domestic programs. "I think we all agree that there's a smarter way to cut spending" than sequestration, Ryan said. "If I can reform entitlement programs where the savings compound annually ... that is more valuable for reducing the debt than a one-time spending cut in discretionary spending." The White House and Democrats are pressing to include new revenue from closing tax loopholes and infrastructure spending to boost the economy. Before departing the White House on Friday for stops in New York City, Obama discussed the budget process by phone with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of California, Murray and Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. He did not make a similar call to congressional Republicans. "Even if we do not have the big grand bargain, if you were to have a medium deal or small deal, those deals could have permanent loophole closures and permanent mandatory savings that would help our permanent long-term fiscal situation," senior White House official Gene Sperling told a business group Friday. The automatic spending cuts are required because a 2011 deficit-reduction supercommittee failed to reach an agreement. The cuts would carve $91 billion from the day-to-day budgets of the Pentagon and domestic agencies in 2014 compared with the spending caps set by a 2011 budget deal. The Pentagon would absorb almost 60 percent of the cuts. While the first official meeting of the larger House-Senate negotiating team is scheduled for next week, Ryan and Murray have been talking already. Republicans are looking at a bushel basket of cuts to Medicare health care providers contained in Obama's budget. They also have voiced support for curbing Social Security cost-of-living adjustments, an idea Obama has backed, but only in the context of a broader deal in which Republicans would allow tax increases. That proposal won't fly in the current talks. There are also several supercommittee ideas like curbing Postal Service cost overruns, making federal workers contribute more to their pensions and raising premiums on higher-income Medicare beneficiaries. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
This is a fascinating way to visualize when various regions across the U.S. first got developed. Seth Kadish at the blog Vizual Statistix has put together this map showing when the plurality of homes in any given county were built. So, for example, in the bright, off-yellow counties, more homes were built pre-1930s than in any other period. As you can see, in the West and in the Southeast, you actually have many counties where more homes were built post 1990s than in any other period. It's also fascinating to see the pockets out West that haven't been crazily developed recently, and where the homes remain very old, such as parts of Oregon and Texas. Vizual Statistix
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor Six years ago, only a few months before Northern Rock collapsed and the world plunged into a financial storm from which it still has not properly recovered, I met Alex Rossiter, a 29-year-old freelance radio producer, in the basement kitchen of his parents' house in Hackney, east London. His father, Alan, a community arts worker, told me how he had bought the house for £9,300 in 1977 and that now "it's probably worth £500,000, if you can believe that". Actually, I told him, it's probably more like £800,000. At which point, he nearly fell off his chair. But then this was May 2007, and I'd spent a fortnight tramping up and down his road, knocking on doors, asking strangers intrusive questions about their personal lives. I was trying to build up a snapshot of how Britain's super-inflated housing market had affected the people in a single, randomly chosen London street. At that moment, house price inflation seemed deranged, unstoppable; headline after headline documented the rising prices; nationally, values were up 10% year on year. In London, a single house viewing could draw 200 people and result in 10 sealed bids at the end of the day. And everyone I spoke to, both the winners and losers in the great British property lottery, wondered: how could it go on? Where would it end? Where was the money coming from? We know the answer to that now, of course. Global economic meltdown and the biggest collapse in house prices in two decades. Six years on, though, in London at least, but by no means all over the country, the headlines have returned. London asking prices increased by 10% in a single month, according to Rightmove. Which means, as one commenter put it, that every minute the average London home is increasing in value by "the price of a Subway sandwich". And this could be just the start. The government's Help to Buy scheme, attacked by everyone from the IMF to former Bank of England governor Sir Mervyn King, is widely expected to pour political booster fuel into an already hyped-up market just in time for the next election. That 2007 mood? It's back. And so is what Anne Currell, the co-owner of Currell's estate agency, a mini-chain, based in north and east London, and who happens to live on the street I picked, calls "the slightly unreal feeling of it all". The street was Albion Drive in E8, and I chose it randomly ñ an inner-London everystreet made up of family homes and 60s in-fill, Georgian detacheds and a council estate. But the super-gentrification that has benefited Hackney has meant that it turned out to be a more exceptional case than other streets in other boroughs. Albion Drive is hop, a skip and a jump from what has become London's Silicon Roundabout technology district; another hop, skip and a jump from London's new nightlife central, Dalston, both of which have emerged in the six years since I wrote the original article. It turned out to be an extreme case: a hyperbolic exaggeration of a London street, where some have made millions and some struggle to cover the rent. But in this, it is perhaps a bellwether. Even six years ago, there was a staggering wealth gap between those with property and those without; in Albion Drive, it's now an unbridgeable chasm. This is the rest of Britain, potentially, a few more years down the line. Have prices really gone crazy again, I ask Currell, or is it just media exaggeration? She sighs and repeats what she said earlier. "There's just this slightly unreal feel to what's going on. Even for an estate agent, it's not hugely pleasurable. "You think it's easy, but actually when you put a house on the market and there are four or five people who want to buy the same house, that's not particularly satisfying. And how sustainable it is, I don't know. But the fact remains there are not enough properties being built in London." In 2007, it didn't seem possible that prices could keep on rising. And yet, despite the crash, she estimates that prices in the street are 65% higher than they were at the so-called "height" of the boom. She bought her house for £170,000 in 1986 and in 2007 told me that it was probably worth £1.2m. "Did I say that? Well we're just having some work done on it, and when it's finished I think it'll be worth around £2.4m-£2.5m, so that's actually a 100% rise. But it's a very specific product." By which I think she means that it's what non-specialists might call a bloody nice house: double-fronted with a massive garden. In 2007, it seemed impossible that prices could continue going up because, in the absence of wage increases, how would first-time buyers be able to borrow any more? The answer is that, in the past six years, first-time buyers have changed: "There's always two of them now. It's two people buying a one-bed flat together. That's around £350,000 and at least one of them, if not both, will be getting help from parents." And then there's the overseas market. "That's the other change: 70% of all London newbuilds are sold to foreign buyers, which we play a small part in." There's a perception that this affects only prime central London, but she says: "Even we have a China desk now." Six years ago, I'd found every sort of person and every sort of housing story in Albion Drive. People like George Vassiliou, who bought his council house with Right to Buy a decade earlier for £39,000 and had just sold up for £565,000; first-time buyers like Dan Massie, 25, a town planner who'd managed to buy a one-bed flat for £265,000 with his girlfriend because of "massive help" from their parents; young renters such as Jodie Banaszkiewicz who, with two friends, was paying nearly £1,500 a month to rent an ex-council flat on an estate at the end of the road; and academics like Rosemary Stott, who had seen her house treble in value in a decade. She was a film lecturer who told me she taught a course on film in the hyper-inflationary Weimar Republic "and frankly, this feels quite similar". Six years on, the winners have just won more; the losers are just ever further away from being able to afford their own homes. Alan Rossiter says "it's absolutely nuts" when I talk to him about the price of his home now, but he doesn't have quite the same sense of shock and awe that he had back then. Even when I point out that a similar-sized home to his recently sold for £1.25m. "I know it's just crazy. But we love living here. It's a house to us. It's our home not an asset." In 2007, his son, Alex, said, frustrated: "I don't think I'll ever be able to buy." Six years on, the frustration has been replaced by an air of quiet resignation. He's 36 now and a press officer for the TUC. He rents a flat with two friends in north London. "I'm in the same position as a lot of people. I've got a professional good job, and earn a decent salary, but unless you have considerable savings, actually buying somewhere is an incredibly distant prospect," he says. "I've almost reconciled myself to not buying any time soon. I'm 36 and I don't think it's going to happen by the time I'm 40. But there are people in a lot worse situations than me. I'm lucky, I enjoy my job, I'm happy, and I live in a nice part of London. I have a decent quality of life. "But I'd always assumed that I would have my own place, that I would have children. You review that as you get older." Some of his friends, mostly those who have had parental help, have managed to buy. "And I don't resent them for that at all. But there is an asset gap that's opening up between those who have and haven't managed to buy. I don't think there's resentment about it. I just think that people want to settle down and maybe have a family and that's become incredibly difficult. It's hard to plan a future in short-term rented accommodation." That rising house prices take money from the young ñ and as Martin Weale, the director of the National Institute of Social and Economic Research said last time, "the not yet born" ñ and gift it to the old has, at least, become a mainstream school of thought since I wrote the piece in 2007. The issue of intergenerational fairness is now on the political agenda, even if nothing has been done to address it ñ although Jonathan Portes, the institute's new director, tells me that he believes it's somewhat overstated. "My sympathy for young graduates whose parents own a house is somewhat limited. Old people die, and you can't take it with you. It's young people who haven't been to university, who haven't got the qualifications, and who, if they live outside of London, won't be able to afford to move to London. It's people who aren't going to inherit. And that's why rising house prices are inequitable and regressive, and socially, in all sorts of ways, a bad thing." He's right: Alex might inherit, some day, though it's not much use to him now. The children of the council and housing association tenants in the street will never have even that distant hope. And the vast wealth gap opening up between London and the south-east and the rest of Britain means that it's not just social inequalities that are being widened ñ by the price of a Subway sandwich a minute ñ but also geographical ones. Homeowners in London can, at some point, exercise the option of moving to a cheaper part of the country and reducing their mortgage, or using their equity as a pension or as start-up capital for an artisanal bakery, or whatever. If you live in a cheaper part of the country, tough. There are jobs in London, and many young people aspire to live there, but as a bunch of students from the Midlands told the Guardian last week, the idea of paying the capital's extortionate rents is simply "scary". If you have a decent job, you can at least afford the extortionate rents. At the end of the road, I meet Dan (not his real name) who's 38. He rents a flat with his girlfriend in one of the council blocks and they're stuck in a flat-baby dilemma. "We can afford to buy something, somewhere using both our salaries, but we want to have a baby, so Ö," and he shrugs his shoulders. "I'm old enough to remember the last crash and I always thought there had to be one and it couldn't carry on. But then the government pumped loads of money into the banks, and propped it up and now it's worse than ever." Dan's friends who bought "are loaded, basically", he says. "That single fact is going to affect the rest of our lives. They will always be rich and have options; I will probably be quite poor, with a massive mortgage, and won't. "And to be honest, it's the ones who started off rich ñ whose parents could afford to give them money ñ who are now in nice houses and all the rest, and the ones whose didn't, aren't. It's got less to do with how successful they've been professionally, than with the fact that they had help with a deposit at 25." He's still one of the lucky ones, though. A report last week gave the staggering statistic that two in five private renters in London are living below the poverty line. But then, the whole paradigm of home ownership has changed in the capital. "London is now a minority home-owning city," says Toby Lloyd, an analyst with Shelter. "And levels are falling fast. More and more people are in unstable, insecure tenancies." And while London is "particularly acute", he says, "house prices are higher now than in 2007 in every region of the country. There are really bad hotspots all over the country. We looked at asking prices compared with average wages all over the country, and only 2% of properties were available for those on an average wage." Is it a short-term bubble? Neal Hudson, a housing analyst for Savills, refers to the "potential for irrational exuberance" but also says his company is about to revise its five-year forecast of house price inflation (18% in the UK, 25% in London) upwards. He adds: "There's one particular piece of data that has started to worry me. The loan-to-income ratio for first time buyers is higher than it was in 2007. They're borrowing even more than they were then." The story of Albion Drive was a snapshot in 2007. In 2013, it feels more like a prophecy. A decade ago, the wealth gap between its home owners and council tenants and private renters, between its older residents and younger residents, was pronounced but not insurmountable. Now it is. I chat to Robin Murray, an economist living in Albion Drive, whose specialist subject is co-operatives. He calls home ownership "the absolute plank" of inequality. Six years ago, he told me that house price inflation had a parallel in the great political struggle of the 19th century over the price of land ñ how parliament was composed of landowners who introduced legislation such as the Corn Laws for their own benefit. I tell him how that stayed with me. And he's kind enough to say that what I wrote has stayed with him too: that Britain is now two classes: the landed, and the landless. Private renters, council tenants, those who don't have parents to bequeath them a house: they are the new peasant farmers, locked at the bottom of society with no escape ladder to climb. Neo-serfs, I called them then. The name didn't stick, obviously. But, who knows: maybe its time will yet come. Read the piece. I never say that. But six years on, it feels just a bit uncanny. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Wall Street bonus season will be upon us sooner than you think, and since this year's been a bumpy ride for markets, there's no telling what could happen. But of course, everyone has expectations. eFinancialCareers did a fly-around survey to see what bankers around the world expect from this bonus season. The career site talked to 4,642 bankers globally, and 1,427 bankers in the United States between September 10, 2013 and September 29, 2013. Of those, 49% work in the front office, 25% work in the middle office, and 26% in back-office positions. From the looks of it, bankers in the Gulf States are most optimistic, while here in the U.S. bankers are just... meh. Check out the results in the slide below via eFinancialCareers: eFinancial Careers
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderI wasn't the only person coming out with a book this week (much more on that at the end of the letter). Alan Greenspan hit the street with The Map and the Territory. Greenspan left Bernanke and Yellen a map, all right, but in many ways the Fed (along with central banks worldwide) proceeded to throw the map away and march off into totally unexplored territory. Under pressure since the Great Recession hit in 2007, they abandoned traditional monetary policy principles in favor of a new direction: print, buy, and hope that growth will follow. If aggressive asset purchases fail to promote growth, Chairman Bernanke and his disciples (soon to be Janet Yellen and the boys) respond by upping the pace. That was appropriate in 2008 and 2009 and maybe even in 2010, but not today. Consider the Taylor Rule, for example ‚Äì a key metric used to project the appropriate federal funds rate based on changes in growth, inflation, other economic activity, and expectations around those variables. At the worst point of the 2007-2009 financial crisis, with the target federal funds rate already set at the 0.00% ‚Äì 0.25% range, the Taylor Rule suggested that the appropriate target rate was about -6%. To achieve a negative rate was the whole point of QE; and while a central bank cannot achieve a negative interest-rate target through traditional open-market operations, it can print and buy large amounts of assets on the open market ‚Äì and the Fed proceeded to do so. By contrast, the Taylor Rule is now projecting an appropriate target interest rate around 2%, but the Fed is goes on pursuing a QE-adjusted rate of around -5%. Mauldin Also, growth in NYSE margin debt is showing the kind of rapid acceleration that often signals a drawdown in the S&amp;P 500. Are we there yet? Maybe not, as the level of investor complacency is just so (insert your favorite expletive) high. Mauldin The potential for bubbles building atop the monetary largesse being poured into our collective glasses is growing. As an example, the "high-yield" bond market is now huge. A study by Russell, a consultancy, estimated its total size at $1.7 trillion. These are supposed to be bonds, the sort of thing that produces safe income for retirees, yet almost half of all the corporate bonds rated by Standard &amp; Poor's are once again classed as speculative, a polite term for junk. Central Bankers Gone Wild But there is a resounding call for even more rounds of monetary spirits coming from emerging-market central banks and from local participants, as well. And the new bartender promises to be even more liberal with her libations. This week my friend David Zervos sent out a love letter to Janet Yellen, professing an undying love for the prospect of a Yellen-led Fed and quoting a song from the "Rocky Horror Picture Show," whose refrain was "Dammit, Janet, I love you." In his unrequited passion I find an unsettling analysis, if he is even close to the mark. Let's drop in on his enthusiastic note: I am truly looking forward to 4 years of "salty" Janet Yellen at the helm of the Fed. And it's not just the prolonged stream of Jello shots that's on tap. The most exciting part about having Janet in the seat is her inherent mistrust of market prices and her belief in irrational behaviour processes. There is nothing more valuable to the investment community than a central banker who discounts the value of market expectations. In many ways the extra-dovish surprise in September was a prelude of so much more of what's to come. I can imagine a day in 2016 when the unemployment rate is still well above Janet's NAIRU estimate and the headline inflation rate is above 4 percent. Of course the Fed "models" will still show a big output gap and lots of slack, so Janet will be talking down inflation risks. Markets will be getting nervous about Fed credibility, but her two-year-ahead projection of inflation will have a 2 handle, or who knows, maybe even a 1 handle. Hence, even with house prices up another 10 percent and spoos well above 2100, the "model" will call for continued accommodation!! Bond markets may crack, but Janet will stay the course. BEAUTIFUL!! Janet will not be bogged down by pesky worries about bubbles or misplaced expectations about inflation. She has a job to do ‚Äì FILL THE OUTPUT GAP! And if a few asset price jumps or some temporary increases in inflation expectations arise, so be it. For her, these are natural occurrences in "irrational" markets, and they are simply not relevant for "rational" monetary policy makers equipped with the latest saltwater optimal control models. The antidote to such a boundless love of stimulus is of course Joan McCullough, with her own salty prose: And the more I see of the destruction of our growth potential ‚Ä¶ the more convinced I am that it's gonna' backfire in spades. Do I still think that we remain good-to-go into year end? At the moment, sporadic envelope testing notwithstanding, the answer is yes. But I have to repeat myself: The data has stunk for a long time and continues to worsen. And the anecdotes confirming this are yours for the askin'. The only question remaining is for how long we can continue to bet the ranch on wildly incontinent monetary policy while deliberately opting to ignore the ongoing disintegration of our economic fabric?" And thus we come to the heart of this week's letter, which is the introduction of my just-released new book, Code Red. It is my own take (along with co-author Jonathan Tepper) on the problems that have grown out of an unrelenting assault on monetary norms by central banks around the world. I saw the actual book for the first time this week and found myself reading it with fresh eyes. We finished the last draft less than two months ago and rushed it to press; but perusing it again this week, I found it even more timely than when we hit the send button to deliver it to the publisher. So, without further ado, let's jump right into the introduction. (If nothing else, you must read my redo of Jack Nicholson's speech from A Few Good Men ‚Äì as delivered by Ben Bernanke.) An Introduction: Code Red When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and AIG was taken over by the US government in the fall of 2008, the world almost came to an end. Over the next few weeks, stock markets went into free fall as trillions of dollars of wealth were wiped out. However, even more disturbing were the real-world effects on trade and businesses. A strange silence descended on the hubs of global commerce. As international trade froze, ships stood empty near ports around the world because banks would no longer issue letters of credit. Factories shut and millions of workers were laid off as commercial paper and money market funds used to pay wages froze. Major banks in the US and the UK were literally hours away from shutting down, and ATMs were on the verge of running out of cash. The world was threatened with a big deflationary collapse. A crisis that big comes around only twice a century. Families and governments were swamped with too much debt and not enough money to pay them off. But cent ral banks and governments saved the day by printing money, providing almost unlimited amounts of liquidity to the financial system. Like a doctor's putting a large jolt of electricity on a dying man's chest, the extreme measures brought the patient back to life. The money printing that central bankers did after the failure of Lehman Brothers was entirely appropriate in order to avoid a Great Depression II. The Fed and central banks were merely creating some money and credit that only partially offset the contraction in bank lending. The initial crisis is long gone, but the unconventional measures have stayed with us. Once the crisis was over, it was clear that the world was saddled with high debt and low growth. In order to fight the monsters of deflation and depression, central bankers have gone wild. Central bankers kept on creating money. Quantitative easing was a shocking development when it was first trotted out, but these days the markets just shrug. Now, the markets are worried about losing their regular injections of monetary drugs. What will withdrawal be like? The amount of money central banks have created is simply staggering. Under quantitative easing, central banks have been buying every government bond in sight and have expanded their balance sheets by over nine trillion dollars. Yes, that's $9,000,000,000,000 ‚Äì twelve zeros to be exact. (By the time you read this book, the number will probably be a few trillion higher, but who is counting?) Numbers so large are difficult for ordinary humans to understand. As Senator Everett M. Dirksen once probably didn't say, "A billion here, a billion there, and soon you're talking about real money." To put it in everyday terms, if you had a credit limit of nine trillion dollars on your credit card, you could buy a MacBook Air for every single person in the world. You could fly everyone in the world on a round-trip ticket from New York to London and back. You could do that twice without blinking. We could go on, but you get the point: it's a big number . In the four years since the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, central bankers have torn up the rulebook and are trying things they have never tried before. Usually interest rates move up or down depending on growth and inflation. Higher growth and inflation normally mean higher rates, and lower growth means lower rates. Those were the good old days when things were normal. But now central bankers in the US, Japan, and Europe have pinned interest rates close to zero and promised to leave them there for years. Rates can't go lower, so some central bankers have decided to get creative. Normally central banks pay interest on the cash that banks deposit with them overnight. Not anymore. Some banks like the Swiss National Bank and the Danish National Bank have even created negative deposit rates. We now live in an upside down world. Money is effectively taxed (by central bankers, not representative governments!) to get people to spend instead of save. These unconventional policies are generally good for big banks, governments, and borrowers (who doesn't like to borrow money for free?); but they are very bad for savers. Near-zero interest rates and heavily subsidized government lending programs help the banks to make money the old-fashioned way: borrow cheaply and lend at higher rates. They also help insolvent governments by allowing them to borrow at very low costs. The flip side is that near-zero rates punish savers, providing almost no income to pensioners and the elderly. Everyone who thought their life's savings might carry them through their retirement has to come up with a Plan B when rates are near zero. In the bizarre world we now inhabit, central banks and governments try to induce consumers to spend to help the economy while they take money away from savers who would like to be able to profitably invest. Rather than inducing them to consume more, they are forcing them to spend less in order to make their savings last through their final years! Savers and investors in the developed world are the guinea pigs in an unprecedented monetary experiment. There are clear winners and losers as prudent savers are called upon to bail out reckless borrowers. In the US, UK, Japan, and most of Europe, savers receive close to zero percent interest on their savings while they watch the price of gasoline, groceries, and rents go up. Standards of living are falling for many and economic growth is elusive. Today is a time of financial repression, where central banks keep interest rates below inflation. This means that the interest savers receive on their deposits cannot keep up with the rising cost of living. Big banks are bailed out and continue paying large bonuses while older savers are punished. In the film A Few Good Men Jack Nicholson played Colonel Nathan Jessup. He was guilty of using an unconventional approach to discipline by ordering a Code Red, an extreme discipline method, on his soldiers. Colonel Jessup explained in court towards the end of the film that while his methods are grotesque and abnormal, they are necessary to preserve freedom. While central bank Code Red policies are unorthodox and distasteful, many economists believe they are necessary to kick-start the global economy and counteract the crushing burden of debt. David Zervos, chief market strategist at the investment bank Jeffries &amp; Co., humorously observed that if Ben Bernanke, the Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve, could be honest with the public, he would paraphrase Colonel Jessup's speech: You want the truth? You can't handle the truth! Son, we live in a world that has unfathomably intricate economies, and those economies and the banks that are at their center have to be guarded by men with complex models and printing presses. Who's gonna do it? You? You, Lieutenant Mauldin? Can you even begin to grasp the resources we have to use in order to maintain balance in a system on the brink? I have a greater responsibility than you can possibly fathom! You weep for Savers and creditors, and you curse the central bankers and quantitative easing. You have that luxury. You have the luxury of not knowing what I know: that the destruction of savers with inflation and low rates, while tragic, probably saved lives. And my existence, while grotesque and incomprehensible to you, saves jobs and banks and businesses and whole economies! You don't want the truth, because deep down in places you don't talk about at parties, you want me on that central bank! You need me on that Committee! Without our willingness to silently serve, deflation would come storming over our economic walls and wreak far worse havoc on an entire nation and the world. I will not let the 1930s and that devastating unemployment and loss of lives repeat themselves on my watch. We use words like "full employment," "inflation," "stability." We use these words as the backbone of a life spent defending something. You use them as a punchline! I have neither the time nor the inclination to explain myself to a man who rises and sleeps under the blanket of the very prosperity that I provide, and then questions the manner in which I provide it! I would rather you just say "Thank you," and go on your way. Central bankers must hide the truth in order to do their job. We may dislike what they are doing, but if politicians want to avoid large-scale defaults, the world needs loose money and money printing. Ben Bernanke and his colleagues worldwide have effectively issued and enforced a Code Red monetary policy. Their economic theories and experience told them it was the correct and necessary thing to do ‚Äì in fact, they were convinced it was the only thing to do! Chairman Ben Bernanke could not be further from Colonel Nathaniel Jessup, but they are both men on a mission. Colonel Jessup is maniacally obsessed with enforcing discipline on his base at Guantanamo. He has seen war and does not take it lightly. He is a tough Marine who would not hesitate to kill his enemies. He is not loved, but he's happy to be feared and respected. Ben Bernanke, by contrast, is a soft-spoken academic. You can't find anyone with anything bad to say about him personally. His story is inspiring. He grew up as one of the few Jews in the Southern town of Dillon, South Carolina; and through his natural genius and hard work, he was admitted to Harvard, where he graduated with distinction, and soon he embarked on a brilliant academic career at MIT and Princeton. Sometimes when Bernanke gives a speech, his voice cracks slightly, and it is certain he would much prefer to be writing academic papers or lecturing to a class of graduate students than de aling with large skeptical audiences of senators. But Bernanke is one of the world's experts on the Great Depression. He has learned from history and knows that too much debt can be lethal. He genuinely believes that, without Code Red-type policies, he would condemn America to a decade of breadlines and bankruptcies. He promised he would not let deflation and another Great Depression grip America. In his own way, he's our Colonel Jessup, standing on the wall fighting for us. And he gets too little respect. Bernanke understands that the world has far too much debt that it can't pay back. Sadly, debt can only go away via: 1) defaults (and there are so many ways to default without having to actually use the word!), 2) paying down debt through economic growth, or 3) eroding the burden of debt through inflation or devaluations. In our grandparents' age, we would have seen defaults. But defaults are painful, and no one wants them. We've grown fat and comfortable. We don't like pain. Growing our way out of our problems would be ideal, but it isn't an option. Economic growth is elusive everywhere we look. Central bankers are left with no other option but to create inflation and devalue their currencies. No one wants to hear that we'll suffer from higher inflation. It is grotesque and not what central bankers are meant to do. But people can't handle the truth, and inflation is exactly what the central bankers are preparing for us. They're sparing some the pain of defaults while others bear the pain of low returns. But a world in which big banks and governments default is almost by definition a world of not just low but (sometimes steeply) negative returns. As we said in Endgame, we are left with no good choices, only choices that range from the merely very difficult to the downright disastrous. The global situation reminds us very much of Woody Allen's quote, "More than any other time in history, mankind faces a crossroads. One path leads to despair and utter hopelessness. The other, to total extinction. Let us pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly." The choice now left to some countries is only between Disaster A and Disaster B. Today's battle with deflation requires a constant vigilance and use of Code Red procedures. Unfortunately, just as in A Few Good Men, Code Reds are not standard operating procedures or conventional policies. Ben Bernanke, Mario Draghi, Haruhiko Kuroda, and other central bankers are manning their battle station using ugly means to get the job done. They are punishing savers, encouraging people to borrow more, providing lots of liquidity, and weakening their currencies. This unprecedented global monetary experiment has only just begun, and every central bank is trying to get in on the act. It is a monetary arms race, and no one wants to be left behind. The Bank of England has devalued the pound to improve exports by allowing creeping inflation and keeping interest rates at zero. The Federal Reserve has tried to weaken the dollar in order to boost manufacturing and exports. The Bank of Japan, not to be outdone, is now trying to depreciate the yen. By weakening their currencies, they hope to boost their exports and get a leg up on their competitors. In the race to debase currencies, no one wins. Emerging market countries like Brazil, Russia, Malaysia, and Indonesia will not sit idly by while developed central banks weaken their currencies. They are fighting to keep their currencies from appreciating. They are imposing taxes on investments and savings in their currencies. Countries are turning protectionist. The battles have only begun in what promises to be an enormous, ugly currency war. If the currency wars of the1930 and 1970s are any guide, we will see knife fights ahead. Governments will fight dirty, they will impose tariffs and restrictions and capital controls. It is already happening and we will see a lot more of it. If only they were just armed with knives. We are reminded of that amusing scene in Raiders of the Lost Ark where Indiana Jones, confronted with a very large man wielding an even larger scimitar, simply pulls out his gun, shoots him, and walks away. Some central banks are better armed than others. Indeed, you might say that the four biggest central banks ‚Äì the Fed, BOE, ECB, and BOJ ‚Äì have nuclear arsenals. In a fight for national survival ‚Äì which is what a crisis this major will feel like ‚Äì will central bankers resort to the nuclear option; will they double down on Code Red policies? The conflict could get very messy for those in the neighborhood. Providing more debt and more credit after a bust that was caused by too much credit is like suggesting whiskey after a hangover. Paradoxical as the cure may be, many economists and investors think that it is just what the doctor ordered. At the star-studded World Economic Forum retreat in Davos, Switzerland, the billionaire George Soros pointed out the contradiction policy makers now face. The global financial crisis happened because of too much debt and too much money floating around. However, according to many economists and investors, the solution may in fact be more money and more debt. As he said, "When a car is skidding, you first have to turn the wheel in the same direction as the skid to regain control because if you don't, then you have the car rolling over." Only after the global economy has recovered can the car begin to right itself. Before central banks can be responsible and conventional, they must first be irresponsible and unconventional. The arsonists are now running the fire brigade. Central bankers contributed to the economic crisis the world now faces. They kept interest rates too low for too long. They fixated on controlling inflation, even as they stood by and watched investment banks party in an orgy of credit. Central bankers were completely incompetent and failed to see the Great Financial Crisis coming. They couldn't spot housing bubbles, and even when the crisis had started and banks were failing, they insisted that the banks they supervised were well regulated and healthy. They failed at their job and should have been fired. Yet governments now need central banks to erode the mountain of debt by printing money and creating inflation. Investors should ask themselves: if central bankers couldn't manage conventional monetary policy well in the good times, what makes us think that they will be able to manage unconventional monetary policies in the bad times? And if they don't do a perfect job of winding down condition Code Red, what will be the consequences? Economists know that there are no free lunches. Creating tons of new money and credit out of thin air is not without cost. Massively increasing the size of a central bank's balance sheet is risky and stores up extremely difficult problems for the future. Central bank policies may succeed in creating growth, or they may fail. It is too soon to call the outcome, but what is clear (at least to us) is that the experiment is unlikely to end well. The endgame for the current crisis is not difficult to foresee; in fact, it's already underway. Central banks think they can swell the size of their balance sheet, print money to finance government deficits, and keep rates at zero with no consequences. Bernanke and other bankers think they have the foresight to reverse their unconventional policies at the right time. They've been wrong in the past, and they will get the timing wrong in the future. They will keep interest rates too low for too long and cause inflation and bubbles in real estate, stock markets, and bonds. What they are doing will destroy savers who rely on interest payments and fixed coupons from their bonds. They will also harm lenders who have lent money and will never be repaid in devalued dollars, if they are repaid at all. We are already seeing the unintended consequences of this Great Monetary Experiment. Many emerging market stock markets have skyrocketed, only to fall back to earth at the hint of an end to Code Red policies. Junk bonds and risky commercial mortgage-backed securities are offering investors the lowest rates they have ever seen. Investors are reaching for riskier and riskier investments to get some small return. They're picking up dimes in front of a steamroller. It is fun for a while, but the end is always ugly. Older people who are relying on pension funds to pay for their retirement are getting screwed (that is a technical economic term that we will define in detail later). In normal times, retirees could buy bonds and live on the coupons. Not anymore. Government bond yields are now trading below the level of inflation, guaranteeing that any investor who holds the bonds until maturity will lose money in real terms. We live in extraordinary times. When investors convince themselves central bankers have their backs, they feel encouraged to bid up prices for everything, accepting more risk with less return. Excesses and bubbles are not a mere side effect. As crazy as it seems, reckless investor behavior is, in fact, the planned objective. William McChesney Martin, one of the great heads of the Federal Reserve, said the job of a central banker was to take away the punch bowl before the party gets started. Now, central bankers are spiking the punch bowl with triple sec and absinthe and egging on the revelers to jump in the pool. One day the party of low rates and money printing will come to an end, and investors will make their way home from the party in the early hours of sunlight half dressed, with hangovers and thumping headaches. The coming upheaval will affect everyone. No one will be spared the consequences ‚Äì from savers who are planning for retirement to professional traders looking for opportunities to profit in financial markets. Inflation will eat away at savings; government bonds will be destroyed as a supposedly safe asset class; and assets that benefit from inflation and money printing will do well. This book will provide a roadmap and a playbook for retail savers and professional traders alike. This book will shine a light on the path ahead. Code Red will explain in plain English complicated things like zero interest rate policies (ZIRP), nominal GDP targeting, quantitative easing, money printing, and currency wars. But much more importantly, it will explain how what is in store will affect your savings and offer insights on how to protect your wealth. Code Red will be an invaluable guide for the road ahead. Code Red will be available on Amazon on Monday, Oct. 28. You can get it here. Keeping Up with Tech I said at the beginning of the letter that central bankers had run right off the monetary-policy map into unexplored territory. But to be perfectly honest about it, we are all forever venturing into the unknown territory that we call the future. But we certainly do live in an unprecedented, absolutely extraordinary time. New inventions and technologies, global expansions and collapses, and amazing developments of all kinds arrive to challenge us every day. To thrive we must adapt! Patrick Cox‚Äôs new Transformational Technology Alert is the best way I know of to stay up to speed on the tech advances with the greatest potential. How Patrick conducts his research is easy to understand. He investigates the latest science by reading journals and peer-reviewed studies, then gets in touch personally with the scientists and CEOs behind the biggest breakthroughs. He compares notes with his Rolodex of industry leaders and tech experts, and then writes up his findings. Wall Street firms pay many tens of thousands a year for research like this, so we‚Äôre lucky to have Patrick on our team. Besides, I think Patrick‚Äôs work is better. Click here to see the full story behind three tiny but highly promising companies that recently caught Patrick‚Äôs attention, and sign up for his new letter at the best rate you‚Äôll see. New York, Florida, Geneva, Saudi Arabia, and Canada Jonathan and I have been in NYC this week doing media for Code Red. Tom Keene was very gracious with his comments ‚Äì I say this with immense respect, in that it is easy to do doom and gloom, and it is easy to write a book ‚Äì what a world, it's terrible, we're all going to die. John Mauldin doesn't do that. He says here are the challenges. Here are the cautions. Now, what are you going to do about it? No one has a cautious view, and then gives you a constructive prescription like John Mauldin, and we welcome him now. Code Red. Then there were interviews at Yahoo, the WSJ, Barron's, Reuters, Fox and more taping at Bloomberg. I did an earlier interview with Kim Parlee for BNN out of Toronto, which you can see here, and another fun, short piece with Paul Vigna at the WSJ. While waiting in the WSJ green room, I got to meet Todd and father Jack Hoffman of the reality TV series Gold Rush, who were a hoot. I recognized the wild-eyed passion, that certain something that is about a half-bubble off dead center that I've seen in other gold miners and Texas oil wildcatters I have met over the years. We traded emails and pics, and I think it would be fun to follow up. Not exactly high-tech mining but high fun anyway. I finish this letter from Dallas after flying back today. I will return to NYC November 12 for a one-day meeting. Then I'll fly down to be with my good friend Cliff Draughn at Ponte Vedra, Florida (south of Jacksonville), on November 14. You can find out more by going to Cliff's website at http://www.excelsia.com. And then it's back to NYC in early December (Dec. 3-6), and later that month I'll head to Geneva. In January I will visit sunny Saudi Arabia for the first time and am open to other speaking engagements in the region. I go from there to a speaking trip in late January that will take me through three cities in Western Canada (Vancouver, Edmonton, Regina), where the weather will be quite the opposite. I came back to my rented apartment and almost immediately went to see how construction on the new place had gone while I was away. I am scheduled to move in three weeks from today, and I guess I was expecting to see more done. Yes, there were at least ten people there, painting and hammering away, but it is still a construction site. Don't panic, said Carol (the general contractor), "Everything is more or less on time. Just a few things here and there for me to worry about." I am so ready to move out of a rather small one-bedroom office with a very small closet and a single chair. It has been almost ten months since I have been able to have all the kids over and settle in for a day or evening. And have my "stuff" at hand, although I am learning that I can make do with a lot less than I have accumulated over the years. While I am not going to continue this minimalist lifestyle, I doubt I will ever again allow a lot of extra things to pile up. It is time to hit the send button. I am actually going to be able to go out on a Friday night! Another season for the Dallas Mavericks is beginning, and I want to go and see what Mark Cuban has in store for me. I have been a season ticket holder for 30 years and have seen bull and bear markets in the team, but it has always been entertaining. I think NBA basketball is the most beautiful of sports. Even the guys we think of as average can do things that we mere mortals can never hope to aspire to. But it's sure fun to sit and watch. And my seats are better now than 30 years ago, when I was literally on the very top row in the corner. I think they were something like $2. Good thing there's been no inflation since 1982. Have a great week and make sure you have some fun here and there. Life was made for a little fun every now and then. Your wondering about the reviews analyst (even though I know I should never read them!),
en.wikipedia.orgWhatís it really like to be a 20-something in an investment bank in the 13th year of the 21st century? If you read†the Times,†itís a sorry existence fraught with uncertainty and overwork. ìPromotions are much harder to come by,î Georgie, a 28 year-old banking junior told the paper. ìThey can easily work us as hard as they want because they know there are 100 other people champing at the bit for our jobsÖ.ìWe all talk about this MD in our office, now 40, who got made MD at 28 almost in hushed, reverent tones, as though it were a fable of a time long ago. No one gets made MD at 28 anymore.î Well, guess what? Itís not that bad. As a junior in banking, you will have money. You will have a life. The only downside is that you will probably end up living in a bubble with a lot of other people in the industry until youíre 30 ñ at least. ìYouíre never short of money ñ unless youíre spending way too much,î says Paul, a City-based rates trader in his early 30s, speaking anonymously. ìIíve never known anyone in trading to be short of money. You have to remember that base salaries have gone up here.î Afzal, an analyst whoís just joined a leading bank in Canary Wharf says being a junior banker is a bit like being a university student ñ just with more spending power. ìMost of us are living together in rented apartments worth around†£500k,î he says. ìThey tend to be furnished, with built in dishwashers and microwaves and we can actually afford a cleaner.î Flat shares are the norm, especially when analysts didnít grow up in the UK and donít know London (most donít). ìYou meet people on the one month training programme right at the start and then you usually move in with them,î Afzal says. ìA few of us live in the Isle of Dogs, although there are some who are blowing money on living the life right next to the office, or saving it by living way out somewhere in zone four. The bank gives you a small bit of money to set you up, which helps.î Even after five or more years in banking, a lot of young bankers live in shared housing. This is partly because houses in London are so†unaffordable†and partly because theyíre often in a state of uncertainty about their futures. ìI was sharing with my mate in his late 20s even when he was making†£750k a year,î boasts Paul. ìHe didnít want to buy anywhere ñ he always thought he was going to quit his job in a year or two and go to South America.î ìEveryone I know was living in shared houses even when they were 28 or 29,î says James, a capital markets banker at a boutique firm in London. ìThatís just how it is now ñ you live with your peers in the industry.î What does the banking-youth do at weekends? Afzal says there are analyst parties. These events might be in other analystsí flats. ñ ìOr we get together and go out to restaurants. Thereís not so much clubbing ñ itís more mature socializing. Weíre not like students who go out to get drunk and off their faces.î Sometimes young bankers get a little carried away. Paul says he got into debt in his first year because he was expecting his bonus in February and only found out at the last minute that it was paid in July: ìI ended up with a big overdraft.î There are also stories of a Credit Suisse analyst who splurged on renting a flat off Sloane Square, and then lost her job. The crunch point for todayís young bankers comes when they want to move out of shared banker-housing into their own places. This can†be hard†- especially for people who arenít in the highest paying jobs in the front office. For more of this story, head to eFinancialCareers&gt;
Credit SuisseA new study from Wall Street bank Credit Suisse exposes the "dietary impact of 'sugar and sweeteners' and their role in the ongoing health debate surrounding obesity and diabetes." The accompanying video ‚Äî "Sugar: Sweet With a Bitter Aftertaste" ‚Äî visualizes the sorry state of sugar consumption. The harrowing effect of sugar consumption on American waistlines isn't necessarily new news, but Credit Suisse does an excellent job of breaking down just how out of control it has gotten (especially in the U.S., where they¬†had to literally adjust the y-axis of one of their charts so that U.S. soda consumption could be mapped). We grabbed some screenshots from Credit Suisse's video to break it down.
