It's human nature to look at white collar criminals like Bernie Madoff and cast them off as greedy, money-grubbing crooks. But what if we all have a little Madoff inside us just waiting to rear its ugly head?¬† Researchers have increasingly explored the¬†subconscious link between money and corruption ‚Äì‚Äì¬†called behavioral ethicality ‚Äì‚Äì to find out why even morally conscious people are able to cause harm to others.¬† In a first-of-its-kind study from the University of Utah and Harvard University, hundreds of participants proved that simply the idea of money could lead them astray.¬† In four studies, 324 participants were asked to perform simple tasks, like word scrambles, that gave them subtle reminders of money with words or images. Control groups performed tasks without the money cues.¬† Afterward, researchers tested them in different ethical scenarios, such as watching an actor perform unethical tasks and deciding how likely they would be to do the same. Another test placed them in a hypothetical job hiring situation and asked them how likely they would be to hire a candidate who promised to divulge insider information on a competitor.¬† Across the board, participants who had been given money-related tasks had a greater likelihood of unethical intentions, decisions and behaviors, study co-author and Psychology professor Kristin Smith-Crowe told Business Insider. "What was happening with our participants is that the exposure to the concept of money was actually affecting they way they were thinking," Smith-Crowe said. "The money cues were triggering a business decision mind frame, which meant that they focused on a cost benefit analysis as motivation to pursue their own self interest, rather than thinking about things more broadly." Even people who took tests with super subtle money cues ‚Äì‚Äì such as a word search that contained money-related terms ‚Äì‚Äì were more likely to engage in unethical behavior, they found. "It makes a lot of sense that greed would produce evil," Smith-Crowe said. "But we were interested in the fact that maybe it's not even love of money, but just the mere subtle exposure to the concept of money that, in and of itself, may also be corrupting." The question now is whether we can stop people in places of power from making the kinds of self-promoting decisions that tend to harm others. Many companies ask employees to undergo ethics training, but Harvard researchers say that isn't enough.¬† "If ethics training is to actually change and improve ethical decision-making, it needs to incorporate behavioral ethics, and specifically the subtle ways in which our ethics are bounded," wrote Harvard researchers Max H. Bazerman and Ann E. Tenbrunsel in their study, "Blind Spot: Why We Fail to Do What‚Äôs Right and What to Do about It."¬† But according to Smith-Crowe, studies like hers are further-reaching than just the business world.¬† "It's still pretty amazing to us that these subtle cues to money can have that big of an effect on our decisions and our behavior," she said. "We feel like we know right from wrong, but we have to recognize that we're affected by things without realizing it." You can find Smith-Crowe and her team's study, "Seeing green: Mere exposure to money triggers a business decision frame¬†and unethical outcomes" in the¬†May 2013 issue of "Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes."
antwerpenR via flickr Creative CommonsChina will consider whether NSA leaker Edward Snowden is an asset or liability to China's state security, Teddy Ng and Zhang Hong of the South China Morning Post report. And after China determines that, apparently, the country will decide whether or not to extradite him. In the meantime, Snowden is scoring points for China in the propaganda war. Yesterday, China State television network CCTV weighed in on the Snowden case, saying he "risked his own life to expose the U.S. hypocrisy," the SCMP reports. Beijing's decision about Snowden will reportedly be conveyed through Hong Kong, because Beijing won't want ruffle the U.S.'s feathers by appearing to be directly involved.† According to a professor at Peking University, Beijing's preference is likely to extract as much information as possible from Snowden and place his fate in the hands of the Hong Kong court system. If nothing else, Snowden's leaks and accusations that the U.S. has been hacking China have been a boon to China in the relations between China and the U.S. Suddenly, China has gone from being the bad boy of global cyberwarfare to the victim. If Snowden continues to tell China everything he knows about U.S. intelligence, his assertions that he has the U.S.'s best interests at heart will likely rapidly come to seem hollow.
Wealthy home buyers are quickly running out of mansions to buy. While housing inventory is falling throughout the country, it's falling especially fast in some of the country's richest ZIP codes. A study from Altos Research, the Mountain View, Ca., real-estate research firm, found that inventory in the nation's 90 wealthiest ZIP codes fell 15 percent over the past year, slightly faster than the broader market. But in the richest ZIP codes, inventory is down more than 50 percent. In a ZIP code in Carmel, Calif., inventory fell 76 percent over the past year. There were only four homes left on the market priced at $1 million or more as of the end of May, according to Altos. In Palm Beach, Fla., the number of $1 million-plus homes has plunged by 70 percent, falling from 89 to 26. And in the Old Greenwich, Conn. ZIP code, there are only 10 homes left priced at $1 million or more, down 58 percent, according to Altos. (Read More:¬†$1 Million Hamptons Rentals on the Rise) "I don't recall seeing the market like this, and it's come so quickly," said Cristina Condon of Sotheby's International Real Estate in Palm Beach. She said buyers have poured into the market in recent months, many from overseas. American buyers are also piling in‚Äîsome from higher-tax states like California, lured by low taxes and still-low prices in Florida. Condon said one of her listings that sold in the past year is a $11.3 million property on the Intracoastal that had six bedrooms, two baths, and Tuscan-inspired gardens, along with a pool and a boat dock.¬† Interest in her remaining listings remains strong. She cited strong interest in a $34.9 million lakefront estate in Palm Beach as an example. The 13,278-square-foot mansion has 7 bedrooms, 8 baths, a sprawling pool overlooking the Intracoastal Waterway with outdoor loggias. (Read More:¬†Biggest US Home to Be Completed in 2015) In Connecticut, some $1 million-plus homes are selling just days after being listed. David Oglivy of David Oglivy &amp; Associates in Greenwich said he had a listing at $1.38 million that sold in just two days. He said the home was viewed 14 times. "The Old Greenwich market right now is just super hot," he said. About half the buyers are people moving within Greenwich and others are moving from New York City and other areas, he added. While some realtors worry that shrinking inventories could crimp future sales, Oglivy says he's not worried. "The inventory is fine," he said, adding that luxury inventories in the broader Greenwich area remain higher. Carmel and Pebble Beach, Calif., have seen a rush of buyers from Silicon Valley as well as from Europe and Asia. But the number of new, high-end listings has been limited. "We are seeing an influx of luxury second home buyers coming into the market including venture capitalists, tech money, oil and gas, developers and CEO's," said Tim Allen, of Tim Allen Properties in Pebble Beach. (Read More:¬†Wealthy Horse Owners Jump Back Into Equestrian Estates) Pebble Beach and Carmel have seen a total of 106 sales in the past four months‚Äîwell above the previous four months. A 3,000 square-foot ocean-front home in Carmel sold for $16.5 million this year, which marked a new record for Carmel. A home in Pebble Beach sold for $22.5 million, though the new owners plan to remodel. Allen said that an added factor in the high end of the real-estate market is that sellers are under less financial pressure to sell, which leads to less inventory. He said inventories remain healthy, with some high-end neighborhoods still filled with "for sale" signs, but some enclaves are selling out fast. "These sellers can hold on until they see prices where they want," Allen said. "In some of these areas, all it takes is five buyers and you can sell out."
After Nikkei futures rose as high as 13,225 earlier (up 6.3% from Thursday's close), they have taken a sharp turn lower following the release of the minutes from the Bank of Japan's May 21-22 policy meeting. Right now, the Nikkei is trading around 12,995, up *only* 4.4%. Thinkorswim Part of the minutes focuses on the volatility in the Japanese government bond (JGB) market that has spilled into equity and currency markets as well in recent weeks. In early April, the Bank of Japan launched the largest central bank bond buying program ever (relative to the size of its economy). The size of the bond purchases the Bank of Japan is making, combined with the infrequent and sporadic nature of the purchase schedule, has overwhelmed the JGB market. "Although the BoJ's easing measures were aimed at absorbing duration and keeping yields stabilized at low levels,¬†at this point, all they are doing is injecting volatility into the market," said BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategists Shogo Fujita and Shuichi Ohsaki last month. Here are the key paragraphs from the minutes: Members next discussed developments in the bond market. They agreed that the recent rise in long-term interest rates in Japan was attributable to such factors as the increase in U.S. and European long-term interest rates, the rise in Japanese stock prices, and the further depreciation of the yen. A few members noted that, reflecting speculation that the Federal Reserve would reduce the pace of its asset purchases earlier than expected, the responsiveness of U.S. long-term interest rates to economic indicators was increasing, and therefore due attention should be paid to how these developments would affect Japan's long-term interest rates. On this basis, members shared the recognition that the Bank's massive JGB purchases, through the reduction in risk premia, were restraining upward pressure on interest rates that stemmed from an improvement in perceived business conditions and a pick-up in expected inflation rates. Some members added that the effects of compressing risk premia were likely to strengthen as the Bank proceeded with JGB purchases, and therefore it was difficult to expect a surge in long-term interest rates for the time being. Meanwhile, many members pointed out that, if the bond market remained highly volatile, this could increase the amount of interest rate risk incurred by banks and other financial institutions, thereby further boosting sales of JGBs. These members then expressed the opinion that it was appropriate for the Bank to make various operational adjustments, with a view to encouraging the stable formation of long-term interest rates by suppressing an increase in volatility and an excessive rise in interest rates. Some of these members added that, in deciding quantitative and qualitative monetary easing on April 4, the framework for the Bank's JGB purchases was designed to allow for flexible operations; for example, by allowing the average remaining maturity of its JGB purchases to be in the range of about six to eight years. Based on this discussion, members shared the view that, as for JGB purchases, it was important for the Bank to conduct operations flexibly to promote the permeation of policy effects by adjusting -- as necessary -- the parameters of its JGB purchases, such as frequency, pace, and allocation of purchase amounts by maturities, while continuing to carefully monitor developments in the bond market and maintaining a close dialogue with market participants. With regard to the relationship between the government's fiscal conditions and long-term interest rates, one member noted that it was essential that fiscal discipline be firmly maintained with a view to ensuring stability in the bond market. In relation to this point, a different member said that it was also important for the Bank to continue to explain thoroughly that its JGB purchases were not conducted for the purpose of financing the fiscal deficit. Meanwhile, some members pointed out that the recent rise in long-term interest rates in Japan might be attributable to the possibility that the expected period for which short-term interest rates remained virtually zero would shorten to some extent, as the rise in stock prices and the depreciation of the yen progressed and positive developments in economic activity and prices came to be observed. One member added that it was not desirable to shorten the policy duration in a premature manner. A few members, including this member, expressed the view that it was vital for the Bank to firmly anchor short-term interest rates at low levels by clearly communicating that it was providing the monetary base on a large scale through various short-term funds-supplying operations, in addition to JGB purchases. A different member noted that the Bank's communication regarding the timing at which the price stability target would be achieved and the time frame for continuing quantitative and qualitative monetary easing might be destabilizing expectations for the bond market, and this in turn seemed to be increasing volatility. This member continued that, if the Bank were to change the expression representing its commitment by stating that the time frame for continuing quantitative and qualitative monetary easing should be restricted to about two years, and that thereafter it would review the monetary easing measures in a flexible manner, this would contribute to the restoration of stability in the bond market. Click here for the full release &gt; Fujita and Ohsaki delved into why the BoJ's new bond purchase program was wreaking such havoc in May (emphasis added): The problems with its purchases are that (1) the large amounts have taken away market liquidity, (2) they have been surrounded with uncertainty because no schedule of operations has been announced, and (3) they are not frequent enough.  A regime of monetary easing large enough to control the market has made the secondary market dysfunctional. The market has changed from being a platform for managing portfolios to being a mechanism for managing JGB inventory in the interim between the MOF's auctions and the BOJ's buying operations. Such an inventory management mechanism cannot function without knowledge of the specific schedule of operations as well as the amounts to be bought in each maturity sector (i.e., of each product type). Now that there is no assurance of liquidity in the secondary market, no institution wants to engage in the inventory management business without knowing the timing and amount of the operations. The hedge market is also becoming less functional, and liquidity in the swap and JGB futures markets is declining. Of course, shifting toward not holding positions is the best inventory management hedge of all. Morgan Stanley MUFG's¬†Le Ngoc Nhan and¬†Miho Ohashi described it similarly. "While bond dealers normally play an important part¬†as market stabilizers via risk facilitating and efficient price¬†discovering, they have been rendered increasingly irrelevant¬†by the existence of a single big buyer (the central bank) and a¬†single big seller (the Ministry of Finance), with uncertainty¬†surrounding the timing of BOJ operations also impeding their¬†risk-taking capacity," wrote the pair. "This increase in volatility has also¬†triggered a vicious cycle in which VaR-driven selling by¬†investors catalyzes further rises in JGB yields." Clearly, it's got the Bank of Japan's attention.
IBM has cut 1,631 jobs so far and that figure is expected to rise, the Alliance@IBM labor union said Thursday on its website.¬† The Binghamton, NY-based organization plans to update the total number of job cuts sometime Thursday night EST, it said.¬† Nearly 500 of the job cuts are said to be in IBM's Systems and Technology Group, which makes server and storage systems, according to the running tally kept on the labor union's website. This unit saw revenue drop 17 % year-over-year in IBM's last quarter.¬† IBM's New York state offices have been hit hard as well, with more than 700 layoffs, according to a report from USA Today.¬† In North Carolina, "hundreds" of IBM workers have been laid off so far,¬†Rick Smith of WRALTechWire reported Thursday.¬† IBM could cut between 6,000 and 8,000 jobs as part of a $1 billion restructuring aimed at thinning its global employee ranks, Bloomberg's Sarah Frier reported Wednesday.¬† That range of layoffs "sounds about right," IBM¬†union organizer Lee Conrad told us yesterday.¬† Yesterday, an IBM spokesperson confirmed to us that there would be layoffs but declined to provide a specific number.¬†
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jack Bogle: The Financial Industry Has Too Much Power Over Corporate America (Advisor One) Vanguard's John Bogle criticized the financial industry and said it has too much power over corporate America, when speaking at the Morningstar Investor Conference in Chicago.¬† Advisor One quoted Bogle saying, "the mutual fund industry owns 35% of the stock in America. ‚Ä¶But it‚Äôs actually much more than that because the big firms run institutional money as well. So it‚Äôs probably 50% of stock. So we control corporate America." He added that "executive compensation is a disgrace," and said the¬† legal system wasn't aggressive enough in pursuing securities fraud.¬†  GMO's Montier: 'Never Underestimate The Value Of Doing Nothing' (Investment News) The Morningstar Investor Conference kicked off in Chicago on June 12. Speaking at the conference, James Montier of GMO LLC said it is hard to make a real return in the current environment and that investors should "never underestimate the value of doing nothing," according to Investment News. "The best hope investors have right now is that the pendulum will continue to swing,‚Äù Montier said. ‚ÄúRight now, you don't want to be fully invested, and you need to keep some dry powder to be able to take advantages of the opportunities." Bullish Sentiment Is Rising (Bespoke Investment Group/AAII) The latest sentiment survey from the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) shows that bullish sentiment is increasing.¬† This chart courtesy Bespoke Investment Group shows that bullish sentiment climbed 3.5 points to 33.0% and bearish sentiment decreased 4.4 points to 34.6%. Bespoke Investment Group Felix Zulauf: Japan Will Cause The Next Big Global Crisis (Financial Sense) Japanese stocks were in a bear market on Thursday. Swiss hedge fund manager Felix Zulauf told Financial Sense that he thinks Japan will cause the next big financial crisis.¬† "I do believe that this will be the root cause of the next big global crisis whenever it breaks out, probably sometime over the next 12 to 18 months or so. First of all, I think the Japanese situation is very dangerous because Japan‚Äôs tax revenues, when you look at the numbers, they have to use almost 50% to service their government debt‚Äîtheir Federal government debt. So if interest rates rise further, Japan is basically bust‚Ä¶ "I think this is a very dangerous thing that the Japanese are starting and I believe it will most likely be the trigger for the next big global crisis in financial markets and the world economy." Bank Of England Advisor: 'We've Intentionally Blown The Biggest Government Bond Bubble In History' (The Guardian) In his testimony to British Members of Parliament, Bank of England director Andy Haldane said bond markets are the biggest risk to financial stability. From The Guardian: "If I were to single out what for me would be biggest risk to global financial stability right now it would be a disorderly reversion in the yields of government bonds globally... Let's be clear. We've intentionally blown the biggest government bond bubble in history. ...We need to be vigilant to the consequences of that bubble deflating more quickly than [we] might otherwise have wanted." The Bank of England issued a separate statement saying Haldane's views were personal.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVJim Rogers fears the worst for Japan. In an interview with Fusion MarketSite, the emerging markets and commodities guru says there is no way Japanese PM Shinzo Abe's growth policies can possibly succeed ó there are already many trends working against him, and his plan will only make things worse. Here's the exchange: Fusion:†How does it end in Japan ñ in tears ? Rogers:†Of course it does. Japan has a very serious problem. When we look back, Mr. Abe will have ruined Japan. Huge debt levels, horrible demographics, they wonít let in foreigners, the population is declining. Mr. Abe comes along and says heíll ruin the currency. It is a disaster in the long term, and not guaranteed to work in the short term, either. Rogers went on to say he remains bullish on China, and that the only thing that can stop it is a resource crisis ó specifically, with its water supplies: The only way the China story runs into big problems is if they run out of water. China has a major water problem. They are working hard to solve it. I believe they will solve it. If you want to make a lot of money find companies that are working to fix that problem. As for their stock market, itís getting closer to a buy. I bought a few shares on Friday. Their market is getting to the point it should be bought. Rogers said he believes the U.S. shale revolution is overhyped: Regarding natural gas, the fundamentals on the ground are not nearly as good as the hype. The number of rigs on the ground has gone down 75% the last couple of years, as the wells are very short-lived, and it takes an enormous amount of money to keep them up. A number of companies have had to lower estimates of their reserves. As for oil shale, typical wells deplete at 38 percent the first year. Thus you need a lot of drilling, money, and a high price to keep up production rates. †All you have to do is go out in the oil patch. I believe the investment world will be disappointed with the notion that supply is so great that oil will collapse. Finally, on gold, Rogers is convinced recent declines are merely a hiccup: Itís gone up 12 years in a row. I donít know of any asset that goes up 12 years in a row. So just from a technical point of view, maybe it needs to go down some more. But from a fundamental point of view it will be a buy. There are some short-term factors hurting gold. The Indians are trying to restrict the purchase of gold, as itís the source (along with oil) of their trade deficit. I have not sold my gold and plan to buy more if it keeps dropping. And yes, I did call for a correction a while back, and sometimes I do get it right ! Read the full interview at Fusion MarketSite &gt;
Divorce is nothing new for Rupert Murdoch, who is officially divorcing current wife Wendi Deng†after 14 years. His first divorce was from Patricia Booker, a former flight attendant from Melbourne. The pair were married for 11 years and had a daughter before their 1966 divorce, according to the International Business Times. A year later, Murdoch married Anna Murdoch Mann (nÈe Torv), a Scottish journalist with who he had three children. He divorced Anna in 1999, weeks before his wedding to Wendi Deng, who he met when she was an intern at a television station owned by News Corp.† Details are still sparse on Murdoch and Deng's separation. But the story of Murdoch's divorce from Torv ó†which cost him a reported $1.7 billion ó†could be instructive. First, how the pair met: Torv was 18 years old and working for Murdoch's Sydney newspaper The Daily Telegraph when she had the opportunity to interview Murdoch. They fell for each other, according to Australian Women's Weekly,†and the pair were married in 1967, shortly after Murdoch split from his first wife. Murdoch and Torv appeared to have a good, solid marriage for 31 years. They had three children together, and Torv had a career as a novelist. But,†according to Steve Fishman in New York Magazine, Anna wanted Rupert to quit his job and retire with her, which Murdoch believed would kill him. So in 1998 they agreed to an "amicable" separation, first reported by New York Post columnist Liz Smith. It was so†amicable that Anna remained on New Corp's board. However, Anna reportedly grew suspicious that Murdoch had a girlfriend. And while Murdoch insists that he did not become romantically involved with the bright and beautiful Wendi Deng†until after their separation, the two married just 17 days after Torv and Murdoch's divorce was finalized. Six months after their separation,†Murdoch reportedly forced Torv off News Corp's board, according to Australian Women's Weekly. "Anna's support has been enormously helpful to me in what I must admit is a demanding and turbulent career," Murdoch said in the News Corp annual report. Torv formally resigned in person, and left the office to have lunch with a "charming" Wall Street financier named William Mann, her future husband. Murdoch and Torv officially filed for divorce soon after. California, the couple's home state, is a community-property state, meaning Anna could have walked away with half of Murdoch's fortune, which was then valued at $7.8 billion, according to New York Magazine (Forbes estimates he's worth $11.2 billion today). Still, Torv is rumored to have won $1.7 billion in assets, $110 million of which was in cash, according to ABC News. If that figure is accurate, it would have been the most expensive divorce of all time. Both Murdoch and Torv quickly remarried after their divorce was finalized in 1999: Rupert to Wendi Deng 17 days later on a yacht, and Anna to William Mann six months later. Torv kept quiet about the divorce for two years until 2001, when she†opened up to Australian Women's Weekly about her divorce with Murdoch, saying he had ruined the marriage by his alleged affair with then-translator Deng. "I thought we had a wonderful, happy marriage," she confessed to writer David Leser. "Obviously we didn't."
APAn Iranian girl holds a poster of the presidential candidate Saeed Jalili. Friday is the first round of voting in the Iranian presidential election, marking the end of the contentious Mahmoud Ahmadinejad-era. If none of six candidates gain a 50% majority, a runoff round will be held on 21 June. There's a lot of debate about how big a deal the elections really are. All six candidates have been pre-screened by Iran's Guardian Council, a 12-member body consisting of six jurists and six theologians, who do things like rule out anyone who doesn't believe in God, for example. Plus, much of the real power in the country ó including control of the military ó lies with Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The new Iranian president will be expected, however, to offer solutions for Iran's troubled, oil sanctions-hit economy. To understand this better, Business Insider spoke to Iranian-born economist†Mehrdad Emadi, a former EU advisor who works at the London-based firm Betamatrix.  As Emadi explains, none of the candidates ó whether they are reformist's choice, Hassan Rouhani, or the conservative favorite Saeed Jalili ó actually have an economic plan. --- Business Insider: How big a role will the economy play in the election? Mehrdad Emadi: It is not an overstatement to say that the economy has become the core message for every single candidate. Promises of fixing the economy in less than 100 days to in less than two years the economy will be turned around were the dominate theme in the earlier days. A couple of the candidates who are perceived to have closer ties to the Conservatives and the Revolutionary Guards have dropped the economy as the key message of their campaign after they performed very poorly in both media interviews and their public talks in cities around the country when they were challenged on how they would deal with business interests associated with the Revolutionary Guards.† The singular importance of the economy in the election can be appreciated better if we are reminded that despite a rise of more than 350% in Iranís foreign revenues from the export of crude oil generating more than $450 billion extra revenue for the government since 2006, the government has accumulated more than $28 billion deficit in the last twenty months. The official unemployment rate is reported to be around 12% which is challenged by many including the Parliament whose members from the influential Economic Research Commission has calculated the figure to be at least 22% rising to 40% for under twenty five year old segment of the population (the figure is 60% percent for women in the same age group).† It is further noticeable that the national currency has lost more than 65% in the last seventeen months and the country has fallen down in the table of corruption perception index by more than forty places in 2012 joining the leagues of the forty most corrupt countries. The combined effects of chronically corrupt governance in the country and the economic sanctions are beginning to show the devastating effects. It is reported that output of the car and components manufacturers which have the second largest share in the national output, has dropped by more than one-third in the last fifteen month.† For all intention and purposes, the economy is in a rapid slide with the bottom showing a total collapse in industrial output. Iran also showed record-breaking levels of import in main food staples. BI: Do any of the candidates have a clear plan for dealing with it? ME: Although all candidates have talked about unemployment, accelerating inflation and the financial cost of business monopolies, none of the candidates have presented a clear economic blue print of how they intent to turn the vicious cycle of rising monopolies, corruption and the rush to sell raw resources into a virtuous cycle of investment to manufacture, create sustainable jobs and release the markets from the grasp of monopolies created by the Revolutionary Guards. This may not be caused by the lack of awareness or intellectual ability to present a solution but rather because of the sensitivity of the issues, given the threatening posturing that the Revolutionary Guards and the Radical Conservatives have adopted in recent months about any attempt towards more transparency in the economy.BI: Mir Hussein Moussavi has been portrayed as a reformist ó do you think this is true? ME: I should provide the caveat that we have not heard regularly from Mr. Moussavi in the last three years because he has been under house arrest and it is conceivable that his positions concerning many issues have changed and he may now be more ready to go further in his reforms. Based on what we heard from him about four years ago, I see Mr. Moussavi as a reformist who wished to improve the living conditions for ordinary Iranians as well as to reduce the level of tension between Iran and the West. This said, he had repeatedly confirmed his belief in the principal values of the 1979 Revolution and the existing constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran. I think it may be correct to consider him as a moderate reformist three years ago who also had a strong technocrat base in certain segments of the society. BI: How might the policies of Moussavi and Saeed Jalili differ? ME: Mr. Moussavi does not see any benefit in continuation of the stalemate with the West including the United States and has expressed the wish to instigate direct talks over the key issues with no pre-conditions on either side. He sees a constructive resolution of the conflict in the long term interest of Iran and the regime.† In this position there is a distinct wedge between Mr. Moussavi and the Supreme Leader Mr. Khamnehei who believes negotiations are futile.† On the opposite side of the spectrum stands Mr. Jalili who has been most vocal about in intention to adopt or more uncooperative stance in foreign policy. He actually went on record saying during his campaign that he did not subscribe to the policy of conflict resolution with the outside world and indeed he wished to see further hardening in the position of the country.† His economic advisor might have captured the mood in his camp when he declared that sanctions have made the Iranian economy stronger and have benefited the country and Iranians should be praying for their continuation. † As for the economy, it seems that Mr. Jalili sees no reason to challenge the growing control of the Revolutionary Guards monopolies in some key sectors of the economy and the harm they have caused to the development of private sector firms and the prosperity of the country. During the last presidential campaign Mr. Moussavi repeatedly raised his concerns on this issue. BI: Can Mahmoud Ahmadinejad or his supporters play a role in the election's outcome? ME: Given the financial reach of the government and total lack of monitoring over his budgetary control, the potential is there and there have been indications of some support for Mr. Jalili including close associations of certain members of Mr. Ahmadinejadís cabinet with Mr. Jaliliís campaign. However, the exhibited anguish of the extremists and the softening of the tone of Mr. Khamnehei in recent days about the election suggest that the political leadership are all too aware about the potential eruption of protests given how fresh seems to be the memory of the reported election fraud from the last Presidential Elections four years ago.
FactsAboutHerbalife.comCongresswoman Linda Sanchez (D-CA) sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission urging them to investigate Herbalife to see whether or not the nutrition supplements seller is a pyramid scheme. ¬† Herbalife, which is headquartered in California, is the company hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is shorting. Ackman, who is is shorting more than $1 billion worth of Herbalife shares,¬†has publicly called the company a "pyramid scheme"¬†that preys upon lower income people. ¬†As a consequence, he believes regulators will be induced to investigate it. Herbalife has denied his allegations.¬† Here's a transcript of the letter:¬† Dear Chairwoman Ramirez: I am writing to express my concern about the marketing and business practices of Herbalife, Ltd. In particular, I am troubled by allegations that this company may be harming consumers ‚Äî especially those from our country's most vulnerable populations.¬† There have been extensive media reports and allegations about Herbalife's business practices. On March 12, 2013, the National Consumers League wrote a letter urging the FTC to conduct an investigation into the possibility that Herbalife is a complex pyramid scheme. More recently, on May 17, 2013, the Hispanic Federation also wrote a letter urging an FTC investigation. Both groups have voiced concerns over whether Herbalife's distributors are primarily incentivized by recruiting others, or by selling the Herbalife product. Additionally, as the National Consumers League letter states, "Low-income consumers, as well as African-Americans and Hispanics, were found to be especially vulnerable to pyramid-schemes masquerading as legitimate home-based business opportunities."¬†¬† As I have learned more about this issue from my constituents and from outside groups, I believe it is the Federal Trade Commission's (FTC) responsibility to examine these allegations. Given the FTC's mission to investigate claims of fraud and potential pyramid schemes, I encourage you to investigate this matter. ¬†I have confidence that such an investigation will provide clarity to consumers and I expect you will aggressively pursue it in a timely manner.¬† ... Thank you for your attention to this important matter.¬† Sincerely,¬† Linda Sanchez Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short, shares of Herbalife have risen more than 6.5%. ¬†The stock has traded in a 52-week range of $24.24 and $56.39. ¬† Ackman's long-time rival billionaire investor Carl Icahn has snapped up a huge stake in the company. ¬†Icahn told CNBC he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the¬†"mother of all short squeezes."¬†
Thursday, the Japanese Nikkei 225 stock index crashed 6.4% (down a whopping 844 points to 12,445). Nikkei futures have been rallying all day long, though ‚Äì as U.S. stocks have advanced ‚Äì and are currently trading at 13,080, up 635 points already from Thursday's close. That implies a 5.1% surge when the Nikkei re-opens Friday in Japan. Why is the Japanese stock market so volatile? WSJ chalks it up to day trading, which has surged in popularity as the market has stage a wild advance this year as investors bet on the success of "Abenomics," an experimental stimulus program underway in Japan. At 13,090, the Nikkei is 16.2% off its May 22 peak. ThinkorswimNikkei futures rise during European and North American trading on Thursday, June 13.
NanexTrading on the ISM number in June, via Nanex.In the past few days, Wall Street has started talking about a deal between The University of Michigan and Thomson Reuters that gives the company access to it key Consumer Confidence survey data early. It's called a "select disclosure" agreement and it also allows them to distribute it to privileged clients 2 seconds before the news breaks with service called "ultra low latency" that only works if you pay a monthly have a super high speed, close connection to a stock exchange. This is important enough for Thomson Reuters to pay the University of Michigan $1.1 million a year for the service. And it's important enough that, behind closed doors, there were forces at work trying to stop this deal before it started. Emails obtained by Business Insider show that Bloomberg started fighting the deal between the University of Michigan and Reuters as early as 2006. At that time, then-Bloomberg Executive Editor Rich Jaroslovsky sent late University of Michigan President Edward Gramlich an e-mail offering "$500,000 for a 15-minute window before public release of the survey to allow us to prepare headlines on the main index level and sub-indexes on current and future conditions as well as inflation expectations." That, of course, was to help his own company, but he also implored the University to consider what it would be doing to other organizations ó Jaroslovsky called it "checkbook journalism." From the letter: We would be remiss, however, if we did not ask you to carefully consider the implications of your proposed Reuters deal. As I'm sure you know, the discussions between the University and Bloomberg predated your arrival in Ann Arbor. But our interest in those discussions was to make the playing field level, not to compromise the integrity of the disclosure process by securing advantage for ourselves. Matt Winkler didn't seek naming rights for Bloomberg, or any edge for us over other news organizations in the release of the data. By contrast, our understanding of the proposed Reuters deal smacks of what we in the news business call "checkbook journalism." By giving Reuters exclusive advance access to the data and making their service the release mechanism, you will be guaranteeing that every other news organization -- to say nothing of every investor who doesn't subscribe to Reuters -- will be disadvantaged. No wonder Reuters is willing to pay you so much more than Bloomberg: While we were offering money to help the University create a system that is fair to everyone, they are paying you to guarantee an unfair one! Gramlich responded only that he would "consider and respond shortly." Obviously the answer was a no. A source with knowledge of the situation told Business Insider that Reuters is said to pay $3 million for a "select disclosure" agreement with either Markit or the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) to exclusively distribute their data in the same "select disclosure" way - except by 2 minutes versus 2 seconds. It's worth pointing out that a human being with a decent computer can MAYBE make a trade on 2 minutes of early information, whereas with a 2 second lead, it's all about high speed, automated trading and a close tie to a stock exchange. So there's that.
If a major hurricane hit New York City tomorrow, damage to the subway system would likely be worse than it was in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. How is that possible? That storm did $5 billion of damage to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) systems, much of it caused by the flooding of subway tunnels. Power outages in the wake of the storm slowed the rate at which the MTA could pump the tunnels clear, and millions of gallons of salt water took a heavy toll on tunnels filled with metal and electrical equipment. And while the tunnels are dry for the moment, the heavy post-Sandy workload ‚Äî pumping tens of millions of gallons of water over consecutive days ‚Äî degraded the pumps. The MTA is now working to find ways to flood-proof subway tunnels, but no solutions are in place yet. The city's¬†ability to clear water out of under-river tunnels varies between 47% and 100% of what it was before the storm, depending on tunnel and time, MTA spokesperson Adam Lisberg said. That means New York is no more capable of keeping damaging water out of its tunnels than it was before Sandy, and it is significantly less capable of getting water out. The MTA's Preparation Plans The Authority did an excellent job getting the city's subways back in service after Sandy hit. But it has made little progress so far in making the system more resilient. The subway system "is far from being prepared to deflect or absorb another storm of that size," said Rich Barone, Director of Transportation Programs at the Regional Planning Association, an urban research and advocacy organization. In the lead-up to Sandy, the MTA blocked subway openings with plywood and sandbags, which "actually performed fairly well," MTA spokesperson Lisberg said. But they were not good enough: A floating bundle of wood knocked down the plywood barrier blocking the Montague tube, which carries the R train under the East River. The tube flooded, and now the MTA plans to close it for 14 months to repair the damage done by 27 million gallons of salt water. It is also closing the Greenpoint Tube, which carries the G train between Brooklyn and Queens, for 12 consecutive weekends starting in July. On May 16, six months after Sandy hit, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced a series of MTA initiatives to permanently repair damage from the storm. (Much of the work done in the aftermath of the storm was meant to be a stop-gap solution.) "It will take years to design and implement permanent recovery measures," the MTA said at the time. The agency announced the creation of the Sandy Recovery and Resiliency Division, which issued 16 task orders to six architectural and engineering design firms, who are expected to present preliminary plans in July. Department of Homeland SecurityA prototype plug created by the Resilient Tunnel Project.Asked about MTA plans to flood-proof the subway tunnels, Lisberg said the agency was still seeking proposals. One option he mentioned was the Resilient Tunnel Project, from the Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate. The idea is straightforward: Use enormous, inflatable balloons to plug subway tunnels and keep them from flooding. The project has been underway for more than five years, and the plugs could be ready for use in 18-24 months, its leader, Dr. John Fortune, said in an interview. Another potential solution mentioned by Lisberg comes from RSA Protective Technologies: removable flood control panels specially designed to block off subway openings. RSA President Rick Adler would not comment on when the panels could be put into place in NYC, citing an MTA request not to discuss their relationship. In May, MTA interim executive director Thomas Prendergast said above ground panels were unlikely to be in place by the start of this hurricane season, which started June 1,¬†the New York Times reported. The MTA has made one part of the subway system more resilient: A two-mile wall of steel now stands between the water of Jamaica Bay and the above-ground tracks of the A train leading to the Rockaways, the Queens peninsula severely damaged by Sandy. But as the city faces another hurricane season, the MTA is left to fight flooding with plywood, sandbags, and pumps that are not up to par. Why Is This Taking So Long? There are 540 vulnerable openings in just six subway stations in Lower Manhattan. To prevent tunnels and stations from flooding again, each needs to be watertight. The best-known solutions ‚Äî the plug and the RSA panels ‚Äî are not ready yet, and "some of the best technologies and best practices we don't even have yet," Lisberg said. So why the delay? Why did Cuomo and the MTA wait six months to issue task orders to architecture and engineering firms? The RPA's Barone suggested the delay is linked to funding from the federal government: "They were probably waiting to do some of this stuff until they were sure they had the funds to do it." The MTA has done some work, he said, assuming it would be paid back, but those projects have focused on restoring service to previous levels, not building up resilience. Lisberg denied the connection, saying the MTA was simply being methodical. "There was no funding-related delay ‚Äî we took the time to understand the problem and figure out the right way to solve it." What Was Done Before Sandy? The MTA was working to flood-proof the subway system before Sandy, but was caught short by the size and strength of the superstorm. In 2008, the Authority published a report on the challenges climate change posed to its public transit systems. "As you can see," Lisberg said in an email, "the experts assumed we had until the 2020s to begin physical adaptations to our network. We now know the time for action needs to be sooner." Flickr/MTAAn MTA worker cleans the Montague Tube under the East River after it was pumped clean of salt water.From 2007 to 2009, the MTA spent $30 million on flood mitigation projects, including raising entrances at 30 stations, installing valves to keep water discharged from stations from re-entering, improving sewer capacity, and modernizing pumps. Those surely helped, but were not nearly enough to deflect the brunt of a major storm. Barone suggested the larger problem is a lack of money. The MTA is still working to recover from "decades and decades of disinvestment," he said, and the funds it did have were used to improve the quality of the trains, stations, and infrastructure. The sudden appearance of a major hurricane, a decade before it was expected to hit, has brought about a shift in priorities, though, Barone said. Of course, it's unlikely another storm the size of Sandy will strike the city this year. But the changing climate means that New York "will be much more vulnerable to flooding in the decades ahead," NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg said in a speech this week. "We have to prepare for what the scientists say is a likely scenario." The MTA is preparing for the future, but it's not ready yet. ‚ÄúIt will take years to design and implement permanent recovery measures,‚Äù Lisberg cautioned. Barone gave the Authority credit for working hard to get ready for another major storm. "They're going to do it as fast as they possibly can, but it's a big ship. It doesn't turn on a dime." Update: After this article was published, the MTA sent this response: The MTA is in no way less prepared for a hurricane now, after successfully managing a much-heralded response to the worst transportation emergency to ever strike New York, and after everyone at the MTA has absorbed the lessons of the storm. While some components of the MTA network require further work, the response to the next storm will be stronger, will have extra attention and resources devoted to keeping water out of the system, and will be performed by a workforce seasoned by experience.


Dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Business and former economic advisor to Mitt Romney Glenn Hubbard swung by the Business Insider offices for a wide ranging interview on economic topics. In this segment, we discussed the Federal Reserve, and the matter of the "Taper" the eventual winddown of Quantative Easing. Hubbard gives Bernanke an "A-" but says the Fed is in something of a box, and will have a difficult time managing the exit. Produced by Business Insider Video
Featureflash / Shutterstock.comRupert and Wendi Murdoch are getting a divorce. But this doesn't mean that love is dead. Hope, as they say, springs eternal, and the world is a big place. And since Wendi married Rupert just 17 days after his previous divorce was finalized, it appears she understands that love moves fast. So in that spirit, we've compiled a list of potential suitors for Wendi once she hits the market. She is, after all, a catch in her own right. Aside from being attractive, she's also a Yale School of Management graduate and documentarian.
Featureflash / Shutterstock.com News Corp CEO Rupert Murdoch just filed to end his 14-year marriage to Wendi Deng, a woman 38 years his junior. The pair met in 1997 in China, where Deng is from. She started as an intern at News Corp-owned Star TV, and caught Murdoch's eye during a staff meeting in Hong Kong when she asked an intelligent question and approached him after the meeting, according to New York Magazine. After that, in 1998, Deng worked as Murdoch's interpreter when he was in Shanghai and Beijing, according to The Wall Street Journal. By that summer, there were rumors circulating at Star TV that the two were having an affair. In May, Murdoch separated from his then-wife of 31 years, Anna Torv, who, according to New York Magazine, suspected that Murdoch "had a girlfriend."¬† Murdoch said he didn't start seeing Deng romantically until after he separated from Torv, but Torv insists that's a lie, according to New York Magazine. In the fall of 1998, Murdoch informed top Star TV executives of his relationship with Deng. She then resigned from her job at Star TV and moved to New York with Murdoch. Murdoch's divorce from Torv became final in June 1999 (it cost him $1.7 billion), and he married Deng on his yacht 17 days later. If Deng was a factor in Murdoch's divorce from Torv, it wouldn't be the first time she was accused of breaking up a marriage. In its 2000 profile of Deng, The Wall Street Journal reported that she was previously married to¬†Jake Cherry, a man 30 years her senior. He and his wife Joyce, who were from L.A., met Deng in China in 1987 when they were there for work. Deng was looking for someone to tutor her in English, and Joyce took on the job. Joyce eventually moved back to L.A., while Jake stayed in China to finish a factory project, according to the Wall Street Journal profile. Deng reportedly told them she wanted to come to the U.S. for school, and needed sponsors. Jake and Joyce helped Deng get a student visa and allowed her to live with them while she got acclimated in L.A. But Joyce eventually grew suspicious of Deng's relationship with Jake, according to the Wall Street Journal. She found "coquettish" photos Jake took of Deng in his Chinese hotel room, and Jake admitted that he had become infatuated with Deng. The couple divorced, and Jake moved into an apartment with Deng. The two married in 1990, and the union lasted two years and seven months, enough time to get Deng a green card, the Wall Street Journal reported. The marriage might have, for all intents and purposes, been over long before the divorce became final ‚Äî Jake claims that he told Deng to move out four months after they got married.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeNationally, at todayís prices and rents, buying would be cheaper than renting until the 30-year fixed rate reaches 10.5%. San Jose has the lowest mortgage rate ìtipping pointî at 5.2%, followed by San Francisco and Honolulu. The recent rise in†mortgage rates†has made buying a house a little more expensive: the increase in the 30-year fixed rate over the past month from 3.4% to 3.9% (Freddie Mac) raised the monthly payment on a $200,000 mortgage by $56, or 6%. However, because mortgage rates are still near long-term lows, and because prices fell so much after the housing bubble burst and remain low relative to rents even after recent price increases, buying is still much cheaper than†renting. That means that the recent jump in rates doesnít change the rent-versus-buy math much. Rates are likely to keep rising, but how far must rates rise before buying a home starts to look expensive relative to renting? To answer this, we updated our†Rent vs. Buy analysis†with the latest asking prices and rents from March, April, and May 2013. Following our standard approach, we calculated the cost of buying and renting for identical sets of properties, including maintenance, insurance, taxes, closing costs, down payment, sales proceeds, and, of course, the monthly mortgage payment on a†30-year fixed-rate loan†with 20% down and monthly rent. We assume people will stay in their homes for 7 years, deduct their mortgage interest and property tax payments at the 25% tax bracket, and get modest home price appreciation (see the detailed methodology and example†here). Hereís what we found: Buying remains cheaper than renting so long as†mortgage rates†are below 10.5%. At 3.9%, the current 30-year fixed rate according to Freddie Mac, buying is 41% cheaper than renting nationally. With a 5% mortgage rate, buying is still 34% cheaper than renting nationally. Mortgage rates would have to rise a huge amount ñ to 10.5% ñ to tip the math in favor of†renting, which isnít impossible. Rates were that high throughout the 1980s, but have been consistently below 10.5% since May 1990. Each local market, of course, has its own mortgage rate ìtipping pointî when renting becomes cheaper than buying a home. At 3.9%, buying is cheaper than renting in†all†of the 100 largest metros, which means the tipping point is above 3.9% everywhere. The tipping point is lowest in†San Jose, which would tip in favor of renting if rates reach 5.2%. Itís between 5% and 6% in†San Francisco†and†Honolulu, and between 6% and 7% in†New York†and Orange County, CA. 10 Metros with the Lowest Mortgage-Rate Tipping Point 5.2% 5.4% 5.8% 6.8% 6.8% 7.5% 7.5% 8.0% 8.0% 8.2% But for 78 of the 100 largest metros, the tipping point is 10% or higher. In fact the tipping point is above 20% in†Cleveland,†Memphis,Detroit, and several other metros in the Midwest and South. 10 Metros with the Highest Mortgage-Rate Tipping Point 35.8% 21.0% 20.8% 20.2% 20.1% 20.0% 19.2% 18.4% 17.4% 16.9% Of course, the tipping point also depends on how long you plan to stay in your next home (we assume 7 years) and whether you itemize your deductions (we assume you do). For instance, if you donít itemize, or if the mortgage interest and property tax deductions were eliminated entirely, buying would still be 29% cheaper than renting at a†mortgage rate†of 3.9%, and the tipping point when renting becomes cheaper than buying would be 7.5%. But just because buying is cheaper than renting, it doesnít mean you can buy. Lots of people who want to buy donít have the downpayment or canít get a†mortgage. Even people who can swing it financially might not be able to buy right away, before rates rise further, because they might not find the home they want quickly with inventory still so tight. So if the recent increase in mortgage rates doesnít change the rent-versus-buy equation substantially, why does it matter? The main effect is to reduce the demand for†refinancing. Unlike homebuying, refinancing is a relatively straightforward financial decision: although refinancing has upfront costs, refinancing doesnít require†finding a home, thinking hard about your lifestyle, or moving. Since rates have been low for so long, many people who were able to refinance, already have. As a result, the demand for refinancing is now dropping. For people who havenít yet refinanced ñ and for people looking to buy ñ rising rates do make housing more expensive. Rates are now on the rise and are likely to keep rising, thanks to the strengthening economy and the Fed eventually trying less hard to keep rates low. But it will take big rate increases to turn off prospective homebuyers. At todayís prices and rents, rates would have to rise to levels we havenít seen in 20 years before renting is cheaper than†buying a home†on average across the country.
APU.S. stocks have been rising all day long, but since around 1:45 PM, they've really started ripping higher. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1629, up 1.2% from yesterday's close. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is trading around 15,120, up 125 points (0.8%). The dollar-yen exchange rate, after getting crushed this morning, has been rising this afternoon and is now trading around ¬•94.80 ‚Äì down *only* 1.2%. Nikkei futures are also trading at their highest levels of the day, right around 13,050. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury is 5 basis points lower today at 2.18%. Earlier, a primary auction of 30-year Treasuries tailed, indicating weak demand. Bonds initially sold off on the news, but have since rebounded and are now trading near levels prior to the auction.
Reuters/Toru HanaiThe Nikkei entered a bear market on Thursday, crashing 6.4% at 12,445. But Nomura just raised its year-end 2013 target for the Nikkei Average to 18,000, from 16,000. They also raised their 2013-end target for the TOPIX to 1,500, from 1,350. Nomura's Hiromichi Tamura and the equity team explain why: "The assumptions on which our forecasts are based have changed from "little sign of recovery in earnings" and "expectations for Abenomics" to "earnings recovery" and "rise in global P/E ratios". We expect FY13 TOPIX-EPS to reach 82.5, surpassing its previous record high of 80. Japanese stocks are once again trading at lower P/E ratios than US stocks. Assuming that Abenomics has not been defeated, we see no reason to become bearish on Japanese stocks, and recommend a bullish stance." The Upper House elections set for July 21 are likely to see the government "pursue its growth strategies, which constitute the 'third arrow'," writes Tamura. This should give the stock market a nice boost. Here's a chart that shows they type of growth strategies investors want to see: Nomura ¬† With that in mind Tamura has a few recommendations: "We think the full impact of Abenomics on capex and household incomes has yet to be felt, which means that there are still substantial investment opportunities in these areas. Our current recommendations are: (1) stocks generating strong earnings; and (2) stocks likely to benefit from the government's growth strategies. We reiterate our view that Japanese companies need to be extremely determined if they are to achieve new record highs for ROE." He does however recognize the recent stock market rout. "¬†Indeed, we see it as significant because it constitutes a challenge to Abenomics. If share prices fall back to where they were before the BOJ announced its new phase of monetary easing (the 3 April Nikkei Average close of 12,362.20), this could prompt market observers to pronounce Abenomics a failure." The outlook for Japanese stocks could also vary depending on concerns about the Fed taper.
When the stock market is strong, there's never any shortage of solid investment ideas to preserve and grow your wealth. But when volatility hits, it suddenly gets a lot harder to find profitable investments for your portfolio, and often, the strategies that worked so well in past downturns turn out to be exactly the¬†wrong investment ideas to follow. The stock market has gotten a lot more volatile in recent weeks, but so far, we haven't seen any sizable decline from its record highs. Yet many investors are looking to lock in their big profits from the past four years, and they're making moves that have historically worked well to minimize losses. Unfortunately, there's good reason to believe that some of those moves aren't as safe as they may appear. Let's look at three investment ideas for falling markets that might not work as well in the next downturn. 1. Low-volatility stocks are always safe.Low-volatility stock investing¬†has only gained notoriety in the past couple of years, but most investors have followed a less analytical variant of the strategy for decades. Essentially, what following a low-volatility investment strategy entails is choosing stocks that tend not to move as sharply on a percentage basis as the overall market. Such stocks tend to underperform during big bull-market runs, as riskier high-growth companies take greater advantage of the good times to produce rising profits that lead to higher stock prices. But when the economy turns south, those companies -- many of which are in industries that investors see as defensively oriented, such as consumer goods -- tend not to drop as much. ¬†Yet¬†any¬†investment is subject to danger when it gets too popular, and that's arguably been the case for low-volatility stocks lately. Just in a single week, low-volatility stocks¬†Procter &amp; Gamble¬†and¬†Verizon¬†suffered big losses of around 5%, compared to just a 3% loss for the broader market. Both stocks have been go-to ideas for investors seeking safety, and as a result, their valuations have gotten extremely high on an earnings-multiple basis. Moreover, P&amp;G has had to deal with challenges from competitors that have threatened its historical edge in innovation, and Verizon finds itself increasingly distracted by the fact that it only owns 55% of its lucrative Verizon Wireless joint venture. 2. Bonds will always move in the opposite direction of stocks.For many investors, the knee-jerk reaction when stocks fall is to buy bonds. When the stock market is starting to fall because high interest rates have begun to stifle economic growth, that strategy works extremely well. But since the financial crisis ended, the stock market has managed to rise even as bonds have continued their 30-year bull market. Similarly, there's no guarantee that stocks and bonds won't¬†drop¬†in concert as well. Already,¬†we've seen major drops¬†in¬†iShares Barclays TIPS Bond¬†and foreign¬†SPDR Barclays International Treasury Bond¬†, and further losses are possible if uncertainty about the Federal Reserve's next actions doesn't get resolved in the near future. 3. Dividend stocks are safer than other stocks.Like low-volatility stocks,¬†dividend stocks¬†have been seen as a panacea for income-seeking investors. When bond rates hit record lows, investors moved in droves to dividend stocks to replace lost income. The income that dividend stocks produce does help ameliorate the negative impacts of downward-moving markets. But the fervor with which investors have bought dividend stocks has made them more vulnerable than usual to falling stock prices. Moreover, some high-profile stocks that have cut their dividends lately serve as a reminder that you can't absolutely count on stocks to deliver on their promises of high income and safety. Watch your backMany investors erroneously believe that these three investment ideas will help protect their portfolios from a future downturn. That's possible, but it's also possible that they'll fail miserably under the weight of too many people counting on their being true. Be sure to watch your portfolio carefully to make sure you're not relying on investment ideas that won't hold up to the next high-stress situation for the market. The best investing approach is to choose great companies and stick with them for the long term. The Motley Fool's free report "3 Stocks That Will Help You Retire Rich" names stocks that could help you build long-term wealth and retire well, along with some winning wealth-building strategies that every investor should be aware of.¬†Click here now¬†to keep reading. Tune in every Monday and Wednesday for Dan's columns on retirement, investing, and personal finance.¬†You can follow him on Twitter¬†@DanCaplinger. The post¬†originally appeared on The Motley Fool.
News Corp CEO Rupert Murdoch filed for divorce from Wendi Deng today. There's no word on what the split could cost Murdoch, but the media mogul already has a history of costly divorce settlements. Murdoch separated from former wife Anna Torv in 1999, paying a reported $1.7 billion (including $110 million in cash),¬†making it the most expensive divorce of all time. The pair had been married for 32 years.¬†Murdoch married 30-year-old Deng just 17 days later. 82-year-old Murdoch is worth $11.2 billion, according to Forbes.
North Dakota now boasts the sixth-highest per-capita personal income in the Union, according to data compiled by the University of New Mexico and picked up by the New York Times' Andrew Gelman. The state registered an average of $51,893 for its 699,629 residents.† It's come a long way on this list: at one point it was the 9th-poorest state in the country. We've put together a chart comparing the state's gains to Connecticut and Mississippi ó the list's perennial winner and loser, respectively ó to show how little movement there usually is among these rankings. North Dakota's climb in past few years ó fueled almost exclusively by its shale oil boom ó is unheard of for this list. University of New Mexico The only state that's come close to moving around as much as North Dakota is Michigan. Here's the same chart with that state added. It appears to move more as a bellweather for the overall economy: University of New Mexico† You can find that stubbornly slow-but-sure improvement lots of other places...
flickr/npbnThe results of today's 30-year Treasury auction are out. The highest yield at the auction was 3.355%, above the 3.324% "when-issued" level. In other words, the auction "tailed," indicating weak demand. (The "tail" is the difference between the highest yield on the Treasuries during the auction and the expected high yield when the auction first gets started ‚Äì the "when-issued" level.) The bid-to-cover ratio, which measures the dollar amount of bids versus the dollar amount of bonds actually auctioned,¬†fell to 2.47 from 2.53 at the last 30-year auction. Primary dealers purchased 51.7% of the bonds issued at the auction. Only 8.5% of the issue was awarded to direct bidders ‚Äì those that bypass the primary dealers on Wall Street and buy straight from the Treasury. Indirect bidders ‚Äì foreign central banks and the like ‚Äì took down 40.2% of the issue. Bonds are selling off on the news. The chart below shows the initial market reaction in 30-year U.S. Treasury futures. Thinkorswim This week, other government auctions for shorter-dated Treasuries have produced lackluster results. Demand for the 10-year U.S. Treasury note, proxied by the bid-to-cover ratio,¬†fell to its lowest level in 10 months¬†at yesterday's auction of 10-year notes. That auction finished "on the screws," which means the highest yield matched the when-issued level. So, no tail. Yet falling bid-to-cover ratios and today's tail in the 30-year auction reinforce the theme that the market is jittery in the face of all of the talk about Fed tapering. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
In the past few days people have finally started paying attention to a funny thing going on in the market. Time after time ahead of major news, there seems to be someone who knows something before it happens ‚Äî there seem to be trades that hit too hard and fast before the news is actually made. This has been going on for a while, and people are finally starting to understand why. The current target of collective ire is Thomson Reuters. There was some shady trading ahead of the Consumer Confidence number at the end of last month. About a quarter of a second before the number was released, there was an eruption of orders in the SPDR S&amp;P Sector ETF (SPY), the e-Mini (electronically traded futures), and in hundreds of stocks, according to Nanex, a market research firm. After some digging CNBC's Eamon Javers reported that the source of the early trading was Thomson Reuters. The company has a well-known deal with the University of Michigan, the source of the data, that allows Thomson Reuters to release that data 5 minutes before it's supposed to come out (9:55 am) to clients who pay for that privilege. But Thomson Reuters also provides a service called ‚Äúultra-low latency,‚Äù which allows premium customers to get numbers like Consumer Confidence and the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index number 2 seconds before it's released to the general public for $2,000 a month. Two seconds in high-frequency trading time is an eternity. The University of Michigan responded to this by saying, essentially, ‚Äúwe do it because people pay for it. From The WSJ: Richard Curtin, an economist who runs the university's survey, said he knows the deal gives an advantage to select investors. ‚ÄúHardly anyone would pay for it if they didn't see a profit motive,‚Äù Mr. Curtin said. Later, he added: ‚ÄúThis research is totally funded by private sources for the benefit of scientific analysis, to assess public policy, and to advance business interests. Without a source of revenue, the project would cease to exist and the benefits would disappear.‚Äù Before we put on our self-righteous anger hats and ride over to Thomson Reuters pitchforks in hand, let's be real. They aren't the only ones doing this. To get the ISM number early, you also have to pay a $1,025 fee if you don't have a high-speed connection to exchanges, according to The WSJ.  Again, that's if you don't already have one. See, exchanges have their own form of latency. While Thomson Reuters is assisting firms trading on news (a strategy called ‚Äúevent jumping‚Äù and/or ‚Äúnews feed trades‚Äù), exchanges have admitted to allowing latency based on when they send out trade confirmations and how technologically advanced and connected a firm is to the exchange. Scott Patterson from The Wall Street Journal reported this in early May, and barely anyone made a peep. The CME even admitted that there are ‚Äútimes when customers experience a latency of a few milliseconds between the time they receive their trade confirmations and when the information is accessible on the public feeds.‚Äù Traders have a bunch of strategies for how to take advantage of this information, but it's really all the same thing ‚Äî some people have information before other people. Not because they're smart, but because they pay for that privilege. CNBC's John Carney compared that to the ‚Äúexpert networks‚Äù under major scrutiny by regulators and the infamous Goldman Sachs ‚Äútrading huddles,‚Äù in which research analysts met to pass tips on to traders and favored clients, and for which Goldman was fined tens of millions of dollars. When it comes to latency, regulators have really done nothing. There are no rules. It's the Wild Wild West. Commodities Futures Trading Commission head Bart Chilton was on CNBC this morning and basically said ... ‚Äúwelp, this sucks guys, but you're on your own for now.‚Äù Here's a transcript of the conversation he had with Kayla Taucshe and Andrew Ross Sorkin (emphasis ours): Chilton says: ‚ÄúIt may not be illegal, but I think it's unfair. Information is a commodity. I mean, forget about an hour-long massage for $100. Thomson Reuters is paying a million dollars to get a two-second advantage from the University of Michigan.‚Äù Sorkin: Right. Chilton: What that means is that two seconds. Sorkin: This is the Consumer Confidence survey?Chilton: Right. That two seconds can impact markets a lot. These are millisecond markets, and two seconds is huge for them.Sorkin: So my position on this is actually I'm not that bothered by this. I look at the news industry and I say if you want to get Bloomberg News, for example, you have to have a terminal, that's $20,000. You can get this news on the website, but you'll get it later. If you have a Dow Jones terminal, you can get access to Wall Street Journal's stories in advance. All of those things cost money and they are premium tiers for this information. So I'm unclear why we decided this information is somehow more valuable or a public good than other news organizations. Put news organizations aside. Dana Telsey who is an analyst in the retail business ‚Äî she does a survey. She is constantly surveying retailers. If you pay for the research you get the research. If you don't pay for it, you don't get it.Tausche: Bloomberg News owns Bloomberg News stories. This is Thomson Reuters taking third-party information. Sorkin: This is buying it the same way if I were to hire five reporters to go do the survey. I'm hiring the University of Michigan to go do the survey. It's the same thing.Chilton: Keep in mind what you're saying ... and look, it's a debate. And we're gonna do a concept release on a bunch of these technology issues in a month or so. And I'll be talking about it in a week, with regard to our fine furry friend the cheetahs. But, it's all about money. Right? So, if you have the money to afford these extra services ‚Äî if you can have five reporters, if you can have a supercomputer and do high speed trading, yeah, you can be in the markets. Is that really where we wanna go, Andrew? That you have to have the money, that you have to have the best, fastest computers? So that's the question here ‚Äî do we want the market to be a meritocracy or do we want to surrender it to the robots ‚Äî actually not even the robots, the people who can pay for them. Bloomberg News editor Matt Winkler sent a letter to the University of Michigan arguing that, while there are no specific regulations about latency, it seems to be a violation of a more general SEC rule, Regulation FD. From the letter: This doesn't contribute to a fully informed market as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Selective Disclosure and¬† Insider Trading Rule. Regulation FD, as it is called, was approved by the SEC in August 2000 partly in response to reporting by Bloomberg¬† News that showed the wide prevalence of selective disclosure of material information. And for all the cynics out there ‚Äî yes, there have always been ways for people to pay to game the market. But there are regulations for them. That's the difference here. We have to strive to be better, for now, in this case we're not even trying. You can check out how crazy trading gets ahead of important news (in this case Consumer Confidence) in the video below, provided by Nanex. 
soukup/FlickrToday the Center for American Progress released a 250-page report full of ideas to grow the economy with a "middle-out" approach focused on strengthening the middle class. Many of the ideas in the report are bad. They are too specific and have the government micromanage the economy too much. The problems with the report fall in four main areas. Overregulating the labor market: CAP endorses a variety of "pre-distribution" measures that are intended to reduce pre-tax income inequality. These include a drastically higher federal minimum wage, likely around $12 per hour (currently, it's $7.25); rules that would encourage more workers to unionize; and requirements that firms provide paid sick leave and, in many cases, severance payments to terminated workers. Combined with another employer requirement coming next year ‚Äî¬†the requirement in Obamacare that employers must provide health insurance to full-time workers to or pay a penalty ‚Äî¬†these ideas would significantly increase the cost of employing low-skill workers at a time when unemployment is already high. A modest increase in the minimum wage (say to $9) is probably a good idea. Existing studies do not give us a basis to assume a rise to $12, plus other rules that raise the cost of employment, wouldn't drive up unemployment. Meddling in business investment decisions: CAP urges the creation of a cabinet-level "Department of Business" that would oversee programs to subsidize and otherwise support favored economic sectors. The conceit here is that the economy suffers not just from overall underinvestment but a misallocation of capital that can be fixed by having the government pick winners and losers. CAP would have the government support firms that private capital markets won't because their activities are "not yet commercially viable." They would also have the U.S. subsidize industries to compete with foreign subsidies¬†‚Äî the same logic that has led to U.S. states shoveling billions of taxpayer dollars down the maw of the film industry. And they would have the government financially support "temporarily" troubled industries. These kinds of interventions can occasionally be justified as second-best solutions (solar subsidies because a comprehensive climate policy is politically impossible) or responses to highly unusual and exigent circumstances (the banking and auto bailouts of 2008-9). But the government's overall track record as venture capitalist / economic micromanager is not good. Instead, policymakers should focus on creating the conditions for broad economic growth and capital formation and let private markets allocate capital. Making questionable new public spending decisions: The report calls for a big, new federal infrastructure spending problem and repeats the claim that the U.S. faces a big infrastructure deficit. But our spending on infrastructure is already similar to our peer countries and our much-lamented bridges have actually been improving in recent years. The real U.S. infrastructure gap is a cost gap: Big public construction projects cost way more here than they do in other countries. Why would we make a major new financial commitment to infrastructure before fixing the problem that we pay way too much for what we do build? CAP also calls for a big new federal financial commitment to pre-kindergarten. The effectiveness of Pre-K is controversial and I don't know the issue as well as infrastructure, but since the U.S. is already outspending every OECD country on K-12 education except Luxembourg, Norway and Switzerland, I am skeptical that net new federal education spending is needed. Recommitting the federal government to the cult of homeownership: CAP laments the fact that higher lending standards and down-payment requirements are putting homeownership out of reach for many Americans. They urge more flexible lending standards, new programs to support home purchases by people with low and middle incomes, and a replacement for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that would retain a taxpayer backstop for mortgage lenders. The idea that people of limited means should take most of their wealth and put it in one, highly-leveraged real estate investment¬†‚Äî and that public policy should encourage them to do so¬†‚Äî is a big part of how we got into the housing mess in the first place. I do not share CAP's confidence that new financial regulations will prevent another credit bust that requires the use of the taxpayer backstop again. Instead of finding new ways to subsidize people into homeownership, we should encourage Americans to get comfortable with the idea that there is no shame in being a renter. So, what should we do instead? We should recognize that the problems with the American economy are largely at the macro level and fixable through macro-level solutions. In 2008, we suffered the collapse of a real-estate bubble that led to a crisis in the banking sector. The proper response to this has been better regulation to discourage speculation, reduce leverage at both the homeowner and financial institution level, and ensure risk does not get shifted to taxpayers. Since the recession of 2009, recovery has been poor. This has been largely because the federal government has not provided sufficiently stimulative fiscal and monetary policy. The solution is to stop making that mistake. The recovery has also been hindered by lingering household debts from the housing bust, which should be fixed through more aggressive mortgage modification programs. Over the longer term, we are dealing with increased economic polarization. Wage growth over the last four decades has not kept pace with economic growth, the returns of which have accrued mostly to people in the top income quintile and especially the top 0.5%. The principal fix to this is to levy more progressive taxes and use them to finance transfers to people with moderate and low incomes. The CAP report contains recommendations to address many of these problems. Those recommendations are mostly fine, though they ought to have talked about monetary policy. Also, like CAP,¬†I do see structural problems in the American economy that require policy changes beyond broad fiscal and monetary policy, financial regulation, and mortgage relief. The difference is that my changes would focus on deregulation, instead of CAP's prescription of new regulations and new federal programs. Markets in health care and education are dysfunctional, which has led to rapidly rising costs without improvements in quality. Reforms here should involve a mix of regulatory and market solutions that focus on holding providers accountable for quality. (In part, this is reflected in the CAP report.) Local governments should ease their regulation of land use, which currently drives up the cost of housing, especially in the parts of the country where productivity is highest. States and localities should reduce occupational and business licensing requirements that create barriers to entry and drive up the cost of services. Protections for intellectual property should be weakened so that useful inventions can be used more widely and firms are encouraged to spend more time innovating and less time suing each other over patents. Governments at all levels should ease the infrastructure cost gap by (among other reforms) streamlining approval processes, repealing the Davis-Bacon Act, repealing "Buy American" requirements that force us to overpay for infrastructure components, improving competitive bidding processes, and saying "no" to white elephants. These changes would grow the economy, lower the cost of living and make government more efficient. And they would avoid involving the government in economic decisionmaking that is best left to the private sector.
apNews Corp CEO Rupert Murdoch has filed for divorce from wife Wendi Deng. Deadline Hollywood was the first to break the news, and News Corp has since confirmed it. The decision to file for divorce happened "very quickly," Deadline reports. Rumors of marriage trouble have been circulating for months. A source told Deadline in February that Deng "was snippy with [Murdoch] during Oscar weekend, and she‚Äôs really impatient with him these days.‚Äù A News Corp spokeswoman told The New York Times that the "relationship between husband and wife has broken down irretrievably." The newspaper also reported that Deng was told about Murdoch's decision before the papers were filed. Murdoch married Deng in 1999, weeks after he divorced former wife Anna Torv. Deng started at News Corp as an intern at Star TV. We have more information about her here. The couple has two daughters, 11-year-old Grace and 9-year-old Chloe. Murdoch is 82 years old and Deng is 44.¬†Deng is the chief of strategy for MySpace's operations in China, according to The Daily Beast. Deng made headlines in 2011 when she slapped someone who accosted Murdoch during a hearing on the phone hacking scandal.
PoliticoGoldman Sachs CEO and Chairman Lloyd Blankfein doesnít hate the 2010 overhaul of financial regulations known as Dodd-Frank. He just thinks the rules could benefit from his advice. The investment banker said Thursday that the high-profile lobbying efforts by Wall Street are an exercise of democratic rights and, more tellingly, their†professional expertise†into how the markets work. ìWe just make a contribution of ideas and what we think are facts,î Blankfein said at a breakfast discussion hosted by POLITICO. ìThe idea that we shouldnít state our view [is] Ö not only inappropriate, but an abdication of responsibility.î The†Goldman honcho†said the authority for deciding the law rests with Congress, not his firm and colleagues on Wall Street. The Center for Responsive Politics ranks Goldman as the sixth biggest ìheavy hitterî in political donations over the past dozen election cycles. The only other for-profit business to have wielded as much influence during the same period is AT&amp;T, according to the campaign finance watchdog. Blankfein actually likes some of the reforms introduced three years ago in the law sponsored by then Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA) and then Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT), both of whom have since retired. He welcomes the higher capital requirements and stress tests the government has started to apply to bank balance sheets, since he wants to ensure that his counterparties and trading partners are financially sound. Of the rules that have been finalized, and most havenít, Goldman has been able to adapt, Blankfein said. But the Volcker Rule is a different matter. This element of†Dodd-Frank†puts limits on proprietary trading by banks with access to federal deposit insurance and the Federal Reserve. The rule has yet to be finalized, as regulators have struggled to determine the difference between legitimate market making ó trades that increase liquidity ó and bets for the house account. Wall Streetís alpha dog suggested that ìToo Big To Failî banks do not receive a government subsidy, noting that all big firms tend to be able to finance themselves at cheaper rates than smaller rivals. ìThere are advantages for big companies in an industry versus small companies in an industry,î he said. ìWhether thatís chemicals, oil, or finance.î Blankfein said there is no ìpolitical willî to rescue failing financial institutions with taxpayer funds, as happened during the 2008 crisis. He views the new regulations for an orderly liquidation of those firms, as opposed to an ìimmediate vaporization,î as important but uncertain. ìIt wonít be tested until itís tested,î he said. ìIím not dying to test it.î During a relatively congenial conversation onstage with POLITICOís Ben White, Blankfein touched on other subjects such as income inequality, noting that the country had done a better job over the past three decades of delivering wealth than allocating it. He views the U.S. economy as improving, but suggested that a change in public tone was essential for further growth. ìHave less negativityî and ending ìthe gotcha mentalityî in the media and public forum would boost morale and the economy, Blankfein said. ìSentiment is more negative than the facts command.î More from The Fiscal Times:
Reuters/Max WhittakerDeclining foreclosure inventory has been one of the driving forces behind the rise in U.S. home prices which began in 2012. But foreclosure starts ‚Äî the pace at which mortgages enter the foreclosure process ‚Äî were up 4% month over month in May, according to RealtyTrac's latest foreclosure report¬†(but¬†down 33% from a year ago). States like Nevada and Florida which were some of the hardest hit during the housing bust are showing some worrisome signs again. Foreclosure starts were up 81% year over year in Nevada to a 20-year high, and up 19% on the month. Foreclosure activity was up 18% month over month and 1% from a year ago. When measured by foreclosure rate, Nevada fell to second place, with 1 in every 305 homes having received a foreclosure filing in May. In counties like Lyon, Nevada, 1 in every 209 homes received a foreclosure filing. This compares with 1 in every 885 at the national level. In Florida, where 1 in every 302 homes received a foreclosure filing, activity was up 20% from last month and 12% from a year ago. Meanwhile, foreclosure starts were up 39% on the month, but down 17% from a year ago. ‚ÄúForeclosure activity continued to bounce back in some markets where it may have appeared the foreclosure problem had been knocked out by an aggressive combination of foreclosure prevention efforts over the past two years,‚Äù said Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac in a press release. ‚ÄúPlaces like Nevada, where foreclosure starts increased to a 20-month high, and Maryland, where overall foreclosure activity increased to a 33-month high." And there are other reasons to be concerned. Let's first look at Nevada. Home prices in the silver state were down 46.6% from 2007 to Q4 2012, according to latest CoreLogic Case-Shiller data. But prices on single-family homes, including distressed sales, were up 24.6% year-over-year in April. The employment situation isn't promising either. A report from Reno Gazette Journal shows that when we take into account underemployment¬†and those that have been discouraged from looking for jobs, the unemployment picture is quite a bit worse than the headline number suggests: "Shadow unemployment numbers are especially staggering in Nevada, which consistently posted the highest jobless rate in the nation since the recession. "In the first quarter, Nevada‚Äôs annual unemployment rate was 10.8 percent, which equates to more than 140,000 people. Labor statistics, however, peg shadow unemployment at 19.6 percent ‚Äî more than a quarter-million Nevadans." Housing expert Robert Shiller has warned that markets like Las Vegas are already looking frothy. What's more, at 45.4%, Nevada continues to have the nation's highest negative equity share ‚Äî where homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. In Florida, home prices were down 35.2% from 2007 to Q4 2012. Prices on single-family homes, including distressed sales, were 10.5% YoY in Florida. Florida's unemployment picture is better that Nevada's. The unemployment rate stood at 7.5% in March 2013, the end of Q1 and has been decreasing, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Improving jobs market and consumer confidence, along with declining distressed homes has been crucial to the housing recovery. The latest data suggests that while the housing recovery is coming along, many local markets continue to struggle.
GoldMoney Foundation via YouTubeFor weeks, Japan's stock market has been in an absolute freefall. Last night the Nikkei fell to 12,445, down 6.4%. But it wasn't long ago that commentators were rejoicing in Abenomics¬†‚Äì the policy moniker for Japan's monetary stimulus and government spending plan¬†‚Äì for its bold three-pronged approach to juice the Japanese economy. Now, with the Nikkei taking a turn for the worse and the yen strengthening, it appears Abenomics has not had the intended effect. Felix Zulauf, swiss hedge fund manager and macro thinker, goes even further. He thinks Japan will spark a global crisis within the next 18 months. Zulauf spoke with Financial Sense:¬† I do believe that this will be the root cause of the next big global crisis whenever it breaks out, probably sometime over the next 12 to 18 months or so. First of all, I think the Japanese situation is very dangerous because Japan‚Äôs tax revenues, when you look at the numbers, they have to use almost 50% to service their government debt‚Äîtheir Federal government debt. So if interest rates rise further, Japan is basically bust‚Ä¶I think this is a very dangerous thing that the Japanese are starting and I believe it will most likely be the trigger for the next big global crisis in financial markets and the world economy. For years, the Bank of Japan has been a bastion of economic conservatism. Not anymore.
Yesterday we participated in the JPMorgan Corporate Challenge 3.6 mile run in Central Park with thousands of other runners from investment banks, hedge funds and other companies in New York City.¬† As we were heading over to the start line, we ran into a small group representing Lehman Brothers‚Äîthe investment banking giant that collapsed in September 2008. They were wearing gray t-shirts with Frankeinstein's monster on the back and the saying "We're Alive!." ¬†Perhaps another t-shirt slogan option could have been Dick Fuld's quote, "the BRos always wins!!"¬† The company still operates in midtown Manhattan with far fewer people selling off its remaining assets, according to Reuters.¬† Check out the shirts:¬† Julia La Roche for Business Insider
Hedge fund managers are drooling over the billions of dollars in outside money headed out of Steven A. Cohen's portfolio and looking for a new home. Cohen, the billionaire founder of SAC Capital Advisors, is facing an insider trading imbroglio at his fund, but has yet to be personally implicated. SAC manages about $15 billion ($9 billion of which belongs to Cohen and his employees). Outside investors redeemed between $2 and $3 billion in Q2. Now other firms stand to benefit.† Reuters reports: Israel Englander's $18 billion†Millennium Management, which has long had a rivalry with SAC, is the name that comes up most often as a possible alternative investment, the industry sources said. The firm also relies on a group approach where dozens of smaller portfolio teams, rather than one or two main managers, buy and sell securities quickly, often thousands of them. Balyasny Asset Management,†Visium Asset Management†and†Kenneth Griffin's†Citadel, which all feature multi-manager trading teams, have also been named frequently as candidates for some of the estimated $3 billion to $4 billion expected to leave SAC, said industry sources. Several people mentioned†Hutchin Hill, a $1.1 billion firm run by former SAC Capital trader†Neil Chriss. The firm employs a strategy similar to Mr. Cohen's and is taking money from new investors. Reuters reports that it will take months for the money to be returned to investors, so it may be too soon to predict which hedge funds will profit from SAC's woes.†
Paramount PicturesSteven Spielberg and George Lucas made some startling comments at USC yesterday, David Cohen of Variety reports. The two movie moguls said the movie industry is about to implode. What's happening, Spielberg and Lucas said, is that Hollywood is betting ever more heavily on a handful of massive-budget general-interest blockbusters each year, while losing the regular movie-going audience to the Internet and TV. And soon, Spielberg predicted, some of these humongous bets will blow up, demolishing the industry: ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre ¬†going for the gold,‚Äù said Lucas of the studios. ‚ÄúBut that isn‚Äôt going to work forever. And as a result they‚Äôre getting narrower and narrower in their focus. People are going to get tired of it. They‚Äôre not going to know how to do anything else.‚Äù Spielberg noted that because so many forms of entertainment are competing for attention, [the studios] would rather spend $250 million on a single film than make several personal, quirky projects. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs eventually going to be a big meltdown,‚Äù¬†Spielberg said. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs going to be an implosion where three or four or maybe even a half-dozen of these mega-budgeted movies go crashing into the ground and that‚Äôs going to change the paradigm again.‚Äù Lucas predicts that the movie-theater industry will soon evolve into something like Broadway, where huge blockbuster movies are shown for long periods on huge screens and tickets cost fantastic amounts of money: Lucas predicted that after that meltdown, ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre going to end up with fewer theaters, bigger theaters with a lot of nice things. Going to the movies will cost 50 bucks or 100 or 150 bucks, like what Broadway costs today, or a football game. It‚Äôll be an expensive thing. ‚Ä¶ (The movies) will sit in the theaters for a year, like a Broadway show does. That will be called the ‚Äòmovie‚Äô business.‚Äù ‚ÄúThere‚Äôll be big movies on a big screen, and it‚Äôll cost them a lot of money. Everything else will be on a small screen. It‚Äôs almost that way now. ‚ÄòLincoln‚Äô and ‚ÄòRed Tails‚Äô barely got into theaters. You‚Äôre talking about Steven Spielberg and George Lucas can‚Äôt get their movies into theaters.‚Äù So that's the future of the movie industry, according to two of the most successful directors and producers in history. But don't go crying for Hollywood. There's still plenty of money in making movies and series for smaller screens. And the proliferation of on-demand services over the Internet is making these movies and series easier to see than ever. And don't go crying for consumers, either. The quicker the traditional movie industry breaks down, the quicker you'll be able to see the movies you want to watch be available on your own personal screens--instead of having to schlep to a dirty cramped theater, paying through the nose, and then having an obstructed or sideways view. Read about the demise of the movie industry at Variety &gt;
Warren Buffett is a value investor. That means he goes through companies with a fine-toothed comb before he decides to make a big investment in them. It's like detective work, and the investor (may or may not) see things under a company's hood that they want to change, or believe the market is under valuing. The thing is, it may take years for investors to see results. It's more passive. Bill Nygren, manager of Oakmark Fund spoke at the Morningstar Investment Conference and explained why, these days, that's working in a value investors' favor. Since many investors are so impatient, active fund managers (your traders etc.) are leaving some of the stocks that value investors love on the table. From Barron's: ìOne of the things that has changed is the time horizon of investors,î Nygren said. ìInvestors might be smarter than 20 or 30 years ago, but they are focused on such a different time period than what we are looking for. Iíve seen sell-side reports [where they argue,] ëIt might take more than two quarters for the good news to start coming out.íî He chuckles. ì[Ours is] 5 to 7 years. [So] thereís actually less competition for cheap stocks today than when I started in the business,î he said. ìIndexing, the percentage of momentum investors, very short term events ó I think is higher than ever. [It] makes it easier for a long-term value investor to do well.î So if you ever wanted to learn how to be the oracle, now is the time.
Lululemon Athletica/FlickrLululemon Athletica's Chairman Dennis "Chip" Wilson sold $50 million worth of stock days before shares tumbled thanks to the news of CEO Christine Day's sudden departure. Wilson, the founder of the struggling yogawear company, set up the sales plan in December, which†called for him to sell up to 5.7 million shares over an 18-month period, according to the Wall Street Journal. He sold 607,545 shares at $81.50 on Friday (the day the board learned of Day's departure), cashing in $49.5 million. Wilson's assistant told the Journal that the chairman had "no influence on trades" pursuant to the plan. Reuters reports: The SEC allows company executives to trade their own stock by using a preset plan known as 10b5-1, even when they have access to private information. 10b5-1 has been controversial for years. In theory, the plan is supposed to take the timing out of the hands of those with insider knowledge. However, the Journal found that board members have latitude on when to shift things around in their 10b5-1. Wilson has been selling off chunks of his stake in Lulu since May. He has unloaded 2.3 million shares to the tune of $184.4 million so far this year. Wilson has also used 10b5-1 plans in the past. Friday's sale was his largest of the year. Had he waited until Tuesday ó†after the news of Day's departure reached the public ó†he would have cashed in $8 million less. Last year the Wall Street Journal found that among 20,237 executives who traded their own company's stock in the week before their companies made news, 1,418 recorded average stock gains of 10% (or avoided equivalent losses). That was nearly double the 786 who saw their stock move against them. From the Journal: Looking at executives' trading in the week before their companies made news, the Journal found that one of every 33 who dipped in and out posted average returns of more than 20% (or avoided 20% downturns) in the following week. By contrast, only one in 117 executives who traded in an annual pattern did that well. Lululemon's shares plummeted as much as 15% on Monday (and 17% on Tuesday) after Day announced her departure. All of this comes in the wake of Lulu's embarrassing, massive recall of see-through yoga pants in March.
Interest rates have been surging in the United States as concerns grow in the marketplace that the Federal Reserve will slow its bond purchases sooner than expected as economic data improves. Yet the U.S. dollar index hit its lowest level since mid-February this morning, which seems counterintuitive ‚Äì rising real interest rates should coincide with dollar strength (in recent months, the performance of the dollar has become correlated with risky assets like stocks as investors make bets on a U.S. economic comeback, whereas before, it was the opposite). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Citi strategists Valentin Marinov and Josh O'Byrne say that "Why is dollar so weak? Will it last?" may be the most frequently asked question these days. So, what's the answer? Marinov and Byrne point out that dollar weakness as of late is only against a few certain currencies ‚Äì the euro, the yen, the Swiss franc, and the British pound. (The commonly-quoted U.S. dollar index is actually weighted 57.6% against the euro, 13.6% against the yen, 11.9% against the pound, and 3.6% against the franc, with the Swedish krona and the Canadian dollar rounding it out.) Marinov and O'Byrne write: So what is driving the dollar underperformance relative to EUR, JPY, CHF and GBP?¬†The move can be explained by a combination of factors. We have highlighted in the past that investors maybe worried that a potential re-run of the 1994 episode, when the Fed was similarly moving closer to exiting easy policy, could leave the dollar vulnerable as the markets start to worry about the impact of rate tightening (QE tapering) on the USD-denominated assets. We would also argue that some of the dollar underperformance could be related to the upcoming FOMC meeting next week. With market sentiment tanking and with both the ECB and the BoJ refusing to take measures to contain volatility, investors may be betting on more dovish Fed¬†next Wednesday¬†to try to dial down its tapering rhetoric. This leaves the dollar vulnerable against JPY and especially EUR. Another driver of the USD underperformance could be the unwinding of dollar longs especially against JPY. Given that USDJPY depreciated by 20% between January and May this year, we could see some further positioning squeeze there. In the case of EURUSD we think that the resilience of the pair is related to continuing positioning unwind of euro shorts vis-√†-vis G10 smalls. The Citi strategists think the dollar weakness is only temporary, especially if the Fed fails to strike a dovish tone at next week's FOMC meeting. "It is also worth highlighting that the latest back up in UST yields is not inconsistent with the steadily improving US economic conditions," say Marinov and O'Byrne. "We think that growing dollar rate advantage and further repatriation into the US should remain supportive for the greenback from here."
Dealbook's Susanne Craig has a piece today about Goldman Sachs president/COO Gary Cohn†calling him the "Prince Charles of Wall Street" because sources say he's growing restless waiting for Lloyd Blankfein to move aside so he can be CEO (a.k.a. the king). † From Dealbook:† So Mr. Blankfein has regrown a beard and come to embrace the limelight, giving speeches on gay marriage and education, and attending celebrity Oscar parties. He often jokes that he plans to die at his desk. It is no laughing matter for Mr. Cohn, who as Goldmanís 52-year-old president is the†Prince Charles†of Wall Street, a man for whom the crown seems just beyond his grasp. Mr. Cohn is growing increasingly restless, according to friends and colleagues. Some inside Goldman wonder if he will depart if Mr. Blankfein doesnít move soon. That would throw a monkey wrench into Goldmanís succession plans, leaving the firm without a natural candidate ready to replace Mr. Blankfein. During a livestream event in Washington D.C. this morning hosted by Politico, Blankfein dismissed the Dealbook piece as "gossipy." † He said that the firm's senior leadership has been together for a long time and is "very stable."† "Somebody who was assigned to Goldman Sachs didn't have anything good enough to write for a while," he said [via @williamalden] †The Dealbook piece also suggested that Blankfein might go the route of taking on a public service role like other former Goldman execs who have gone into government service following their reign at the investment banking giant.† "Don't use their assertions as if it were fact," Blankfein said. † "There's a long tradition of Goldman Sachs people going into public service. It's something...after you do this job it's not like you're going to go to another job in finance. Why would you do that? You can serve the public in philanthropy or government. I really don't think about it. You don't†spend a lot of time thinking of your next position, when you are in such a consuming job...People think of it on behalf of me. I don't think about it." †
8:19 am EST - June 13, 2013 By Dan   Back in April,¬†coinciding¬†with new-found dollar strength, the commodity complex started to come unwound a tad, with gold, silver and copper (which was down 20% peak to trough) crash off of 2013 highs: Since early May Treasuries started seeing signs of strain (the TLT is down ~9%, just yesterday making its lowest close in more than a year) as the yield on the 10 year sits solidly above 2%: &nbsp; Emerging Markets have been in a free fall since April, with the EEM (which is heavily dominated by large Chinese &amp;¬†Brazilian¬†companies and Samsung) is in full on correction mode down ~12% in the last month. And then there is JAPAN. ¬†The Yen and the Nikkei continue to party like Pets.com circa 1999 with little care given to how things are going to end. Whats amazing to some, but not to all (us), is that all of this volatility in risk assets the world over began as the SPX was at all time highs, and the VIX¬†hovered¬†above 5 yr lows. ¬†U.S. &#8220;decoupling&#8221;, &#8220;safe haven&#8221;, &#8220;best house on a bad block&#8221; these were all terms that pundits and analysts have been using to describe why the U.S. has been immune to much of the volatility over the last month or 2 in other parts of the world or the investment spectrum. Here is a little chart we like to pull out every so often, there is nothing scientific to it at all, but in each of the last 2 years, the VIX and the SPX have converged with the VIX on the way up and the SPX on the way down. What&#8217;s amazingly¬†apparent¬†by the chart above is that it would take a massive flare up for the convergence to happen in 2013 as the SPX has been on a¬†runaway¬†breakout from the recent relationship and volatility has been subdued. (again, not scientific just emphasizing how high the market got and how low vol got). ¬†This says a couple things to me and¬†obviously¬†reinforces the sense that U.S. equities are crowded and barely budge (and will be defended) as the Nikkei has sold off 22% in less than a month. ¬†The¬†relatively¬†low readings of the VIX in the face of a nearly 5% drawdown from the all time highs in the SPX tells me that investors are either well hedged or way too complacent. ¬†What&#8217;s¬†interesting¬†to me about this &#8220;so far&#8221; summer correction is that there does not appear to be that bogeyman event (normally systemic risk in Europe) but rather the more &#8220;normal&#8221; factors like growth concerns and the effectiveness of central bank actions. SO to sum things up with a question: are we at the start or the end of something? ¬†MY sense is that there has been way too much¬†complacency¬†by¬†global¬†investors in the face of what could be decreasing¬†effectiveness of¬†quantitative¬†easing while global growth is decelerating. ¬†IN this scenario, it appears that the U.S. risk assets would be the place to be. ¬†But the next few days&#8217; action could be very telling as to whether we are near an end or¬†beginning. The SPX closed near its 50 day moving average yesterday, a technical level that it has held 4 times since Dec 31st, 2012, each time seeing higher highs. ¬†A break below 1600 today would do some serious technical damage and would likely bring a quick test of 1580 and then possibly 1550. On the flip side of that, the VIX has just made its 4th 50% rally of the lows in that same time period and since Dec 31st, 2012, this has been a great signal to sell vol, and get long. A central theme of our trading for the last month has been to sell rallies and be long VIX calls (read here), but we have made it a point to make at least one cover of a short position on every sell off (like yesterday¬†here). ¬†We have to trade what the market is giving us, and we will look to add longs on an opportunistic basis, while continuing to look for disconnects btwn fundamentals and price action. So the net of it is that it&#8217;s ugly out there, but I do expect some serious support for U.S. equities somewhere btwn 1550 and 1600 and the big money may just let it get there as they like to say, &#8220;pullbacks in bull markets are a healthy thing&#8221;. ¬†We will continue to trade em.
Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein said that the culture of America "has gotten too negative" this morning during a livestream event in Washington, D.C. hosted by Politico and hosted by Ben White.† "Economy is not a science, it's a social science," Blankfein said. "A lot of good things are happening, but sentiment is so negative." †† People might wonder why the country isn't growing faster. Because of the negative sentiment, people are scared and afraid to make mistakes, he explained. So what are his solutions?† "Less negative reporting and less negativity," he said.† "Culture of America has gotten too negativeó Is that a trend or a cycle? I think its a cycle...I'm optimistic, but I will say there's a moment where sentiment is more negative than the facts command. And sentiment matters."†
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthA key Bank of England policymaker has warned of the risks to global financial stability when "the biggest bond bubble in history" bursts. In a wide-ranging testimony to MPs, Andy Haldane, Bank of England director of financial stability, admitted the central bank's new financial policy committee is taking too long to force banks to hold more capital and appeared to criticise the bank's culture under outgoing governor Sir Mervyn King.Haldane told the Treasury select committee that the bursting of the bond bubble ñ created by central banks forcing down bond yields by pumping electronic money into the economy ñ was a risk "I feel acutely right now". He also said banks have now put the threat of cyber attacks on the top of their the worry-list, replacing the long-running eurozone crisis. "You can see why the financial sector would be a particularly good target for someone wanting to wreak havoc through the cyber route," Haldane said. But he described bond markets as the main risk to financial stability. "If I were to single out what for me would be biggest risk to global financial stability right now it would be a disorderly reversion in the yields of government bonds globally." he said. There had been "shades of that" in recent weeks as government bond yields have edged higher amid talk that central banks, particularly the US Federal Reserve, will start to reduce its stimulus. "Let's be clear. We've intentionally blown the biggest government bond bubble in history," Haldane said. "We need to be vigilant to the consequences of that bubble deflating more quickly than [we] might otherwise have wanted." The Bank of England later issued a statement, describing Haldane's remarks as his "personal view" and stressed that if it raised interest rates ñ stuck at record lows since March 2009 ñ too quickly the consequences might be severe. "Any attempt to return interest rates quickly to more normal levels would recreate recession conditions," the Bank of England. Haldane said the FPC was on alert to any bubbles created by the help to buy mortgage guarantee scheme for first-time buyers and house movers, stressing the scheme should be temporary. Referring to the US, he said: "Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were temporary schemes and 75 years later they were still in place and blowing the world up." He said the FPC, which meets quarterly at the Bank of England to spot the next financial crisis, had not been "entirely free" of political interference over the way the bailed out banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group had been forced to raise more capital. A member of the FPC since it was created by the coalition in 2011, Haldane admitted the body had "lacked clarity and decisiveness" in setting capital levels for banks after first starting making recommendations on capital in 2011 but not concluding the shortfall was £25bn until March 2013. "With hindsight that was too long a period of uncertainty," Haldane said. He had argued more capital should have been put into the major banks and that the Treasury's refusal to put more cash into RBS and Lloyds had "constrained" options available to the FPC. In his written evidence he seemed to refer to the management style of the outgoing governor. Haldane wrote that one of his personal objectives as "to contribute making the bank a more conversational, less hierarchical, more diverse, somewhat humbler organisation as a way of improving its accountability credibility and the quality of its decision making". Andrew Tyrie, the chairman of the Treasury select committe, later raised comments made by Haldane and Donald Kohn, an external member of the FPC who also gave evidence, about the need to give the FPC power to limit the risks banks can take through the so-called leverage ratio. Haldane described this ratio as "the most robust measure of bank capital adequacy". International regulators are setting a leverage ratio at 3% by 2019 ñ which allows banks to leverage their capital 33 times ñ and the FPC had wanted the ability to be able to adjust this ratio to limit the risks banks run. "Mr Haldane told us that 'a 33 times leveraged banking system sends shivers down my spine, if it were to be a long-run goal for financial stability'," said Tyrie. "The government should accept the banking commission's recommendations without further delay and grant the FPC this power," Tyrie said. Haldane said: "For the FPC not to have been given directive powers over this instrument is a significant structural flaw in the current macro-prudential regime." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Yesterday we presented BP's annual statistical energy review, which showed the U.S. experienced the largest one-year gain in oil production in its history, rising 14% to 8.9 million barrels per day. Here's what that looks like in chart form, via AEI's Mark Perry. It was a¬†790,000 barrel a day increase from the year before: Mark Perry/AEI
At 8:30 AM, we got a weekly report on initial jobless claims and an advance retail sales report for May, and both beat consensus expectations. Following the releases, stocks are rallying, and the dollar is surging against the yen. Meanwhile, gold and Treasuries are getting slammed. S&amp;P 500 futures are trading at 1613, up 0.2%, versus levels around 1605 prior to the release. The dollar-yen exchange rate is ¬•94.54 versus levels around ¬•94 before the reports. Gold is at $1377 an ounce, down 1.1%. The yield on the 10-year Treasury is still 1 basis point lower, at 2.22%, but it's rising following the reports. The dominant story in global markets has been the rise in Treasury yields since May 3, when the April employment report was released. Because the Federal Reserve has tied the timetable for tapering back monetary stimulus directly to specific economic data thresholds, improving economic data is helping to fuel fears that the pace of bond purchases the Fed makes could slow sooner than expected.
Initial jobless claims hit 334,000 last week. Consensus was 350,000, according to Econoday. Prior was 346,000. Here's the full release: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE WEEKLY CLAIMS REPORT ¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†SEASONALLY ADJUSTED DATAIn the week ending June 8, the advance figure for seasonally adjusted¬†initial claims¬†was 334,000, a decrease of 12,000 from the previous week's unrevised figure of 346,000. The 4-week moving average was 345,250, a decrease of 7,250 from the previous week's unrevised average of 352,500. The advance seasonally adjusted¬†insured unemployment rate¬†was 2.3 percent for the week ending June 1, unchanged from the prior week's unrevised rate. The advance number for seasonally adjusted¬†insured unemployment¬†during the week ending June 1 was 2,973,000, an increase of 2,000 from the preceding week's revised level of 2,971,000. The 4-week moving average was 2,967,250, a decrease of 12,750 from the preceding week's revised average of 2,980,000. UNADJUSTED DATA The advance number of actual initial claims under state programs, unadjusted, totaled 330,933 in the week ending June 8, an increase of 37,141 from the previous week. There were 376,610 initial claims in the comparable week in 2012. The advance unadjusted insured unemployment rate was 2.1 percent during the week ending June 1, unchanged from the prior week's unrevised rate. The advance unadjusted number for persons claiming UI benefits in state programs totaled 2,761,542, an increase of 19,609 from the preceding week's revised level of 2,741,933. A year earlier, the rate was 2.4 percent and the volume was 3,091,216. The total number of people claiming benefits in all programs for the week ending May 25 was 4,515,445, a decrease of 129,863 from the previous week. There were 5,827,210 persons claiming benefits in all programs in the comparable week in 2012. Extended Benefits were not available in any state during the week ending May 25. Initial claims for UI benefits filed by former Federal civilian employees totaled 1,230 in the week ending June 1, a decrease of 134 from the prior week. There were 1,875 initial claims filed by newly discharged veterans, a decrease of 82 from the preceding week. There were 16,394 former Federal civilian employees claiming UI benefits for the week ending May 25, a decrease of 1,451 from the previous week. Newly discharged veterans claiming benefits totaled 34,477, a decrease of 1,448 from the prior week. States reported 1,703,458 persons claiming EUC (Emergency Unemployment Compensation) benefits for the week ending May 25, a decrease of 57,135 from the prior week. There were 2,551,539 persons claiming EUC in the comparable week in 2012. EUC weekly claims include first, second, third, and fourth tier activity. The highest insured unemployment rates in the week ending May 25 were in Puerto Rico (4.6), Alaska (4.5), New Mexico (3.2), New Jersey (3.1), Connecticut (3.0), California (2.9), Pennsylvania (2.9), Nevada (2.8), Oregon (2.7), and Illinois (2.6). The largest increases in initial claims for the week ending June 1 were in Tennessee (+1,280), New York (+1,001), Oregon (+851), Montana (+501), and North Carolina (+302), while the largest decreases were in California (-8,796), Florida (-3,250), Pennsylvania (-1,923), Texas (-1,876), and Missouri (-1,704). ¬† ¬† WEEK ENDING Advance June 8 June 1 Change May 25 Prior Year1 Initial Claims (SA) 334,000 346,000 -12,000 357,000 382,000 Initial Claims (NSA) 330,933 293,792 +37,141 320,199 376,610 4-Wk Moving Average (SA) 345,250 352,500 -7,250 348,000 378,250 WEEK ENDING Advance June 1 May 25 Change May 18 Prior Year1 Ins. Unemployment (SA) 2,973,000 2,971,000 +2,000 3,002,000 3,310,000 Ins. Unemployment (NSA) 2,761,542 2,741,933 +19,609 2,806,857 3,091,216 4-Wk Moving Average¬†(SA) 2,967,250 2,980,000 -12,750 2,990,500 3,303,500 Ins. Unemployment Rate (SA)2 2.3% 2.3% 0.0 2.3% 2.6% Ins. Unemployment Rate (NSA)2 2.1% 2.1% 0.0 2.2% 2.4% INITIAL CLAIMS FILED IN FEDERAL PROGRAMS (UNADJUSTED) WEEK ENDING June 1 May 25 Change Prior Year1 Federal Employees 1,230 1,364 -134 1,350 Newly Discharged Veterans 1,875 1,957 -82 2,207 PERSONS CLAIMING UI BENEFITS IN ALL PROGRAMS (UNADJUSTED) WEEK ENDING May 25 May 18 Change Prior Year1 Regular State 2,737,178 2,799,890 -62,712 3,056,358 Federal Employees (UCFE) 16,394 17,845 -1,451 15,757 Newly Discharged Veterans (UCX) 34,477 35,925 -1,448 38,186 EUC 20083 1,703,458 1,760,593 -57,135 2,551,539 Extended Benefits4 384 385 -1 135,502 State Additional Benefits¬†5 4,713 5,457 -744 5,416 STC / Workshare¬†6 18,841 25,213 -6,372 24,452 TOTAL 4,515,445 4,645,308 -129,863 5,827,210 FOOTNOTES¬†SA - Seasonally Adjusted Data, NSA - Not Seasonally Adjusted Data¬†1¬†- Prior year is comparable to most recent data.2¬†- Most recent week used covered employment of 129,204,324 as denominator.¬†3¬†- EUC weekly claims include first, second, third, and fourth tier activity. Tier-specific EUC data can be found here: http://ows.doleta.gov/unemploy/docs/persons.xls4¬†- Information on the EB program can be found here: http://www.ows.doleta.gov/unemploy/extenben.asp¬†5¬†- Some states maintain additional benefit programs for those claimants who exhaust regular, extended and emergency benefits. Information on states that participate,¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†¬†and the extent of benefits paid, can be found starting on page 4-5 of this link: http://ows.doleta.gov/unemploy/pdf/uilawcompar/2010/special.pdf¬†6¬†- Information on STC/Worksharing can be found starting on page 4-9 of the following link: http://ows.doleta.gov/unemploy/pdf/uilawcompar/2010/special.pdf¬† UNADJUSTED INITIAL CLAIMS FOR WEEK ENDED 06/1/2013 STATES WITH A DECREASE OF MORE THAN 1,000¬† State Change ¬† State Supplied Comment CA -8,796 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the service and manufacturing industries. FL -3,250 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the agriculture, construction, manufacturing, trade, retail, and service industries. PA -1,923 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the entertainment, lodging and food service, professional, scientific and technology service, transportation equipment, and food and beverage manufacturing industries. TX -1,876 ¬† No comment. MO -1,704 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the manufacturing, healthcare, and food and accommodation service industries. KY -1,658 ¬† No comment. NJ -1,370 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the trade, food and accommodation service, transportation and warehousing, and technical service industries. MA -1,295 ¬† Fewer layoffs in the construction, and food and accommodation industries. CT -1,032 ¬† No comment. STATES WITH AN INCREASE OF MORE THAN 1,000¬† State Change ¬† State Supplied Comment TN +1,280 ¬† Layoffs in the administrative and support service, transportation, educational services, food service, and textile industries. NY +1,001 ¬† No comment. State Detail Prior WeekUI Claims Series 1967 to current This information will be made available to sensory impaired individuals upon request. Voice phone: 202-693-4676. TDD¬†Message Phone: 1-800-326-2577.¬† News releases from the U.S. Department of Labor are accessible on the Internet at:¬†http://www.dol.gov/and¬†¬†http://www.oui.doleta.gov/¬† Click here for updates &gt;
Advance retail sales are out. Sales rose 0.6% in May, according to the advance report, beating expectations for a 0.4% gain. Retail sales excluding autos rose 0.3%, matching economists' estimates. Retail sales excluding autos and gas also rose 0.3%, in line with expectations. From the release: The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that advance estimates of U.S. retail and food services sales for May, adjusted for seasonal variation and holiday and trading-day differences, but not for price changes, were $421.1 billion, an increase of 0.6 percent (¬±0.5%) from the previous month, and 4.3 percent (¬±0.7%) above May 2012. Total sales for the March through May 2013 period were up 3.7 percent (¬±0.5%) from the same period a year ago. The March to April 2013 percent change was unrevised from 0.1 percent (¬±0.3%)*. Retail trade sales were up 0.7 percent (¬±0.5%) from April 2013 and 4.3 percent (¬±0.7%) above last year. Nonstore retailers were up 11.3 percent (¬±2.1%) from May 2012 and building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers were up 10.1 percent (¬±4.0%) from last year. Click here for the full release &gt;
The Japan market crash has finally broken through to the mainstream. Last night and this morning, several non-finance folks have been asking "What the heck is happening in Japan?" First, from an obvious market standpoint, it's crashing. Japan's main stock index, the Nikkei, fell 6.25% last night, to 12,445. Just a few weeks ago it was right around 16,000. That's a crash. Of course, Japan had been one of the hottest markets in the world, surging like crazy since last autumn. Here's a chart, via FinViz, of Nikkei futures going back several months. FinViz The big runup that started in November coincided with the emergence of "Abenomics," the big economic strategy outlined by new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who supports eliminating the Japanese slump via a three-arrow combination of ultra-aggressive monetary policy, fiscal policy, and structural reforms. The monetary policy has been the easiest to implement because all it took was for the BOJ to just declare an aggressive inflation target and a lot of QE. The fiscal and structural parts are much more difficult. But for the purposes of rising asset prices, the monetary stimulus deserves a lot of the credit for the big Nikkei surge. So what's gone wrong? Basically, people are doubting the Bank of Japan's resolve. Matt Yglesias has a great post at Slate showing that the collapse of the Nikkei also corresponds with a recent decline in inflation expectations, and those declines in inflation expectations associate with hints that the Bank of Japan is not fully committed to stoking more inflation. Slate One of the arrows refers to comments from the Finance Minister concerning the rise in Japanese Bond Yields, which hinted that maybe the Bank of Japan was getting freaked out. And the other arrow concerns minutes from a Bank of Japan meeting, in which concern was expressed over rising yields, which also caused investors to question the bank's resolve. The bottom line is this: For a central bank to do its thing it needs to be aggressive and clear in its goals, and not worry about the bumps along the road. Paul Volcker was willing to crash the U.S. economy (well at least create a recession) in order to beat inflation. Ben Bernanke gets called a traitor by U.S. Presidential candidates, but is committed to his extraordinary monetary policy actions. The Bank of Japan already looks nervous. And the market is starting to bet against it.
REUTERS/Issei KatoGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Joseph A. Carr, Wikimedia CommonsDave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus passes along the top topics about which he is chatting with clients this morning. As he puts it, there is a "bit of a bloodbath" in global markets today. Morning, a bit of a bloodbath in Global markets, but US futures have recovered from their lows thus far ñ Like yesterday, the SPX Futures are outperforming Japan and Europe ñ Losing only 30bp, but trading under the 50dma ñ a first since April.† DAX is off 1.5% (Was off 2.5%), while EU fins are outperforming (off 70bp) ñ despite Greek and other Yields widening quickly.†† In Asia, Focus on the Nikkei smacked for over 6%, taking the index to levels not seen before the BOJ launched its stimulus program on April 3 ñ China lost ìonlyî 3% after a 3 day holiday closure ñ The Kospi was hit for another 1.5% (Samsung hit again, now off 13% this month) ñ and flows continued from EM Asia, with Indonesia, Philippines off sharply again.† Many yields globally are lower, with Japanís 10YY off 2bp, and US 10YY under 2.2% after testing week lows earlier this AM.† Yields in the PIIGS, however, still leaking wider to Bunds ñ With Greece out 15bp further on Political unrest ñ Greek yields have leapt almost 2% against Bunds in the last month..†† The USDJPY got under 94 overnight, a massive move that sparked the de-leveraging in Japan ñ With that, the DXY remains quite weak, lost 5% in 2 weeks, and resting on 4M lows (overdone?) ñ We had FX Intervention last night from Indonesia, Brazil, India to stem the EM outflows.†† Despite the DXY Tailwind ñ Most commodities are under pressure, especially Industrial ñ as World Bank cuts itís growth forecasts, and Carry Deleveraging impacting asset classes globally.†††† Not least of the restraints on Abe in outlining his plans for widespread deregulation to stimulate investment and business growth is the July 21 elections for the upper house of parliament - The LDP is expected to overturn the majority in the House of Councillors now held by the opposition Democratic Party of Japan - But Abe needs a convincing win to give him the political clout to push through some of the more contentious and divisive elements in his structural reform program. For more on today's market action, see here --&gt;
Personal details including information about serious illnesses and due dates for pregnant women are selling for a fraction of a penny as companies scramble for data, it has been reported. Corporate competition to collect personal information about consumers is intensifying which is pushing down the price of intimate details, according to an investigation by the Financial Times. Collecting personal data online has become a multibillion-dollar industry but there are fears that it is largely unregulated as companies obtain information through web searches, social networks, purchase histories and public records. Through scouring the internet they collate thousands of details including information about illness, credit scores and even due dates for expecting mothers. Companies then use this information to predict and influence consumer behaviour and target advertising. Basic age, gender and location information sells for $0.0005 per person, or $0.50 (32p) per 1,000 people, according to the figures seen by the FT. The data on those who are considered to be ‚Äúinfluential‚Äù within their social networks has the higher value of $0.00075, or $0.75 (48p) per 1,000 people. Details of how much a person earns or their shopping history are slightly more valuable again - and each piece sells for $0.001. In total most people‚Äôs data is now worth less than a 64p. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre not worth much,‚Äù said Dave Morgan, who founded a company which pioneered the use of targetted online adverts. As the amount of information available online grows, data brokers seek out even more personal details. One such company, LeadsPlease.com, offers the names and addresses of people suffering from illnesses including cancer, diabetes and clinical depression for just $0.26 ‚Äì 17p. The information includes the specific medications the patient is taking. Buyers are offered a bulk discount which drops the price to $0.14 if more than 50,001 personal records are purchased. Another company, ALC Data, sells a list of patients with specific ailments sorted by credit score. Insurance groups, mobile phone providers, and energy companies have all bought the data in the last few months, the company‚Äôs website data shows. It is claimed that the information has been voluntarily handed over by the patient. 
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner gestures to supporters during a rally outside Casa Rosada Presidential Palace in Buenos Aires May 25, 2013. BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - More than a decade after Argentina's epic financial collapse of 2001-02, many investors are rushing for the door once again. From big Chinese and Brazilian companies like miner Vale do Rio Doce SA, to small-business owners and savers, the fear of a new crisis has led to canceled investments and suitcases of cash leaving the country. The mass exodus, which has been limited only by leftist President Cristina Fernandez's capital controls, is threatening to undermine Latin America's No. 3 economy even further by leaving it short of hard currency and new jobs. The underlying problems range from Fernandez's hostile treatment of the private sector, to severe financial distortions such as a parallel exchange rate, to the general feeling that Argentina is due for one of the periodic spasms that have racked the country every 10 years or so going back to the 1930s. Some say such worries are overblown, arguing that Argentina has defied doomsday predictions for the past decade, which was by some measures its best economic run since World War Two. Yet for many, the feeling is of a gathering storm. "The end of this story has already been written, and it ends in crisis," said Roberto Lavagna, who as economy minister from 2002 to 2005 helped create Argentina's current export-driven policy framework, and is still widely respected on Wall Street. While everyone agrees any crisis won't be as bad as the 2001-02 meltdown - which saw nationwide riots, two presidents quit, and the economy shrink by one-fifth - it could still be enough to severely disrupt lives and business plans. By relying on short-term fixes such as price controls and bans on Argentines buying dollars, Fernandez may just be delaying the inevitable while piling up even more problems. "The longer they try to delay things, the worse they will be," said Lavagna, who worked for Fernandez's late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, before falling out over what he saw as the couple's increasingly anti-business agenda. "You can't have growth without investment." Key ministers in Fernandez's government declined to be interviewed for this story. Following a sharp slowdown in Argentina's economy over the past year, and growing concern in places like Washington and Brasilia, Reuters recently spoke to about two dozen leading figures in industry, finance, academia and politics to try to gauge where the country is headed. Some declined to speak on the record, citing growing efforts by Fernandez's government to intimidate its critics. Others - including Lavagna, who has become a leading opposition figure - were clearly informed by a political point of view or agenda. Yet even among those without an ax to grind, the sense is that Argentina has lapsed into its old habit of scaring away private capital, one of the main reasons why it has steadily declined from its perch as one of the world's richest nations in the 1930s. "It sure sounds like trouble to me," said David Rock, a professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara¬†and author of several books on Argentina's economic history. "What they're doing right now, it can't be sustained," Rock said. "It's hard to believe it's happening again." In truth, Argentina has been something of a financial rogue for years. Since defaulting on $100 billion in debt during the last crisis, the country has been cut off from capital markets and considered a highly risky place to do business. Fernandez confiscated private pension funds to help pay government debts in 2008, and has nationalized some companies. Her government is widely accused of doctoring economic data, inflation runs at about 25 percent, and foreign firms are forbidden from sending profits abroad. Until recently, though, the economy continued to grow, often at an annual pace of 8 percent or higher. So what has changed? First, the effect from years of high inflation has taken its toll, making Argentine industries uncompetitive at a time when prices for its key commodities like soy are falling. And second, the major business partners the country hadn't yet alienated - Brazil and China - have also begun to turn away. Vale's decision in March to cancel a $6 billion investment in a new potash mine was emblematic. The company, which is privately held but heavily influenced by the Brazilian government, walked away because¬†the growing gap between Argentina's official and black-market exchange rates would have forced it to shoulder costs in dollars at a level as much as 50 percent higher than it would receive profits. Afterward, Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno - Fernandez's point man on contentious economic issues - demanded a meeting with Brazilian officials. He then threatened to have Vale executives in Argentina¬†detained unless the company reversed its decision, according to three Brazilian officials with knowledge of the¬†conversation. Neither Moreno nor his office responded to repeated requests for comment. Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzinoalso did not respond to interview requests. The hostile treatment, plus other recent clashes, infuriated Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff and led her government to "downgrade" ties with Argentina, two senior officials said. Shortly thereafter, state-run oil company Petrobras stepped up efforts to sell its assets in Argentina. Difficulties with the Chinese have been quieter, but also troubling. The Heilongjiang Beidahuang State Farms Business Trade Group, a Chinese investment entity, had agreed to help build a range of large projects from wind farms to port improvements to railroads in Buenos Aires province. "These have been delayed because of the political situation," said Oscar Gomez, an adviser to the group. "Today, whatever money they have budgeted, it runs out in two months," Gomez said, citing inflation and the¬†parallel exchange rate, among other factors. "Everything's working against Argentina. There's no investment today because there's nothing in it for anybody." Chinese companies have also suspended or slowed down huge investments in shale gas and urea, a fertilizer, said Diego Guelar, a former ambassador to the United States and author of a forthcoming book about Argentina¬†and China. "Brazil and China were our last dynamic partners, so now what?" Guelar said. "Who will create jobs?" The answer doesn't seem to lie with Argentine companies. A business confidence index produced by the¬†University of Belgrano fell 4.4 percent in the first quarter compared to the year before - putting it near levels last seen during the 2008-09 global financial crisis. Economists say the private sector likely contributed zero net jobs to the economy last year, with only the¬†government picking up the slack - but that may have run its course, too. Unemployment rose a full percentage point in the first quarter, to 7.9 percent, a three-year high. Some Fernandez supporters argue that robust consumer spending will be enough to sustain the economy. And it's true that, unlike the last crisis, Buenos Aires' famed steakhouses and cafes continue to bustle with customers well past midnight. "We do have a severe problem with private investment, but that's always been an issue here," said Artemio Lopez, a political analyst. "You have speculators and unproductive capital that flee the country whenever they can." Not everybody is running away - U.S. oil major Chevron Corp said last month it would invest up to $1.5 billion in shale in Argentina's south. There are still some 500 U.S. companies in Argentina, and many are profiting and continuing to invest, according to a source close to the business community. But the same source conceded that many invest because "they have no choice" - Fernandez's capital controls prevent them from sending earnings back home. Official data, often questionable in Argentina, suggests those controls have helped contain the damage - at least for now. Capital flight slowed from $21.5 billion in 2011 to $3.4 billion in 2012, with a slight net inflow of $110 million in the¬†first quarter this year, according to the central bank. Yet other evidence suggests the pressure for money to escape is intensifying. In recent months, Fernandez has passed several new measures such as a limit on cash withdrawals using credit cards abroad, and a surcharge on¬†purchases of airline tickets. The demand for hard currency is such that Argentines pay a premium of 60 percent over the official exchange rate to buy dollars on the black market. Many believe that Fernandez is just trying to hold the economy together until legislative elections in October, causing many to take refuge now. Argentines frequently tell stories in private of dollars they've stashed in safe-deposit boxes, under their mattresses, and in suitcases on trips to banking havens like Miami or neighboring Uruguay. "Nobody wants to be the last one left," said Marcos Aguinis, an author of several bestselling political books and novels. "It's tragic, the predictability, but this is clearly falling apart once again." Indeed, one of the most commonly heard phrases in Buenos Aires at the moment is "fin del ciclo" - the end of the¬†cycle, a uniquely Argentine notion that the economy and often the government must regularly implode to make way for something new. So why does that keep happening? "I've been trying to answer that question for 50 years," said Rock, the historian. "To be honest, I still don't know." (Additional reporting by Guido Nejamkis and Nicolas Misculin; Editing by Kieran Murray and Claudia Parsons)

ShutterstockThe World Bank has slashed its growth forecast for China's economy this year to 7.7 percent from 8.4 percent, warning of a potential "sharp" slowdown triggered by a fall in investment. The projection is lower than the 7.8 percent expansion the country recorded in 2012, which was its weakest in 13 years, and comes as a slew of data indicate the economy is struggling to pick up pace. "The main risk related to China remains the possibility that high investment rates prove unsustainable, provoking a disorderly unwinding and sharp economic slowdown," the World Bank said. It tipped growth to pick up to around eight percent next year and in 2015 -- unchanged from the bank's previous forecast -- as "global conditions improve". Chinese household debt is around two to three times higher than the level before 1997 when the Asian Financial Crisis hit, the report said. While the headline inflation rate is mild, price pressures remain in certain rapidly growing segments of the economy, including real estate, it added. "Ensuring strong and stable consumption through raising household incomes to sustain growth is a priority in China," it said, adding more investment should be directed into agriculture, human capital and services and increased efficiency of investment. The government should also try to reduce non-performing assets at Chinese banks, most of which are state-owned, that have piled up "during years of investment-led growth". In April, China announced unexpectedly weak growth of 7.7 percent for the first quarter, surprising analysts who had expected expansion to accelerate in 2013 after showing strength at the end of last year. Other recent indicators have raised alarm bells, with exports showing almost no growth last month, while industrial output expanded at a slightly slower pace than April and big ticket investment growth also eased. A survey by British banking giant HSBC showed China's manufacturing activity measured 49.2 in May, an eight-month low, and below the 50 mark that indicates contraction. The World Bank's forecast cuts followed a recent lowering by the International Monetary Fund to 7.75 percent from the previous 8.0 percent. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
APStandby. Over the next several hours we could be looking at a dramatic escalation of the seen in Istanbul's Taksim Square. The AP reports that Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan says he plans to remove protesters from the square within 24 hours. There will be clashes.
upload.wikimedia.orgIndonesia hiked its key interest rate to 6.00 percent on Thursday, the first change in over a year as it seeks to boost confidence in the under-pressure rupiah and head off an expected rise in inflation. The unexpected 25 basis point hike was the second time the central bank has changed monetary policy in a few days as it seeks to shore up the ailing Indonesian currency which fell to a four-year low this week. The slide of the rupiah mirrors falls in currencies of other developing economies, as foreign investors exit emerging markets due to expectations that huge stimulus schemes in the developed world will soon end. Developing economies have also seen huge sell-offs on their stock markets. "The meeting of the board of Bank Indonesia governors ended with the decision to raise the Bank Indonesia rate by 25 basis points to 6.00 percent," said bank spokesman Peter Jacobs. Tightening of monetary policy tends to boost currencies. The government in Southeast Asia's biggest economy is also poised to hike fuel prices for the first time in over four years in coming weeks, a move that is expected to prompt a sharp rise in inflation. Bank Indonesia last changed its key rate in February 2012, when it cut the rate to a record low of 5.75 percent. Late Tuesday, Bank Indonesia announced it would hike the rate it pays lenders for overnight deposits, known as the Fasbi, by 25 basis point to 4.25 percent. The move was aimed at encouraging lenders to leave their rupiah with the central bank, thereby reducing money supply and in theory stopping the currency from weakening further. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Flickr / Tony Fischer PhotographyMorgan Stanley Chief Economist Vincent Reinhart has raised his GDP forecast for the US, and it's a quick reminder that the US is the envy of the world, still. The US economy is showing sufficiently surprising vigor to induce us to nudge up our forecast for real GDP growth this year and next. This puts us out of sync with some of our colleagues covering other major economies, who are marking down near-term numbers, but data are data and wealth creation is a powerful force of forward momentum. The last time we wrote down a forecast, in March, private sector spending was expected to be resilient. The severe financial crisis had already exacted most of its toll on the level of activity so its drag on growth was abating. The healing in the housing market is emblematic of this process. Now, residential construction provides an above-trend contribution to GDP growth, home-price appreciation adds to wealth, and some households that had been underwater on their mortgages are lifted back into daylight. For 2013, US GDP growth has been nudged up from 1.6% to 1.9%. And for 2014, estimates go from 2.5% to 2.7%. None of these are that impressive figures, of course, but as Reinhart notes, the direction impressive than what's being seen elsewhere. And they come at a time of a sequester, and a significant shrinkage in the size of the Federal deficit, meaning that the US is overcoming consolidation nicely, which is another surprising fact that should make the rest of the world envious.
Julia La Roche for Business Insider US markets are on a losing streak, while emerging markets get gutted, and Japan is crashing. Suddenly markets are interesting again. And for the first time this week, we actually have an interesting schedule of events coming up. There are two interesting economic data releases. From Calculated Risk, they are... ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM, The initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for an increase to 350 thousand from 346 thousand last week.¬† ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, Retail sales for May will be released. The consensus is for retail sales to increase 0.5% in May, and to increase 0.4% ex-autos. And then at 1 PM ET, we'll get the result of a Treasury auction of $13 billion worth of 30-year bonds. Given the latest bond selloff, this will be something to watch. For more on today's violent market moves, see here ---&gt;
LONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotlandsaid on Thursday it would cut jobs in a restructuring of its investment bank, which a source familiar with the matter said would see about 2,000 jobs go. The part-nationalized British lender said it would focus its markets division on its core fixed income products and would exit all structured retail investor products and equity derivatives. RBS said on Thursday its chief executive Stephen Hester would leave the bank by the end of the year. (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Steve Slater) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Justin Sullivan / Getty ImagesThe question of the day comes from SocGen analyst Kit Juckes, commenting on the rout we're seeing in emerging markets: The big issue for today though, is whether the bloodbath in EM assets and now particularly in equities, is going to spill over completely to developed markets. It looks as though it will. SPX sliding through 1600, for example, would make headlines and change market dynamics.¬† How do we trade all this? In FX, I still want to buy USD/CAD as EM, commodities and equities tumble. Short EUR/GBP is my short-term way of pre-positioning for a weaker euro. Europe's chances of economic stabilization suffer in periods of market-induced mayhem. AUD, MXN, PLN all remain sells.
udono, FlickrUS markets are currently pointing to their third straight down day following a stunning night in Japan. The Nikkei crashed 6%, while the yen surged, causing USDJPY (dollar vs. the yen) to lower to 94. Remember, not long ago it was well above 100. The "Abenomics" trade is unwinding massively, in what had been the world's hottest market. Now it seems to be turning into a nightmare. It was a rout elsewhere in Asia. Shanghai shed 2.7%. Hong Kong fell 2.4%. Thailand lost 4.6%. Jakarta lost 1.25%. India is down 1%. Meanwhile, markets are down across Europe. In the US, there's a fairly big day coming up, with initial jobless claims, retail sales, and a big 30-yea Treasury auction on tap.
