APMichael Bloomberg just announced a massive gift on the order of $350 million to Johns Hopkins University, which is his alma-mater. According to the press release, he has now given over $1 billion to the school, a first in history. ----------------------------- MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG COMMITS $350 MILLION TO JOHNS HOPKINSFOR TRANSFORMATIONAL ACADEMIC INITIATIVENew York Mayor believed first to give lifetime $1 billion to one U.S. higher education institutionPhilanthropist and New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has committed $350 million to The Johns Hopkins University, anchoring a major initiative aimed at bringing significant innovation to U.S. higher education. The total commitment ‚Äì the largest ever to the university ‚Äì lifts Bloomberg‚Äôs lifetime giving to Johns Hopkins beyond $1 billion.The majority of the new gift, $250 million out of $350 million, will be part of a larger effort to raise $1 billion to facilitate cross-disciplinary work across the university to galvanize people, resources, research and educational opportunities around a set of complex global challenges.¬† Initially, the funds will be used to support the appointment of faculty in the areas of water resource sustainability, individualized health care delivery, global health, the science of learning and urban revitalization. The remaining $100 million will be dedicated to need-based financial aid for undergraduate students, ensuring that the most talented and driven students are admitted to the university‚Äôs classrooms, regardless of economic circumstance. Over the next 10 years, 2,600 Bloomberg Scholarships will be awarded. The transformational gift will enhance Johns Hopkins‚Äô flexible and multi-disciplinary approach to solving fundamental societal problems. It will bring together scientists and scholars from numerous disciplines -- ranging from politics and policy to healthcare delivery to basic curiosity-driven research -- to support more meaningful collaboration. The goal, simply put, is to make it as easy for faculty, staff and students to work across disciplines as within them.‚ÄúMichael Bloomberg is a visionary philanthropist, a force for social good on the order of Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, Leland Stanford and our own founder, Johns Hopkins,‚Äù said Ronald J. Daniels, president of The Johns Hopkins University.‚ÄúThis latest initiative allows us to greatly accelerate our investment in talented people and bring them together in a highly creative and dynamic atmosphere," Daniels said. ‚ÄúIt illustrates Mike's passion for fixing big problems quickly and efficiently. It will ensure not only that JohnsHopkins helps to solve humanity‚Äôs problems, but also that it leads the world‚Äôs universities in showing how it should be done.‚Äù‚ÄúJohns Hopkins University has been an important part of my life since I first set foot on campus more than five decades ago,‚Äù Bloomberg said. ‚ÄúEach dollar I have given has been well-spent improving the institution and, just as importantly, making its education available to students who might otherwise not be able to afford it. Giving is only meaningful if the money will make a difference in people‚Äôs lives, and I know of no other institution that can make a bigger difference in lives around the world through its groundbreaking research -- especially in the field of public health.‚ÄùThis gift will endow 50 Bloomberg Distinguished Professors whose expertise crosses traditional academic disciplines; they will anchor collaborative, cross-disciplinary research. These distinguished faculty members -- each a forward-thinking leader with cross-cutting research interests -- will be recruited from around the world and will serve as human bridges among disciplines and schools spanning medicine and the humanities, public health and education, social science and engineering. The Bloomberg Distinguished Professors will carry their interdisciplinary and research-focused approach into their teaching, ensuring that the university‚Äôs students are equipped to graduate from their classrooms into the real world to solve real problems.Johns Hopkins was America‚Äôs first research university, establishing a model emulated throughout the United States and around the world. It has also been home to groundbreaking examples of interdisciplinary partnerships in areas such as biomedical engineering, public health, space studies and international studies. Drawing on this legacy and through this latest gift from Bloomberg, Daniels said, Johns Hopkins seeks to reconceive the traditional model and make collaboration across disciplines the convention rather than the exception. ‚ÄúWhen the Baltimore merchant Johns Hopkins left $7 million nearly 140 years ago to create our university and hospital,‚Äù Daniels said, ‚Äúit incited nothing less than a revolution in American higher education. It led to the modern research university and academic medical center, brand new institutions that recognized the power in combining knowledge creation with its teaching and its use for the good of humanity.‚ÄúNow, with Michael Bloomberg‚Äôs commitment to this transformational initiative as the centerpiece of our efforts, Johns Hopkins seeks again to redefine higher education in America. We want nothing less than to accelerate the pace of change in universities and academic medicine, to create the new model for institutions intended to make the world a better place.‚Äù Bloomberg is believed to be the first person ever to reach the $1 billion level of giving to a single U.S. institution of higher education. With this new commitment, Bloomberg -- chairman of the university‚Äôs board of trustees from 1996 to 2002 and previously chair of the Johns Hopkins Initiative fundraising campaign -- has now given Johns Hopkins $1.118 billion in the 49 years since he graduated. His first Johns Hopkins gift was $5 in 1965, a year after he received his bachelor‚Äôs degree in engineering from the university. His support has benefitted students and faculty in every school of the university, patients at The Johns Hopkins Hospital and anyone whose life has been touched by Johns Hopkins. Bloomberg made his first $1 million commitment to the university in 1984, 20 years after his graduation. That gift created a professorship in the humanities named in honor of his mother, Charlotte. He also honored his mother with a $120 million gift toward construction of the new Charlotte R. Bloomberg Children‚Äôs Center, a 12-story, 560,000-square-foot tower at The Johns Hopkins Hospital with 205 private rooms, a 45-bed neonatal intensive care unit, a 40-bed pediatric intensive care unit and 10 state-of-the-art surgical suites. It opened in 2012.The mayor‚Äôs generosity has had an extraordinary impact on Johns Hopkins in every way -- in terms of facilities and infrastructure, research and academic achievement, student body quality and diversity.Applications for undergraduate admissions at the university‚Äôs Homewood campus have more than doubled since 2001, and selectivity has increased from a 34 percent admittance rate to 18 percent. In the same period, the number of underrepresented minority members in the freshman class has increased from fewer than 7 percent to nearly 20 percent. The university‚Äôs Bloomberg School of Public Health and School of Nursing are each top-ranked in the U.S. News &amp; World Report ‚Äúbest graduate schools‚Äù rankings and the School of Medicine is second. ¬†As trustee and donor, Bloomberg has overseen, and in many cases funded, a quantum improvement in labs and classrooms, patient care facilities, arts and cultural centers, and campus amenities across Johns Hopkins campuses, insisting that each project emphasize the design of the environment, include public art and encourage collaboration among students and faculty. ‚ÄúThere is little doubt that the modern history of Johns Hopkins has been inextricably and profoundly linked to the remarkable vision and generosity of Mike Bloomberg. We are so much better for his faith and confidence‚Äù Daniels said.Capital and InfrastructureIn all, the mayor has given $240 million toward capital and infrastructure projects, including the Bloomberg Center for Physics and Astronomy in 1988, implementation of the Homewood campus master plan from 1998 through 2002, massive renovations and improvements at the Peabody Institute in 2000, and a complete gutting and interior rebuilding of the landmark Gilman Hall at Homewood from 2005 to 2007.Financial AidIn recent years, Bloomberg has funded 20 percent of all need-based financial aid grants for undergraduates in the university‚Äôs schools of Arts and Sciences and Engineering. With the latest gift, his student aid gifts now total nearly $219 million, of which $164 million has been for undergraduates.Bloomberg School of Public HealthAn ardent believer in the power of public health discoveries and practice to impact the lives of millions around the globe, Bloomberg has directed $289 million to what since 2001 has been known as the Bloomberg School of Public Health. He has given $125 million since 2001 to establish and support the Malaria Research Institute within the Bloomberg School of Public Health. The multidisciplinary center seeks to eradicate that mosquito-borne disease, which in 2010 afflicted an estimated 216 million people and killed 655,000 worldwide. The institute conducts basic and applied research on mosquito biology, the malaria parasite, disease processes and potential vaccines.¬†Bloomberg‚Äôs public health-related gifts have also supported research into gun violence prevention, tobacco use reduction, safe water, mental health, road safety and global health initiatives. ResearchThe mayor‚Äôs support for other Johns Hopkins research has reached $336 million. That includes¬† $69 million since 2000 to establish and support the School of Medicine‚Äôs Institute for Cell Engineering, which focuses on the application of stem cells to improve human health.
change-of-venue via www.flickr.com creative commonsThere's a school of psychology which holds that happiness is subjective. Good or bad things happen in life, but people return to the same base level of happiness. This theory, while up for debate in extreme cases, was established in regard to common life events by a¬†2008 article by Andrew E. Clark, Ed Diener, Yannis Georgellis, and Richard E. Lucas in The Economic Journal. Studying twenty years of survey data from Germany, researchers found evidence that people adapt completely to marriage, divorce, widowhood, birth of child, and layoff. Death of a spouse, for instance, is a terrible event characterized by a radical drop in happiness, but in the year that follows happiness rises, and within two years happiness returns to normal and may even rise above the baseline (as the subject gets caught in another hedonic cycle). A similar hedonic pattern follows most negative events‚Äîand positive ones too. People get over it. Below is a set of charts from the paper, used with permission from Wiley (buy the full paper here). You may be surprised to see what events produce increases and decreases in happiness.¬†Note, however, that in almost every chart happiness level reverts to the baseline.¬†The only exception to reversion was in the case of male unemployment, which seems to induce unhappiness as long as it lasts. onlinelibrary.wiley.com onlinelibrary.wiley.com We came across the marriage chart in Thinking, Fast And Slow by economist Daniel Kahneman. While the chart may seem to suggest that marriages get worse over time, Kahneman says this is not the case and rather that¬†people start to take marriage for granted. Ask a recently married man how happy he is, and he will likely think about his marriage and say he is happy. Ask a long-married man how happy he is, however, and he is less likely to think about his marriage and more likely to think about his job, health, or other concerns and may answer less positively. DON'T MISS: There's More To Life Than Being Happy &gt;
Billionaire entrepreneur Sean Parker threw a party for the ages in Davos last night. I've described the details and some of the guests here (link repeated below). As I mentioned, one of the guests was Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein. Lloyd was in fine form. Like many other notables at the party, he was also in a different environment than the one in which most folks are used to seeing him. (For one thing, he was surrounded by animal heads with laser beams for eyes). And he was--and, presumably still is--rocking a new beard. So this picture (apologies for the quality) might be fairly entitled Lloyd Blankfein As You've Never Seen Him Before: Business Insider SEE ALSO: Here Are Some Photos Of Sean Parker's Remarkable "Taxidermy" Party In Davos
Citi Chief Commodities Economist Daniel Ahn and his team are "marking-to-market" their forecasts for gold prices following a substantial sell-off in the gold market over the past several months. Since peaking at a price of $1798 per ounce on October 4, gold has fallen 7.8 percent to $1658: FINVIZ The retrenchment in the market has Ahn and his team lowering their forecasts for gold over the next three months from $1770 to $1700 and cutting their forecasts for 6-12 months out from $1770 to $1650. They are also lowering their estimated average gold price in 2013 to $1675 from $1750. Ahn says the team's forecast is largely dependent on one factor that is overwhelmingly driving gold prices right now: the strength (or weakness) of the U.S. dollar. He writes, "the persistent importance of the dollar exchange rate in driving gold returns even beyond other classic factors is remarkable." The chart below shows gold's correlation to dollar weakness, represented by the dark blue line. It also shows that gold prices display little or no correlation with the VIX ñ an index that measures S&amp;P 500 volatility and is commonly referred to as the market's "fear gauge" ñ nor are they really correlated with investment flows into gold ETFs, or even inflation expectations. Changes in inflation expectations matter a bit, but not as much as the dollar:  Meanwhile, the negative correlation between real interest rates and gold returns seems to have broken down over the course of the past year:  The bottom line, Ahn writes, is that "going forward, the dollarís likely trajectory in 2013 should be scrutinized given its primacy in determining gold returns." That is why Citi is lowering its gold price forecast (emphasis added): Our model assumes a +1.2% appreciation in the dollar against a major currency-weighted basket to the end of 2013, also real interest rates at zero, and nominal CPI inflation at +1.9%. Given the high and resilient negative relationship between the US dollar and nominal gold returns, the model assigns a very high 70% weight on dollar drivers, and only a 20% weighting on ETF flows and a 5% weight on real interest rates and inflation respectively, resulting in a forecast for a -4.2% annualized weakening of nominal gold prices to year-end. Goldman Sachs strategists, on the other hand, give much higher weight to real interest rates as gold price drivers. You can read their take here &gt;
Every once in a while, since the economic crisis started, the phrase "currency wars" pops up. It just means central banks trying to weaken their currencies (to make their countries more competitive) and other countries complaining about said weakening. It's not really that weird or that war-like. Lately Japan has been the big easer, and interestingly some of the loudest complaints have come from the Germans, in part because Germans love hard money, but probably more likely because Germany is a big export powerhouse that could lose out if the Euro gets too strong against the yen. And in fact, EURJPY has been going bananas, as the Euro is on a huge tear, and the yen is on just the opposite. Here's a chart of the euro against the yen. It's been a rocket ride. EURJPY via Bloomberg Bloomberg So yes, that chart is not helpful to German exporters, but that's only half the story. In his weekend note, Jim O'Neill of Goldman Sachs Asset Management partially blames the currency war on the "Facebook Times" because there's ever more interest in politicians saying soundbite things about economics that can go viral, and get posted by anyone with an internet connection. Says O'Neill: The Return of the Phrase ìCurrency Warsî. Yet Another Sign of the ìFacebook Timesî. With the sharp fall of the Yen starting to get more and more attention and comment, one aspect that is back to the forefront is the notion of so-called ìcurrency warsî and the accusation that this time it is Japan that is supposedly engaging in them, with publicly the German policymakers, so far, being the most vocal on the topic. Some considerable time ago, I devoted a Viewpoint to the same topic when the Brazilian finance minister accused both Washington and Beijing at various times of similar supposed currency manipulation efforts, and just like them, I am going to be dismissive of such accusations. At times, many countries and their governments do deliberately engage in efforts to change the price of their currency. It is quite amusing to read any continental European policymaker making such accusations when ñ for much of floating rate history ñ their own currencies have been managed very closely in semi-formal exchange rate systems, and, of course, today a large number of them kept in a formal monetary union, which, as we all know, has required intense focus and energy to keep alive. For most of the prevailing life between the end of floating in 1971 and the start of the European Monetary Union (EMU) in 1999, the Deutschmark versus the French Franc was held in very narrow ranges, except for the occasional FFR 2 devaluation and other occasional bouts of turbulence. Was that not currency manipulation? I donít recall either Chancellor Merkel or the Bundesbank recently accusing the Swiss authorities of deliberately manipulating the Swiss Franc? Of course, much of what is often said, especially by a politician, is to use populist notions to either distract or sometimes attract attention to something that suits their purpose. And of course, it is especially easy and persistently tempting in this world of instant access to the internet and blogs where anyone can offer a view about almost anything. Basically, 'currency wars' is a silly phrase with huge viral potential.
Are we at the moment where the retail investor is finally going to get into stocks again? If so, here's a fun chart that might be worth keeping an eye on. It's a Google Trends search volume chart for the word "investing." Talk about being in secular decline. Searchers for the term are about a 3rd as heavy as where they were in 2004. Keep an eye on this one.
You could argue that economic policy makers have done a disappointing job over the past five years, trying to get advanced economies back on their feet. Growth is still slow in the US, and job creation is subpar. But in a sense, the past five years have been a huge vindication for mainstream economic approaches, as these huge experiments in recovery have not had the nasty effects that so many people would have predicted. Consider all of the people who have spent the last few years talking about dollar collapse, hyperinflation, and debt crises. We won't name names out of politeness, but we're pretty sure you know who they are. They've been proven spectacularly wrong. Here's a chart showing the US dollar, even as the balance sheet of the Federal Reserve has gone bananas. The dollar has stayed in a pretty stable range, while the Fed's QE has taken it into uncharted territories.  And here are US borrowing costs vs. the national debt. The national debt has exploded, while US borrowing costs have remained tame. Gone down, actually.  Readers of these pages have seen all these charts a million times before. But the degree to which these people who predicted doom at every unconventional policy measure have been wrong is truly remarkable. Mainstream economics has its flaws, and can't answer everything. But those on the fringes who thought that everyone in positions of power were making catastrophic mistakes have had a horrible time of it.
WEFEconomists might not say it publicly, but privately, everyone is extremely appreciative of the UK right now. That's because the UK has been a great laboratory of economic ideas in recent years. For one thing, the Cameron government came in with a mandate to undergo austerity, and now people are talking about the country going into a triple-dip recession. Furthermore, the Bank of England has hired Mark Carney (the former Bank of Canada) chief to be its next governor. Carney is speaking today at Davos, taking the contrarian viewpoint that monetary policy is not maxed out in most countries. So Carney's strategy at the BOE should be interesting to watch, to see if he could conjure something up to reverse the UK's slump. And beyond that, the fact that the BOE poached its next governor is also fascinating, and possibly a lesson for the rest of the world. So the UK is now a big stew of various ideas about monetary and fiscal policy that everyone in economics is eager to watch. Meanwhile, in his latest note, GSAM's Jim O'Neill has a lot of commentary about the sorry state of UK economic data. We've pasted it below the dotted line. --------------------------------------------------------- The UK ‚Äì Does Anyone Have a Clue What Is Going On?As I write, the Office for National Statistics has just published their first Q4 2012 GDP estimate: It fell by ashocking 0.3%, which means after a one-quarter hiatus post Olympics, according to our official GDP, the UKis back in the doldrums. It is not the first time I have used the above title about the UK, but it is very difficultto truly fathom what is going on here on most levels.The reported GDP decline continues to contrast dramatically with the ongoing strength of the UK labourmarket. If we are to believe all the reported data as being equally accurate, then the only conclusion can bethat post the 2008 crisis not only has the cycle persistently struggled, but our productivity has apparentlycollapsed. An equally depressing conclusion would be that the apparent productivity beforehand wasn‚Äôtreally true ‚Äì just like the credit-infused GDP growth which was false, too.A much less bleak interpretation could be that the GDP data is badly missing something, and the labourmarket data is a more accurate portrayal of the cycle, but, of course, this is just a plausible interpretationrather than a fact.Another interpretation ‚Äì which doesn‚Äôt explain the employment strength, but would explain the weak GDP ‚Äìis that the UK is just, plain and simple, following the wrong policy mix. Trying to aggressively tighten fiscalpolicy at the same time as persistently pressurizing UK banks to raise large amounts of capital is just thewrong thing to do. And, of course, if you really believe that the weakness of the euro area is persistently badnews for UK exports, then it is an even easier accusation.And if all of this wasn‚Äôt enough, then we now have the issue of a 2017 EU referendum on the table. I amreally quite torn about this topic. Part of me ‚Äì a growing part ‚Äì thinks the UK needs a fresh referendum onthe topic as it persistently just hangs there as an ongoing constraint. We need to be either ‚Äúin‚Äù or ‚Äúout‚Äù, and ifwe get a mandate to be ‚Äúin‚Äù, maybe we should be more ‚Äúin‚Äù than anyone currently really thinks. And if wewant to be ‚Äúout‚Äù, then so be it. From a business perspective, one might even describe the issue as ‚ÄúHonda‚Äùversus ‚ÄúLand Rover‚Äù. In the past fortnight, both companies announced equal-sized job cuts and job additions‚Äì the cuts due to European weakness, and the additions due to Chinese strength. Furthermore, there is thecrux of the UK external trade issues ahead.All this rather gloomy stuff said, there is one thing that is starting to make me have much deeper long-termhope. About two weeks ago, various UK newspapers reported evidence that the standard of London‚Äôsschools has improved markedly in the past decade. As some readers will be aware, I have spent quite a lotof my time immersed in educational philanthropy the past 12 years or so, and this was particularly interestingto read. By coincidence this past Thursday, I attended a musical production of ‚ÄúOliver‚Äù at the Mossbourne Academy, one of the very first to have opened nine years ago, and one where I was quite close to those whohave driven its remarkable improvement. The quality and spirit of what was put on show was so heartening.And if this anecdote really is an example of what is going on with London‚Äôs kids, then in a few years all thisdoom will be gone. (One can only imagine that, while there is no evidence of similar educationalimprovement elsewhere yet in the UK, if it is true in London, it is coming elsewhere, too. Or if not, there is atemplate for how it can improve.)
The Street will probably be talking about Apple's latest, lousy earning's call for a while. So, as is only fair, the bears will have their say. The stock took a nose dive this week on the news that iPhone sales came in light by about 3.2 million units. In fact, as Business Insider's Jay Yarow reported, the stock generally missed the expectations of buy-side investors across the board. There are dissenters though. SumZero, a start-up that provides a forum for buy-siders to share their research and connect with one another, sent Business Insider an interesting bullish take on Apple that has nothing to do with iPhone sales ‚Äî it has to do with Apple users. From Empiritrage LLC (via SumZero): David Einhorn observed that AAPL can be thought of as a software company (iOS, OS X, the App store, ITunes, iCloud) that drives earnings through recurring update/upgrade cycles for its hardware products that access that software. The company‚Äôs wide range of products, united by their reliance on the iOS operating system, creates an economic moat for the company, since users are reluctant to leave the AAPL product ecosystem, due to high switching costs. This arrangement is an additional source of pricing power as it enables AAPL to maintain or grow margins for its hardware, based on captive demand for the software platform. The typical AAPL customer might have an array of applications, and a content library that includes music and photos, and it is expensive and challenging to migrate these to another platform. iCloud may be a natural extension of this strategy, as the consumer‚Äôs hard drive contents and libraries and share them across all of AAPL‚Äôs devices. Empiritrage goes on to point out that then company is really profitable, has strong returns and cash flows, and also happens to have an amazing brand. Coupled with the fact that break ups are miserable, they're calling this company a great long.
Goldman SachsIn his latest weekly note, Goldman Sachs Asset Management chief Jim O'Neill presents more evidence that the economy is getting better. Since I last wrote a Viewpoint, we have seen considerable evidence of improving cyclical economic fortunes all over the world, especially the most up-to-date useful indicators. These include:1. Chinaís ìflashî January PMI at 51.52. The Euro Area ìflashî PMI at 48.2, up from 47.2. I await the final one, as the flash implies somefurther improvement in the periphery.3. A further nice bounce in the German IFO to 104.2 with both current conditions and expectationsimproving.4. The US ìMarkitî PMI rising sharply to 56.1 in January, too.5. A drop in US weekly job claims to a five-year low to 330k, against expectations for a rise after theprevious weekís sharp drop.6. All of Chinaís official December data and its Q4 showing more evidence that the improving surveysare having an impact. (Chinese GDP is now $8.2-8.3tr in size, with just another $900bn added lastyear)7. Japanís latest Tankan survey showed a sharp improvement, with evidence that just theannouncement effect of Abeís policies are helping.Not all data points have been better, so one should not get overly carried away, and of note, the January USPhilly Fed was surprisingly soft, so the PMI at the end of the month will be very important to watch to see whether the Philly release was one of its occasional ìroguesî. This discussion, of course, has to acknowledge that the UK isnít part of the same world as the rest of usÖBut what is coming through is what one might expect, based on the lead and leading lead indicators that talked about in December, adding to my suspicion ñ UK excepted ñ that the world will positively surprise this year.
John FrattasiThere is no doubt that in the past few weeks (arguably just the past week) there's been a real breaking of the bearish spirit. Bullishness is hitting all-time highs, and even some of the folks who were very skeptical about the economy, are turning positive. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P just broke 1500. As Josh Brown at The Reformed Broker notes, the NYT sent out a rare email newsblast to mark the occasion, that stocks had broken through this barrier, meaning the word is getting out. Stocks are on fire. Of course, to many folks, their first idea is going to be: SELL SIGNAL. But this crass contrarianism is silly. The idea that we've hit a top just because people are getting bullish, and aware of the stock market isn't based in anything. Some tweets from Josh on the subject this morning are key. I don't get the obsession with calling the top just because stocks are becoming mainstream again. A lot of you guys in your 20's don't understand that it's perfectly normal for Mom &amp; Pop to be interested in stocks. Not an automatic sell. In the 1960's, housewives knew the Nifty Fifty stocks by name. In the 80's and 90's some of the bestselling books were about investing. The shoeshine boy indicator, magazine cover indicator are not nearly as clever as you think they are. We all understand the concept. Ignore the surveys, I don't think you understand just how underinvested people are. Pension funds in particular have made a huge mistake. None of this is to say that stocks can't go down. But if your whole reasoning is that the masses are getting bullish on something, then that's awfully simplistic and flawed. SEE ALSO: BOFA: The Great Rotation Is Here &gt;
">APUnless you've been living under a rock, you know that the loudest voice to enter into the drama between Bill Ackman and his short, Herbalife is legendary investor Carl Icahn. Icahn has been working Wall Street since the 1960s, but it wasn't until the 1980s that he gained his reputation as a ruthless activist investor, taking a controlling interest in companies like TimeWarner, TWA, and Blockbuster. Now he's a billionaire. And he hates Bill Ackman. Their feud came to a head this week, when he and Ackman took 20 minutes out of their Friday afternoon to discuss their disagreement publicly on CNBC. So who is the man taking the other side of what is arguably the short of the year?
Starbucks made its big entrance to the single-serve coffee market with its Verismo machine in October. In fiscal Q1, Starbucks sold more than 150,000 Verismos, according to the company. Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz seems really psyched ‚Äî at least that's what he sounded like on the Q1 conference call with analysts. Schultz stated that Starbucks plans to use the Verismo to be a "global leader" in the segment at least three times during the call. "We remain committed to attaining leadership in the single-serve category, and I can tell you today that with Verismo we are in the nascent stage of building a multi-billion dollar platform for Starbucks over the long term," said Schultz. "And we are in it for the long term." "I think it‚Äôs very important that you all understand that we are deeply, deeply committed to becoming the leader in this space domestically and internationally," Schultz told the analysts. "Our commitment, our interest, our motivation to build on single-serve and build on Verismo is 100 percent and we are going to maintain a high level of commitment and investment in this, where we are going to be the global leader," he continued. So, how's Starbucks going to grow the Verismo? Starbucks president of channel development and emerging brands Jeff Hansberry outlined what Starbucks has defined as "growth drivers" for the product ‚Äî helpfully transcribed by Seeking Alpha: First, and importantly, the innovation itself. It‚Äôs the first and only machine that does brewed coffee, espresso, and lattes. And that message got through to customers during the holiday. And secondly, as we add innovation to the system, whether it‚Äôs through additional coffees, additional espressos, additional Starbucks latte and seasonal favorite beverages, as well as tea, that will add to increase the interest in the platform. And then finally, from a machine standpoint, we have a pipeline, to Howard‚Äôs point, multi years of machine innovation, that adds new features, new styles, new functionality, to a whole series of machines that we will be introducing. We tasted the lattes from Starbucks' Verismo before it was launched. Check out what the newsroom thought about them here.
An outraged Japan, South Korea, and the United States then turn to China and say, "Well? He's your friend!" Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, China has had the dubious distinction of being North Korea's only ally and friend on the world stage, a relationship that has occasionally caused a great deal of discomfort. In essence, Beijing's support consists of both economic assistance ó in the form of both direct aid and trade ó and diplomatic protection. To continue our schoolyard analogy, China not only shields its ally from the others ó it also pays for North Korea's lunch. To the United States and its allies in the region, this arrangement is less than satisfactory. It's no secret that Washington would like to see the eventual reunification of Korea under a pro-Western government in Seoul, and views Beijing as the primary obstacle to realizing this goal. A recent report by U.S. Senate Republican staff members ó mentioned in an article by The Guardian on Tuesday ó went so far as to say that China may block the reunification of North and South Korea should it appear to be imminent. The rationale for this position is simple and purely strategic: China does not wish to have a unified, dynamic Korea with tens of thousands of American troops sitting right on its northeastern border. For all of its hassles, North Korea is a valuable buffer, one that Beijing would be loath to see fall apart. Americans might think of China's support for a divided Korea as anachronistic, immoral, and wrong. But in the great game of Northeast Asia power politics, this position makes perfect sense.† All that aside, evidence is thin that China would, if pressed, stand in the way of reunification. First, there are the words of the Chinese themselves:†leaked cables published by Wikileaks in 2010 quoted a Chinese ambassador as saying that the country hopes for a reunification in the long term, though not, pointedly, in the short term.† Secondly, China has recently appeared less tolerant of its neighbor's persistent nuclear†brinkmanship than before. Beijing's support for United Nations Security Council Resolution 2087, which authorizes the UN to expand sanctions on North Korea following last month's rocket launch, did not amuse Pyongyang. In announcing today that it would conduct another nuclear test, North Korea cited its bitter disappointment with China's vote.† Finally, while a unified Korea may present a security challenge on China's periphery, Sino-South Korea economic ties are strong and getting stronger. North Korea's 24.5 million people would be far more useful to China's traders if they were integrated into the South's dynamic, growing economy rather than languishing in their own broken-down system. Why, then, does China continue to prop up its unpopular friend? The answer is less ideological than practical ó Beijing understands that the sudden collapse of the North Korean state would result in a huge influx of refugees over its border, presenting severe logistical and humanitarian challenges. The Chinese Communist Party has enough trouble helping its own poor make ends meet ó the last thing it needs is to care for North Korea's destitute as well. China's historical ties to North Korea still have some meaning, but it would be a mistake to assume that these ties are what drives Beijing's approach to its neighbor. The Chinese government does not love the Kim family and will not shed a tear once it goes. But the timing has to be right. Ultimately, like the last remaining friend of unpopular bullies worldwide, Beijing knows that it'll have to pick up the pieces if anything goes wrong.
Last weekend with its team of accountants, lawyers, and Pinkerton guards well in tow the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) shut down its 466th bank since the beginning of our Great Recession.† Now that the FDIC is ninety percent of the way done with its Great Recession cleanup with probably less than 50 more banks to shut down, I feel it is time to†bring a few†things to light that the Wall Street bankers and Washington, DC regulators have not made public. This article is the first of a series of articles that I plan to write for Business Insider that will use the banksí and the regulatorsí own information to bring new insight to the debacle that we have been put through over the past five years. †† In this introductory article I intend to present two graphic exhibits that should add new clarity to the Great Recession for financiers and laypersons alike.† The first graphic exhibit will show what performance conditions actually result in the shutting down of a bank.† The second graphic exhibit will then look at the history of those same performance conditions for the entire banking industry throughout our Great Recession. †† All the information that I am displaying in the exhibits can be verified by going to my source, which is the FDICís on-line publicly accessible banking industry data base. ††Now letís look at Exhibit 1 Exhibit 1 †  †††††††††††††††††††† Exhibit 1 plots financial information relating to the 466 banks that the FDIC has shut down between September 2007 and December 2012.† Each Quarter data point reflects the summary data for the banks that were shut down during that particular quarter.† For example, the data point for September 2009 reflects summary performance conditions at the time of shutdown for the 50 banks that were closed by the FDIC during the quarter ending† 09/30/2009.† The data point for June 2012 accounts for the 15 banks closed during the quarter ending 06/30/2012. The key to understanding Exhibit 1 and thus what causes a bank to†be closed†by the FDIC is not rocket science.† The primary thing one needs to understand about banking viability is the relationship between bank Equity and overvalued assets.† Along those lines, the GREEN LINE (or middle line) of Exhibit 1 shows the Equity/Asset ratio for the banks closed down in each of the past 22 quarters.† Note that overall bank Equity as a percent of Assets for the shutdown banks was 2.25% The RED LINE plots the percentage of loan assets that are:† (1) non-performing--more than 90 plus days delinquent or in the foreclosure process; and (2) the amount of property that has already been assigned over to the bank or what the bank calls real estate owned (REO) properties. ††Note that overall NPA+REO as a percent of Assets for the all the banks shut down was 14.19% Although non-performing assets and real estate owned properties do still retain value, most of those assets will likely have to be written down (by 25, 50, even 100%ódepending on things like location, time, property condition, etc.),†† Now this is important if you are going to understand the future points that I intend to make.† There are several subtle points to that can be made regarding Exhibit 1, but primarily note that in ìeach and every oneî of the 22 quarters plotted that the ratio of the percentage of overstated assets (the RED LINE)†substantially exceeds the percentage of Equity†(the GREEN LINE).† Or in other words the BLUE line which is the sum of the GREEN LINE less the RED line is always negative. †† Okay, I understand what you are saying, Jim?† But whatís your pointóthat simply makes common sense.† If you donít have enough Equity to cover the cost of writing off overvalued assets, of course, you are likely to fail and the FDIC should shut the bank down.† Whatís your point? Letís move on to Exhibit 2. Exhibit 2  † † Exhibit 2†plots out the exact same equity and NPA+REO performance ratios as those that were plotted in Exhibit 1.† The difference is that in Exhibit 2 we are plotting the summary†ratios for the ìentire active U.S. banking industryî at the end of each of the last twenty-one quarters--not those that had been closed.† Note in the case of Exhibit 2 (unlike that of Exhibit 1) that: †Okay again,†Jim.† But so what?††Again I have to askówhatís your point?† Well, my point is this.† Poor lending on home loans was the "singular" and only cause for the Great Recession.† Derivatives, credit swaps, CDOs, etc.ómay have been tools to the debacle, but in truth they have only been used as distractions and smoke screens by the ignorant players in the game.† Anyone who knew anything about mortgage home loans and mortgage-backed securities (which excludes the top executives of the Big Banks, Fannie Mae, Freddie, Mac, their unheralded but supporting bean-counting accountants, rating agencies, Federal reserve economists, Congress) saw this thing coming.† The worst of our banking crisis is over.† Total banking losses for the entire crisis will be recorded as falling in the $600-$650 billion range (which I explained and reported in an earlier Business Insider article over two†years ago).† And those losses have already been written off by the 7,181 currently operating U.S. banks. And even though I have much disdain for the Wall Street Bankers who helped take us to the brink with their game-playing arrogance, I place the greatest blame, not at the banks, but†at the hands of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Reserve.† There is absolutely no excuse for those three federally-related entities not to have understood and stopped what was going onóand any one of the three could have.† In the Feds case, they were simply ignorant.† As far as Fannie and Freddie go, they in fact were the instigators of the entire mess.† Not understanding this, only sets us up for another financial fiasco crisis in another 15 to 20 years. But finally, my main point is this.† If you really want to know who saved us from going over the brink, donít look at the people who are now trying to claim credit for saving our hide, but instead, as I have said many, many times beforeólook toward those American homeowners who kept (and still are) making their monthly mortgage payments even though the people who helped cause the Great Recession† kept telling them (and still tell them) that their houses were (or are) underwater.† It is those American homeowners who† kept the percent of nonperforming assets (as plotted in Exhibit 2) from reaching levels that would have led us into an even greater Great Recession or even to a Great Depressionónot TARP, not the Treasury, not financial reform, and not the Fed.† At least that is the†viewpoint of this analyst--someone who was responsible for directing a team of hotshots that monitored the mortgage institutions responsible for securitizing a $600 billion portfolio of†federally-insured mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities for a twelve-year period between 1988-2000 covering an earlier smaller real estate crisis (i.e., the S&amp;L crisis), and someone who thinks he knows at least a little about some things. Now before signing off, in conclusion I feel that it is worth mentioning that the FDICís online database offers one the opportunity to view†twenty-years of annual and ten-years of quarterly detailed financial information on every operating bank in the United States, allowing one the ability to look at every bank individually in the same manner†as I have looked at the banks in composite manner in Exhibits 1 and 2.† † But that is the subject for another day.†† Maybe on that day someone may use the FDIC data to look at the trending financials of the Big Four banks (Bank of America, JP Morgan/Chase, Citigroup, and Wells Fargo) that now account for 44.2% of total U.S. banking assets (up from 36.7% prior to the beginning of the Great Recession).† In fact, maybe on that day someone may even raise the question as to why those same banks ìtoo large to failî†felt they needed TARP funds in the fall of 2008 when they were reporting to the regulators a combined amount of Equity†of $493 billion with only $75 billion in NPA and REO.†
Germany‚Äôs gold is on the move. For the first time since official gold transactions became more transparent, the Bundesbank has given notice that a significant portion of its holdings will be transferred home from France and the United States. Ostensibly, this is just a matter of monetary housekeeping. But why now? One possibility is that German policymakers believe that we are approaching an every-country-for-itself scenario ‚Äì and only gold guarded by one‚Äôs own police is worth anything. But this is more than far-fetched. The world in which financial trust breaks down completely between Germany and France or Germany and the US is one in which we have much bigger problems than where a country‚Äôs gold is located. International trade would collapse, and major global companies would struggle to sell their products. Having more gold at home, rather than in the vaults of the New York Fed, would be neither here nor there in such a situation. Does Germany think that its gold will be subject to sanctions or some form of confiscation ‚Äì as sometimes happens to rogue nations? Again, this is hardly plausible. Countries like Iran and Venezuela work long and hard to become international pariahs. Germany, by contrast, is a mainstay of the democratic world. That is not going to change. Perhaps German central bankers sense a longer-term shift in international preferences away from the dollar and want to be ready in some fashion. This is plausible in terms of a future decline in the dollar‚Äôs importance as a reserve asset and safe haven. Reserve holdings of dollar assets (primarily by central banks) were worth around 2% of US GDP in 1948 and about the same in 1968. Today, such holdings are at least 15% of US GDP ‚Äì with some estimates as high as 30%. Much of this rise stems from growing prosperity and current-account surpluses in middle-income countries. When you sell more to the world than you buy, you accumulate claims on the rest of the world ‚Äì and you need to decide the form in which you want to hold those claims. At present, the world holds a lot of US dollar assets, and greater diversification of portfolios in coming years would not be shocking. There is certainly much discussion of the renminbi‚Äôs rising international role ‚Äì an issue on which Arvind Subramanian, my colleague at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, continues to do the most interesting work. But moving Germany‚Äôs gold is hardly helpful in this regard. What would help is to turn the euro around ‚Äì in the sense of convincing investors that the common currency has a bright future, because it is underpinned by a stronger monetary, fiscal, financial, and political union. When seen in this light, the physical location of gold is purely a distraction. It is as if German political elites think that they are back in the era of the gold standard. But, even back then, what mattered was the amount of gold you owned ‚Äì not where it was actually stored. The broader and more worrying trend is the politicization of central banking. Leading German political figures are becoming increasingly suspicious of the European Central Bank, while also worrying aloud about the US Federal Reserve‚Äôs monetary policy. Their motivating fear is the prospect of inflation. But the real fear is not inflation itself ‚Äì that is, that prices might rise at a surprisingly fast clip this year or next. Rather, the fear is that central banks will not see inflation coming until it is too late, and that this will cause a major upward shift in inflation expectations. Again, moving gold does nothing to keep inflation under control or change the behavior of central banks. The link between currencies and gold was irrevocably broken in 1971, when US President Richard Nixon decided to suspend the convertibility of dollars into gold for central banks. We have lived in a purely fiat money system ever since ‚Äì meaning that our money‚Äôs value is not backed by gold or any other physical item. Such monetary systems can succeed only as long as the central bank can credibly commit to keeping inflation under control. German politicians would thus seem to be suffering from some serious delusions about the importance of gold and the effects of shifting its location. But they are right to worry about the ECB‚Äôs policies: Providing unconditional credit to eurozone governments is unlikely to make these governments more careful. There is a real danger that so-called ‚Äúfiscal dominance‚Äù will undermine monetary policy and make it much harder to control inflation. The German fascination with gold is a red herring. Its fear of wayward monetary policy is not.
Business InsiderThe world is changing, and nowhere is that better illustrated than in a good series of charts. Luckily, we've seen no shortage of excellent charts this week that amply illustrate the changes underway. The best charts this week hit on everything from global per-capita ice cream consumption to the "1994 scenario" that keeps traders up at night. Let's go to the charts.
S&amp;P has downgraded Illinois to A- with a negative outlook after the state's legislature failed to take meaningful action on reforming municipal pension woes, the Chicago Sun-Times reports. At A-, Illinois now has the distinction of having the lowest credit rating among all states, surpassing California. Here's the ranking as of last July, via Pew: Pew SEE MORE: Twelve States Where Homeowners Remain Deep Underwater &gt;
