Lars Christensen nails it on the confusion surrounding Abenomics: There has been a lot of focus on the fact that USD/JPY has now broken above 100 and that the slide in the yen is going to have a positive impact on Japanese exports. In fact it seems like most commentators and economists think that the easing of monetary policy we have seen in Japan is about the exchange rate and the impact on Japanese ìcompetitivenessî. I think this focus is completely wrong. While I strongly believe that the policies being undertaken by the Bank of Japan at the moment is likely to significantly boost Japanese nominal GDP growth ñ and likely also real GDP in the near-term ñ I doubt that the main contribution to growth will come from exports. Instead I believe that we are likely to see is a boost to domestic demand and that will be the main driver of growth. Yes, we are likely to see an improvement in Japanese export growth, but it is not really the most important channel for how monetary easing works. This story is not new. The abandonment of the interwar gold standard in the 1930s by many countries spurred domestic demand and was behind the subsequent sharp recoveries, not any export growth generated by the competitive devaluations. For if everyone is devaluing, there is no place to send additional exports. That was true in the 1930s and is true today. With that said, the competitive devaluation arising from Abenomics may be the catalyst to kick start the ECB into more serious efforts if they care about the Eurozone's external competitiveness. The ECB may ease to keep the Euro from getting too expensive and in the process shore up European domestic demand. How ironic it would be if Abenomics were to accomplish in the Eurozone what† intense human suffering could not: moving the ECB to forcefully act.†
Another day, another 1% gain in Japan. Here are two charts. The top one is the Nikkei, and the below is USDJPY, which shows that the dollar is further strengthening against the yen Sunday evening. Nikkei.com
On Friday, news broke that Goldman Sachs had complained that Bloomberg news reporters were using information gleaned from the Bloomberg Terminal to further their reporting. Since then it's become clear that this was not an isolated incident, and that it's been going on awhile. Confused on what this is all about? Hilary Sargent of Chartgirl.com has created another one of her brilliant and massive explainer charts breaking the whole thing down. Click the chart to get taken to a large, readable version. Note the light use of satirical quotes in a few places for effect and explanation. Chartgirl.com
Lisa Du, Business Insider with APFutures are down modestly in early Sunday trading, and one possibility for that is the story that came out after the bell on Friday in the Wall Street Journal from Fed whisperer Jon Hilsnerath titled Fed Maps Exit From Stimulus. The gist: The Fed is seriously thinking about how it might begin the QE wind-down process. Given the widespread belief that Fed stimulus is a major tailwind for the market, talk of QE wind-down is invariably something of a negative. In tonight's "Closing Print" note, Mike O'Rourke from JonesTrading thinks the article's existence is pretty significant. He writes: The WSJ‚Äôs Jon Hilsenrath published a story Friday evening titled ‚ÄúFed Maps Exit From Stimulus - Timing of Wind-Down Is Uncertain, but Focus Is on Managing Unpredictable Market Expectations.‚Äù¬† We suspect the twitter taper caper on Thursday opened the window for the FOMC to provide some clarity as to where policy stands.¬† Here are some key questions.¬† Is this story important?¬† Can it be taken at face value and should markets move?¬† The answer is yes, yes and yes.¬† The WSJ placed the article prominently on the cover of the Saturday edition, so they believe they have an important story.¬† It is a Hilsenrath story, and in the post-recession QE era the Fed has used him to foreshadow almost every major monetary policy move. Finally, in a tape where QE is the dominant theme, any indication of policy slowing or reversing course is meaningful.¬† We think the headline in and of itself is interesting ‚Äú‚Ä¶ Focus Is on Managing Unpredictable Market Expectations.‚Äù Are market expectations really highly unpredictable? Has this Fed done anything done but promise excessive monetary support for the US economy? The market only expects what the Federal Reserve has conditioned it to expect. Nearly every time the stock market dipped over the past 3 years, a new asset purchase program was launched. We view ‚Äúunpredictable market expectations‚Äù as a sign that the FOMC has been trying to foreshadow policy in one direction and the market is interpreting it in another direction. Lest you think, however, that talk of a Fed wind-down is guaranteed bad news for the market, we'd urge you to check out the latest post from Mark Dow, who argues that those expecting a meaningful fall just because the Fed removes the training wheels are liable to be sorely mistaken. Again, it is important to underscore that it is the indirect psychological effects from Fed support and the low cost of capital‚Äînot the popularly imagined injection of Fed liquidity into stock markets‚Äîthat have gotten investors to mobilize their idle cash from money market accounts, increase margin, and take financial risk. It is our money, not the Fed‚Äôs, that‚Äôs driving this rally. Ironically, if we all understood monetary policy better, the Fed‚Äôs policies would be working far less well. Thank God for small favors. This is not a semantic point. I can hear traders saying ‚Äúyeah, whatever, who cares, don‚Äôt fight the Fed, just buy‚Äù. But this concept has huge implications for the phase where the Fed decides to remove the training wheels. If the Fed money is not directly propping up the stock market and the economy underneath has been healing, the much talked about wedge between ‚ÄúFed-induced valuations‚Äù and ‚Äúthe fundamentals‚Äù is likely considerably smaller than the consensus seems to think. It‚Äôs less ‚Äúartificial‚Äù. In short, what all this means is the day the Fed lets up off the gas might give us a blip, or maybe that long-awaited correction, but ultimately the Policy Bears will end up getting crushed, again. In the meantime, read Hilsenerath's full story here ---&gt;
After a blistering week for markets last week, the very early mood is a tad negative. U.S. futures are down just under 0.5% in very light Sunday trading. Via FinViz: FinViz Meanwhile, after a very quiet week last week for economic data, things will pick up a bit in the coming week, starting with retail sales data Monday morning.
Nineteen people, including two children, were wounded in a shooting at a Mother's Day parade in New Orleans, AP reports. Most of the injuries appear to be non-life threatening, police say. A 10-year-old girl suffered a graze wound, WVUE reports. At least four people were in surgery. An FBI representative told AP there was no sign it was a terrorist attack. "It's strictly an act of street violence in New†Orleans," Mary Beth Romig said. The suspects remain at large. WDSU says police are looking for three people who were seen running from the scene, in connection with the shootings. Motive is unknown. From Nola.com : [New Orleans Police Department Superintendent Ronal Serpas] said those three suspects likely worked together, and at least two different weapons were used. "It appears that these two or three people just for a reason unknown to us started shooting at, towards, or in the crowd," Serpas said ."It was over in just a matter of seconds. Police were everywhere." About† 300 people†were near the intersection of Frenchmen and North Villere Streets†in the 7th Ward†when the shooting started.
The financial conference circuit has been a noisy place lately. Just over a week ago there was historian Niall Ferguson claiming that because John Maynard Keynes was childless and gay, it was only logical that his thinking was short-term. And then last week, there were two separate hedge fund events: The Ira Sohn Conference in New York City (where hedge funders reveal their favorite investment ideas) and The SALT Conference in Las Vegas (which is more of an industry confab). At both of those hedge fund events, Ben Bernanke took a lot of abuse from the speakers. The source of this Bernanke hate has been the subject of a lot of fascination and speculation (from ourselves, Brad DeLong, Neil Irwin, and others). Everyone has a slightly different theory. Maybe these managers have become inflation haters, like other folks their age. Maybe the Bernanke-fueled market boom has made their more sophisticated strategies irrelevant. Maybe it's just purely conservative politics coming out. But there's another important angle which has been left out of all of the discussions: Flattery. If you're a speaker at any event, a really good strategy is to flatter the crowd. And a good way to flatter any crowd is to convince that crowd that they're all smarter than the man in D.C. running the show. At the same conference where Ferguson did his thing, famously bearish economist David Rosenberg gave a presentation on how the Fed couldn't save the economy. It included cartoons like this one, featuring Bernanke looking like a goofball, swimming in a pile of cash, engaged in monetary policy that somewhat resembles what people think about when they think of Weimar hyperinflation. David Rosenberg Now we weren't at Rosenberg's speech, but we've seen Rosenberg speak before, and we've been to other financial industry events where presenters made Bernanke look like a fool (often using similar cartoons), and we can say one thing's for sure: People eat this kind of stuff up. It's pretty similar to the Keynes bashing. If you're in a room full of wealthy financial types, any kind of government bashing or planner bashing will just go over well. It's flattering to be told that everything would be great if you (the audience) were just left to your own devices, and that it's these bearded academics who are screwing things up. If only the government would step out of the way and let us efficiently allocate our capital, then the economy would prosper! That is an incredibly flattering message to be told. And the bashing of elites (as idiots who are screwing everything up) explains the popularity of some of the biggest finance world talking-heads. Almost everyone who speaks at events is selling something (trying to raise money for a fund, selling books, selling a newsletter, etc.) and so bashing the economic planners who seemingly get in the way of the audience is a great sales device. The speakers may all have economic ideologies that cause them to hate Bernanke or Keynes. And they might even invest based on those ideas (though not always). But flattery and salesmanship are key.
Absolutely no monthly data of any significance was reported during the last week, except for the actual surplus the US government ran last month. So let's get directly to the high frequency weekly indicators and start again with transport: Transport Railroad transport from the AAR † † † Shipping transport † Rail transport had its best week in over a month, after it had turned negative for three recent weeks. †The Harpex index continues to improve slowly from its January 1 low of 352, and the Baltic Dry Index remains above its recent low. Consumer spending † † Gallup's YoY comparisons have been very positive since last December. They got less positive in the early part of April, but have rebounded again, and this week had one of the most positive comparisons all year. †The ICSC varied between +1.5% and +4.5% YoY in 2012. In the past two weeks it has rebounded from prior results near the bottom of this range. The JR report this week also rebounded the upper part of its typical YoY range for the last year. Employment metrics Initial jobless claims † American Staffing AssociationIndex Initial claims established a new lower bound to their recent range of between 330,000 to 375,000. The spring increase of the last two years has not materialized this year. †The ASA is still running sightly below 2007, but now essentially unchanged from last year as well. In other words, the comparison has been generally deteriorating on a YoY basis. Daily Treasury Statement tax withholding † These are very good YoY comparisons compared with the last three months. While my best estimate is that collections should be up 15% due to the payroll tax increases that took effect on January 1, that appears not to be accurate, so now that we have enough data from this year I am making comparisons with earlier this year, and this week's comparison is one of the two best. Housing metrics Housing prices Housing prices bottomed at the end of November 2011 on Housing Tracker, and averaged an increase of +2.0% to +2.5% YoY during 2012. This week's YoY increase makes a new 6 year record.  Real estate loans, from the FRB H8 report: † Loans turned up at the end of 2011 and averaged about 1% gains YoY through most of 2012. †In the last several months the comparisons have softened significantly.  Mortgage applications from the Mortgage Bankers Association: † This year purchase applications have finally established a slightly rising trend, and this week's number was the best in 3 years. †Refinancing applications were very high for most of last year with record low mortgage rates, but decreased slightly since then. Nevertheless this was the best week for refinancing in 5 months. Interest rates and credit spreads † Interest rates for corporate bonds have generally been falling since being just above 6% two years ago in January 2011, hitting a low of 4.46% in November 2012. †Treasuries have fallen from about 2% in late 2011 to a low of 1.47% in July 2012. Spreads have varied between a high over 3.4% in June 2011 to a low under 2.75% in October 2012. †The †last several months saw a marked increase in rates and credit spreads widened, followed by a reversal in the last few weeks. Money supply M1 M2: Real M1 made a YoY high of about 20% in January 2012 and has generally been easing off since. †This week's YoY reading increased sharply. †Real M2 also made a YoY high of about 10.5% in January 2012. †Its subsequent low was 4.5% in August 2012. It has increased slightly in the last month or so. Oil prices and usage The price of a gallon of gas, after declining sharply in March and April, has risen slightly in May. The 4 week average for gas usage remained negative after previously spending nine weeks in a row being positive YoY. Bank lending rates The TED spread recently increased again, but is still near the low end of its 3 year range. †LIBOR remained at its new 52 week low and is close to a 3 year low. JoC ECRI Commodity prices After months of gradual deterioration, there were absolutely NO negatives in the weekly indicators this past week. The closest were several positive but deteriorating indicators: temp services are barely above last year, and Oil and gas prices have started climbing again, with less gas usage. Bond spreads were neutral. Commodities were muted.  Positives included house prices, and both purchase and refinancing mortgage applications. Initial claims continued their terrific recent run. Money supply was positive. Overnight bank rates are somnolent. Consumer spending as measured by same store sales is decent. Gallup consumer spending continues on a tear. Rail traffic had the best week in over a month. Even tax withholding, when compared with its adjusted YoY results over the last four months, had its best comparative weekly result yet.  This is about as good a weekly batch of statistics as could be hoped for, and I'll take it. Have a nice weekend.


Most of Wall Street's research departments include equity strategists and equity analysts. Strategists publish targets for the stock markets as a whole from their big picture analysis (i.e top down analysis). Wall Street's equity analysts publish price targets on individual stocks based on their analyses of the companies they cover (i.e. bottom up analysis). As it happens, strategists' expectations rarely line up with analysts' expectations (You can derive analysts' implied target for the S&amp;P 500 by combining their price targets for the respective companies they cover). However, you might expect their forecasts to at least go in the same direction. Unfortunately, that's not the case right now. According to forecasts compiled by FactSet, strategists currently expect the S&amp;P 500 to head lower 1,579 in 12 months. Meanwhile, analysts expect stocks to go up to 1,724. This is probably very confusing, if not angering, for investors seeking guidance from Wall Street. Here's a chart from FactSet's John Butters: FactSet From FactSet's John Butters (emphasis added): Industry analysts in aggregate predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 5.6% increase in price in over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the bottom-up target price and the closing price for the index on May 8. Aggregating the mean target price estimates (based on company level estimates submitted by industry analysts) for all 500 companies in the index, the bottom up target price for the S&amp;P 500 was 1724.42 on May 8, which was 5.6% above the closing price of 1632.69. Market strategists, on the other hand, predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 3.3% decrease in price on average over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the top down mean target price and the closing price for the index on May 8. Taking the average of the eight index-level target price estimates submitted to FactSet by market strategists, the top-down mean target price for the S&amp;P 500 was 1579.28 on May 8, which was 3.3% below the closing price of 1632.69. Who will prove to be correct? It is interesting to note that one year ago, the industry analysts were much more accurate in their projections for the closing price at the end of April 2013 than the market strategists. At the end of April 2012, the bottom-up target price (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) was 1567.34, while the top down mean target price (based on index level estimates submitted by market strategists) was 1418.33. Compared to the closing price of the S&amp;P 500 at the end of April 2013 of 1597.57, the industry analysts underestimated the price of the index by just 1.9%, while the market strategists underestimated the price of the index by 11.2%.
YouTube / Margin Call TrailerAt Bloomberg, omniscience is a feature not a bug. The companyís New York City skyscraper unfurls around its courtyard†like a†panopticon. Inside, the decor is punctuated at every turn with fish tanks. No one has an office to hide in, and the meeting rooms are enclosed in clear glass. Visit any of Bloombergís†192 offices, and you are forever stored in the system; come back years later, on the other side of the world, and the same photograph will grace your name tag. Employees carry two IDs. The first gets them into the building, logging their locations for anyone on staff to look up. The otherówhich some Bloomberg customers use, as wellóis called a B-Unit, for biometric: It reads their fingerprints to permit home access to their terminals. The terminal. Nothing captures Bloomberg better than these machines, though these days, itís usually more accurate to call them pieces of software. A terminal costs about $20,000 a year and, with 315,000 subscriptions around the world, accounted for the bulk of the companyís $7.9 billion in revenue last year. Up-to-date sales figures and other data about the terminals are displayed on screens throughout Bloombergís offices. The promise of the terminal, which it more-or-less fulfills, is quick and unlimited access to any information that might possibly make you money,†from credit default swap spreads to sports betting odds. Whatís going on at the†largest American oil reserve, which holds the crude sold on the New York Mercantile Exchange? Bloomberg commissions a satellite to†fly over the site†in Cushing, Oklahoma, twice a week and take a picture. Any terminal customer can access the photographs along with estimates of the amount of oil held in the tanks based on the length of the shadows cast across their roofs. Each of the Bloombergís more than 15,000 employees has a terminal, its iconic keyboard and twin screens making the offices resemble a trading floor, and is encouraged to use it as much as possible. Many core functions of the company are conducted with the terminal. Bloombergís 2,400 journalists use it to maintain a collective database of sourcesócontact information, details like childrenís names and accolades, and a record of every conversation with that person. And as the rest of the world just learned, all employeesóincluding, until recently, Bloomberg reportersóhave access to potentially sensitive information about terminal users: the last time they logged in, the commands they use, and their chats with customer service. Bloomberg staff have had such access for years. The company revoked its journalistsí ability to see the data†after complaints from one of the companyís biggest customers, Goldman Sachs, which claimed Bloomberg News was using the information to aid its reporting about the bank. Bloomberg CEO Dan Doctoroff, seeking to mollify jittery customers, most of whom work in the obsessively secretive world of finance, called the access for reporters ìa mistake.î Inside the Bloomberg Tower, though, the controversy is being met with bafflement by some employees and, they say, executives. The ability to see data about terminal usage by customers was considered an open secret. A Bloomberg TV anchor†mentioned it on the air†in 2011, and an initial analysis by the company is said to show that ìseveral hundredî reporters took advantage of the access. The information seemed, to some, of a piece with Bloombergís broader culture of what it calls ìtransparency,î considered a key to the companyís success. Reporters, meanwhile, are bred to make use of any information they can get their hands on, and this stuff was just sitting on their computers! A chapter in†The Bloomberg Way, the bible for its journalists, begins,†îIf we donít know the people on our beats, what they do, where theyíre doing it, when theyíre doing it, and how they do it, we donít know our beats.î Within the company, stalking is simply part of the culture. Employees can look upóusing the†&lt;FON&gt;†function on their terminalsóthe last time anyone scanned into or out of a Bloomberg office, which they use to keep legitimate tabs on coworkers and, more†voyeuristically, to track their executives on business trips (ìWinkler†just badged out of Tokyo!î). Some staff make a habit of looking up the last time Michael Bloombergóthe companyís founder, longtime chief executive, and now mayor of New Yorkóvisited his familyís foundation, which uses the same security system. Many current and former Bloomberg employees say they have been told the company keeps a record of every action taken on a terminal, whether by staff or outside customers, in a practice known as keystroke logging. The data are closely held within the company but can be used for everything from assisting customers with their machines to investigating employees for violations of their confidentiality agreement. Thereís no evidence the keystroke data have ever been used for Bloomberg reporting. Keystroke logging is commonly used by companies to monitor staff, but Bloomberg customers may not be aware their terminal usage is so finely recorded. Bloomberg spokesman Ty Trippet declined to comment on the practice.†On Saturday,†CNBC reported†that the US Federal Reserve and Treasury department were looking into Bloomberg terminal usage snooping of their employees.†îWe have had no formal inquiries from government or regulatory bodies,î Trippet told Quartz. Bloomberg†said on Friday†it had created a new roll of ìclient data compliance officerî to ensure that customer information was no longer available to its reporters. The breadth of information the company possesses about its customers may raise privacy concerns, but itís also the envy of Bloombergís competitors and a model for many startups in technology and media. Bloomberg was hardly the first company to use open-plan offices, collect loads of data about its customers, and make that information available across the organization, but it popularized those practices and obviously found great success in them. The San Francisco office of payments startup Square looks like a miniature version of Bloombergís headquarters, from the curved couches to the screens displaying data about the company above everyoneís desk. In New York, when Dow Jones recently hired its new chief executive,†Lex Fenwick, from rival Bloomberg, he spent the first several months tearing out offices on the executive floor to create an open-plan layout, launched a new initiative focused on customer service and data, and generally made the place feel like a copy of the Bloomberg building 10 blocks to the north. A mantra of CEOs throughout the media industry these days is†more data about customers, more readily available throughout the company. They donít add,†like Bloomberg, out of pride or perhaps because itís obvious. Itís not as though any of this justifies Bloomberg reporters snooping on customer terminal usage, but it should help explain how someoneóindeed, hundreds of peopleóat the company could do it without batting an eye. And it points to a tension between Bloombergís culture of openness and its intense secrecy to the outside world. At Bloomberg, transparency only goes as far as the door. To the rest of the world, the privately held company is more black box than fish bowl. The confidentiality agreement that every employee must signóincluding reporters, which is unusual in the media industryóis just part of it. They also generally must agree not to say anything critical about the company while employed or after leaving. Bloomberg staffers are genuinely terrified of talking about their company to anyone who doesnít work there, a fear that was recently justified when Bloomberg immediately†fired its social media editor†after his private conversations, in which he called the company a ìtotal mess,î leaked online. When a Bloomberg staffer wanted to rat on his ìBig Brotherî employer to gossip blog Gawker last year,†he wrote it all down on paper†rather than create a digital record. As a result, the public doesnít hear much from Bloomberg LP, outside of occasional updates on terminal sales. In a sense, the paradox of Bloombergís transparency and secrecy actually describes its business model quite well: Data comes into the companyóas much as possible, from wherever possibleóbut it doesnít leave because, at Bloomberg, information is money. More from Quartz: Click here†to sign up for†the†Quartz Daily Brief and start your day with†the†latest intelligence on†the†new global economy.
Bank Of America Merrill Lynch"The big story this year is not the US spending sequester, the China slowdown or the ongoing European recession," says Ethan Harris, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's top global economist.¬† "The big story is inflation, or more precisely, the lack thereof." From Harris' note to clients on Friday: ...After peaking in the summer of 2011, inflation has steadily fallen globally and in both the emerging and developed markets economies (Chart 1) Our global inflation index goes back to 1996 and over that period inflation has averaged 3.1% overall, 1.9% in DM and 6.6% in EM; the corresponding numbers for this March were 2.2%, 1.3% and 4.0%. Of course there are some exceptions: inflation has been defying gravity in the UK for a number of years and is high in some major EM economies such as Brazil and Mexico. The weakness has come as a surprise to economic forecasters and an even bigger surprise to many market participants. Critics of the major central banks have repeatedly warned that easy policy would lead to runaway inflation. However, in reality inflation is falling, not rising... Harris ran twenty years worth of numbers and showed that a growing monetary base, which is happening thanks to quantitative easing, does not correlate well with inflation. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch"For example, Table 1 shows the correlation between the growth in the US monetary aggregates and CPI inflation at various lag lengths," he wrote.¬† "The correlation is always small and half of the time has the wrong sign ‚Äì strong money growth ‚Äúcauses‚Äù low inflation." Below is BAML's inflation surprise index. As you can see, economists have been overestimating inflation around the world. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch
Opposing ViewsWell, this one probably won't make the list of legal best practices. A lawyer in Minnesota, Thomas P. Lowe, has been suspended after billing a client for the time he spent having sex with her. From the complaint (pdf): The Director of the Office of Lawyers Professional Responsibility has filed a petition for disciplinary action alleging that respondent Thomas P. Lowe committed professional misconduct, namely, engaging in a sexual relationship with a vulnerable¬†client and billing the client for meetings in which they engaged in sexual relations, in violation of Minn. R. Prof. Conduct 1.5(a) and (b), 1.7(a)(2), and 1.8(j). It's not a happy story. And it almost ended in tragedy. Opposing Views provides some more details: The woman met with Lowe in August 2011 to discuss pursuing a divorce from her husband. Lowe asked about her sexual relationship with her husband, complimented her appearance and asked if she was interested in sex. They began an affair that lasted until March 2012. After several arguments about their affair and his own marriage, Lowe said he was breaking things off and quitting as her lawyer.That day the woman tried to kill herself. While hospitalized, she revealed her affair with Lowe. Adding to the insult, Lowe apparently billed the woman for "legal services" for the time they spent on their trysts. The specific activities cited during these hours were "drafting memos" and "meetings."¬† (Via Adam Minter)
Bloomberg TVBloomberg's Erik SchatzkerWall Street has been stunned by reports that Bloomberg had been using the private information of its clients to break news stories. It began with a story from The New York Post's Mark DeCambre¬†¬†who reported that Goldman Sachs¬†learned a Bloomberg reporter had misused private data regarding Goldman's usage of the Bloomberg terminal service. So far, it has been unclear who, if any, knew about this practice at Bloomberg. However, BuzzFeed's Peter Lauria is now reporting that Bloomberg's senior management knew as early as 2011: Executives at the financial information company Bloomberg have known about journalists using the company‚Äôs terminals to spy on clients at least since September 2011 ‚Äî more than a year before the practice turned into a scandal that threatens the company‚Äôs relationships with its clients. That month, Erik Schatzker, an anchor at Bloomberg TV and host of ‚ÄúMarket Makers,‚Äù was reprimanded for making on-air comments about using terminal data to track the activities of at least one story subject, according to two sources with knowledge of the situation. One source said the matter was a very big deal internally but was handled quietly. The Bloomberg terminal is the primary source of news for almost every major banker, trader, and financial services employee on Wall Street. Despite the developing concerns, it's unclear if Bloomberg's terminal business will get impacted materially. Read more at BuzzFeed.com.
WASHINGTON (AP) ó A domestic natural gas boom already has lowered U.S. energy prices while stoking fears of environmental disaster. Now U.S. producers are poised to ship vast quantities of gas overseas as energy companies seek permits for proposed export projects that could set off a renewed frenzy of fracking. Expanded drilling is unlocking enormous reserves of crude oil and natural gas, offering the potential of moving the country closer to its decades-long quest for energy independence. Yet as the industry looks to profit from foreign markets, there is the specter of higher prices at home and increased manufacturing costs for products from plastics to fertilizers. Companies such as Exxon Mobil and Sempra Energy are seeking federal permits for more than 20 export projects that could handle as much as 29 billion cubic feet of natural gas a day. If approved, the resulting export boom could lead to further increases in hydraulic fracturing, a drilling technique also known as fracking. It has allowed companies to gain access to huge stores of natural gas underneath states from Colorado to New York, but raised widespread concerns about alleged groundwater contamination and even earthquakes. The drilling boom has helped boost U.S. natural gas production by one-third since 2005, with production reaching an all-time high of 25.3 trillion cubic feet last year, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. In recent months, however, production has begun to level off as the glut of natural gas keeps U.S. prices down. In response, producers have begun pushing to export the fuel to Europe and Asia, where prices are far higher. Approval of all the projects currently under review by the Energy Department could result in the export of more than 40 percent of current U.S. production of liquefied natural gas, or LNG, which is gas that's been converted to liquid form to make it easier to store or transport. The prospect of a major expansion of U.S. gas exports has tantalized business groups and lawmakers from both parties, and they're urging the Obama administration to move faster to approve the projects as a way to create thousands of jobs and spur economic growth. Increased exports also would help offset the nation's enormous trade deficit. But consumer groups and some manufacturers that use natural gas oppose expanded exports, saying they could drive up domestic prices and make manufacturing more expensive. Many environmental groups also oppose LNG exports because of fears that increased drilling could lead to environmental damage "Exporting natural gas will have serious implications for public health, the environment and climate change," said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. "Building these terminals means lots of new fracking, and more fracking means more risks for Americans." Bill Cooper, president of the Center for Liquefied Natural Gas, an industry group, called natural gas a safe, clean-burning alternative to coal and oil. "LNG exports are a huge opportunity for the United States economy, our workers and our geopolitical relationships" with countries such as Japan that are seeking to import natural gas, Cooper said. "LNG exports will create jobs, increase government revenue and benefit consumers." The administration has not said whether it will approve the projects. The issue is among the main challenges for Ernest Moniz, President Barack Obama's nominee to be energy secretary. Federal law requires the Energy Department to determine that projects are in the public interest before granting export permits to countries that do not have free-trade agreements with the U.S. Moniz, a physics professor and former top officials at the department in the Clinton administration, is widely seen as sympathetic to the natural gas industry. At a Senate hearing last month, he called the "stunning increase" in natural gas production a "revolution" that has led to reduced emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that cause global warming. A recent study commissioned by the department concluded that exporting natural gas would benefit the U.S. economy even if it leads to higher domestic prices for the fuel, as is likely. Michigan-based Dow Chemical Co. and other manufacturers have criticized that study, saying it relied on 2-year-old data that doesn't account for increased demand for natural gas by manufacturers, trucking fleets and power plants. Dow, which uses natural gas to power its plants and make products from plastics to pharmaceuticals, has argued against unfettered exports and said that could lead to price spikes that could harm the U.S. economy. But John Felmy, chief economist for the American Petroleum Institute, the largest lobbying group for the oil and gas industry, said restricting trade to control prices "is bad for the economy" and could result in lower domestic investment and production, hampering jobs and economic growth. "We cannot and should not build around a wall around United States," Felmy said. Whether to approve natural gas exports is "a huge question that's facing the federal government right now," said Sarah Ladislaw, an energy analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Expanded exports not only could raise natural gas prices, but also could hinder development of renewable forms of energy such as wind and solar power that do more to combat climate change, Ladislaw said. "How do you put yourself on a pathway to reduced (carbon) emissions over the longer term while not killing this golden goose which is providing low-cost energy to the United States right now?" Ladislaw asked. Natural gas results in fewer carbon emissions than other fossil fuels such as coal or oil, but still leaves a significant carbon footprint. Environmental groups also worry that more fracking could harm drinking water supplies or cause other problems. Kevin Book, an analyst for ClearView Energy Partners, a research and consulting firm, predicted that the administration will approve some new exports, but nowhere near the 20 projects that are pending before the Energy Department. "Everything we see from the administration suggests they embrace the idea of a small first-allocation" of LNG export permits, Book said. "They are looking for some subset to test the market." U.S. officials also must consider competition from countries such as Canada and Australia, where new LNG export terminals also are being proposed. The facilities cost billions of dollars and take years to complete. Only one U.S. license has been granted so far, to Houston-based Cheniere Energy Inc. for an export terminal in Louisiana's Cameron Parish. Proposals to build plants from Maryland to Texas and Oregon are pending from energy giants such as Exxon Mobil and Conoco Phillips, as well as Virginia-based Dominion Resources Inc. and Canadian-based Veresen Inc. The Energy Department has promised to decide on a case-by-case basis, but must finish wading through nearly 200,000 comments filed on a study last year that concluded more exports would translate to net economic benefits for the U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said officials should seek a "sweet spot" for LNG exports ó allowing enough to spur drilling and increase gas supplies, but not enough to create export-driven price hikes. Under the right approach, energy companies can "make enough money to continue producing, U.S. manufacturers have an affordable, stable supply of natural gas, and the environment is not only protected, but actually benefits from greater use of natural gas and lower CO2 emissions," Wyden said. ___ Follow Matthew Daly on Twitter: https://twitter.com/MatthewDalyWDC Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
-David Rosenberg: A Bond Bull Turns Bearish-Wage Inflation?-Skills Versus Education -Kyle Bass and Japan -Tulsa, Atlanta, Nashville, and Brussels "The large shortfall of employment relative to its maximum level has imposed huge burdens on all too many American households and represents a substantial social cost. In addition, prolonged economic weakness could harm the economy's productive potential for years to come. The long-term unemployed can see their skills erode, making these workers less attractive to employers. If these jobless workers were to become less employable, the natural rate of unemployment might rise or, to the extent that they leave the labor force, we could see a persistently lower rate of labor force participation." - Janet L. Yellen, Vice-Chair, US Federal Reserve, March 4, 2013 It is graduation time, and this morning finds me swimming in a sea of fresh young faces as a young friend graduates, along with a thousand classmates. But to what? I concluded my final formal education efforts in late 1974, in the midst of a stagflationary recession, so it was not the best of times to be looking for work. It turned out that I had a far different future ahead of me than I envisioned then. But I would trade places with any of those kids who graduated today, as my vision of the next 40 years is actually very optimistic. With all the advances in health care, technology, and communications that have come and will come, they will get to embrace a world full of opportunity; and yet, this generation is starting out with more than just a minor economic handicap. This week's letter will explore changes in the work marketplace, changes that generated quite a lot of discussion at last week's Strategic Investment Conference. At the end of the letter I will also provide a link for qualified investors to listen in on a webinar conversation between Kyle Bass and me on another of the main topics last week: Japan. This is one you'll want to tune in to. (Warning: this letter will read fast but print long, as there are more than the usual number of charts and graphs, though the word count is actually shorter than usual.) And a quick note up front on Japan. As of the last two weeks, Japanese investors are now net buyers of foreign bonds, and the yen has broken through 100 to the dollar. I think what is happening in Japan is going to be the nexus of a global flow of cash that will be unlike any we have ever seen. Attention MUST be paid. It is windshield time. David Rosenberg: A Bond Bull Turns Bearish How do we get to full employment and improved national education from the launching point of David Rosenberg's very recent call (at the conference and elsewhere) that we will soon see inflation and the onset of a bond bear market? I must say that he surprised a few of us with his conversion from bond bull to bond bear. But the reason why he converted surprised us even more. I am not going to be able to do justice to his impeccably reasoned, highly detailed presentation in this short space, but let me hit some highlights. Specifically, Rosie thinks that the Fed is going to be surprised by wage-push inflation. How could we see inflation in wages in such a soft labor market? That was the first question in my mind, and the following charts give me some reasons for my question. The present unemployment rate is still higher than at any time in the last 60 years, except after recessions. The Great Recession ended four years ago, and unemployment is still stubbornly high. Indeed, this is the slowest "jobs recovery" we have ever experienced. The current level of unemployment has never been seen four years after the end of a recession.  And those who lose their jobs are staying unemployed longer. The fact is that the mean duration of unemployment is still almost double what it has ever been. Average length of unemployment is 37 weeks. When the recession ended, it stood at 23 weeks. This is structural, not frictional, unemployment. Ninety million American adults now subsist outside the official labor force ñIt could be there's an underground economy that we need to capture. The pool of available labor for the business sector is shrinking 2% per year.  Worse yet, the unemployment rate is still stubbornly high in spite of an unprecedented rise in the number of people who are no longer counted as being in the labor force. These are people who are no longer looking for jobs.We are back to workforce participation levels not seen since the 1970s. A good 5% of US citizens who are able to work are no longer are looking for work. Part of this trend is due to alternatives to employment becoming easier to pursue. Millions have been added to the disability rolls ñ some 4 million since the beginning of this century and almost 2 million since the beginning of the Great Recession (and still rising at an alarming rate!). Others have gone back to school, borrowing money in the form of student loans, which have topped over $1 trillion and are the only form of consumer credit that has been on the increase. As a quick aside, we are also seeing skyrocketing rates of late payments as student loans overwhelm the ability of borrowers to pay. This is a true crisis brewing, as student loans are the only type of debt that cannot be discharged in bankruptcy. Student loans can make you an indentured servant for a very long time. Some would-be workers find that in some states they can collect more on government assistance than they can earn by working lower-wage jobs, and thus they have no economic incentive to look for jobs that would actually lower their income. As I wrote in a recent letter, this is why we are seeing a large rise in non-reported incomes and jobs. And finally, there are those who are just discouraged. Jobs seemingly do not exist for their skill sets and in places where they can access them. With so many people not participating in the labor market, isn't it reasonable to assume that if jobs again ever become available, these people will rejoin the official workforce? And wouldn't that create a shadow supply of workers that would keep wages suppressed for a long time? † Wage Inflation? Maybe yes and maybe no. Rosie makes the case that there are numerous jobs available and that the numbers are rising, and there is data that supports his argument. I will reproduce here a few of his charts (out of the 59 he showed!). Job openings are on the rise and are back to levels last seen in the middle of the previous decade. And what about all the businesses that have jobs on offer but can't find people to fill them? The following chart is from Rosie's and my mutual friend William Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Businesses. While job openings are not at all-time highs, the trend is encouraging. ††††   The next chart shows the ratio of job openings to new hires. It is at a six-year high. As Rosie stated (inexact quotes, from my notes): Looking for labor? Labor demand is not weak ñ JOLTS survey shows job openings up 10%, employers can't find qualified applicants. Firings plunge, layoffs 10% lower than in 2007. Number of job quitters rises ñ people leaving jobs to go to new ones, the 'take this job and shove it index.' 7.5% unemployment is actually the new 4.4%. What are companies doing? More overtime, longer work week. Combination of rising wages, productivity growth heading lower. We've taken a lot of inventory out of the labor market. Keep your eye on unit labor costs. Correlation with inflation ñ unit labor costs are on the rise.  Employees are increasingly willing to leave a job and go to another one, yet productivity has recently begun to fall. Yet young people are having increasing difficulty landing jobs. People aged 20-24 are still unemployed at levels not seen unless a recession is involved (see chart below). And research keeps coming in that more than 50% of college graduates are stuck in jobs for which a degree is not needed. † Even though the headline unemployment rate is falling, a large part of that drop is due to the precipitous plunge in the participation rate, as well as a rise in low-paying jobs. Curiously, it now seems a disproportionately high level of temporary jobs is no longer a precursor to economic recovery but is a new structural fixture. Part of the responsibility for that increase in temporary employment can readily be laid at the feet of the Affordable Health care Act (Obamacare). Employers do not have to pay health insurance for temporary employees; that burden falls on the employee. Health care for lower-wage employees can be a huge percentage of overall labor costs. While you may argue that employers should cover workers at all levels, the data coming in says that is not happening ñ thus the rise in temporary workers. Even an established employer like UPS is hiring new temporary employees in low-skill jobs at low wages without health insurance for their first year and cutting back on employees with major seniority (who cost more than double what new employees do), not giving them enough hours to survive and forcing them into the temporary market to meet their basic living needs. We see evidence of this happening system-wide in the data showing lower hourly wages and a reduced number of hours in the work week. And those trends seem to be stabilizing. We are seeing the creation of a two-tier market, an upper tier for those with skills in demand and a lower one for those whose skills just do not command a premium in today's marketplace. Rosie makes the argument that there is a shortage of skilled labor and that the price for those workers is going to rise, surprising the Federal Reserve, which still looks at historical data from a world that no longer exists. And he says this segment of the labor market is going to be large enough to create wage-push inflation. It is an interesting argument, and contradicting David Rosenberg is generally not a good idea, although he did not convince Lacy Hunt or Gary Shilling, at least not at the conference. But at any turn there is always someone who has to lead the way. His arguments are something we must pay attention to. In the panel discussion later in the day, I agreed that there are two labor markets, but the divide is between workers with skills that are in demand and workers whose jobs require no special experience or education. Skills Versus Education I am writing part of this week's letter in the rafters of a huge auditorium as I watch 1100 liberal art graduates at a major university receive their degrees. (I long ago made a promise to be here.) This was an expensive education, and the graduates are smart; yet when you ask them what their plans are, all too often you hear that they have not been able to find jobs or are opting to continue with school, often borrowing yet more money to do so, as they see no other viable options. Recent research suggests that the cost/benefit ratio for education is not as good as it once was. See for example this article by Jeff Selingo. Education ñ at least in the conventional sense ñ is not always necessary for job success. All too often it is the enemy of success. Yet the fallacy persists among the unemployed that "going back to school" will somehow solve their problems. In most cases, it will not. The unemployed do not need more school; what they need are more skills. Why? Because what employers need are abilities. Workers are essentially a delivery mechanism for the ability to do whatever the employer happens to need done. This is not to say that formal education is unimportant; it is critically important ñ but not for the reason most people expect. Degrees and diplomas are credentials. They do not, in and of themselves, guarantee that the holder possesses the skill an employer wants. They serve as screening tools, used to reduce a long list of applicants to a smaller number for closer review. Employers want workers with the necessary skills. Workers want an employer who values their particular skills. When a match is made, everyone wins. Skills are the key to every match. Skills can be acquired in school, of course. Indeed, it is impossible to spend thousands of hours in classrooms during one's formative years, while the brain is in peak learning mode, without acquiring at least some kind of skill. Children and adolescents are highly tuned skill-acquisition machines. If schools produced the right number of students with the right sets of skills, the economy would be much closer to full employment. Something is wrong somewhere. Yet those with college degrees are clearly able to find jobs of some kind. The unemployment level for college graduates is about half that of high school grads and almost three times better than for those with no high school degree. Education does matter.  Michael Ellsberg gives us one reason for that seeming advantage a degree delivers: True, people with college degrees tend to earn more. But that could be because most ambitious people tend to go to college; there is little evidence to suggest that the same ambitious people would earn less without college degrees (particularly if they mastered true business and networking grit). And while most people who end up starting businesses likely have college degrees, those degree-bearers should be well aware (as they learned in their freshman statistics classes) that correlation does not equal causation. Assuming that college was responsible for their success gives higher education more credit than it deserves. (New York Times: Will Dropouts Save America?) America, as Ellsberg describes it, has yet another way to divide today's job market into two pieces: formal and informal. The "formal" job market is the old-fashioned one in which employers advertise and workers send resumes. It was never as effective as people thought. Successful professionals and business owners have long preferred the second, informal market. When you need someone who can do X, you ask trusted friends and colleagues who they know. You will usually find a well-qualified candidate in short order. (And now you use LinkedIn and other social media.) What role does your wall-decorating degree play in this process? A little ñ and a lot. If you can do what needs to be done, employers usually won't care where (or if) you went to college. But, since they turn to people they know when they search for candidates, and since our lifelong friendships are so often formed in college, being "in the circle" increases your odds of being known to the right people at the right time. The old saying is then somewhat true: it isn't just what you know; it's who you know. Further, if you advertise for a new employee today on one of the online job boards, you can get hundreds of resumes. Most are just people sending you a resume in hopes of attracting attention, but you can still get an overwhelming number of potential employees. How do you sort? One way is by education. That degree helps you sort, even when the job really does not require a degree. But the skills advantage shows up in the next graph. Notice that the older you get, the lower your likelihood of being unemployed. As I have shown in previous letters, Boomers are not only working more than any other age cohort, they are taking market share from the 20-somethings. In fact, as of less than a year ago, 100% of the overall increase in jobs was going to those age 55 and up. Young people were actually losing ground in what was already a slow jobs recovery. The reasons are trite but obvious. We Boomers have not saved enough to retire and must keep working. Given our fewer remaining work years, we'll work where we can and for what we can get. And then there are those of us who simply have no interest in anything that looks like traditional retirement. We are living longer and healthier lives than previous generations enjoyed, and there are simply more of us. Even the youngest Boomer probably has 35-40 years of work experience and a lot of acquired skills. Young people may have more energy, but many jobs are not a function of simple energy and enthusiasm. Go into a Barnes and Noble or any number of other stores and notice the ages of those working. There are young people, sure, but I see my age peers as well. I didn't see that 20 years ago. And those "starter" jobs are where workers gain experience. †††††††††††  We have policies in place that encourage young people to load up on debt to get that degree. We need to create programs that match skills and jobs and that give employers incentives to hire and train those younger workers. As Paul McCulley said at the conference last week, Ages 22-27 are the years that really matter for your lifetime of financial security. We now have a job market that is the antithesis of what you and I graduated into. That is a structural phenomenon, not cyclical. It will not heal itself with platitudes about more and better education. New businesses are being formed at the lowest rate in generations. Over the long term, the growth in the job market comes from new businesses. Want to create jobs? Stop increasing costs and regulations and making it harder for entrepreneurs to get started. And get the SEC to issue the rules that Congress mandated they write over a year ago (the much-ballyhooed JOBS Act), which will make it possible for new ventures to publicly announce their need for capital on the internet without running afoul of the current regulations. The SEC is way behind the 90-day deadline specified in the act. The law as written by Congress is clear. Those groups lobbying for the status quo and standing in the way need to step aside. You are costing young people future jobs. Those are MY kids. And everyone else's. (Just for the record, I am an equal opportunity employer. I have younger and older employees, all genders and races. Talent and a solid work ethic are the currency I look for.) Kyle Bass and Japan As you know, I am a firm believer that the state of the global economy is such that we as investors need to be diversified, flexible, and opportunistic. Consequently, I spend a great deal of time and effort looking into alternative investment strategies and managers. The Mauldin Circle program was created specifically to provide access to "best of breed" alternatives managers that I believe in. That's why I am particularly pleased to announce an upcoming Mauldin Circle webinar event featuring Kyle Bass of Hayman Capital Management, LP. Many readers will recognize†Kyle as one of the few investors who successfully predicted and†profited from the subprime mortgage crisis in 2008, making significant gains for his investors. He has since continued to make well-defined predictions on the European sovereign-debt crisis and is a leading provocateur on the unsustainability of Japan's debt. Please join my partners at Altegris Investments for this special webinar on May 29th†and learn more about how Kyle is globally positioned to leverage his investment thesis. This may be the most compelling discussion that you hear all year. I will be in Brussels talking with thought leaders and EU politicians, and Kyle will just be back from Asia and a deep dive into Japan, so we will be giving you the view from both sides. If you are a qualified purchaser or a licensed investment adviser, qualified to make private placement recommendations, please join us for this exclusive Mauldin Circle webinar† on†Wednesday, May 29, at†12:00 EDT/9 PDT.†Be sure to register here† for this event ñ it will be one of the most interesting discussions of the year.  Upon qualification by my partners at Altegris,†you will receive an email invitation.†I apologize for limiting this discussion to qualified purchasers and investment advisors, but we must follow the rules and regulations.†I look forward to having you at this exclusive Mauldin Circle event.†(In this regard, I am president and a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, member FINRA.) Tulsa, Atlanta, Nashville, and Brussels The conference last week was powerful and inspiring. But before we got started, I took time to visit with some of the team at International Stem Cell. We spent a good deal of time going over the exciting research they are doing on stem cells and Parkinson's disease. Even though I have not written about biotech in a long time, I still follow the industry closely. There is just so much promise of real breakthroughs everywhere I look. Yes, ISCO is the company that launched the Lifeline Skin Care product that I have written about. Almost a dozen people at the conference came up and thanked me for recommending they try it. The skin crËme is a follow-on of research they were doing on growing skin for burn victims. It is not a miracle, but it has made a difference to many, and the product helps support their far more important research on diseases such as Parkinson's. You can learn about Lifeline at http://bit.ly/0504md. I believe we will see cures for many of the conditions that afflict us and have so far eluded treatment. I will be writing on my latest biotech findings in future letters. I leave for Tulsa next weekend to "give away" my daughter Abbi to her fiancÈ, Stephen. Just Abbi, Stephen, and 200 of their closest friends. "Dad, we just can't cut the list any more!" The following Wednesday I head for Atlanta for a board meeting of Galectin Therapeutics (another biotech I follow) and then move on the next day to Nashville for a presentation for my partners at Altegris Investments. Then it's back home for a day or so before I fly for Brussels for a speech. I might stop over in London before heading back, but one way or another I'll be spending extensive time with Jonathan Tepper, my Endgame co-author. It is time to hit the send button and race to the airport. Dallas has a newly built terminal to replace the old one at Love Field. It is very nice and a true upgrade, but there the same old TSA drill and long lines await me. I know there is better technology available than what we are forced to endure. We pay for all this, and those workers are not cheap. Where is the new technology to make airport security faster and more efficient? But kudos to the head of the FCC telling the FAA to allow us to use our iPads as we take off. The FAA is so behind in so many small ways that add up to a bad overall customer experience. Have a great week. And figure out how to hire an able young person! Your started to work at the tender age of 10 analyst, John Mauldin subscribers@mauldineconomics.com
This week, we saw the U.S. stock markets establish new all-time highs, climbing 145% from its March 2009 lows. Unfortunately, since the bull market began, fewer and fewer adult Americans have been invested in stocks. From David Rosenberg's note on Friday: Interestingly, the folks at Gallup just updated their survey and found that only 52% of American households now have money invested in the stock market, down from 53% a year ago and 62% five years ago. This is historically quite low ... and guess what? This is causing bulls to come out and argue that the Fed has to be even more aggressive and for longer because this reduced public participation in equities means that we need an even larger wealth effect for the half of the population that are not involved in the market in order for the Fed to ultimately get its desired 'escape velocity' for the real economy. Gluskin Sheff
The most likely solution to this problem, according to analysts at Credit Suisse, isnít a second bail-out but instead that European institutions offer Portugal a credit line until the country can make a full return to debt markets. This is important because the strict budget cuts imposed as part of the EU-IMF aid package have begun to wear on the national psyche, triggering large demonstrations across the country in recent months as unemployment remains high and growth sluggish. Further unrest could spread across the region, fuelling further rebellion against bail-out inspired austerity. ìThe credit line is the most appropriate instrument to provide to the country because (Portugal) has one foot in the market (having already refinanced some bonds), and the goal with the credit line is to support a full return to the market,î Credit Suisse analyst Axel Lang told The Financialist. ìIt is an instrument that is less costly for the core countries to provide because itís a precautionary credit line that may or may not be used by Portugal,î said Lang, who said a final decision on the matter isnít likely until after the German elections in September. Portugal is expected to face an estimated Ä12 billion (about $15.8 billion) funding gap in 2014, when its Ä78 billion bailout ends and as it struggles to pull itself out of a brutal recession. The countryís GDP contracted by 1.8 percent in the last quarter of 2012, and Credit Suisse expects the economy to shrink by 3 percent in 2013. Unemployment remained at 17.5 percent for the third straight month in March, according to Eurostat. ìDomestic demand is really under strong pressure,î Lang said. ìAt the moment, they rely on external trade, and the export sector is still pretty small for the size of the countryÖOne of the problems is that the main trading partner is Spain, which is also not in great shape.î European officials have already lowered Portugalís deficit target for this year from 6 percent of GDP to 5.5 percent. The decision reflects a softening attitude toward deficits that favors a greater focus on implementing structural reforms, which Portugal has done fairly well, Lang said. The country introduced labor market reforms last year, for example, to make it easier for employers to hire and fire workers. The burden of austerity is still a heavy one, however, and it could get worse. Portugalís Constitutional Court recently rejected Ä1.3 billion in scheduled budget cuts for this year. While Lang believes the government will have a fairly easy time filling in the gaps this year, the following years may be more difficult. The government recently pledged cuts of Ä2.8 billion in 2014, followed by Ä1.9 billion more over the following two years. ìThis will have to be done in a context of weak economic background, continued rising unemployment, social discontent and ultimately, political risks,î Lang wrote in his research note. Portugalís finance minister has already acknowledged that spending will affect hospitals, schools and other areas. In response to the growing frustrations about belt-tightening, Portugalís leaders have been trying harder to foster growth. Recently, officials announced broad measures to cut corporate taxes and provide incentives for foreign companies to set up shop in Portugal. ìThey want to have a better environment for firms to operate in because itís a very small economy,î Lang said ìThey basically want to replicate the Irish model,î in which a few large companies establishing themselves in Portugal could change the employment outlook and make the country seem like a viable place to do business. Ultimately, whether Portugal gets a credit line from Europe or not, reversing its status over the past decade as one of the slowest-growing euro-zone economies, is key to the countryís long-term success ñ and it wonít happen overnight.
The WSJ/Hilsenrath article confirms that the Fed is in the process of changing course on itís QE policy. America has reached ìPeak QEî, from now on it will be downhill for this policy. May will probably be the last month where $85B of securities are sucked out of the market. The Fedís new plan is to taper off QE over the balance of the year. Unlike the endings of QE1 &amp; 2 the sunset for QE3 will be a bit of a surprise for markets. The stated intention (according to Hilsenrath) is to change the amounts of POMO purchases on a month to month basis. Reading through the lines, I get the impression that Bernanke is going to lower the QE buys one month, but should the markets react negatively, he would increase the purchases the following month in an effort to ìrebuild confidenceî. I donít see this new policy working at all. Itís the predictability of POMO that gives QE itís market clout. When the predictability is replaced with uncertainty, the markets will not like it. What I find particularly galling is that the Fed believes that it can micro manage US (and global) capital markets. The Fed thinks it can reduce QE one month, but if markets swoon as a result it will just turn around and ratchet up the buying the following month. By doing so, the Fed can manage the markets. I say, ìNot a chanceî. The marketís reaction to the Fedís change in policy will be interesting to observe. I expect that there will be some weakness in equities next week. There should be some back-up in rates across the curve, and I think the dollar will move higher (especially the Yen). But I donít see a blowup in the markets. The ìBernanke Putî is still alive for the time being. The timing of the change in policy is interesting. Bernanke is no dope, he knows what the bond market is facing over the next five months, he knows that the bond calendar is very favorable for a wind-down of QE. In two weeks the debt limit will be reached. After that date there will be a big reduction of new Treasury debt issued. Under normal conditions, the Treasury would have about $200b of wiggle room on the debt limit before there is a crisis. But in the summer and fall of 2013 the Treasury will reap an additional $60b of revenue from (incredibly) Fannie and Freddie. Based on this, I think the debt limit will not be a problem until sometime in October. So the reality is that over the next six months or so, there will be a shortage of new issue Treasury paper. This fact gives Bernanke the opportunity to reduce QE without a a big sell off in the bond market. Then there is ZIRP. This policy will continue for a long time yet. The fact that the near-end is pegged at zero means that the long-end canít get out of control. And finally, there is the inflation outlook ñ this looks to be tame for the next few months. The ten-year may back-up to above 2% (currently 1.90%), but I donít see 2.5% coming at at anytime in the immediate future. Towards the end of the year, when the debt limit is increased (it will be) there will be a flood of new issue paper and QE will be a non factor. Thatís when the bond guys will be looking at supply and demand, and running for cover. There is one element of this that gets a chuckle from me. Last week, two hedge fund guys, Stan Druckenmiller and Paul Singer made comments about the risks of QE and the distortions the policy creates. Paul Krugman jumped all over the hedge fund types who appose more QE in a series of blog posts. (Link and Link) PK did his best to discredit Druckenmiller and Singer. PK said that those who appose Bernanke are just a bunch of stinkers who are short bonds and want to make money. PKís rant is pretty amusing, he even takes a shot at gold investors. The final line of one of the posts was interesting. PK was attempting to highlight the ìgreed factorî that he thought was the real reason behind money managers opposition to continuing QE. In his usual snarky way, PK attempted to convince his readers that Bernanke Bashers had to have evil intent, that or they were gay, or suffered child abuse. I thought this line was obnoxious: So anyway, the phenomenon of Bernanke rage is interesting. It probably has something to do with sexual orientation or childhood trauma, right? My message to Krugman: The WSJ article today was planted by Bernanke, and approved by Yellen. Clearly, these two also see that QE is a policy that has high risk and marginal returns. The article confirms what Druckenmiller and Singer were saying. They were right ñ you were wrong. Do you have the integrity to admit that? Or are you going to suggest that Bernanke also has sexual orientation issues, or suffers from childhood abuse?† If an elected official had used these words (even as a nasty joke) they would be called on the carpet.
Stephen Chernin / Getty ImagesTreasury Secretary John Snow views a computer screen at JP Morgan's tradng floor February 24, 2004.The escalating controversy over Bloomberg reporters accessing private information on Wall Street through the company's terminals puts the data and media empire founded by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg into strange, new territory. It is now in the rare position of having to explain its actions to an industry that puts billions of dollars into its coffers every year. Since news of the privacy breach broke on Friday, some of Bloomberg LP's biggest customers on Wall Street are re-examining their agreements with the company to see how much information the company can access from desktop terminals, say sources at those firms. Goldman Sachs Group and JP Morgan Chase so far have complained about the practice of Bloomberg reporters being able to see when one of their employees is signed on and what kinds of functions they use through keystrokes on the terminal.  "It's pretty surprising that an organization this big has given that kind of open access to user information," said Larry Tabb, founder of Tabb Group, a financial markets research and advisory firm. "This is going to be a challenge for Bloomberg. This hole should have been locked down. "This industry is all about confidentiality," Tabb continued. "When you give access to information about when a user is logged in and what they are doing with their terminal, that violates a confidence. That could be an issue." He added he wouldn't be surprised if subscriber agreements would be reworked to ensure more guarantees against breaches, especially as Wall Street firms have beefed up compliance departments and measures. (Read More: Privacy Breach on Bloomberg Terminals) Beyond Wall Street firms, customers of the more than 300,000 leased Bloomberg terminals across the globe include clients as prominent as the Federal Reserve and the Vatican. As Bloomberg executives acknowledged the privacy breach as a "mistake" and tried to downplay the controversy, it was still not clear how widespread the practice of peeking into customer terminals was among Bloomberg reporters. Bloomberg has said it has discontinued allowing reporters to access subscriber information. "I think this caught (Bloomberg LP) blind-sided because there has been this kind of access for 20 years or so," said one former Bloomberg LP executive, who wished to remain anonymous. "I think they just forgot reporters had this kind of access, until now. Or maybe they are Machiavellian enough that they said let's keep it on until somebody discovers it." The origins of this access may have started first when Bloomberg, as a demanding CEO, mandated that every employee in the company, from sales persons to journalists, call a client once a quarter and ask them if they were having any issues, or needed any help. "It gave employees a feeling that they had something to do with the clients," the former executive said. "That was around the time this kind of access was put in place." Some clients, however, such as European central banks, stipulated that none of their information be shared. And a decade ago, Swiss banks raised questions about whether certain shared data violated Swiss bank secrecy laws. Since being elected mayor in 2001, Bloomberg has removed himself from the daily operations of his company. As of Saturday night, he had not commented on the breach. The current CEO, Daniel Doctoroff, once a managing partner at private equity firm Oak Hill Capital Partners, told employees in a memo Friday "client trust is our highest priority." (Read More: Fed, Treasury Examining Bloomberg Use of Data) At its core, the controversy underscores the paradox of the 32-year-old Bloomberg LP, a privately-held company that is vigilant in not disclosing information about its own finances and operations while generating $8 billion a year in revenue providing and collecting massive amounts of data. The terminal, with its countless functions, may just serve as a window into Wall Street's second-to-second operations. While coveted by traders and other professionals as an indispensable tool, the terminal and its ubiquity in the financial sector may turn this into a much bigger headache for Bloomberg, Tabb said. Meanwhile, the controversy has Wall Street buzzing. One hedge-fund manager, who wished to remain anonymous, described the Bloomberg practice as "shocking," and he has asked his lawyers to review his agreement with Bloomberg to determine what kind of usage information Bloomberg can access from his fund's terminal. "My initial reaction was a bit of schadenfreude. Like, finally, Goldman's getting spied on. But then I realized, while it's fine to spy on Goldman, they could be spying on me," he said. A source at JPMorgan Chase, who also wished to remain anonymous, said that several Bloomberg reporters have used data about when traders at the firm log into their terminals as the basis for stories about the bank. "They were quite open about it. They'd say, 'We see your Whale trader hasn't logged in three days. Has he been fired?'" the person said. Bloomberg reporters once asked if JPMorgan was pulling back in a certain market segment based on the fact that several traders in that area had not been logging in regularly. "They were trying to figure out our strategy based on who was logging in. That was disturbing," the person said. JPMorgan complained to the reporters involved but did not raise the issue with Bloomberg executives. (Read More: Technologies That Could Change the World) Still, despite new competition from a Thomson Reuters data platform called Eikon and new offerings from Interactive Data Corp., Tabb believes the controversy will not greatly pinch Bloomberg's sale of leases, which average between $1,600 and $1,800 a month. "Wall Street is used to paying a premium for the terminal because they know they can't get what it provides anywhere else," he added. What's more, the publicity surrounding the privacy breach could drive an even bigger wedge between the journalism side of the company and terminal sales, the revenue-generating side of the house, a relationship that historically has had tension. Some on the sales side have seen the growing investment in journalism as a drag on the company's bottom line. In December, it emerged that the incentive for a much-anticipated bonus program would not be reached, according to a report on CapitalNewYork.com. Under the program, employees would have received bonuses of up to 70 percent of their average salary if the company hit $10 billion in revenues between July 2013 and June 2014. A memo went around last year, according to the report, saying that the target would not be achieved. Disclosure: Lowry was an employee of Bloomberg LP for three months following the company's 2009 acquisition of BusinessWeek. ‚Äî John Carney contributed to this article. ‚Äî Follow Tom Lowry on Twitter @lowrytom. Follow John Carney @carney.
