REUTERS/Carlos Barria Earlier this weekend, China reported trade data which showed exports fell 0.3% year-over-year in September. This compares with a 7.2% rise in August. A breakdown by region showed that exports to the U.S. climbed 4.2% in September, compared with 6.1% the previous month. While exports to the EU fell 1%, compared with a 2.1% rise in August. Exports to Japan ticked up. But exports to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) climbed just 9.8% in September, compared with 30.8% in August. Many have pointed to the data as proof that external demand is crumbling and the global economy is turning weak. But there are a few reasons that exports plunged. "The most obvious reason for such a sharp deterioration was statistical, as export growth quickened from +2.7% yoy last August to +9.8% yoy last September," writes Societe Generale's Wei Yao.† "The yuan appreciation started to pick up the pace last September and attracted a large amount of speculative capital inflows, most of which were disguised as trade flows. The yoy rates of export growth were† inflated as a result back then, but are likely to be suppressed in the next six months."Bank of America's Ting Lu points out that the mid-autumn festival took place in September this year, but in October of last year. This "means that yoy export growth could still be affected by the different timing of holiday," he wrote. "In fact, both Korea and Taiwanís export growth fell more than expected in Sep as the two economies have similar tradition in celebrating the Mid- Autumn Festival. Many emerging markets also went "into turmoil," according to Lu on concerns over the Fed tapering its monthly $85 billion asset purchase program. And again from a pure comparison base, Lu points out that external demand picked up after August 2012, as the eurozone crisis eased "significantly." That also made the comparison base much higher for September 2013. Markets can take some solace from these factors behind September's ugly export data. But external demand is mixed at best. And Yao argues that the trade data and the "less upbeat PMI data" suggest that "the window of big positive data surprises from China is closing quickly."
ReutersChinese consumer prices climbed 3.1% year-over-year (YoY) in September, beating expectations for a 2.8% rise. This compares with a 2.6% rise in August. Meanwhile, producer prices fell 1.3% in September, compared with expectations for a 1.4% fall. This compares with a 1.6% fall the previous month. Producer prices were down for the sixth straight month, but economists believe they bottomed out in July.  Trade data out earlier this weekend already disappointed markets, with exports falling 0.3% year-over-year in September, and imports rising 7.4% on the year. 
Albion Harrison NaishSydney HarborAsian markets are open, and Australia has followed†U.S. futures into negative territory. The S&amp;P/ASX 200†was off -0.62%, which closely tails U.S. S&amp;P futures, which are now down -0.77%.† Korea's Kospi opened higher, turned red, and how now settled at +0.02%. The Nikkei is closed. Chinese export data unexpectedly fell over the weekend.† And we told you how negotiations in Washington have moved backward somewhat this weekend: The mood is more grim than it was on Friday, when it looked like a bipartisan deal hatched by Maine Senator Susan Collins could make it out of the Senate. That optimism led to huge market rallies on Thursday and Friday of last week, and now it looks likely that equity markets will give some of that back, as negotiations have gone in reverse over the weekend. Stay tuned for Chinese CPI data in about an hour. U.S. data will remain spotty this week as the shutdown continues ó click here for our full preview ª†
Futures markets have just opened, and there's still no deal in D.C. S&amp;P futures are off about 15 points. This decline is about 0.8%. Here's a chart via Alex Marion: Marion2025 The sell-off comes after two big up days for markets on Thursday and Friday as optimism grew that a deal would be reached to avert the debt ceiling and reopen the government. But negotiations have been mostly fruitless over the weekend, with Democrats rejecting one plan from GOP moderate Susan Collins. For a full roundup of where things stand in D.C., see here.
They say vice is recession proof. But that appears to depend on what you're drinking.† Here, via Bloomberg Editor Michael McDonough, is a chart showing U.S. personal consumption expenditure on beer and wine from 2000. As you can see, wine saw heavy losses as the economy began to tank, and has only just caught back up with beer, which saw a minor dip before continuing its incredible boom. Which maybe means we're at another top? Anyway here's the chart:†Bloomberg
Mark Wilson / GettyFutures markets are now open. And futures have already begun tumbling in response to the lack of a deal in Washington on the government shutdown and debt ceiling. All eyes Sunday were on the Senate, where negotiations (of some sort) continued between Democratic and Republican leadership. Five Democratic senators and one Independent ó Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Angus King (I-Maine), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), and Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) ó released a statement shortly before 5 p.m. calling the discussions "productive." They said the discussions were taking place among them, Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), and other Republicans. ìWe have been involved in productive, bipartisan discussions with Senator Collins and other Republican senators, but we do not support the proposal in its current form," the six senators said. "There are negotiations, but there is no agreement.î In closing remarks on the Senate floor on Sunday, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) also said he had a "productive" conversation with Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) on Sunday. Reid said he's "optimistic about the prospects for a positive conclusion." At issue seems to be the level of spending that the government will run at next year. Republicans want to lock in sequestration-level spending for as long as possible. Democrats would like to revisit spending levels as soon as possible to undo the spending caps that were put in place as part of the 2011 debt-ceiling deal. The two sides aren't that far apart, as the GOP realizes that it has a weak hand and can't ask for much. But Democrats aren't inclined to give much, given their strong polling and desire to not give into GOP "hostage-taking." Given the politics, it's unclear what can get through both Houses. Remember, even if a deal is agreed to by the Senate, the GOP-controlled House could kill anything. The mood is more grim than it was on Friday, when it looked like a bipartisan deal hatched by Maine Senator Susan Collins could make it out of the Senate. That optimism led to huge market rallies on Thursday and Friday of last week, and now it looks likely that equity markets will give some of that back, as negotiations have gone in reverse over the weekend. Follow here for the latest.
"We still expect a last minute deal to avoid a U.S. default, but this will most likely be a temporary solution. A short-term deal to raise the debt-ceiling by 4-6 weeks could pass soon and will provide markets with some relief. However, as long as part of the U.S. government remains closed, the economy will increasingly feel the pain. A temporary agreement that also includes the continuing resolution would be a positive surprise. But even in this case, the time that such a deal would buy could be wasted without a permanent solution. Although markets remain calm for now, as indeed our latest flow analysis suggests, we are getting increasingly concerned about a tipping point where markets lose confidence. It may take such a moment for the U.S. politicians to reach an agreement, but the damage to the real economy could be notable."‚ÄîBofA Merrill Lynch strategists Ralf Preusser and Athanasios Vamvakidis
www.linkedin.comNancy Anderson, CFP.If you ask most people, they'll probably say that budgeting isn't terribly titillating ... unless, of course, we're talking about someone else's¬†finances. Let's be honest: Although you may not want to fess up to just how much of your monthly budget you blow on eating out each month, it's easy to judge the bad spending habits of others‚Äîlike the next-door neighbor who just bought a second set of pricey wheels. Yes, there's nothing like financial voyeurism, which is why we convinced three brave people, whose annual household incomes come in at around $70,000, to share the details of their monthly spending‚Äîand saving‚Äîhabits. And we do mean every detail: Each intrepid participant divided his or her budget into percentages, which were then color-coded in line with the 50/20/30 rule. The rule recommends that you allocate 50% of your budget for essentials (housing, transportation, utilities and groceries), 20% toward financial priorities (retirement contributions, savings, and debt payments), and the remaining 30% for bonus (read: fun) lifestyle expenses. We then asked Nancy Anderson, a CFP¬Æ with LearnVest Planning Services, to review each budget to see how they are mastering their money‚Äîand where there's room for a little financial improvement. I recently got a new job after being laid off earlier this year, and while I‚Äôm happy to be back at work, I had to take a pay cut in the process. My wife and I have two kids under the age of 12, so she works part-time as a teacher‚Äôs aide here in Utah. To keep our costs in check, she‚Äôs been great at reexamining our budget recently, and we‚Äôve made cuts where we can. For example, she stopped going to Pilates, and I canceled my cable TV subscription to NFL RedZone‚Äîas much as it breaks my heart! RELATED: 10 Real People Share Their Workout Costs I‚Äôm also tempted to remortgage our home, but we‚Äôre on track to pay it off right before my daughter goes to college‚Äîand I know that I‚Äôll need the extra money more then than I do now. But I do worry about costs as my kids get older: Between my 12-year-old wanting to do nothing but shop, and my 8-year-old boy going through a growth spurt like every other week, it seems like we spend all of our money on clothing. Luckily, I was able to contribute close to 50% of my paycheck to my 401(k) before we had kids, so even though I know it‚Äôs not the smartest move, I‚Äôve scaled back on my current contributions. Maybe as the kids get older, my wife can start working more, but for now, we‚Äôre making it work.LearnVest What Nancy Says:Congratulations to Dave for finding a new position in a tight job market! And they're doing a good job of still saving almost 10% of their income‚Äîeven with a pay cut. But instead of refinancing or cutting too far back on his retirement contributions, Dave should consider reducing even more of his family‚Äôs regular recurring expenses, like he did with the NFL channel. Do an energy audit. Set up a clothing swap with friends who have kids around the same age. Consider a ride share to reduce overhead. Dave has a great start for retirement, but he should be careful not to borrow from tomorrow for today. He can start by bumping his contributions to his 401(k) at least up to the match, and then increase it incrementally from there. RELATED: Top Retirement Mistakes to Avoid I'm divorced, with no kids. And I live in a two-bedroom townhouse just outside Atlanta that's on a lease-purchase plan, with a roommate who also contributes about 35% toward groceries and utilities. I work from home, which impacts my budget in a couple of ways: I have to pay for faster Internet, and my utilities are higher because I'm around all of the time. On the other hand, my car doesn't get as much wear and tear, and I don't have high fuel costs‚ÄîI fill it up maybe two times a month! I'm currently paying off back taxes from a previous business venture, and I took out a $13,500 loan through my credit union to cover them. About 20% of my net income goes toward the principal on that loan each month. It's a five-year loan, but¬†since the interest rate is high at 14.95%,¬†I plan to pay it off in the next 18 months. RELATED:¬†I Paid Off $90,000 of Debt in Just Three Years Once the loan is paid down, I'll be able to allocate close to 50% of my income toward savings by maxing out my IRA contributions each year. Currently, I‚Äôm only contributing 5% to my 401(k) because that's the amount that my employer will match, and I don't see any sense in contributing more right now. LearnVest What Nancy Says: Kudos to Kara for such a high savings rate‚Äî21%‚Äîwhile still taking a big chunk out of her monthly budget to pay down high-interest loans. She has done a good job of keeping her expenses low in order to help her save. To save even more, I'd encourage her to keep track of any home office expenses that may be tax deductible--even a small tax refund could have a big impact. That said, I'm definitely in favor of increasing her retirement allocation because the 5% total contribution rate may not be enough to fund her retirement. I'd recommend running a¬†retirement calculation to motivate her to do more now. Once the loan is paid off, I would also have Kara designate a small amount of money for a ‚Äúfun account,‚Äù so she can enjoy life while still saving and investing for the future.RELATED:¬†How Much Money Do You Really Need for Retirement? My husband and I have had some big changes recently, so we‚Äôre still adjusting to our new financial situation. In January, my husband left active duty in the Air Guard to go back to school for his bachelor's degree before returning to the Guard full-time in June. I‚Äôm in the Guard too, and I was also in school full-time and working part time, before I started my full-time job in Washington state earlier this year. Luckily, thanks to the GI Bill, most of our schooling this year was covered. We also moved this year, and we are now carrying two mortgages. But, by renting out our old house, we‚Äôre making enough money to cover the monthly mortgage payments on that home, as well as put an additional $150 toward the principal each month. And, luckily, we don‚Äôt have any other debt. RELATED: Buying a House: How Much Can You Afford? In a month, I‚Äôll be eligible to start contributing to my 401(k). My company matches 50%, so my goal is to contribute the max‚Äî75% of my paycheck‚Äîthrough the end of the year to contribute as much as possible. Since I started working full-time, I‚Äôve noticed that our eating-out expenses have shot up. Our grocery bill is also a bit higher, since we recently decided to start eating better, trading mac and cheese for chicken and vegetables. It‚Äôs obviously more expensive and more work, but it will be worth it for our health in the long run.LearnVest What Nancy Says: For someone who's just starting out in her career, Karrie really has a handle on a long-term point of view when it comes to her finances. And it‚Äôs great that she and her husband are taking advantage of a well-deserved benefit for their education: the GI Bill. As rental property owners, rather than put the extra income toward their principal,¬†I would recommend¬†setting up a rental property savings account first that would cover services, repairs and other unforeseen expenses‚Äîincluding the mortgage itself‚Äîif the home is ever unoccupied. And since time is on her side for retirement, Karrie should start her contributions at the company matching percentage, as she suggests, and then gradually increase her contributions by 1% every six months. That way, she‚Äôll hardly feel it! RELATED:¬†Your Ultimate Budget Guideline: The 50/20/30 Rule LearnVest Planning Services is a registered investment adviser and subsidiary of LearnVest, Inc. that provides financial plans for its clients. Information shown is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended as investment advice. Please consult a financial adviser for advice specific to your financial situation. The people quoted in this piece are not clients of LearnVest Planning Services.
Reuters/Eric Gaillard   †This post originally appeared in the September 2013 issue of GQ.† † Here are a few things Jerry Seinfeld and I have in common: We both wear sneakers far more often than grown men should. We both adore the New York Mets and thus subject ourselves to undue misery. And we both sit quietly for twenty minutes twice a day, attempting to calm our minds. Seinfeld, presumably, is far better at it than I am. He's been practicing Transcendental Meditation, or TM, for more than forty years. I've only recently taken it up. Transcendental Meditation, if you're not aware, is having something of a moment. Despite being 5,000 years old and in the public consciousness at least since 1968 (when the Beatles traveled to India, took up meditating, and were so mind-blown that they wrote the White Album), TM spent most of the past half century out on the hippie fringe. If people thought anything about it, it was that TM was weird and maybe kind of cultish. But a dedicated core of reasonable people have been practicing it all along, and their ranks keep swelling, so TM is now following the path of yogaóanother import from India, once marginalized as a trifle for tempeh enthusiastsóinto the mainstream, where it can safely be sampled by even self-conscious, risk-averse people like me. "You know how your phone has a charger?" Seinfeld said last year, during an appearance on†Good Morning America. "TM is like having a charger for your mind and body." Russell Brand, who says TM helped him stay sober, calls it "a shower for your brain." And gray-pompadoured film director David Lynchówhose eponymous foundation is the driving force behind the recent boom in the popularity of TM in America, converting everyone from Oprah to Rupert Murdochósays that his twice-daily meditations give him "effortless access to unlimited reserves of energy, creativity, and happiness deep within." But the name that jumped out most when I started looking at TM's fans was Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of Bridgewater, the world's largest hedge fund. Dalio is a superhero of the financial world. And what the 63-year-old has to say about TMówhich he started doing forty years ago, in collegeóis not ambiguous: "I think meditation has been the single biggest reason for whatever success I've had." This from the thirty-third-richest man in America. † The Hottest Women of the 21st Century† The 50 Best Things to Eat and Drink Right Now The Season's Best Wool Ties 9 Things Every Guy Should Have in His Pockets The GQ Hair Guide To Bald Grooming The 6 Shoes That Will Last a Lifetime
Historian Niall Ferguson has been non-stop the last few days, publishing a series of attacks against Paul Krugman and a claque of bloggers and writers who he regards as part of the Paul Krugman Mafia. All of the attacks are really boring, and I haven't read any of them, but I did see that in his latest post he creates something he calls the Blo(g)viation index which looks at the number of times someone has tweeted vs. the number of followers they have. The higher the number means more followers gained per tweet. As you can see, he wins. As you can also see, I lose. Big time. Niall Ferguson
ReutersFor years, many have complained that China manipulates its currency, the renminbi (RMB), to keep it low against the U.S.† dollar to make its goods more competitive in foreign markets. But the U.S. energy production boom is bringing a sea of change to the currency markets. In September, China officially surpassed the U.S. as the world's largest oil importer ó 6.30 million barrels a day versus America's 6.24 million. The IEA now says Chinese oil demand will grow 3.9% in 2014. The AEI's Derek Scissors raises the prospect that China's role in oil markets becomes so great that oil trades start getting priced in RMB, at the expense of the greenback. But, it would also mean China is finally forced to take its thumb off the currency scale:† Within a few years, China could not only pass the US for the lead, it could be far in front, as American shale production continues to rise.†Will oil pricing then start to move to RMB? Only when the RMB is made fully convertible ó a choice Beijing has struggled with for years. It may struggle for a good while longer, but when the decision is finally made, oil will give the RMB a strong claim to be a truly global currency. Bank of America's David Woo has explained why the USD's decoupling from oil prices has been good for the economy:†"[This]†eases the inflation-growth trade-off in the U.S., thereby making U.S. assets more attractive." Some might view this situation as a trade off ó the Middle East's large dollar reserves, in theory if not always in practice, has been a de facto source of U.S. influence and political leverage there for decades. † But assuming the U.S. shale surge lasts and its†secular decline in energy use is not a mirage, giving up U.S. dollar reserves in the Middle East may not seem like such a sacrifice.
Reuters/Brendan McDermidNYSE Managing Director and floor governor Rudy Mass is pictured during the Re/Max Holdings IPO.A friend recently asked me to speak to her company at an informal ‚ÄòLunch and Learn,‚Äô about a common financial problem many of us face, namely ‚ÄúHow Can I Save Money?‚Äù My initial thought ‚Äì and some version of this is same thought occurs many times somebody asks me to help with anything[1] ‚Äì is that I‚Äôm not the right person to lead that discussion.¬† But I‚Äôll get to that point later.¬† As Suze Orman was apparently unavailable that day, I put together my thoughts, and this is what I came up with. Beyond Rational Thought Saving money, losing weight, or kicking addiction all exist in that realm of adult behavior change which are immune to rational solutions. I can enumerate four good factual, rational, reasons to not eat cupcakes, but that rarely stops you from ordering the red velvet with icing and a cherry on top. I can list 10 techniques for cutting out non-essentials from your daily expenses but you‚Äôre still probably going to blow $30/week on the Venti Iced Pumpkin Spice Caramel Double Shot Frappuccino, aren‚Äôt you? (Incidentally, I don‚Äôt think it will work, but if you do want a list of at least 51 great ways to save money,¬† the best chapter I‚Äôve ever read on the topic is Chapter Two of Andrew Tobias‚Äô excellent The Only Investment Guide You‚Äôll Ever Need, which is entitled ‚ÄúA Penny Saved Is Two Pennies Earned.‚Äù I reviewed Tobias‚Äô book here.) Purchasing non-essentials doesn‚Äôt make any financial sense, and it certainly doesn‚Äôt help your diet when it involves things like cronuts, but we‚Äôre in the realm of deep subconscious decision-making here.¬† You can‚Äôt rationalize your way into good decisions in this realm. Trick the Mind In short, you need a Jedi. My advice for someone struggling with saving money on a monthly basis is to realize that rational thought is helpless in the face of subconscious desires, and that only by tricking our rational mind do we have a chance.¬† Consequently, I‚Äôve got three Jedi mind tricks to offer: 1. Hawthorne effect (aka, ‚ÄúObserver effect‚Äù) Scientists ‚Äì ranging from quantum physicists to weight-loss investigators ‚Äì struggle with the ‚ÄúHawthorne Effect‚Äù the idea that in the act of observing something we inevitably alter the thing we study.¬† How does this relate to saving money?¬† You can be your own frustrated scientist by studying your household budget, as I wrote in an earlier post. You could decide to buy budgeting software like Quicken, or use an online service like Mint.com, or YNAB.com or just save your money and create your own Excel Spreadsheet.¬† You‚Äôd need to record every single monthly expense, then categorize it into essential, useful, and non-essential. As you dig into where your money goes and start observing closely, you will gather data. ¬†And that data can be helpful in its own right, but does not actually constitute the Jedi mind trick I‚Äôm talking about. What I am talking about is that you will probably begin to skew the data in a positive direction by the mind trick of the Hawthorne effect.¬† The longer and more closely you begin to observe your spending patterns, the more likely you are to shift your spending patterns toward a more positive direction.¬† That skew that frustrates scientists will nudge you to better choices. Also, lest you forget, Try not. ¬†Do, or Do Not.¬† There is no try. 2. Radical Transparency and Positive Peer Pressure As sober alcoholics know, most of us need a group.¬† We need to be able to tell our story.¬† Having trouble saving money is hard enough, but it‚Äôs especially hard because it typically happens in secret.¬† Our shame and personal struggle to save money is in our heads, and we console ourselves with the fact that at least other people don‚Äôt realize we have growing credit card debt. And when we go out with our friends, we‚Äôll happily pick up the tab because, shit, I don‚Äôt want anybody to suspect I‚Äôm broke.¬† Obviously, this is part of the problem. As a result we‚Äôve got to trick our minds. Something that seems to work for saving money is radical transparency ‚Äì oversharing with others who will cheer you on, pick you up when you fall, and ideally join you in the journey. The first step on the journey would be to pick the peer group, and often including a partner or spouse would be an important first step.¬† ¬† Maybe they‚Äôll come from your regular Wednesday 6am Yoga class.¬† Maybe they can come from a subset of regulars at your favorite Magic: The Gathering game store.¬† More likely, these days, you will draw your social network of radically transparent money savers from Reddit, or Facebook, or Twitter. Or maybe they will come from the Jedi Council.¬† It doesn‚Äôt matter so much how you form the group.¬† What matters is that you feel responsible to others and you don‚Äôt try to save money alone. Each person in your group who commits to saving money further commits to transparently share their struggle, methods, successes, and failure in saving money each month.¬† When you get tired of posting that you‚Äôre broke, or watching your friends do the same, you move that tendency to radical transparency in a positive direction and get people to help you form an action plan. The reader profiles on a site like Free Money Finance are an attempt at this kind of radical transparency. Forcibly trick your mind away from keeping your spending patterns secret, and instead tap into the pride and peer accolades you will get at making the difficult money-saving choice. 3. Out of sight, out of mind I typically don‚Äôt use either of the two savings plans above, but I absolutely use this one.¬† Money you don‚Äôt see is the best way to save. After all, these are not the dollars you are looking for.¬† Move along.¬† Move along. If we don‚Äôt have money in our hand, or if in fact we never even see it in our bank, it‚Äôs much easier to forget that we ever had it in the first place.¬† Which, naturally, means we‚Äôre more likely to save rather than spend.¬† Automatic payroll deduction is by far the most important Jedi money-saving trick available. This one works, and it‚Äôs particularly awesome when saving for long-term problems like retirement or college tuition. ¬†If you‚Äôve got an employee-sponsored 401K plan or 403b plan, there is simply no better way to create saving than to have your paycheck automatically deducted. Automatic bank transfers, if you don‚Äôt have access to a 401K/403b plan, work next best.¬† Most banks and most investment programs will happily set up automatic transfers between your accounts.¬† Slipping a few hundred dollars per month out of your checking account into a savings account, or College saving 529 account, or a mutual fund account may be the only way for most of us to actually accumulate savings over time.¬† Most of us badly need this Jedi mind trick. The least financially efficient ‚Äì but still frequently used ‚Äì version of this is the IRS tax withholding/refund trick which many of us use.¬† We love it when the IRS sends us a few hundred or a few thousand dollars refund after we file our taxes.¬† Unlike automatic payroll deductions or automatic bank transfers, the tax refund trick is inefficient, as you end up giving the federal government a 0% loan until you get your refund.¬† But it also constitutes a major part of many people‚Äôs savings plan. ¬† Ideally, we would act like the Russian-accented flying bug Watto, and refuse Imperial Credits.[2] But because ‚Äòout of sight, out of mind‚Äô works so well, we end up using tax refunds as a kind of savings plan as well. When you feel artificially poorer you adjust your lifestyle and spending accordingly. Concluding thought Messing with yourself with Jedi mind tricks like a¬† science project, radically exposing your finances to others, and tricking yourself into feeling more poor than you really are ‚Äì each of these techniques are irrational.¬† Each of these operates on the subconscious in a way that doesn‚Äôt make perfect sense. But because that‚Äôs often where the problem lies in savings money, that‚Äôs where the solution will come from as well. Post-script: Incidentally, who is best qualified in your life to help you learn to save money? It‚Äôs not me.¬† My guess is that the best person to help you figure out how to save money is somebody who has suffered from living beyond their means in the past, and who has developed effective strategies for overcoming this problem.¬† I‚Äôd rather ask a formerly-chubby-now-turned-Cross-Fit-stud for weight loss advice than I would the naturally skinny person who has never struggled with extra pounds. Just like a recovering banker turned blogger has something to offer a society trying to recover from the particular affliction of banking, you need hard-won experience to understand and change certain behaviors. Having told you why you shouldn‚Äôt take my advice, I went ahead and offered it to you anyway.¬† Which is kind of irrational.¬† I hope it works.** [1]I don‚Äôt think my instinctual ‚ÄúI‚Äôm not the right person‚Äù comes from pure laziness or avoidance of helping others.¬† However, I am reminded of this great piece of advice from Jack Handey: ‚ÄúTo me, it‚Äôs always a good idea to always carry two sacks of something when you walk around. That way, if anybody says, ‚ÄòHey, can you give me a hand?‚Äô you can say, ‚ÄòSorry, got these sacks.‚Äô‚Äù [2] This version of the Imperial Credits scene is even more awesome.
Just a reminder: The fight in Washington is having real economic consequences. Economic confidence is in free fall. Over the last two days, Gallup's economic-confidence tracking poll has fallen from an already low -35 to -43. Already we've seen the largest drop since Lehman, and it's continuing apace. Real damage is being done by this fight, even if there's no debt ceiling breach. Gallup.com
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstHarvard professor Niall Ferguson, a British historian.For reasons I cannot imagine, Niall Ferguson has achieved some standing as an intellectual with interesting things to say about the economy. Whenever I have read one of his pieces I almost always find it so confused that it would take a blog post at least as long as the original to set it straight. This is why I generally ignore Ferguson, except when prodded by friends and readers. For this reason I was struck to see that my occasional Niall Ferguson corrections got me on the list of Paul Krugman‚Äôs¬†‚Äúlike-minded bloggers who play a sinister game of tag with him, endorsing his attacks and adding vitriol of their own. I would like to name and shame in this context Dean Baker, Josh Barro, Brad DeLong, Matthew O'Brien, Noah Smith, Matthew Yglesias and Justin Wolfers.‚Äù This was in the concluding segment of a¬†three part tirade¬†from Ferguson directed at Krugman. Krugman is of course highly visible, and has been especially effective in calling attention to some of Ferguson‚Äôs more absurd claims. I have great respect for Paul Krugman and consider him a friend, but Ferguson‚Äôs list of ‚Äúlike-minded‚Äù bloggers seems more than a bit bizarre. There is certainly overlap in the views of this group of bloggers, but not all that much. For example, I believe that Josh Barro considers himself a libertarian. The only attribute that we really have in common is that we took offense at some of the ridiculous pronouncements from Ferguson and used our blogs to correct them. But it is hardly worth wasting time and killing electrons in a tit for tat with Ferguson. What matters is the underlying issues of economic policy. These affect the lives of billions of people. The absurdities pushed by Ferguson and like-minded people in positions of power, in direct defiance of massive evidence to the contrary, have ruined millions of lives and cost the world more than¬†$10 trillion in lost outputsince the crisis began. First, contrary to what Ferguson claims, the downturn is not primarily a ‚Äúfinancial crisis.‚Äù The story of the downturn is a simple story of a collapsed housing bubble. The $8 trillion housing bubble was driving demand in the U.S. economy in the last decade until it collapsed in 2007. When the bubble burst we lost more than 4 percentage points of GDP worth of demand due to a plunge in residential construction. We lost roughly the same amount of demand due to a falloff in consumption associated with the disappearance of $8 trillion in housing wealth. (FWIW, none of this was a surprise to folks who follow the economy with their eyes open. I¬†warned¬†of this disaster beginning in 2002, see also¬†here¬†and¬†here.) The collapse of the bubble created a hole in annual demand equal to 8 percent of GDP, which would be $1.3 trillion in today‚Äôs economy. The central problem facing the U.S., the euro zone, and the U.K. was finding ways to fill this hole. Government stimulus is the most obvious answer. This is where the Ferguson types first began to obstruct efforts to boost the economy. They warned that stimulus would not be an effective way to boost growth and create jobs. We also heard dire tale of exploding interest rates and runaway inflation. In fact, the stimulus in the United States went pretty much according to the textbook. It was far too small and too short to get the economy back to full employment (again, this was predictable at the time, see¬†here¬†and¬†here), but it did¬†create around 2-3 million jobs. The problem was that that the economy needed 10-12 million jobs. This is all about as simple as it gets. At least in the U.S. case there is very little room for any financial crisis type explanations. Investment¬†as a share of GDP¬†is almost at its pre-crisis level. This is quite impressive given the huge amounts of excess capacity that persist in many sectors. Is there some story where we would expect to see much more investment if our financial system had not gone through a crisis? The same holds with consumption. Contrary to conventional wisdom, consumption is quite high relative to disposable income. People are spending a smaller share of their income than at the peak of the bubble, but that should not be surprising since they lost $8 trillion in housing wealth. It is not the financial system or pessimism about the economy that is holding back consumption, it is loss of wealth. If we can‚Äôt reasonably expect much more out of investment or consumption than what we are now seeing, then that just leaves the government and net exports. This is not really a debatable point; it is a matter of accounting identities. That means we have to rely on the government sector to boost the economy. (I am a big proponent of a lower-valued dollar to boost net exports, but this is more of a longer term strategy since our trading partners will take time to adjust.) In the years since the original stimulus the Ferguson types have repeatedly raised absurd fears about the U.S. and other countries¬†hitting debt limits¬†and risking soaring interest rates and hyper-inflation. The result of people pushing this line is that efforts to boost the economy have been stunted. This is why the United States remains¬†close to 9 million jobs¬†below its trend path. Peripheral countries in the euro zone, such as Spain and Greece, have been even harder hit with unemployment rates hovering near 25 percent. In addition to all the people who are unemployed or underemployed, the weakness of the labor market has made it impossible for most workers to be able to achieve real wage gains. As a result the benefits of the growth we have seen in the United States and other wealthy countries have gone overwhelmingly to the richest 1 percent of the population. This story is not only devastating for the current generation of workers; it is also having a devastating impact on their children. There are millions of children¬†having impaired childhoods¬†because their unemployed parent(s) cannot properly care for them. (Bizarrely, Ferguson and his ilk are obsessed with deficit projections for 20 and 30 years out, which are¬†entirely due to our broken health care system, as the worst threat facing our children.) The horrible plight facing so many people in the United States and Europe is especially infuriating because it is so preventable. We know how to get people back to work ‚Äì Keynes taught us the answer almost 80 years ago. We just need to spend money. Keynes was shown right in the Great Depression and all the evidence that we have seen to date in the current downturn show that these lessons still hold. (Btw, we can also go the route of reducing work hours, while making up for most of the shortfall in wages. Reductions in work hours is the secret to Germany‚Äôs 5.4 percent unemployment.) Krugman and my fellow like-minded bloggers can speak for themselves, but I am not going apologize if I am occasionally rude to an ill-informed overpaid Harvard professor making absurd pronouncements on economics that have the effect of obstructing policy aimed at ending unnecessary suffering.
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueOne in every 998 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in the third quarter, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure filings were down 27% from a year ago, but up 2% from the second quarter. National foreclosure activity fell to the lowest level since Q2 2007, but pockets of America continued to struggle with foreclosures. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rate. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate i.e. 1 in every X homes received a foreclosure filing.
DeGolyer Library, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TexasAfter last week's discussion of the Affordable Care Act, it would be easy to drift off into all of the negative consequences of the current problems in Washington DC. There's just so much negative energy every time you turn on the TV that it simply drains you. I am well aware of what's happening and why, and yet I still find myself weary simply from the process of trying to follow what's happening. If I feel that way, it's no wonder the polls show that the general public's attitude is "a plague on all your houses." Of course, the snafus always seem to get resolved, but you just wonder how worthwhile all the drama is. In this week's letter, though, we are going to talk about a different type of energy and a story that I find enormously positive. Three items have come across my screen in the past month that, taken together, truly do signal a major turning point in how energy is discovered, transported, and transformed. And while we'll start with a story that most of us are somewhat aware of, there is an even larger transformation happening that I think argues against the negative research that has come out in the last few years about the reduced potential for growth in the world economy. Sometimes They Ring a Bell This week we learned that China has become the #1 oil importer in the world, surpassing the United States. A few weeks ago the Energy Information Agency (EIA) reported that the US is now the largest producer of oil in the world, surpassing Russia. And the port of Houston is now the biggest port in the United States, surpassing New York (think chemicals and energy-related materials). Those of us who pay attention to such things have known these events were going to happen for a long time, but even so, this is a big deal. Let's glance at a few charts to see if we can get a feel for the magnitude of the changes. First let's look at total world energy consumption (charts from†http://www.eia.gov/forecasts/ieo/world.cfm). Notice that the vast bulk of the growth is in the developing nations. More than 85% of the projected increase in global energy demand from 2010 to 2040 occurs among the nations outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), driven by strong economic growth and expanding populations. In contrast, OECD member countries are, for the most part, already more mature energy consumers, with slower anticipated economic growth and little or no anticipated population growth. Further, the developed nations are becoming much more energy-efficient, as we will see. Some people see this huge demand for energy as a problem. The large oil fields of the world are clearly "peaking out," and the concern, sometimes quite shrill, is that we will run short of energy in a few years.  The biggest changes, of course, are happening in China and India. Since 1990, energy consumption in both countries as a share of total world energy use has increased significantly; together, they accounted for about 10% of total world energy consumption in 1990 and nearly 24% in 2010. From 2010 to 2040, their combined energy use more than doubles, and they account for 34% of projected total world energy consumption in 2040. I am not sure that China will continue to grow along the same trajectory that it has, but I also feel that it's likely India will grow even faster than projected, so the endpoint may be the same.  And while production from the old oil fields of the world is in fact beginning to slow, we are finding new oil and natural gas at an even more rapid pace than before. For instance, in my backyard, Texas crude oil production, at 2,525 thousand barrels per day (MBPD), was 31% higher year-over-year as of May. North Dakota crude oil production, at 810 MBPD, was 27% higher year-over-year. These two states are driving total US growth in oil production and have helped offset declining production in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico. This growth is simply astounding when we look back over similar periods in history. Understand, the oil fields we are talking about have been in production for over 60 years. These are not new discoveries in the strictest sense, but a manifestation of the transformation that is occurring in energy-production technology. I've written several times about the amazing new production in the Bakken in North Dakota. That is being dwarfed by the potential of other fields.†RBC†offers the following notes (emphasis mine): Eagleford Oil Volumes Nearing the Bakken The Texas Railroad Commission released preliminary 2013 March and revised February Eagleford Shale oil production rates of 529.9 Mbbl/d and 511.4 Mbbl/d, respectively, representing a 77% increase from March 2012 production. February data was revised up from its prior report of 471.2 Mbbl/d. While the trend is correct, we believe actual production in the Eagleford is higher than what is being reported. Well-by-well production data obtained from our proprietary database has current oil production from February nearing 760 Mbbl/d,†up 94% from year-over-year levels.Our preliminary March data is not fully updated, but†recent month-over-month production has increased on average 5% a month. The growth of the Eagleford has been impressive and we think it will likely pass aggregate Bakken oil production in the near term. The most recent statistics from the North Dakota Oil and Gas commission have North Dakota production at ~782 Mbbl/d in March, up 35% from March 2012 levels but lagging the growth of the Eagleford on a relative basis. I've noted in previous letters that there may be as many as four distinct oil- and gas-producing zones layered on top of each other in North Dakota. So the Bakken could be four times as big as we think today. It now looks like similarly explosive growth is happening in the Permian Basin in Texas. In a large rather "new" field called the Spraberry/Wolfcamp, the potential for finding oil is simply astounding. In fact, Pioneer Natural Resources is suggesting that it is the second biggest oilfield in the world (see table below).  While we are finding more oil in the US, we are actually using less. US motor-vehicle gasoline consumption peaked at 142 billion gallons in 2007. In each year since, American drivers have used less gasoline. In 2012, gas use came in at 134 billion gallons, down 6% off the high mark. This trend results from a combination of two factors: new vehicles get better gas mileage, and we seem to be driving less.  This is not just a US story. Below is a map of potential shale petroleum fields in a number of countries around the world. The countries in gray were not surveyed, although many of them are known to have massive energy resources. Almost none of the Middle East or the "-stans" or Russia or Africa were included in the survey.  The amount of oil and gas recoverable given new technology is staggering. Why Was Peak Oil Wrong? Let's quickly review the rationale of Peak Oil (source, Wikipedia). The Hubbert peak theory says that for any given geographical area, from an individual oil-producing region to the planet as a whole, the rate of petroleum production tends to follow a bell-shaped curve. This is one of the primary theories regarding Peak Oil. The theory is named after American geophysicist†M. King Hubbert, who created a method of modeling the production curve given an assumed ultimate recovery volume. Choosing a particular production curve determines the point of maximum production, based on discovery rates, production rates, and cumulative production. Early in the curve (pre-peak), the production rate increases because of the discovery rate and the addition of infrastructure. Late in the curve (post-peak), production declines because of resource depletion. The Hubbert peak theory is based on the observation that the amount of oil under the ground in any region is finite; therefore the rate of discovery, which initially increases quickly, must reach a maximum and decline. In the US, oil extraction followed a Hubbert-like curve, with the peak in 1971 ñ until 2008, that is, when production began to increase sharply again. We were told back in the early part of the last decade there were no more really large fields to be found. Just for fun, let's look at a chart from 2004 that projected world oil production in 2010. Notice how Texas production begins to seriously erode, as does that of the rest of the US.  Data like this was enough to convince investors to spend multiple billions of dollars building LNG terminals to bring natural gas†into†the United States. Now those same terminals are being repurposed to ship natural gas to the rest of the world. If you can pull it out of the ground for $3 and sell it for $16 ñ well, even I can do that arbitrage. New fields? No, not really. We have known the oil and gas was there for decades; we just couldn't get it up at a reasonable price. Now human ingenuity and new technology have made increased production possible. And while the United States may be the source of that technology, as the map on the previous page indicates, there are massive potential unconventional oil fields all over the world. Yes, these developments have significant geopolitical implications. And if the US generates a positive trade balance due to importing less oil and shipping more natural gas and refined oil products to the rest of the world, the US dollar could become remarkably strong and force all kinds of adjustments in global trade-settlement currencies. As I noted a few weeks ago, the Chinese renminbi could become a reserve trade currency not because the dollar becomes weak but because the dollar is so strong and additional trade currencies are needed. The peak oil enthusiasts had their facts absolutely right. But they missed a couple of important pieces of the puzzle: human ingenuity and drive coupled with the accelerating nature of transformational technology. If we were stuck with 1990s oil-production technology, then we would indeed see oil production peaking. Thankfully, we are not. A thousand incremental changes in technology, and oil that was uneconomic to extract now appears to be abundantly available. Ray Kurzweil told me a long time ago that when he was designing his cutting-edge technology products, he always had to assume that new chips and other components would be available in the future; and if he wanted to stay ahead, he had to design products to take advantage of the new chips. He was designing and creating products for which all the parts did not yet exist, but he simply had to assume they would be available in a few years. In my simple analogy, if you go duck hunting, you don't shoot where the duck is, you shoot where it is going to be. The technology of drilling is changing so rapidly that we can no longer assume linear growth in production. Thinking about the future now requires us to factor in transformational technological changes. And that means today's technology will be out of date in ten years. We will be able to get more oil out of the ground and do it for less cost as we keep improving our designs. Further, there is work going on all around us on developing entirely new sources of energy. The Japanese have been working for decades to unleash natural gas trapped in methane ice buried deep in the ocean. This is potentially more gas there than in the entirety of known reserves elsewhere in the world. A group in the US has figured out how turn carbon dioxide into methanol by a commercially reasonable process. Rather than burying all the excess carbon dioxide from energy plants in the ground, we will be able to turn it into a very useful fuel. There are dozens of such stories from all around the globe. Is US Economic Growth Over? The well-respected economics professor Robert J. Gordon recently published a paper called "Is US Economic Growth Over? Faltering Innovation Confronts the Six Headwinds." He outlines how the first three industrial revolutions created significant growth in GDP and advances in human lifestyles. He argues that no such revolution is on the horizon and that US growth in this century will be less than 1%. And while I agree that growth the rest of this decade in the US may be much less robust than normal, the main reason for the drop-off is poor governance, not a lack of technological progress. Gordon quite correctly documents the amazing impact that the steam engine, electricity, the automobile, running water, and computers had on our world. "Where are the next lifestyle changes that will boost GDP?" he ponders. And I agree that these were enormous changes, and perhaps we will not see another technology with the impact of electricity, although I am not completely convinced of that. But I think Gordon is missing the point of accelerating transformational change. We now have not just one or two industries that can make a huge impact but a hundred. Each one of those industries is undergoing rapid change. The change is mostly incremental, to be sure, but the direction is clear.†And while none of the individual changes will have the impact electricity or the internal combustion engine had, the cumulative impact has the potential to be far greater. Gordon is measuring the wrong data. He is looking for the big change, the overwhelming technology, and he is simultaneously overlooking the accelerating and mutually reinforcing incremental change that is happening all around us. There were maybe a dozen scientists who understood the steam engine at the beginning of that revolution. Today, we routinely throw a thousand engineers at relatively trivial problems. Adding another few billion people into the midst of world commerce exponentially multiplies the potential for new innovation and incremental change. It is very likely that we will see a revolution in biotechnology in the next†10-15-20†years that will dramatically increase our†healthspans,†which is to say not just the age†to†which we live but the time†during†which we can enjoy those extra years in good health. Where does that improving healthspan show up in GDP statistics? That seems to me to be a major lifestyle improvement, and we will need new tools to analyze the effects. No one in 2034 will want to come back to the good old days of 2014, when today's healthcare will seem somewhat barbaric and outrageously expensive. Further, production of all types will become more efficient, requiring less labor to produce more goods and services. Many things will cost less but do more. To an economist this might look like a drop in the bucket of GDP, when it is actually a major societal good. Abundance at cheaper prices? Increased lifespans? What's not to like? Yes, this transformation has all sorts of implications for how we organize our lives. Accelerating change will mean constant adjustments. Some of us old dogs are going to have to be learning new tricks at an ever-increasing rate. I for one find that exhilarating. And yes, before we get to that Brave New World we have to get past a few things like budget deficits, unrealistic entitlement spending, massive quantitative easing, and Code Red central bank policies. I was riding around in a golf cart this week at the Barefoot Ranch with a young hedge fund manager. He runs a value fund and could wax enthusiastic about his investment ideas. But then he would ask me about my macroeconomic views, and I could see the frustration cloud his face. "I know this is bad, but I just wish we could get it all over with so I could just do my work without having to worry about what the government is going to do to me." He just wants to find great companies with solid business models that are priced attractively. And not have to worry whether the governments of the world are going to create another big crisis. He was wistful about the "good old days" where we had a normal business cycle with a recession every now and then. Code Red And speaking of a coming crisis, I along with my co-author Jonathan Tepper (who wrote†Endgame†with me) have a new book called†Code Red†coming out in about three weeks. The initial reviews have been very gratifying and complimentary. I think this is my best book yet.†We describe the current policies of central banks around the world and what their likely effects will be ñ and what we think will be the resultant major currency war. The situation is of course compounded by huge future deficits created by entitlement spending and out-of-control debt. But to our young hedge fund manager I will hereby state that these problems, large though they are, will all be resolved by the end of the decade ñ at least that is my personal opinion today. In the meantime, Jonathan and I look for opportunities in the investment world ñ and there are many of them ñ and then try to figure out how to pr otect ourselves from governments. We have created a website athttp://www.thecoderedbook.com/†where you can learn more. Wait a week or so before you buy the book online. (My publisher wants to see the book move up in the rankings, and that is helped by a lot of buying all at once. I'll let you know.) Science Saves the Future Perhaps I'm in such a positive mood today because I recently finished taping a video webinar with my good friends Patrick Cox and George Gilder and a few leading scientists, about some of the changes we can see coming in the near term. You can register to watch the video†right here.  Like my young hedge fund manager friend, I would so rather focus on the exciting transformations that are happening in our world, with all their positive implications. It is good to remind ourselves that there is life outside of government-created problems. Home for a Few Days, then NYC The last three days at the Barefoot Ranch with Kyle Bass and his guests has been an amazing time. There were nonstop economic and investment discussions in a very relaxed setting with some of the sharpest minds gathered from around the world. Kyle and his team created a venue that is one-of-a-kind, in my experience. I'm still trying to digest what I learned. I had intended to write about it this week, but there was just simply too much, and I need to think about it all first. In 10 days I fly back to New York City, where I will join my co-author, Jonathan Tepper. We'll have various media engagements to help promote the new book. Strangely, my schedule after that allows me to be home for a few weeks, and hopefully I will be able to move into my new apartment during that time. Construction seems to be going painfully slowly, but I'm sure things will speed up towards the end of next week, after the flooring is in. I sure hope so. Living in my office or hotel rooms for the last eight months has been an experience that has helped me learn strategies for minimalist living, but I am ready for a little bit more living space. I drove back from Barefoot Ranch†on Thursday†afternoon, taking two good friends ñ my business partner Jon Sundt of Altegris Investments and Mark Yusko of Morgan Creek ñ to the airport to catch their flights home. Great conversation makes the drive go faster. After dropping them off, I went by to see my mother, who lives near the airport. She is 96 years old and bedridden, but up to this point has been mentally very sharp. "She's a little confused today," said my sister-in-law, who is taking care of her. And she was confused, with her dreams and memories impinging on her reality. From time to time she would be cognizant of the difference between the real and the unreal and try to think about that. This was the first time I had seen her like that, and it was a little difficult. I recalled my father's getting to that same place for the first time, slipping back and forth between the world that was and the world that is. I left in a contemplative mode, and upon arriving at my apartment realized I had left my briefcase back at the ranch. There was nothing to do but get in the car and drive there and back again. Left alone with my thoughts, with the car on cruise control, my own mind wandered back and forth between memories, the present, and thoughts about the future, coupled with competing emotions that came out of all that has transpired over the past week. Have a great week and spend more time with friends and family. And thanks for letting me into your own life with my weekly writings. I am grateful and humbled for the time you give me in a world where time seems to go ever faster. Your thinking I may like dreams better than reality analyst, John Mauldinsubscribers@MauldinEconomics.com Copyright 2013 John Mauldin. All Rights Reserved.
DeGolyer Library, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TexasSenate leaders are still reportedly negotiating a way out of the current impasse in the hopes of reopening the government and lifting the debt ceiling before Thursday. In the meantime, here's a little bit of evidence showing how much the government shutdown has blown up in the GOP's face. Senator Bob Corker said on TV this morning that the debate at this point is really over the level of spending. Will it be current, sequestration levels, or will it be more, as the Democrats would like? And on CNN, Senator Rand Paul insisted that any deal keep in place sequestration-level spending and that he could not abide by what the Democrats would have liked to see. This is pretty amazing. The entire Obamacare defund/delay goal is shot. Republicans are just fighting to keep in place current spending levels, which they would have had automatically had they agreed to a clean continuing resolution right off the bat and never shut down the government. But the plan has gone so badly, that just the status quo is something they're left fighting for.
Apple set its latest iMac price too high and lowering the cost will help drive shipments abroad, Kuo said in a note released Saturday.¬†The cheapest iMac out now costs $1,299. In addition, Kuo believes Apple will launch its third iPad mini next year. The second-generation iPad mini hasn't launched yet, but it's expected to be announced on Oct. 22.
CoinX is a brand new Bitcoin exchange that just opened its doors, and we caught up with founder Megan Burton at the Money2020 conference in Las Vegas to learn what her company is all about. Burton came from an IT and security background and took the opportunity to throw her skills into the increasingly weird world of money. Operating out of Atlanta, Ga., CoinX is all about turning conventional money into the anonymous digital currency called Bitcoin, and Bitcoin into conventional money. It's also the first to actually take financial compliance seriously. The company makes its money by charging a small percentage of the total transaction and it's reasonable as could be. Anyone buying 500 bitcoins or fewer is only charged a 0.3% fee, and with a Bitcoin's value holding around $127 at the time of this writing, that's the only fee¬† Given that CoinX is a money market in its own right, it only makes sense that it relies on some heavy-duty strategies to operate securely. In this case, it's the NYSE's defense in-depth strategy: The CoinX platform utilizes the same hosting facility and corresponding security protocols as the New York Stock Exchange. It is registered with the U.S. Treasury Department‚Äôs Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and is fully compliant in the jurisdictions that it trades. The company is actively working with regulatory authorities across the United States to secure money transmitter licenses in all 50 states. In simpler terms, startup Bitcoin exchange CoinX operates on some of the same technologies that keep that financial powerhouse called the New York Stock Exchange in running order, and it does so while following all the rules. CoinX and the NYSE are so closely linked that the NYSE logo appears on some CoinX marketing. Who knows how long until we can pump our bitcoins from CoinX directly into the NYSE's more classical financial machinery?
flickr/Emran KassimIn his weekly "Sunday Start" note to clients, Morgan Stanley chief economist Joachim Fels says "the mood among the officials and investors mingling at the IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings in Washington, D.C. [this week] mirrored the grim weather." Fels said discussions among those in attendance were dominated by three topics: (1) the battle in D.C. over the debt ceiling; (2) what a Janet Yellen Federal Reserve means for markets and the economy; and (3) the problems ‚Äî both structural and cyclical ‚Äî that have propelled emerging-market economies into the limelight as of late. "Janet Yellen‚Äôs nomination to the Fed chair on Wednesday¬†was widely greeted with relief as it will likely ensure that the Fed‚Äôs monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for longer," says Fels. Yet Fels thinks the meetings left a strong impression on global policymakers "that the world remains a risky place," a sentiment that could trigger a new round of central bank easing in the coming weeks and months. In the note, he writes: While many EM officials sounded relieved both about the Fed‚Äôs non-tapering decision and Janet Yellen‚Äôs nomination, which was seen as contributing to a further stabilisation in their currencies and local bond markets, the main focus of most EM-related debates was on the the structural growth problems that have become much more apparent in many EM economies. Based on many conversations in the last few days, it‚Äôs clear that Manoj Pradhan‚Äôs and my diagnosis of ‚Äòbroken EM growth models‚Äô from last year has now become consensus among many investors and officials. Yet, EM policy-makers were keen to point out that they realise the need for structural reforms to transition to new growth models and expressed confidence that they have the tools available to cope with higher market volatility if and when the Fed finally starts to taper. As I see it, many policy-makers are likely to return from Washington with a strong impression that the world remains a risky place, particularly given the uncertainty about US fiscal policy in the near term and the medium- and longer-term structural challenges for many EM countries. This, together with the advent of a Yellen Fed that remains accommodative for longer, could well pave the way for another round of global monetary easing over the next few weeks and months as EM central banks will be able to roll back some of their defensive tightening measures and some DM central banks may try to nurture their recoveries and buy some more insurance against an unwarranted shortfall in inflation, aggravated by potential further dollar weakness. Fels points to a Friday IIF panel on which Fed governor Jerome Powell described the FOMC's surprise decision not to begin tapering back its quantitative easing program as "a reasonable exercise in risk management." Perhaps policymakers in other jurisdictions are coming around to similar views as well.
Tiberiu Ana/FlickrFrom California State Controller: Bottom Line: What the Numbers Mean State coffers welcomed a jump in revenues in September that offset shortfalls in the prior two months. With spending holding in line with estimates, California ended the first quarter of its fiscal year on track with estimates contained in the 2013-14 Budget Act. September saw total revenues move past expectations by $427 million, or 5.3%. Personal income taxes, which are California‚Äôs dominant revenue source, lurched past monthly projections by 9.5%. ... Retail sales tax receipts also beat budget estimates by close to double digits in September, as California consumers resumed shopping with the support of more jobs, higher home prices, and a rising stock market ... California has completed the first leg of the fiscal year with a good pace. Both revenues and state spending have stayed close within their designated lanes, almost exactly matching estimates contained in the 2013-14 Budget Act. Revenue collections could be challenged in the coming months by any negative developments related to jobs, interest rates, stock prices, and home values. Spending will be impacted by demands for education, health care, social services, and other line items. Decisions or a stalemate in Washington related to defense outlays, research funds, Medicare, and other federal programs could ripple back to California in major ways. emphasis added The 4+ year drag from the cutbacks at the state and local governments levels are mostly over.¬† However the Federal government shutdown could start negatively impacting state budgets soon.¬† Just as the states are starting to recover ... the House pulls the football away.
A common view we've heard on Fox News is that breaching the debt ceiling wouldn't mean a default, because the U.S. has more tax revenue coming in every day than it has to pay in interest payments. So as long as you prioritized interest payments first, you should be fine not defaulting on the debt. Fox News political analyst Brit Hume was making this point on Twitter, as well. There are three problems with this view. One is that it's of a legally dubious nature. It's unclear what law enables Treasury to prioritize debt payments over any other payments it needs to make (military, Social Security, etc.). Two is that it technically may be impossible. People who know how the Treasury payment system works argue that there's no way to just turn off other payments and prioritize interest payments. And three, although it's true that on the whole Treasury has more money coming into it than it does in interest payments it needs to pay out, that's not true every day. There's a lumpiness to tax revenues and interest payments, and as this chart from Goldman Sachs shows, by the middle of November, we'll have a day when interest payments exceed the government's revenue. Goldman Sachs
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst The Senate will hold a rare Sunday session as US politicians grapple with how to reopen the shuttered government and avoid a potentially calamitous failure to pay the country's debt obligations. With Republicans in the House of Representatives blaming President Barack Obama for the collapse of talks on extending US borrowing authority, the Senate's Republican and Democratic leaders scrambled to piece together a bipartisan exit strategy. The top senators showed an intensifying desire to end the two-week government shutdown and ease the threat of default with just three working days next week before the US Treasury's October 17 deadline for raising the debt ceiling. Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Obama's top wingman in Congress, said he held "extremely cordial but very preliminary" talks Saturday with top Republican Senator Mitch McConnell. "Nothing conclusive" emerged from the pair's first face-to-face discussion about the twin crises, Reid told reporters, downplaying hopes of a quick fix. McConnell suggested a bipartisan offer spearheaded by moderate Republican Senator Susan Collins as a workable template, but Reid rejected it. The measure would extend borrowing authority into 2014 and fund the government for six months, but it would also repeal a medical device tax introduced under Obama's health care law. Democratic leaders were most concerned, however, with the proposal to keep the existing automatic spending cuts, a move that would put agency spending at $70 billion below what Democrats have proposed for fiscal 2014. World Bank chief Jim Yong Kim urged policymakers to avert the crisis. "If this comes to pass, it could be a disastrous event for the developing world, and that in turn will greatly hurt the developed economies as well," Kim said at the close of the annual World Bank-International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington on Saturday. International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde compared the effects of failing to raise the debt ceiling and reopen the government to the 2008 global financial meltdown. "The standing of the US economy would, again, be at risk," Lagarde said on NBC's Sunday show "Meet the Press." "If there is that degree of disruption, that lack of certainty, that lack of trust in the US signature, it would mean massive disruption the world over. And we would be at risk of tipping, yet again, into recession," she said, according to an advance transcript of the show. With negotiations with the Republican-controlled House of Representatives in tatters, Obama called a snap meeting at the White House with the Senate's Democratic leadership to regroup. "Their conclusion was that while Democrats remain united, Republicans have yet to coalesce behind a clear negotiating position," a Senate Democratic leadership aide said after the Saturday talks. "Democrats are willing to negotiate on anything Republicans want to discuss as soon as we reopen the government and pay our bills." Obama on Saturday made clear that he wanted a long-term deal, rejecting a proposal floated by House Speaker John Boehner suggesting a six-week extension to US borrowing authority. "It wouldn't be wise, as some suggest, to just kick the debt ceiling can down the road for a couple of months, and flirt with a first-ever intentional default right in the middle of the holiday shopping season," Obama said in his weekly broadcast address. House Republicans fumed over the change of heart. "They felt they were duped," Congressman John Fleming said of the House leadership as he exited from a Republican caucus meeting. "They were led to believe that the president did want to negotiate in good faith and now they find out that that was never in the cards." House Republicans have argued for any budget deal to include concessions on funding Obama's health care reforms, while Senate Republicans are more willing to reopen government without such conditions. Some lawmakers were adamant that the House -- which does not meet again until Monday, when world markets might start seriously digesting Washington's impasse -- remains the linchpin for any agreement. "At the end of the day, whatever they do (in the Senate) still has to come through here," said Republican Representative Tom Cole. On Friday, the framework of a possible deal appeared to be forming. The government, shuttered since October 1, would be fully reopened, possibly on an interim basis. Both sides would also commit to work toward an elusive deal to tackle the deficit, rein in spending and possibly reform social programs and some aspects of the tax code. But, perhaps sensing that it now has the upper hand in the fight, the White House has rejected the idea of extending the borrowing authority by just six-weeks. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
APOn Thursday and Friday, stocks exploded as optimism surged that a deal would soon be reached. Then yesterday there was no progress. The day started with John Boehner telling the House GOP caucus that talks with The White House were broken down, and that there was a risk that Senate Republicans were working behind the House's back to craft a deal with The White House. Then, not long after that, Democrats rejected a way out put forth by Maine Senator Susan Collins, which would have locked in sequester-level spending and imposed a 2-year delay in the medical device tax that's part of Obamacare. The Democratic rejection came as a bit of a surprise to some folks, since it wouldn't require a major cave, and it would have put House Republicans in a very tight spot (it would have "jammed" them to use the DC term). Anyway, both sides are talking, but what seems clear is that polling that came out last week ó especially a WSJ/NBC poll that came out Thursday night showing the GOP hitting an all-time low in approval ó has emboldened Democrats to go for the complete victory on this. Sam Stein at Huffington Post reports: ìThe parties have different views. We passed a budget of $1.058 trillion and they passed one -- the Ryan budget -- [at] $988 [billion],î Schumer said. ìSo that is a serious issue.î Democrats' stand over sequestration is a nice surprise for some progressive members who worried leadership would cave in this area. But instead, they were emboldened after polling showed them with the upper hand in budget fights. Democrats also noted that they, too, were concerned about the severity of the cuts. At some point, the Democrats do need something the GOP can vote for, especially in The House. But the strong polling has clearly put the party in less of a mood to deal.
REUTERS/Larry DowningCrowds line the Reflecting Pool to witness the 50th anniversary ceremony of the 1963 March on Washington, with the Washington Monument in the background, August 24, 2013.From Goldman's Weekly Kickstart note, a line which drives home how much Wall Street has still tuned out what's going on in DC. Not one client meeting during the past two weeks has focused on the stalemate in Washington, DC. Every investor assumes a deal will be reached to raise the debt ceiling. Instead, portfolio managers are seeking clues for how the economy is performing given the absence of data releases from the federal government that typically serve that purpose. Fortunately, 3Q earnings season has started and during the next three weeks nearly 70% of the S&amp;P 500 will report results. While earnings are always important at the micro level, the vacuum in macro data should raise the signal value of company-level information. The view remains that this has all been noise, and that every selloff is just a market dip to be bought.
Duncan Black comments on the insane reader mail I've gotten this week: For as long as I can remember, the Republicans were the serious daddy party, and the Democrats were the dirty hippie hysterical mommy party. If you look past the crude gender stereotype, the mommy party/daddy party frame is actually a useful way to think about politics. Government needs to uplift the poor and protect the vulnerable; it also needs to be mindful of resource limitations, encourage productivity, and conduct its own operations efficiently. Two parties that put different weight on these values can have productive debates about making government better. But Republicans today are not holding up their end of the division of labor. If Republicans were once the daddy party, now they're the abusive ex-husband with a substance abuse problem party. Instead of telling hard truths, Republicans are wildly misleading voters, both about policy ("America is going to be destroyed by Obamacare") and political reality ("Democrats are feeling the heat" because Republicans shut down the government). Instead of warning about resource limitations, Republicans are manufacturing them. President Obama's deficit spending did not result in the debt crisis that conservatives warned it would, so Republicans have been actively trying to create one by making dangerous threats over the debt ceiling. Republicans have abandoned the pretense of trying to run the government like an efficient business. What kind of business periodically tells its workers they won't get paid but they should keep working, and clients that it's going to shut down operations for a while with no clarity on when they will resume? With Republicans having gone completely off the rails, Democrats have†been left trying to play the role of mommy and daddy at the same time. It's Democrats who are mindful of the financial markets and striving to avoid roiling them with the prospect of payment default. It's Democrats who are finding ways to control health care costs. It's President Obama who is trying to get Republicans to cut a deal to slow the growth of old-age entitlement spending. This makes me wonder: Why aren't more business interests breaking with Republicans? Groups like the Chamber of Commerce are expressing irritation with Republicans over the government shutdown and debt ceiling brinksmanship, but they're not taking the obvious next step and aligning with Democrats. Republicans' role as the "daddy party" and the party of business have always been closely linked: Daddy's restraint is what stops the government from sinking the economy when it tries to provide nice things to the public. Now that daddy is drunk and beating the children, it's time for business to throw its support behind mommy.
