REUTERS/David GrayLarge whale-shaped kites and others fly above a large crowd gathered for the Festival of the Winds on Sydney's Bondi Beach September 8, 2013.SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian stock markets were treading water on Wednesday after upbeat U.S. data fanned speculation the Federal Reserve could start slowing its asset buying as early as next month -- depressing bond prices and lifting the dollar. The air of caution was clear in MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; which ticked down 0.2 percent. Australia's main index dipped 0.3 percent &lt;.AXJO&gt; while the Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; eased 0.2 percent. Mirroring the modest moves across the region, shares in Shanghai &lt;.SSEC&gt; lost 0.2 percent. Wall Street had turned lower on Tuesday after the Institute for Supply Management's October read on the U.S. services sector came in at a surprisingly strong 55.4. It also included a notable jump in the employment outlook which could lessen the chance of a very weak payrolls number on Friday. &lt;TOP/CEN&gt; While evidence of economic resilience should be welcome, it also adds to the case for the Fed to wind back its bond buying program relatively soon. Most analysts still favor March as the window for a move, but a shift in December is a growing risk. That pressured Treasury prices and lifted yields on 10-year notes 5 basis points to 2.66 percent, while markedly widening the gap between long and short-term rates. Equity investors reacted with caution, leaving the Dow Jones industrial average &lt;.DJI&gt; down 0.13 percent on Tuesday, while the S&amp;P 500 Index &lt;.SPX&gt; eased 0.28 percent. The contrast with the euro zone was stark as a string of disappointing economic numbers piled pressure on the European Central Bank (ECB) to take action, if not at its policy meeting on Thursday, then certainly by December. "We expect the ECB to soon make clear its intentions regarding arresting deflation concerns," analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a note to clients. "We anticipate a looser monetary stance to be adopted at the December meeting, but the ECB's intentions to be aired ahead of it." EURO UNDER THE WEATHER The underperformance of the euro zone was highlighted by an upbeat survey of UK services which led to speculation the Bank of England would lift its growth forecasts and boosted the pound to a one-month peak on the euro. The common currency has now shed 2 percent on the pound since data last week showed a shock slowdown in inflation across the region. The euro in turn faded to $1.3469, from a $1.3522 peak on Tuesday, while the U.S. dollar pushed up to 98.50 yen, from Tuesday's low of 98.16. The dollar index last traded at 80.707&lt;.DXY&gt;, back within striking distance of a near two-month peak of 80.930 set on Monday. New Zealand added to the run of better global economic news as employment jumped well past forecasts in the three months to September, while the jobless rate dropped to 6.2 percent. The robust report prompted investors to bring forward expectations for when interest rates might rise in New Zealand to early next year. It is already likely to be the first of any developed nation to tighten policy this cycle. The country's dollar climbed a quarter of a U.S. cent on the news to $0.8361. But the chatter about Fed tapering also stirred fears that some emerging markets could see another bout of capital flight. It was notable that share markets in Latin America suffered more than most on Tuesday, with Brazil &lt;.BVSP&gt; and Mexico &lt;.MXX&gt; losing over 1 percent each. In commodity markets, gold was stuck at $1,310.31, having slipped for seven straight sessions, while copper rose 0.2 percent. GOL/ Growing U.S. supplies continued to pressure oil prices, with U.S. crude ending Tuesday at a five month low &lt;O/R&gt;. Early Wednesday, U.S. crude futures had eked out a bounce of 42 cents to $93.79 per barrel. Brent crude regained 35 cents to $105.68 a barrel. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Eric Meijer)
Cash is constantly flowing in and out of companies. Profitable companies who are able to collect from their customers will watch cash pile up on their balance sheet unless they use it. Public companies have five basic uses for the cash that they bring in: 1) share buybacks; 2) dividends; 3) acquisitions; 4) research and development; and 5) capital expenditures, which include spending on both growth and maintenance. "S&amp;P 500 companies are directing 40% of their cash usage back to shareholders compared to less than 30% in the late 1990s," noted Goldman Sachs' Stuart Kaiser in a new note to clients. "More than half of that amount (22%) has been devoted to buybacks while 18% has been used to pay dividends. Since 2010, dividend payments have grown nearly 50% while buybacks are up 40% on a trailing four quarter basis." Here's Goldman's outlook for cash outflows in 2014: We forecast that both dividends and buybacks will grow by a further 10% in 2014. Corporate buyback activity is likely to remain robust but our previous analysis shows that this strategy is most effective when companies repurchase a large share (&gt;5%) of market cap....Many investors are underwhelmed with pace of growth in capital spending, R&amp;D, and M&amp;A despite each being 20% - 40% higher since 2010. We expect Capex and R&amp;D growth to be muted in 2014 at 4% and 6% respectively but estimate cash M&amp;A will rise by 13% next year. So far in 2013 M&amp;A spending has been much weaker than anticipated which could argue for pent-up demand providing more growth next year or indicate that current conditions (low revenue growth, high policy uncertainty) are not conducive to those forms of spending. Regardless we expect cash usage will be skewed towards shareholder returns in 2014. Here's a chart breaking down cash use since 1998. Goldman Sachs
Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need To Act As Behavioral Coaches To Clients (Vanguard) At a time when investors are still anxious about the Fed tapering its stimulative $85 billion monthly asset purchase program, Vanguard recommends a few key things advisors should consider. In this uncertain environment Chuck Thomas, at Vanguard thinks advisors should act as "kind of a behavioral coach for investors," and prevent investors from being distracted by all the noise. "There‚Äôs a lot going on in the world, and investors can be distracted sometimes by the headlines. So we really encourage advisors to get ahead of that and focus the conversation on things that they and their clients can really control. And that‚Äôs broad diversification, owning a good mix of markets across the world, having a good mix of both equities and fixed income, and focusing on the long-term."  The Not-So-Great Rotation Out Of Stocks (Morgan Stanley)  Pension funds arguably helped give rise to the "equity cult." Pension funds took a hit during the crisis but have been recovering during this bull market. As many approach fully-funded status, Morgan Stanley thinks "the de-risking flow should drive an asset allocation shift from equities to long duration bonds." Morgan Stanley It's Important To Teach Financial Literacy To College Students (The Wall Street Journal) College students understand the importance of financial literacy but don't have a good understanding of it,¬† John Caserta of Connecticut-based Caserta &amp; Company writes in a new Wall Street Journal column.¬† "We all see older clients whose financial "plans" aren't much more than an accumulation of products and vehicles. They've compartmentalized their finances so much that they can't really see how it all works together. It's important to help young people start to develop that sense of the big picture; to give them financial know-how now so they aren't scrambling to make sense of it all at retirement." You're Not Listening To Robert Shiller If His CAPE Ratio Has You Scared Of Stocks (Business Insider)  If Robert Shiller's cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio is over the long term average of 16x, the stock market is argued to be expensive. But Shiller thinks investors shouldn't try and time crashes based on the CAPE ratio, that it is in fact more helpful in forecasting longer term results.¬† "I think the bottom line that we were giving ‚Äì and maybe we didn‚Äôt stress or emphasize it enough ‚Äì was that it‚Äôs continual," Shiller told Business Insider. "It‚Äôs not a timing mechanism, it doesn‚Äôt tell you ‚Äì and I had the same mistake in my mind, to some extent ‚Äî wait until it goes all the way down to a P/E of 7, or something." "But actually, the lesson there is that if you combine that with a good market diversification algorithm, the important thing is that you never get completely in or completely out of stocks. The lower CAPE is, as it gradually gets lower, you gradually move more and more in. So taking that lesson now, CAPE is high, but it‚Äôs not super high. I think it looks like stocks should be a substantial part of a portfolio." Three Game Changing Trends That Are Coming To The Financial Services Industry (Advisor Perspectives) There are three big changes coming to the financial services industry, writes Steve Lockshin,¬†founder and chairman of Convergent Wealth Advisors in Advisor Perspectives. 1. "Separation of value services from commodity services." Commodity services in the financial industry include guidance on things like asset allocation, while value services are more uncommon. "The best advisors ‚Äì the top decile ‚Äì deliver an enormous amount of value when they provide un-conflicted and customized guidance and information about complex financial planning, taxes and estate-planning situations."2. "A focus on un-conflicted advice from capable fiduciaries." The industry is already seeing a change from the brokerage model to the independent registered investment advisors (RIAs). 3. "Partner firms that empower consumers will emerge."
Beijing‚Äôs¬†Cafe Bar 2nd Place¬†has become the first bar in¬†China¬†to accept payment in Bitcoin. At the beginning of the year, when BitInstant‚Äôs Charlie Shrem¬†adapted his¬†New¬†York¬†City bar¬†Evr¬†to accept the stateless crypto currency, it seemed like at best a proof of concept, at worst a stunt. Now, at the close of the year, you can get blasted halfway across the world without tipping your hat to fiat money and the restrictions it enforces on its users. Cafe Bar 2nd Place is in the funky Beijing neighborhood of Wudaokou, adjacent to a number of universities, whose students, along with a substantial population of expatriates, patronize the establishment, which opened in 2011. Since April, a number of Bitcoin enthusiasts have been holding meetups at the bar, with the approval of its Japanese owner. One of them, an American named Jake Smith, made the case for Bitcoin as a payment option and Rin eventually decided to go for it. Smith is something of a Sino-Johnny Appleseed, having convinced several other Beijing businesses to adapt to the currency. He got so into it that he now works for a Bitcoin-powered private equity fund,¬†BitFund.pe. ‚ÄúI did it to attract new customers and also for my own self study,‚Äù Rin told¬†CoinDesk. Interestingly,¬†the biggest Bitcoin exchange in the world¬†is no longer Mt. Gox in Japan, but China-based BTC China, which has been pushing the price of the currency up. China is China and as financially sophisticated as the nation is, 2nd Place treats the use of Bitcoin in a typically novel fashion. Not knowing Bitcoin from the inside out, Rin keeps a running tab of the value of the Bitcoins paid to him and exchanges the Bitcoins with Smith for Chinese currency. Whatever works. Hat tip:¬†Coindesk
Wealthfront Last month, Wealthfront's †Adam Nash gave a speech at Twitter headquarters entitled†"Personal Finance for Engineers." Personal finance can be a "noisy" field, with a lot of investing aphorisms thrown around as fact. And because engineers understand and prefer math, as Nash describes them, they tend to think they are being rational with their money ... even when they are not. Given the imminent IPO, and the windfall that will accrue to several employees, this is an important lesson. Nash's presentation is a solid intro and useful refresher into the world of personal finance, especially for the more quantitatively-inclined. We pulled his slides, courtesy of Wealthfront.
Hannes Magerstaedt/Getty ImagesAbercrombie &amp; Fitch Co has reported another double-digit drop in quarterly comparable sales as an increasing number of young shoppers abandon the teen apparel retailer. Sales fell 12% to $1.03 billion in the third quarter ending November 2, the company announced Tuesday evening ahead of its Wednesday meeting with analysts.¬†Same-store sales fell 14% in the same period, an increase from the 10% drop in the second quarter.  The company also revealed that it will close all of its stand-alone Gilly Hicks lingerie stores by the end of the first quarter of 2014. Going forward, the company will sell the lingerie brand in its Hollister stores. "Our results for the third quarter reflect continued top-line challenges, with overall spending among younger consumers remaining weak," Abercrombie Chief Executive Mike Jeffries said in a statement. "Until we have seen a clear trend improvement, we are continuing to take a cautious approach into the fourth quarter and are working to end the year with appropriate levels of fall carryover inventory."  Abercrombie has revised its adjusted earnings for the full year to a lower-than-expected $1.40 to $1.50 per share from an earlier forecast of $3.15 to $3.25 per share.¬†Analysts were expecting a profit of $1.96 per share, according to the Wall Street Journal. The company's shares plunged by as much as 6% in after-hours trading.
Wikimedia CommonsBeanstalksIn 2013, growth trumps all other considerations. For the average 2013 venture backed tech IPO, half of the startup's enterprise value is explained by its growth rate, while none of it is explained by profitability. The market has spoken and startups have responded. Of the 25 IPOs I surveyed, both pending and completed, only 20% are profitable. On average, these startups operate at about -20% net income margins but are growing at 162% annually. The startup financing market is (mostly) a trickle down market. The public markets benchmark the value of different companies, growth trajectories and financial characteristics daily. These data are used to price comparable companies in the private markets particularly by growth investors but increasingly by earlier investors. SaaS startups prove the point. Their older brothers have become darlings in the public markets, and as a result, early stage SaaS valuations have appreciated quite rapidly in the venture and growth stage markets. The opposite is true for gaming startups, caused by Zynga's tumultuous ride on the Nasdaq. Let's go to the data to prove the point. Below is a chart with 21 different 2013 IPOs. The y-axis shows 2012 revenue growth and the x-axis shows the enterprise value of the business (log10). Each company is represented by a dot and the ticker is labeled. It's easy to draw a straight line up and to the right. The correlation between these two is 0.51, quite strong. This means growth is the single most important correlating factor when predicting enterprise value. TOMASZ TUNGUZ Next, is the same chart for net income and enterprise value. It's a mess compared to the one above. There is no relationship between profitability and the startup's enterprise value. The correlation between net income and enterprise value is zero. Notice Control4 and Violin memory have the same market cap, but one is break-even and the other lost $120M on revenues of $90M. That means the company's gross burn is $210M annually! TOMAZ TUNGUZ I suspect tech IPOs are one of the very few high growth investments afforded to investors. Because there aren't many alternatives for these investment dollars that can generate meaningful returns, startups who are going public command pricing premiums even without the discipline of profitable growth. Today, that trend is trickling down to the early stage venture market and reinforced what has always been true in early stage startup investing: growth is king. This post originally appeared on TomTunguz.com.

We've been hearing a lot about a "comeback" or even a¬†"renaissance"¬†in U.S. manufacturing this year.¬† Is it real? Well, it depends on what you mean. So far, there hasn't been much of a revival in manufacturing jobs. Take a look at the chart of U.S. manufacturing payrolls ‚Äî any gains will pale in comparison to where we once were: FRED But in recent notes,¬†Wells Fargo's John Silvia and Mackenzie Miller and Allianz' Kelly Smith¬†show that manufacturing is once again profitable ‚Äî and while firms may not be ramping up hiring, they are helping to drive U.S. growth and stocks higher. "Manufacturing profits adjusted for inventory valuation improved nearly 4% YOY to $1.333 billion in Q2 2013," said Miller and Silvia. At 8.5 cents on the dollar, profit margins are back to pre-recession levels: Wells Fargo/US Department of Commerce In fact, there's probably a correlation between higher profits and slower hiring.  "The economic expansion of 2009-2013 has been characterized by modest gains in¬† employment and stronger gains in productivity such that increases in unit labor costs have been modest, thereby leading to improved margins," they wrote. Balance sheets have also improved, they note. Current assets to current liabilities, which which helps measure a firm's ability to withstand short-term financial distress if earnings decline, has stabilized at 1.37.¬† Equity to debt ratios of 0.79 are back to pre-recession levels.¬†And in the last few years manufacturers¬†have increased their ratio of long-term debt, meaning they're better insulated from near-term changes in interest rates. The Wells team's conclusion is simply that manufacturing firms are on more a solid financial footing, setting them up for further growth. Allianz's Smith says recent strong manufacturing data has helped stocks rally: "...it was a strong October ISM manufacturing report that moved stocks higher last Friday. At 56.4, it beat consensus expectations and edged above the previous month‚Äôs reading. Specifically, new orders posted their third consecutive reading above 60 while production posted its fourth straight reading over 60." This "mini-resurgence" in manufacturing has been driven by lower energy prices, a stronger dollar and subdued labor costs, she writes. And the gains could even translate into more hiring: Smith notes the¬†Boston Consulting Group has suggested increased exports helped in part from manufacturing could yield 5 million jobs by 2020. She concludes: "Maybe manufacturing expansion can provide the growth handoff needed to sustain the economy after the Fed ends its QE stimulus program. If nothing else, then manufacturing may serve as a boon for the stock market and offset some of the headwinds facing the economy right now." U.S. manufacturing is unlikely to be what it once was, but it seems like there's some room to run.
Car And Driver Magazine via YouTubeTesla's stock is down 12.5% after hours, to $154.73, after the company reported Q3 adjusted earnings of $0.12 per share. Analysts polled by Bloomberg were looking for the company to report adjusted earnings of $0.09 per share. On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, Tesla reported a loss of $0.32 per share. This was worse than expectations for a loss of $0.25 per share. The company also reported Q3 non-GAAP revenue of $603 million, and GAAP revenue of $431 million. Analysts were looking for revenue of $554.33 million. But the key thing to watch with Tesla is vehicle sales. Tesla delivered 5,500 Model S vehicles and is now producing 550 cars per week. Over 1,000 cars were delivered to European customers. This was ahead of their own expectations for 5,000 Model S deliveries, but lower than what some Wall Street analysts were expecting. The company delivered 5,150 Model S vehicles in the second quarter. Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently admitted that he thinks the stock is overvalued. But by setting these benchmarks and beating them, the company is building credibility. Tesla also began taking reservations for the Model S in China and expects to begin making deliveries in Q1 2014. Gross margin increased to 22% on a non-GAAP basis, excluding ZEV credits and 24% on a GAAP basis. In the fourth quarter, Tesla expects to deliver slightly under 6,000 Model S vehicles. They raised their 2013 worldwide deliveries to 21,500 vehicles. The shareholder letter also mentioned that "Tesla is pioneering a new approach to vehicle servicing that we believe will revolutionize the customer experience." No details were however revealed. Tesla recently opened its Supercharger Corridor that extends along the West Coast. These chargers work much faster than the typical EV charger and Tesla has been careful about their placement too. Both factors had previously been obstacles to consumers hesitant to make the switch. "Customers cite the ability to supercharge as one of the top 5 reasons they choose a Tesla," Musk and CFO Deepak Ahuja pointed out in the shareholder letter. Tesla is now expanding its Supercharging network to Scandinavia and Europe. The stock was up 1% to $176.85 today. It is up over 400% year-to-date.
Wikimedia CommonsPisaster ochraceusThe markets opened lower with the Dow falling by as much as 109 points. And then they came back. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
The most important stock market players of the last century are arguably the defined benefit plans, aka the pension funds. In the 1956, the decision by a British tobacco pension fund to invest in stocks arguably led to the rise of the so-called "equity cult." Fast-forward to the most recent decade, pension funds got slammed as their asset values sank during the financial crisis. However, many of those funds have been recovering those losses thanks to the historic equity bull market. Many are inching ever closer to fully-funded status. And Morgan Stanley thinks this could prove to be a catalyst for stock market outflows. "According to Morgan Stanley‚Äôs Pension and Endowment coverage group, the current average funding status for the largest 100 US corporate pension plans is above 90%," wrote Morgan Stanley's credit strategy team today. "As these plans approach fully funded status, the de-risking flow should driven an asset allocation shift from equities to long duration bonds." This would be good for bonds and bad for stocks. This pushes back against the more popular "great rotation" story, which argues that investors are dumping bonds and pouring their money into stocks. Morgan Stanley
Reuters/Brendan McDermidA sign directs voters in Brooklyn, N.Y.Tiny type caused huge headaches as voters headed to the polls Tuesday morning. Across the city, voters complained that the minuscule 6-point type on the new paper ballots was too hard to read. "It's so tiny. I need my glasses," said Melinda Katz, candidate for Queens borough president, after voting at P.S. 144. Voters were particularly baffled by the rows of small type on the back of the ballots, describing six proposals including allowing casinos across the state and raising the retirement age for judges. "The type was too small. Even with my glasses it was hard to read," said 69-year-old Alan L., who voted in Flatiron. "It said something about casinos and the ages of judges, but I had to abstain from those because I had a hard time reading." Retired mason Brian Pressley, 56, of Harlem, also said the type size on the ballot made it hard to read. "It's too small. I can't see anyway," said Pressley. "I had to look real close." The city had used the classic lever voting machines in the September primary, but on Tuesday reverted to electronic voting machines that scanned paper ballots. The ballots used such a tiny font in order to fit the long roster of candidates, along with translations in Chinese, Korean, Bengali and Spanish, according to Board of Elections Executive Director Michael Ryan. The mayoral candidates portion of the ballot alone has 15 different names ó some of which are repeated for different parties. "There's a limited amount of real estate on a piece of paper, and so we have to work on that moving forward," Ryan told reporters Tuesday. "Clearly it is something that we must address moving forward." Ryan added that the Board of Elections website has sample ballots so voters can take a closer look before heading to the polls, and there are also poster-size printouts of the ballot at polling sites. Voting monitors at the New York Public Interest Research Group said they had received "a handful" of complaints about the type's size Tuesday morning, a spokesman said. "We had one person who, because of the darkness of the polling site coupled with the font size, just gave up," said NYPIRG spokesman Gene Russianoff. Russianoff said he heard similar complaints during the 2010 elections. "It eventually has to get solved because what're we going to do, end up with size 1 font?" he said. "The print is very, very small," said Francis Green, 55, of Bed-Stuy. "The station I was at had a magnifying glass, but other stations did not." Samuel Cohen, 85, who voted on the Upper West Side, was confused by the propositions on the back of the ballot. "The type was too small," said Cohen, who added that the proposals also had too much jargon. Cohen has been casting ballots for 64 years and said voting on Tuesday "was very confusing. The old machines were better." With reporting by Emily Frost, Colby Hamilton, Heather Holland, Jeff Mays, Paul DeBenedetto and Ewa Kern-Jedrychowska.
The time has come for the monthly status check on the performance of the now largely anachronistic hedge fund industry: a 2 and 20 anachronism (whose every phone call is monitored by the FBI nowadays, thanks Stevie Cohen) because in Bernanke's centrally-planned world, risk is verboten, as are any selloffs, and if indeed one does come and the Fed has no "tools" left to counteract it, no amount of hedges will protect an investing community that has now largely eliminated any short positions on their books. So without further ado, here are the best and worst performing hedge funds of 2013. HSBC As every year in the past five, the vast majority of hedge funds continue to underperform the S&amp;P. HSBC ¬† And finally, the full performance report via HSBC: ¬† hedgeweekly2013 44.pdf 
REUTERS/Darren StaplesGuam's Ricardo Blas Jr. (R) looks up after winning his men's +100kg elimination round of 32 judo match against Guinea's Facinet Keita at the London 2012 Olympic Games August 3, 2012.This year has been a rough year for traders shorting the stock market. In fact, the most heavily-shorted stocks have been outperforming the S&amp;P 500. Still, the shorts are holding strong and waiting patiently to clean-up when stock prices fall. In our latest list of stocks traders are shorting like crazy, some popular targets have fallen off. For instance: Best Buy, Netflix, and First Solar, who have each recently appeared in this space, are out. Instead, short sellers seem to have shifted their focus to oil, gas and raw materials stocks, which continue to face exposure to falling prices. There do remain some old standbys in for-profit education and retail. We ranked the stocks by short interest as a percentage of floating shares.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Elon Musk is not your average billionaire.† He co-founded PayPal, leads SpaceX, released plans for a crazy†Hyperloop†transportation system,†and runs†Tesla, the electric car company that is taking the automotive market by storm. By using his wealth to build companies that are working to change the world, Musk has become one of the most influential businessmen alive today. Naturally, he has dropped some gems of wisdom over the years. We collected a few of the best ones.
Oxford's Said Business SchoolActivist investor Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, spoke to MBA students at Oxford's¬†Sa√Ød Business School last week and the video has just been posted on YouTube. ¬† During his Q&amp;A with Dean Peter Tufano, Ackman talked about some of his failures, his successes, his leadership style, his JCPenney and Herbalife investments and his overall outlook on the hedge fund industry. He began his early experience running Gotham Partners, which he founded in his late 20s after graduating from Harvard Business School. That fund closed about a decade after he founded it because of a bad investment in a golf course that ultimately ended with investors redeeming their capital.¬† "Experience is making mistakes and learning from them. So that's what I learned. The answer is I went to business school to learn how to be a good investor. I learned the first rule of investing, which is you do your due diligence before you wire in your money."¬† Learning from mistakes was a common theme in his discussion. As for JCPenney, Ackman said he didn't think now former CEO Ron Johnson had ever made a mistake before. Ackman, who was the retailer's largest shareholder, took a bath on that investment losing hundreds of millions.¬† "I don't think he had ever made a mistake before. I think Ron would be, I think he would say this today, that he would be a much better CEO the next time having a big negative experience like this."¬† As for failure, Ackman noted that many of the world's billionaires have had major failures during their careers. "On failure...I think it's how you deal with adversity that determines your ultimate success as opposed to how you deal with success that determines your ultimate success...from JCPenney and otherwise," Ackman said. ¬† The conversation also touched upon Herbalife, the multi-level marketing company that sells nutrition products. ¬†Ackman has publicly called the company a "pyramid scheme" and is shorting the stock with a price target of $0.¬† Ackman, who is known for being a mostly long investor, rarely shorts companies. ¬†When he does, though, he says that he believes the country or the world will be better off once that particular company is gone.¬† Ackman revealed his short late December 2012.¬† "So far so good until Carl Icahn bought 16% of the company, said it was totally wrong. Seems like everyday he goes on CNBC and says what a great company it is. Every time he says that the stock goes up a few dollars..."¬† "I'll make a prediction. This business will be shut down. This business will collapse. I can't give you the precise date, but we will have made progress in that direction within twelve months. That's my prediction for today."¬† Watch the full video here. He talks about Herbalife at the 29 minute mark. ¬†¬† 
Wikimedia CommonsAmerican financier J.P. Morgan is depicted as a bull, blowing soap bubbles for eager investors.Bubbles. They arise, in part, from the maddeningly rational human feeling that it makes sense to overpay a little today because, whatever, I'll just sell tomorrow! Or, put simply by Gawker's bubble-dabbler Hamilton Nolan, "Buy! Buy! Buy! Buy! High! High! High! High!" "Tech startups with no revenue have billion-dollar valuations," writes our Jim Edwards. "And engineers are demanding Tesla sports cars just to show up at work." There are, of course, tangible and empirical ways that economists determine bubblehood, but what fun is that?  Surely the best way to see if we're in a bubble is to take a look at the anecdotal ludicrous excess of today's exorbitantly wealthy.
Axial Capital Management, the once-$1.8 billion hedge fund firm seeded by Julian Robertson of Tiger Management, is shutting down following several years of losses fueled by short bets against stocks, according to two people familiar with the situation. The flagship Axial Capital fund lost 15.4 percent net of fees this year through September according to investor materials obtained by CNBC.com. Its long bets on stocks gaining rose 17.6 percent, but its shorts declined 33.1 percent‚Äîall as the¬†S&amp;P 500 Index¬†rose 23.6 percent for the year. As of Sept. 30, Axial was 38.6 percent net short, meaning its 70 short bets outweighed its 16 longs. The fund also lost 6.3 percent in 2012; gained 0.3 percent in 2011; and declined 10.2 percent in 2010 and 11.1 percent in 2009. Each year, its short bets lost money. The exact timing of the liquidation was unclear. Firm co-founders Marc Andersen and Eliav Assouline declined to comment. Axial isn't the only short-biased fund having trouble this year. The average short-biased fund is down 14.46 percent this year, according to institutional investment data provider eVestment. The funds also lost 13.17 percent in 2012 and gained 1.21 percent in 2011. They gained an average of 31.97 percent in 2008, "The equity market rally, driven in part by multiple expansion, over the last few years has been a very difficult environment for funds operating with a dedicated short bias," said Peter Laurelli, eVestment's head of research. "Investors often include these products in portfolios as part of a hedging strategy, but monthly flows for these products throughout 2012 and early 2013 showed a decline in interest for that exposure." Axial fortunes were once bright. The firm was founded in late 2002 by former Bear Stearns investment bankers Andersen and Assouline and launched in 2003 with $50 million, including money from Robertson (the exact amount of the seed was unclear). A spokesman for Tiger Management and Robertson did not immediately respond to a request for comment. That made Axial part of a vaunted group of dozens of other hedge funds given start-up capital from Tiger in exchange for a percentage of their investor fee revenue, including Chase Coleman's Tiger Global and Bill Hwang's Tiger Asia. Like many other Tiger affiliates, Axial worked out of the larger firm's headquarters at 101 Park Ave. in Manhattan. The firm made money every year from 2003 to 2008, when Axial's flagship fund gained an impressive 17.3 percent, beating most hedge funds slammed by the financial crisis. Institutional Investor¬†named Andersen and Assouline to its list of¬†Hedge Fund Rising Stars¬†in 2010, noting that they are "considered to be among the best of the current residents at 101 Park Avenue." The firm managed as much as $1.8 billion in November 2010, according to¬†Alpha Magazine. But losses started in 2009 and assets declined. Axial managed $894.6 million at year-end 2012 and $605 million as of Sept. 30. The firm launched two funds earlier this year to attract more capital. One, the Axial Capital Gravity fund, was designed specifically to gain big if the stock market declined significantly, according to¬†Hedge Fund Alert. The second was the Axial Capital Neutral fund, which sought a middle ground in its long and short bets. The two funds managed $53 million combined as of Sept. 30. The flagship fund gained a cumulative 82.9 percent net of fees from inception in November 2002 to September 2013. Ironically, short-biased fund may be making a comeback. "What is of interest however is that in the last two months, August and September, there has been a slight increase of investor interest which could be seen by some as a lack of confidence in the levels of current market rally," Laurelli said. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's¬†Lawrence Delevingne. Follow him on Twitter¬† ¬†
Google FinanceThe U.S. stock markets spent most of the morning pretty deep in the red. But they've erased all of those losses and just turned positive. Earlier today, we learned that the ISM services index unexpectedly climbed to 55.4 in October from 54.4 in September.¬† Economists were looking for a decline. This contradicted the idea that the government shutdown was bad for the economy. "Economic conditions continue to improve slowly in spite of government policy," read one of the ISM's October anecdotes. At its lowest point of the day, the Dow was down by 109 points.
Kmeron via FlickrUber CEO Travis Kalanick Whether it‚Äôs founding the world‚Äôs first P2P search engine, or developing the premier enterprise content delivery system, Kalanick¬†believes that every problem has a solution. He‚Äôs guided red-hot startup Uber ($3.4B valuation) from a niche market in San Francisco to its global presence today. Uber's plans go well beyond luxury rides. Its goal is to become an "instant gratification" service that gives people what they need, when they need it, whether that's a ride or¬†some other delivery.¬† Along the way, Kalanick¬†has actively invested in and advised other passionate startup entrepreneurs. Somehow he‚Äôs also managed to rack up the second highest Wii Tennis score in the world. Take a ride with Kalanick¬†at¬†IGNITION: Future of Digital, BI's flagship event November¬†11-13¬†at New York‚Äôs Time Warner Center. He‚Äôll be talking with BI Editor-in-Chief Henry Blodget about entrepreneurship, building a brand, and much more. For a preview of what you can expect at IGNITION, check out the¬†latest IGNITION 2013 line-up. Reserve your spot!  P.S. If you're interested in sponsorship opportunities at IGNITION, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
This could have been worse ó much, much, worse. A college student completely blew one of the most important moments in anyone's professional career ó his introduction to the first "someone" who could help him get his foot in the door on Wall Street. In this case, that "someone" was a managing director at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The whole mess was documented in the cringe-worthy email exchange below. The kid's resume was also attached, and it was a mess ó difficult to read and included zero relevant experience for finance. Luckily, the MD he emailed had mercy. He didn't tell the kid he was a failure, he didn't tell him he'd "never work in this town again." Instead, this MD told the kid he'd pretend the email exchange never happened. It's a gracious thing to do, and when you read the exchange below, you'll see why. Business Insider You'll note a few typos in that message. Here's the BAML MD's response. Business Insider †The email above is polite, succinct and probably the end of the discussion ó but the kid presses on. Business Insider Now this is the part where the BAML MD throws down what could only be described as some "real talk." The kid needs it. Business Insider And if that's not bad enough, the kid did send something of a response to the email detailing his typos ó a blank email.
Bank of America Merrill LynchEvery week, BofA Merrill Lynch equity strategists compile data on what their clients are buying and selling in the U.S. stock market. In the week ended November 1, BAML equity strategist Jill Carey says clients unloaded $2.7 billion of U.S. stocks ‚Äî the fourth-largest weekly net sale in the history of the data (going back to 2008) and the largest since October 2011. Institutional clients accounted for most of the selling, shedding $2.1 billion from their portfolios. Hedge fund clients were net buyers of stocks to the tune of $109 million, while private (retail) clients sold $116 million. Carey calls it a "rare week of private client sales" as it was only the second time since late May that this group of clients was a net seller of U.S. equities. Clients are fleeing cyclical stocks, which took the brunt of the selling. In a note, Carey writes: Big sales of large cap stocks; rare week of private client sales Last week, during which the S&amp;P 500 was essentially flat, BofAML clients were net sellers of $2.7bn of US stocks‚Äîthe biggest net sale since Oct. 2011, and the fourth- largest in our data history (since 2008). This follows a week of more muted outflows. Net sales were led by institutional clients, whose sales were the third-largest in our data history after two weeks of net buying. Hedge funds were small net buyers after near-record sales by this group the prior week, and private clients were net sellers for only the second week since late May. Year-to-date, both private clients and hedge funds remain net buyers, while institutional clients‚Äô net sales are larger than any other year since 2008. Outflows last week were chiefly in the large cap space (the fourth- largest net sales of this size segment since ‚Äô08), while mid caps also saw outflows. Near-record sales of many cyclical sectors and Health Care Seven of the ten GICS sectors saw net sales last week, with the largest outflows from the cyclical sectors of Tech, Financials, Discretionary and Energy. Outflows from all of these sectors plus Health Care were close to record highs, particularly Tech, where sales were the fourth-largest in our data history. Telecom, in contrast, which saw the biggest inflows by our clients last week, had its fourth-largest inflows in our data history. Industrials continues to have the longest net buying trend at five consecutive weeks, followed by the more defensive Telecom and Utilities at four weeks. No sector has seen more than two consecutive weeks of net sales. Clients continue to retain a preference for defensives over cyclicals‚Äîthe former has generally seen net buying on a four-week average basis since mid August, while the latter has generally seen net selling on a four-week average basis since mid-September. The chart below shows the flight from cyclicals in recent weeks. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
A recent NBER study has found that low-skilled Mexican immigrants are more responsive to changes in employment, and are quick to relocate when there is a period of high unemployment in the area they live in. This is good for an economy that often has a surprising number of jobs that go unfilled. The authors, Brian Cadena of the University of Colorado- Boulder and Brian Kovak from Carnegie Mellon University found that between 2006 to 2010, in towns where the Great Recession had caused unemployment of 10%, the population of Mexican immigrants dropped by 7.6%. In contrast, the population of low-skilled native workers did not decline at all, while that of high-skilled workers declined by 5.3%.  Essentially, immigrant Mexican workers had no qualms about moving to an area with greater opportunities for employment, unlike their native-born counterparts.  This¬†high geographic mobility has had a net positive effect on the local low-skilled population as well. The Mexican immigrants moving out means that more jobs are freed up for native workers.¬† Mexican immigrants are not inherently nomadic; when there are jobs available locally, they are unlikely to move, just like native workers.¬† But there are many reasons why Mexican immigrants are quicker to react to changes in demand for their labor. One reason for their mobility is that they usually do not have or are not eligible for¬†Unemployment Insurance (UI) and¬†other social safety net programs, and so are completely dependent on the wages they earn.¬† Another reason is that most Mexican immigrants intend a relatively short stay in the US. They plan to work¬†until they have saved up some capital to take back to Mexico. Because of this, they are likely to find unemployment costlier than native workers, and are more willing to do whatever it takes to find new employment quickly.¬† Mexican immigrants also have access to strong social and familial networks in most parts of the country. These networks provide them with information about the employment situation in different parts of the country. These networks also lower their costs of moving and provide them with contacts in the job market, which help them find employment quicker.¬† Read the paper at NBER.org.
Aviation photographer David Davis took this picture of a Cathay Pacific 747 after the plane experienced what pilots might describe as a "bird strike." Sometimes, as with the US Airways plane that was forced to land on the Hudson several years ago after a flock Canada geese flew into its engines, these strikes can cause catastrophic damage to the aircraft. In other cases, the damage is less severe ‚Äî except to the bird(s). This 747 apparently hit a bird squarely on its nose cone. The plane survived. The bird presumably didn't. But it made quite a dent! David Davis For more of David Davis's aviation photography, please visit his Flickr photostream.
George Frey/Getty ImagesBitcoin envelopeBitcoin is broken. And not just superficially so, but fundamentally, at the core protocol level. We're not talking about a simple buffer overflow here, or even a badly designed API that can be easily patched; instead, the problem is intrinsic to the entire way Bitcoin works. All other cryptocurrencies and schemes based on the same Bitcoin idea, including Litecoin, Namecoin, and any of the other few dozen Bitcoin-inspired currencies, are broken as well. Specifically, in a paper we placed on arXiv, Ittay Eyal and I outline an attack by which a minority group of miners can obtain revenues in excess of their fair share, and grow in number until they reach a majority. When this point is reached, the Bitcoin value-proposition collapses: the currency comes under the control of a single entity; it is no longer decentralized; the controlling entity can determine who participates in mining and which transactions are committed, and can even roll back transactions at will. This snowball scenario does not require an ill-intentioned Bond-style villain to launch; it can take place as the collaborative result of people trying to earn a bit more money for their mining efforts. Emin Gu®n Sirer/TwitterCornell Associate Professor Emin G¸n SirerConventional wisdom has long asserted that Bitcoin is secure against groups of colluding miners as long as the majority of the miners are honest (by honest, we mean that they dutifully obey the protocol as proscribed by pseudonymous Nakamoto). Our work shows that this assertion is wrong. We show that, at the moment, any group of nodes employing our attack will succeed in earning an income above their fair share. We also show a new bound that invalidates the honest majority claim: under the best of circumstances, at least 2/3rds of the participating nodes have to be honest to protect against our attack. But achieving this 2/3 bound is going to be difficult in practice. We outline a practical fix to the protocol that is easy to deploy and will guard against the attack as long as 3/4ths of the miners are honest. We need the Bitcoin community's help in deploying this fix so that the Bitcoin ecosystem can be made more robust, at least against attackers whose mining power is below the 25% threshold. Even with our fix deployed, however, there is a problem: there are mining pools at the moment that command more than 25% of the mining power, and, in the past, there have been mining pools that commanded more than 33% of the mining power. We need the Bitcoin community's awareness and concerted effort to ensure that no mining pool reaches these thresholds. The mere possibility that the system can get into a vulnerable state will be an impediment to greater adoption of Bitcoin. Those of you who want a precise and full explanation of the attack can cut straight to the research paper, though it may be a bit terse and dry. In the rest of this blog entry, we will outline the attack for the non-hard-core practitioner, such that by the end of the blog entry, anyone should understand the intuition behind our attack, be equipped to earn higher revenues through mining, and possess the tools required to usurp the currency. To get to this point, we need a little bit of background on how Bitcoin works. If you're familiar with Bitcoin mining, you can skip to the next section that describes how the attack works. If you are a non-techie Bitcoin user, you can skip straight to the Implications section. The Blockchain Ittay EyalCornell computer science researcher, Ittay EyalThe key idea behind Bitcoin's success is a decentralized protocol for maintaining a global ledger, called a blockchain. The blockchain records transactions between Bitcoin addresses, tracking the movement of every Bitcoin as it changes hands. This tracking ensures that no one can double-spend a coin, as the ledger makes it all too apparent whether a user sent out more Bitcoins from his account than he earned. The particular way in which Bitcoin tracking is performed makes sure that the record is also immutable; once a Bitcoin transaction is committed and buried in the blockchain, it is difficult for an attacker to reverse the transaction, so that a merchant can ship goods in good conscience, assured that the transaction will later not be reversed. This protocol works through a process called mining. In essence, the ledger is organized into a single, ordered sequence of blocks, each of which records a set of transactions. Each block contains a crypto-puzzle, a computationally difficult challenge akin to a CAPTCHA. Miners organize themselves into a loosely-organized, distributed network, and they all concurrently try to add a new block to the ledger. To do this, they need to discover the solution to a crypto-puzzle, formed by the contents of the ledger until the point where the new block is being added. Solving a crypto-puzzle is hard work; a computer has to plug in many different values and see if they solve the crypto-puzzle posed by the new block. The puzzles are such that a home computer working alone will take many years to solve a crypto-puzzle. Some people use GPUs to speed up this process, while others have invested in custom ASICs designed to solve Bitcoin crypto-puzzles. Of course, this process is not free, as the process of solving these crypto-puzzles consumes power and requires cooling. For the currency to be viable, the miners need to be compensated for their efforts. Bitcoin miners are compensated through two mechanisms: they collect the transaction fees from the transactions recorded in the new block they contributed to the block chain, and they also collect a lump sum fee. This lump sum fee creates new Bitcoins, according to a time-varying formula. Hence, "mining" is similar to digging for gold -- every now and then, a miner is rewarded with a nugget. The difficulty of crypto-puzzles are automatically adjusted such that a new block is added to the ledger approximately every 10 minutes, which ensures a predictable coin generation rate for the system, which stems inflation and makes the currency supply more predictable than it would be otherwise. The nice thing about having crypto-puzzles that are so difficult is that it is difficult for an attacker to modify the ledger. Someone who wants to, say, buy something from a Bitcoin merchant, get the goods shipped, and then later change that block, faces a very difficult task: they need to find alternative solutions to cryptopuzzles for that block and every subsequent block. What makes this difficult is that the main bulk of the miners will be working hard on adding new blocks at the tail end of the ledger, so an attacker, with limited resources, cannot hope to find alternative solutions for all the past blocks and catch up to the rest of the miners. Miners today organize themselves into groups known as pools. A pool will typically consist of a set of cooperating nodes that share their revenues whenever they find blocks. Mining pools are kind of like the shared tip jar at a restaurant: on occasion, a miner will hit the potluck, discover a good solution to a cryptopuzzle, and rake in some revenues, kind of like a waiter who lands a big table that runs a large tab. Since this occurs relatively infrequently from the point of view of any given miner, sharing the proceeds enables the miners to have more predictability in their lives. The Attack The honest Bitcoin protocol assumes that all miners engage in a benign strategy where they quickly and truthfully share every block they have discovered. Until now, everyone assumed that this was the dominant strategy; no other strategy was known that could result in higher revenues for miners. Our work shows that there is an alternative strategy, called Selfish-Mine, that enables a mining pool to make additional money at the risk of hurting the system. In Selfish-Mining, miners keep their block discoveries private to their own pool, and judiciously reveal them to the rest of the honest miners so as to force the honest miners to waste their resources on blocks that are ultimately not part of the blockchain. Here's how this works in practice. Selfish miners start out just like regular miners, working on finding a new block that goes at the end of the blockchain. On occasion, like every other miner, they will discover a block and get ahead of the rest of the honest miners. Whereas an honest miner would immediately publicize this new block and cause the rest of the honest miners to shift their effort to the newly established end of the chain, a selfish miner keeps this block private. From here, two things can happen. The selfish miners may get lucky again, and increase their lead by finding another block. They will now be ahead of the honest crowd by two blocks. They keep their new discovery secret as well, and work on extending their lead. Eventually, the honest miners close the gap. Just before the gap is closed, the selfish pool publishes its longer chain. The result is that all the honest miners' work is discarded, and the selfish miners enjoy the revenue from their previously secret chain. The analysis of revenues gets technical from here, and the only way to do it justice is to follow along the algorithm and state machine provided in our paper. But the outcome is that the selfish mining pool, on the whole, nullifies the work performed by the honest pool through their revelations. The success of the attack, and the amount of excess revenue it yields, depends on the size of the selfish mining pool. It will not be successful if the pool is below a threshold size. But this threshold is non-existent in the current implementation -- selfish mining is immediately profitable. Our proposed fix raises the threshold to 25% if universally adopted. And, while there may be other fixes, no fix can raise it above 33%. So, at least 2/3rds of the Bitcoin miners have to be honest. All three of these findings are a far cry from the 50% previously (and falsely) believed to protect the currency. The Implications The selfish mining strategy has significant implications for the Bitcoin system: The members of a selfish mining pool will earn more revenue than honest participants: This means that rational, self-interested miners, who typically invest significant amounts of money in their rigs, will want to join selfish miners instead of follow the honest strategy. Once launched and successful, selfish mining pools will grow in size: There are no mechanisms in place to exert any kind of pressure to break up a selfish mining pool. Selfish mining is harmful to the Bitcoin community: Selfish miners bring down revenues for everyone. The fact that a selfish mining attack can be launched, and a selfish pool can grow in size until it controls the currency, is a deterrent to people, like the Winklevii, who are drawn to the decentralized nature of Bitcoin. This attack is practical right now with any size mining pool: Anyone can launch this attack successfully right now, and make revenues in excess of what they would otherwise make. Under the best theoretical conditions, Bitcoin requires at least 2/3rds of the miners to be honest: It was previously believed that the Bitcoin ecosystem was safe as long as a majority were honest. Our analysis shows that this is wrong. If a selfish-mining pool were to command 1/3rd (33%) of mining power, it'll always be in a position to make excess revenues over honest miners. We propose a practical fix that will protect against selfish mining as long as pools command below 25% of the mining power: The fix is simple to apply. It would be a good idea for the Bitcoin community to adopt it. There are mining pools in existence that can conceivably launch successful selfish mining attacks: At the moment, any mining pool can launch a successful mining attack. With our proposed fix, only pools above 25% can launch the attack, but there exists a pool of this size right now. And there have even been pools that commanded more than 33% of the mining power in the past. FAQ What happens when a selfish mining group is formed? Once a group of selfish miners appear on the horizon, rational miners will preferentially join that mining group to obtain a share of their higher revenues. And their revenues will increase with increasing group size. This creates a dynamic where the attackers can quickly acquire majority mining power, at which point the decentralized nature of the Bitcoin currency collapses, as the attackers get to control all transactions. When a single pool controls the currency, does the value of a Bitcoin go to $0? No. It all depends on how the controlling group runs the currency. But the decentralization, which in our view is so critical to Bitcoin's adoption, is lost. It would not be at all healthy for the Bitcoin ecosystem. Does this affect X, where X is another cryptocurrency? Probably. It affects every currency system that is inspired by Bitcoin's blockchain. That includes Litecoin, PPcoin, Novacoin, Namecoin, Primecoin, Terracoin, Worldcoin, and a host of other currencies that share the same global ledger concept. What's the core discovery here? We're the first to discover that the Bitcoin protocol is not incentive-compatible. The protocol can be gamed by people with selfish interests. And once the system veers away from the happy mode where everyone is honest, there is no force that opposes the growth of really large pools that command control of the currency. Is selfish mining happening now? We cannot know for sure, but we suspect not. Ours is the first work to publicly investigate an alternative mining strategy. What's with these two separate thresholds? Do 2/3rds of the nodes have to be honest? Or 3/4ths? Why is there a gap between the two? At the moment, the threshold is non-existent. With our proposed fix, which is practical and easy to deploy, it gets raised to 25%; i.e. 3/4ths of the network must be honest. Perhaps someone can propose a fix that raises this threshold further, but we have shown that they cannot raise it above 2/3rds. Would we be able to tell a selfish mining pool from any other pool? Not easily. A selfish mining pool can hide behind throwaway addresses to mask its identity. And while the timing of block revelations does look different for selfish miners, it's difficult to tell who was genuinely first, as near-concurrent revelations will arrive in different orders at hosts. Is there a danger associated with making this attack public? The only way to protect the system against selfish mining attacks is to get everyone to change their implementations. So the only way we can protect the system is by publicizing the potential attack. We have chosen not to launch the attack ourselves, because we care about the long-term viability of the currency. Can Bitcoin remain a viable currency? Probably. We have shown that as long as selfish miners are below a certain threshold, they will not succeed. And while this threshold does not exist yet (i.e. selfish mining will immediately yield benefits for any sized pool), we have a proposed fix that raises the threshold to 25%. This post was reprinted with permission from Hacking Distributed &gt;
BalthazarLast week, I observed that the practice of stationing bathroom attendants in small restaurant bathrooms was not actually a service that many restaurant diners liked. I used my recent experience at the New York restaurant Balthazar as an example. Well, it turned out that the management at Balthazar had actually already been thinking along the same lines. The restaurant's boss, Keith McNally, told the journalist Foster Kamer that he "completely agree[d]" with my assessment¬†(which, by the way, was an assessment that most of the Balthazar patrons I had talked to also agreed with). And McNally also told Mr. Kamer that he would be phasing out the Balthazar bathroom attendant service over time. This was happy news for Balthazar diners, but unfortunately Mr. McNally's quote also included some ambiguous language that made it sound like, while phasing out the attendant service, he might also¬†fire the excellent employees he had hired to stand in the bathrooms instead of reassigning them. Yesterday, this interpretation of Mr. McNally's quote triggered a small media storm in which the New York community, including me, appealed to McNally to continue to employ the bathroom attendants in some other capacity instead of just dumping them on the street. Well, happily, that is exactly what Mr. McNally is going to do. In a follow-up comment to Mr. Kamer, Mr. McNally clarified that he is not going to can the excellent employees who have served as bathroom attendants¬†at Balthazar. Rather, he is going to reassign them: "[A]ny and all Balthazar bathroom attendants I relieve of their jobs will immediately be given another job in my company," Mr. McNally said "They are lovely people and I‚Äôd like to work with them forever." Well, that's the kind of sentiment and action that will endear any community and team to a company boss ‚Äî and make the company's customers feel great about spending money there. So Mr. McNally and Balthazar have done exactly the right thing here. Hats off to both of them! SEE ALSO: Now Let's Discuss The Awful Restaurant Practice Of Having Bathroom Attendants Who Watch You Pee
ISM just released the results of its October non-manufacturing survey, and Treasuries and gold are taking a hit in the wake of the release. The ISM report suggested an unexpected acceleration in the pace of growth in the American services sector in October. 10-year Treasury futures are down 0.4%, trading at their lows of the day, while the yield on the 10-year note is trading at 2.66%, 6 basis points higher from yesterday's close. Gold is trading down 0.6% at $1307 an ounce, while WTI crude oil futures are trading around $93.70 a barrel, down 1.0%. The S&amp;P 500 is down 0.5%, trading at 1759. Stock markets across Europe are trending lower. The Italian FTSE MIB is down 1.3% and the Spanish IBEX 35 is down 1.2%, while the French CAC 40 is down 1.1% and the London FTSE 100 and German DAX are both down 0.7%. Yields on 10-year government debt in France, Germany, and Italy are all about 6 basis points higher today, while Spanish 10-year yields are up 9 basis points. The employment sub-index of the ISM report jumped to 56.2 from September's 52.7 reading, suggesting an acceleration in the pace of hiring as well. "The non-manufacturing ISM will provide one last forecast input for payrolls," say Deutsche Bank economists Brett Ryan and Carl Riccadonna.
Sports fans are often drawn to hard-luck cases. But cheering for an NFL team that can't even make the playoffs can be quite excruciating. To get a nice picture of NFL teams who have gone for long periods of time shut out of the playoffs, we made the following chart, visualizing playoff droughts. The wider and darker a bar is above a particular season, the longer the playoff drought for that team during that season (expansion teams are white for the seasons before they were formed). Teams that have made the playoffs in a season, or at some point in the previous two seasons, are represented by the pleasant cream color. The epic failure of the New Orleans Saints to make the postseason for the first 17 years after the AFL and NFL merged is the dark, brick-red gash on the left of the chart. The teams are arranged in order of the length of their current playoff droughts. The Buffalo Bills live at the top, having missed the playoffs for 13 straight seasons, followed by the troubled Raiders and hapless Browns, both a decade removed from the postseason. A couple other notable failures include the Cardinals narrowly avoiding a record 25-year-long playoff drought from 1983 until their 2008 Super Bowl appearance with a wild card victory in 1998, and 14-year-long stretches of watching the postseason on TV for the Bengals (1991-2004), Buccaneers (1983-1996), and Chiefs (1972-1985). Pro-Football-Reference/ Business Insider To make this chart, Business Insider went to the national treasure that is www.pro-football-reference.com and looked through their post-merger records, noting which teams made the playoffs each year. Taking advantage of the magic of Excel, we were able to count up the lengths of droughts from this data, which were then turned into the chart using the plotting features of R.
OneWireSallie Krawcheck needs little introduction. Since the end of her run as one of the most powerful women on Wall Street, she's dedicated her time to teaching others about how to navigate in an eat-what-you-kill industry based on her experience. It helps that she's also heading up†the†women's network, 85 Broads. In an interview with†finance career site†OneWire, the former head of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch's Global Wealth walks through the decisions she made in her career from beginning to end ó what helped and what hurt.†And she gets to one of the most important questions on any young Wall†Streeterís†mind ó to MBA, or not to MBA: ìI loved getting my MBA and I did it for a couple of reasons. One of which was that I felt like I needed the time to mature as a business personÖthe idea of going to business school and sort of practicing different skills different businesses, to take some marketing and management classes, to sort of step outside of what I was doing and sort of try on different careers.î Trying on those different careers ultimately helped Krawcheck, because as she also points out in the video, as a young person you really never know where you're going to end up. ìIíd tell young people that itís all about resilience. Your career is not going to go the way you planned. It is impossible at the age of 23 to pick the right industry, the right company, and you can visualize what youíre going to be doing in your 40s, 50s, and 60s but chances are that itís going to be something quite different. So remain open to opportunities and change. Nothing beats hard work in getting there;† there arenít many short cuts at all.î Watch the full interview below and†subscribe to the Open Door series†to see other great executive interviews. 
ISMThe results of the Institute for Supply Management's October non-manufacturing survey are out. The headline gauge rose to 55.4 from September's 54.4 reading, defying expectations for a drop to 54.0. The number suggests an unexpected acceleration in the pace of growth in the American services sector in October. The employment sub-index rose to 56.2 from September's 52.7 reading, suggesting an acceleration in the pace of hiring as well. A complete breakdown of the report's sub-indices is shown at right. Below, from the release, is what respondents to the survey were saying in October: Click here for the full release ¬ª
Yale, Robert ShillerLately, every stock market watcher has been keeping a close eye on the Robert Shiller's cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio. CAPE is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings.† If the ratio is above the long-term average of around 16x, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, the CAPE is at 24.42x, which has some people freaked out that the stock market is about to crash. Indeed, when we were at these levels at 2008, we soon saw sharp drops in the stock market. However, Shiller cautions against using CAPE to time crashes and make short-term trades. Rather, he stresses that CAPE is more useful in predicting longer-term returns. Shiller discussed this in an interview with Business Insider's Henry Blodget: John Campbell, whoís now a professor at Harvard, and I presented our findings first to the Federal Reserve Board in 1996, and we had a regression, showing how the P/E ratio predicts returns. And we had scatter diagrams, showing 10-year subsequent returns against the CAPE, what we call the cyclically adjusted price earnings ratio. And that had a pretty good fit. So I think the bottom line that we were giving ñ and maybe we didnít stress or emphasize it enough ñ was that itís continual. Itís not a timing mechanism, it doesnít tell you ñ and I had the same mistake in my mind, to some extent ó wait until it goes all the way down to a P/E of 7, or something.... But actually, the lesson there is that if you combine that with a good market diversification algorithm, the important thing is that you never get completely in or completely out of stocks. The lower CAPE is, as it gradually gets lower, you gradually move more and more in. So taking that lesson now, CAPE is high, but itís not super high. I think it looks like stocks should be a substantial part of a portfolio. In other words, don't dump stocks and hide in cash because the CAPE is at 24. Rather, buy less, be cautious, and expect lower returns for years to come. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite often runs this chart of average 3-year forward returns for a given level of CAPE. "We recognize that some investors are concerned that absolute valuations for US equities are at elevated levels," said Garthwaite the last time CAPE was at 24x. "This is the certainly the case on the Shiller P/E. However, we find current multiples have not necessarily been a pre-cursor of falling markets. We note that markets are typically most vulnerable when the Shiller P/E is above 26x (compared to 24x currently)." Investors following Shiller's actual advice are clearly doing much better than the folks who are cowering from the sidelines. Credit Suisse
AP PhotoBloomberg has a dedicated team of billionaire hunters constantly updating information on the world's richest people. This week, Bloomberg Markets Magazine is carrying a thorough update of the team's blood, sweat, and tears ‚Äî a ranking of the 100 wealthiest people on the planet and what they're worth. Since last December, the top 100 billionaires' net worth has soared from $200 billion to $2.1 trillion. Their combined net worth makes up nearly 3% of the world's economy and they have a median net worth of nearly $16 billion. Bill Gates surged to the top spot as Microsoft shares gained 29% this quarter. Carlos Slim, owner of America Movil, Mexico's largest cell phone service provider, slid to the second spot as he faces increasing political pressure from the Mexican government. After that, though, the names on the list get a little less familiar. We have the top 25 for you here.
This Friday the Labor Department releases the October non-farm payrolls numbers. Given what happened in October, the forecasts assembled by Econoday¬†vary from down 300K for the month to up 168K (average forecast ¬†= 120K) new jobs added - a massive range of expectations. The private payrolls number is expected to come in at 128K (mean expectation) - a fairly weak number that is nearly identical to last week's estimate by ADP (see post). The question now is whether the government shutdown last month will result in a nasty downside surprise for payrolls. This has happened before. The second shutdown under the Clinton administration caused nonfarm payrolls to drop at the time when the labor markets were booming. Scotiabank: - The job growth trend had sharply waned in the months prior to the shutdowns (much like this year), but then the bottom fell out in January '96 when the second and longest shutdown hit. About three-quarters of the small job loss in January 1996 was focused upon government, but it had not previously been hiring at a significant pace. The real swing factor was in the private sector that went from creating 129k jobs in December 1995 (and much more over the months before) to shedding 6k in January as hiring stopped. Job growth then super-accelerated during the following month of February '96 as pent-up hiring demand was unleashed mostly in the private sector as the shutdown became a thing of the past. We doubt that we'll get the same post-shutdown hiring boom this time because nothing has been settled by way of further shutdown risks and ongoing fiscal policy uncertainty. Scotiabank Why is this number so important? The Fed continues to insist that the decision to "taper" securities purchases will be "data driven". And if we see a big negative surprise, the FOMC will get another excuse to kick the can down the road.
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA riot policeman detains a participant for violation of law and order during a "Russian March" demonstration on National Unity Day in Moscow November 4, 2013. Russia marks National Unity Day on November 4 to celebrate the defeat of Polish invaders in 1612.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
A quick update on the ol' Bitcoin market. The price of a unit of the digital currency is going totally wild. It's now up above $240, getting close to its all-time high. From Bitcoin Charts: Bitcoin
Wikimedia CommonsBRUSSELS (AP) ‚Äî Europe's economic recovery will continue into the second half of the year, though at a subdued pace, while unemployment will remain high through next year, the European Commission said Tuesday. The European Union's economy is expected to grow by 0.5 percent over the second half of the year and be flat for the whole year, returning to growth of 1.4 percent in 2014, according to the Commission's fall forecast. Its last forecast in May still expected an economic decline of 0.1 percent in 2013. The Commission, the EU's executive arm, also expects the 17-country eurozone to continue its recovery from a protracted recession, from which it emerged in the second quarter. However, over 2013 as a whole, the eurozone is still expected to record a decline of 0.4 percent. In 2014, though, the Commission is penciling in 1.1 percent growth, revised downward from a 1.2 percent in its last forecast. "There are increasing signs that the European economy has reached a turning point," said the EU's Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Olli Rehn. Strengthening domestic demand is expected to underpin the recovery as governments also slow the pace of austerity measures such as spending cuts and tax increases, according to the forecast. "The fiscal consolidation and structural reforms undertaken in Europe have created the basis for recovery," Rehn added. The eurozone's output, however, currently remains about 3 percent below the level recorded in 2008, when the global financial crisis was just entering its most acute phase and Europe's government debt crisis had not yet started, the report said. The eurozone's projected tepid growth will fail to create many new jobs, leaving the unemployment rate unchanged at its current record high of 12.2 percent for this and next year, dropping to 11.8 percent only in 2015, according to the forecast. Rehn acknowledged "it is too early to declare victory; unemployment remains at unacceptably high levels." The unemployment rate for the wider EU-28, which includes members like Britain and Poland who don't use the euro currency, is expected to dip from 11.1 percent in 2013 to 11 percent next year. The Commission expects crisis-hit Spain to return to growth of 0.5 percent next year, after seeing its economy shrink by another 1.3 percent this year. For Greece, the EU sticks to its forecast that the country will manage to eek out tepid growth of 0.6 percent next year after a further projected decline of 4 percent this year. Unemployment is forecast to stay above 26 percent in Spain through the end of next year, and it's expected to drop only slightly in Greece, from around 27 percent now to 26 percent in 2014. ___ Follow Juergen Baetz on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/jbaetz Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. 
The Federal Reserve prefers not to focus on inflation within the energy and food segments, but that doesn‚Äôt mean they‚Äôre not important. ¬†They‚Äôre just volatile components that can lead to erroneous conclusions about the broader index. ¬†And boy have they been volatile in recent years. After huge increases in 2007/8 and 2010/11 food and gas prices are now declining rapidly. ¬†According to the FAO global food prices are now deflating at a -7.7% year over year rate. And gasoline prices are now deflating at a -10.7% year over year rate. On the bright side, this should shore up some consumer spending for other things.¬† And it should give Austrian economists some time to stop shrieking about the conspiracy theory at the BLS so they can go buy more gold to stock their bunkers with.¬† Not that I would recommend that, but that seems to be the portfolio strategy du jour for that particular breed of conspiracy theorist.¬† I think I just exceeded my snark level.¬† Sorry. PragCap PragCap
REUTERS/Dominic Ebenbichler A man rides his bike past a tower located in Lake Reschensee on a hot summer day in the northern Italian village of Graun August 2, 2013. MILAN (Reuters) - Italian banks are near saturation point after two years spent frantically buying their own government's bonds, forcing the Treasury to find alternative investors at home and abroad to finance a 2-trillion euro debt. Lenders' ability to soak up yet more Italian sovereign debt depends largely on the¬†European Central Bank¬†- which in turn says¬†Italy¬†is crucial to the fate of the entire euro zone. In the coming year the ECB will make strict health checks on banks across the bloc, including a provisional 15 inItaly. It must also decide whether to roll over billions of euros in cheap long term loans which the banks have used profitably to accumulate government bonds, but fall due in early 2015. Both events will determine how much domestic banks can keep up their support for the Treasury which was vital when the euro zone's third biggest economy teetered on the brink of a Greek-style debt crisis in 2011 and foreign investors fled. Much is at stake. The ECB has made clear that¬†Italy¬†must tackle its debt and economic problems for the greater good. "Its fate will critically determine the fate of the euro area," ECB board member Joerg Asmussen said last month. "In this sense, the future of the euro area will not be decided in¬†Paris¬†or¬†Berlin, or in¬†Frankfurt¬†or¬†Brussels. It will be decided in¬†Rome. During the euro zone crisis, the ECB launched two long-term refinancing operations (LTROs), showering banks with cheap three-year loans. Italian lenders used these to load up on higher-yielding government bonds, propping up their profits which had been hit by recession. In August, they held 397 billion euros ($538 billion) in¬†Italian government¬†bonds, near a record 402 billion in June. This is nearly double what they had at the end of 2011, meaning they used most of the 255 billion in LTRO funds borrowed from the ECB in 2011 and 2012 to buy their own government's paper. The banks may have to start shrinking these large portfolios. The LTRO loans must be repaid in January and February 2015 and the cheap long-term funding will dry up unless the ECB decides to repeat the exercise, which it staged to help the banking system through the depth of the crisis. Another factor will be the ECB's asset quality review. Last month it promised to put top euro zone banks through rigorous tests. These aim to unearth risks hidden on balance sheets before it starts supervising the lenders under the¬†European Banking Union¬†project. It will use Basel III global banking rules, under which sovereign bonds are classified as risk-free, even though the crisis showed that in the case of governments such as¬†Greece's this was far from the case. This means banks do not have to set aside extra capital to cover for any losses on government debt. However, the¬†European Banking Authority¬†may also consider exposure to sovereign debt when it conducts tests of banks' ability to withstand future crises in a parallel exercise, although details are still sketchy. "We wondered if the heaviest users of LTRO, and thus most exposed to sovereigns, would be given an informal nudge to reduce these balances," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote. Italy's budget deficit is relatively modest and should stay within the¬†European Union's limit next year. {ID:nL6N0I63AJ} However, the huge size of its existing debt means it has to borrow heavily to roll over bonds that come due. If domestic banks do pull back, the Treasury will need new borrowers. Italian think-tank Prometeia says it will have to target mostly households and foreign investors to sell an estimated 65 billion euros in new debt in 2014. "The banking sector will hardly be able to absorb such an amount," it said in a report. Hit hard by the crisis and forced to boost their capital base, Italian banks are shutting hundreds of branches, shedding 19,000 jobs and cutting back on lending as¬†Italy¬†battles with its deepest recession since World War II. One of the few things banks kept investing in was Italian bonds. Prometeia's analysts say sovereign debt holdings now total 10 percent of Italian banks' assets, double the share in 2007 and a little higher than the equivalent for Spanish banks. Prometeia says Italian banks now hold 22 percent of the country's debt, below the Spanish level of 39 percent but still high as¬†Italy's debt is more than twice¬†Spain's. After threatening to spiral out of control in late 2011 and reaching dangerous levels again in mid-2012,¬†Italian government¬†funding costs have fallen due to an ECB promise to preserve the euro. Foreigners have resumed buying the bonds of weaker euro zone issuers despite persistent political instability in¬†Italy. Foreigners bought nearly two thirds of a seven-year bond last month. Bidders even came from countries such asLebanon,¬†Malta,¬†Latvia¬†and¬†Libya. That trend needs to continue next year. "It will be crucial that foreigners increase their buying of Italian bonds," said Intesa Sanpaolo strategist¬†Chiara Manenti. Foreigners hold just over a third of¬†Italy's debt, or 690 billion euros, down from more than 800 billion in mid-2011. The treasury is also looking to attract wealthy Italian households with new four-year bonds tied to domestic inflation, called BTP Italia, that have so far raised 44 billion euros. The next issue of the BTP Italia is scheduled for this week and analysts target a takeup of around 10 billion euros. When the banks scooped up government bonds, they were not acting merely out of patriotism. By reinvesting the cheap ECB loans into the high-yielding debt, they were able to offset a sharp drop in income from lending. A Deutsche Bank report last week estimated that such carry trades will make up 20 percent of 2013 net interest income - a measure of a bank's profitability - of Intesa Sanpaolo &lt;ISP.MI&gt;,¬†Italy's biggest retail lender. That figure rises to 23 percent for Banco Popolare &lt;BAPO.MI&gt; and 26 percent for Banca Popolare di Milano &lt;PMII.MI&gt;, two cooperative lenders, according to the report. Intesa's domestic government bond portfolio has more than doubled over the past two years to 65 billion euros at the end of June. But analysts say that banks will need to rely less on carry trades and more on making their traditional businesses profitable - and that means cutting costs. (additional reporting by Eva Taylor in¬†Frankfurt; editing by David Stamp)
From Morgan Stanley, a chart of the massive deleveraging still underway by European banks. Due to the weak economy and demands of improving capital ratios, European banks are shedding assets aggressively. This asset dumping, especially the dumping of foreign assets, tends to be Euro-bullish. Thus this chart represents a pattern similar to the great decline in Japan, where ongoing deleveraging was accompanied by burdensome yen strength. Morgan Stanley
Goldman Sachs / YouTubeGoldman's top economist Jan Hatzius is out with a new call: It is now the baseline expectation at the bank that at the March 2014 Fed meeting, the FOMC will lower the level at which it would start considering rate hikes. Currently the Fed is operating under something called Evan's Rule, which says that that the Fed will not think about rate hikes until either unemployment falls to 6.5% or inflation rises to 2.5%. Hatzius believes that the Fed will lower the unemployment threshold from 6.5% to 6.0%. This constitutes easing in that it implies low rates for a longer time. Hatzius has been talking about this possibility for awhile, but for the first time he sees this as his "base case." Why? Because two key economists at the Fed have just published research which supports this move. The most senior Fed staff economists for monetary policy analysis and domestic macroeconomics, William English and David Wilcox, have published separate studies that imply a strong case for a reduction in the 6.5% unemployment threshold for the first funds rate hike. We have proposed such a move for some time, but have been unsure whether it would in fact happen. And while the uncertainty around near-term Fed policy remains very considerable, our baseline view is now that the FOMC will reduce its 6.5% threshold to 6% at the March 2014 FOMC meeting, alongside the first tapering of QE. A move as early as the December 2013 meeting is possible, and if so, this might also increase the probability of an earlier tapering of QE.† It is hard to overstate the importance of two new Fed staff studies that will be presented at the IMF's annual research conference on November 7-8. The lead author for the first study is William English, who is the director of the Monetary Affairs division and the Secretary and Economist of the FOMC. The lead author for the second study is David Wilcox, who is the director of the Research and Statistics division and the Economist of the FOMC. The fact that the two most senior Board staffers in the areas of monetary policy analysis and domestic macroeconomics have simultaneously published detailed research papers on central issues of the economic and monetary policy outlook is highly unusual and noteworthy in its own right. But the content and implications of these papers are even more striking. The two papers can be found here and here. The upshot of both is that the US economy remains operating well below potential, and the benefit of much more easing heavily outweighs the risks. Further evidence that a drop in the unemployment threshold will be the Fed's preferred method of easing is that in the William English paper, there's little discussion of further QE as a useful tool for the Fed to hit goals. There's still a debate, as Hatzius notes, about whether the Fed will do anything in December of March (Hatzius obviously leans March). But this is the Fed's next move.
WOW. We just got the PMI report for the UK services sector, and it showed that the industry is growing at a ridiculously fast pace. The headline jumped from 60.3 to 62.5. That surpassed expectations of a slight dip. This is the best number since 1997. Markit Meanwhile, new business activity is at 17-year high. Markit Meanwhile, this is great news for jobs. Markit Meanwhile, via FinViz, the pound is surging. FinViz
ImgurAn eight-year-old girl has become China's youngest lung cancer patient, reports said, with doctors blaming pollution as the direct cause of her illness. The girl, whose name was not given, lives near a major road in the eastern province of Jiangsu, said Xinhuanet, the website of China's official news agency. It quoted Jie Fengdong, a doctor at Jiangsu Cancer Hospital in Nanjing, as saying she had been exposed to harmful particles and dust over a long period of time. Lung cancer cases among children are extremely rare, with the average age for diagnosis at about 70, according to the American Cancer Society. But the incidence of the disease has skyrocketed in China as the country's rapid development has brought with it deteriorating air quality, particularly in urban areas. Lung cancer deaths in China have multiplied more than four times over the past 30 years, according to Beijing's health ministry. Cancer is now the leading cause of death in the smog-ridden capital. The report of the eight-year-old girl's diagnosis comes after choking smog enveloped the northeastern city of Harbin two weeks ago, bringing flights and ground transport to a standstill and forcing schools to shut for several days, with visibility in some areas reduced to less than 50 metres. At the height of the smog, the city's levels of PM2.5 -- the smallest, most dangerous type of airborne particle -- reached 1,000 micrograms per cubic metre, 40 times the World Health Organization's recommended standard. High levels of PM2.5 have been linked to health problems including lung cancer and heart disease. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Flickr / CasaDeQuesoDon't blink! There's actually a tiny bit of red on the board. If history is any guide it won't last, but here's the action. US futures are down modestly, to the tune of 0.1%. European markets are down by about the same degree. As for news, there isn't a ton going on. The world is waiting for two big events going on this week: The ECB meeting on Thursday and the Non-Farm Payrolls report on Friday. Everything before that is just throat-clearing.
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinWorld Bank President Jim Yong Kim (L) talks with U.S. Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs Lael Brainard (C) as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke looks on before a family photo during a meeting of G20 finance ministers and central bank governors at the Manezh Exhibition Center in Moscow February 16, 2013.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Lael Brainard, a top economic diplomat at the U.S. Treasury, will step down from her post on Friday, a Treasury official said. As undersecretary of the Treasury for international affairs since 2010, Brainard, 51, has played a key role in pushing China toward a flexible currency and pressing Europe to tackle its debt crisis more aggressively. She reportedly has been under consideration to fill a vacancy at the Federal Reserve. (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Eric Walsh)
