Markets are open in Asia, and they are trading higher. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.9%. Korea's Kospi is up 0.3% Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.7% Also, the yen is trading lower. All of this comes in the wake of a U.S. market rally, which was driven by strong earnings announcements and better-than-expected economic data. Nikkei
CPSL via Vimeo Yesterday, I posted part one of the transcript from my Saturday Guardian interview with Jeremy Grantham, the environmental philanthropist and the legendary fund manager. Here's part two ... It started [in the mid-1990s] with a visit to the Amazon and to Borneo with the kids. And without thinking about it you start talking about the logs along the side of the river and the lack of mature forests in Borneo. We were on family trips and happened to do a couple of tropical forests back to back. I'm sure that played a role, but we didn't treat it as an epiphany. I would argue that one of our children got there first. While we were environmentalists, but low key, one of my sons happened to get a job which saw him end up in a dry tropical forest in Paraguay for five years and then off into the forestry business. Shortly behind that, we [his investment company GMO] began to follow that interest in forestry. We started our own forestry operation 15 years ago [at GMO] because our interest in forestry and of our realisation that land is so important. Forests were mispriced and were an attractive investment. My interest in forestry at that point was entirely commercial and then it began to morph into a decent investment, plus, "look how important these forests are to maintain fresh water, carbon sequestration, etc"‚Ä¶ I picked up none of that [James Hansen's 1988 testimony before Congress on climate change and the 1992 Rio Earth Summit]. No. Absolutely not. I was following along afterwards [once the foundation launched in 1997] asking the big NGOs where was the leverage for the birds flying through Costa Rica and Panama. Let's put our money there. Where were the hotspots? The climate question wasn't there for me at that time. Now it is at least half of the focus for the foundation. And in the other half it brushes up against climate all the time. We are late arrivals to all this and I have nothing but admirations to those who beat me to the punch by a few decades. I was a moderate environmentalist 10-15 years ago. But then I started to get embroiled in resources and that [the rise in price of] oil was the first paradigm shift that we'd ever come across in an important asset class, and nothing is more important than oil. I realised that the price of oil had changed forever and is not going back to the old $15 a barrel. There had been a majorly important shift. That led us to asking the question, why only oil? Why not every finite resource? And so we ended up about four years ago saying, "watch out, we seem to be running out of things". Two years ago, we did a very detailed paper which took on a life of its own and helped to put these issues onto institutional agenda items, I think. That led me to the realisation, by looking at the data, that between population growth and China gobbling up the world that the world had changed ‚Äî and dangerously so ‚Äî and hidden under that that oil and food were the two most dangerous components and within that [the availability of] phosphorous was perhaps the most dangerous long-term issue of all. Digging into the phosphate problem, you realised that it can be handled, but only if the great majority of the world is fed via sustainable farming which means nurturing the soil and having it once again full of micro-organisms. If you kill them every year with herbicides and pesticides then you're dealing basically with sand. You've got to restore and renew the ability to grow by re-applying all the nutrients in very big, expensive doses every year. This is in contrast to well-nurtured soil. There's a 30-year patch in Pennsylvania at the Rodale Institute where they've never put on any phosphorous at all and they are getting productivity equal to regular farming up the road. We arrived at all this just by looking at the numbers and the more I did the more I became concerned that we were already deep into a food crisis. Arab Spring countries were already getting throttled a bit by rising price of energy and food. They don't spend 8-10% of their budget on these, they spend 40%. So when that starts to double on you, you can see how quickly why people take to the streets. And that's where we are. The rich countries are really not that concerned and their casual behaviour is only serving to push up the price which is not that big a deal to them, certainly not the movers and shakers who make all the money. But it's a terrible deal for the poor half of the world and a disaster for the poorest 10% or so. That's the world we're in and it could lead to country after country being destabilised. It has forced me to go back and read all the classics. On my iPad I think I have 40 or so books now. I recommend a book by a scholar who summarises all these works back to Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire." It's called" Immoderate Greatness: Why Civilisations Fail" by William Ophuls. And then there's perhaps my favourite book of a more detailed type which is called "Dirt: The Erosion of Civilisation" [by David R Montgomery]. That's a really good read. Then there's "Collapse" by Jared Diamond, which seems to have done quite well and is reasonable. A lot of details are queried by the experts in the field, but I thought it was fine. Then there are books on peak oil and shortages of raw materials. Books on the whole package of long-term growth on a finite planet, going back to the Limits to Growth and a book by one of the co-authors that looks at the next 40 years. That's called "2052" [by Jorgen Randers]. And so on and so forth. Capitalism does millions of things better than the alternatives. It balances supply and demand in an elegant way that central planning has never come close to. However, it is totally ill-equipped to deal with a small handful of issues. Unfortunately, today, they are the issues that are absolutely central to our long-term wellbeing and even survival. It doesn't think long-term very well because of high discount rate structure. If you're a typical corporation anything lying out 30 years literally doesn't matter. Or, as I like to say: QED, your grandchildren have no value. And they usually act as if that was true, even though I'm sure they are actually very kind to their grandchildren. My favourite story is about the contract between the farmer and the devil. The devil says, "sign this contract and I'll triple your farm's profits". But there are 25 footnotes, as there always is with the devil. Footnote 22 says that 1% of your soil will be eroded each year, which is actually horrifyingly close to the real average over the past 50 years. The farmer signs and makes a fortune on a 40-year contract. And his son then signs up for the next 40-year contract and makes a fortune. And his son then signs up for the third and final contract. He still does very well, and in the final 20 years the family has accumulated enormous wealth, but the soil has gone. It's the same story for all his neighbouring farms and everyone is out of business. My sick joke is that at least he will die a rich farmer when all the starving hordes arrive from the city. Every graduate who took Econ 101 would probably sign that contract. There is no single theory that is used in economics that considers the finite nature of resources. It's shocking. But not as shocking as the pathetic waste of space over the last 50 years given to "rational expectations", which allows a whole generation of bankers and central bankers to believe that the market is efficient. None of it applies to the real world, or to messy human beings, many of whom are a little crooked when they have to be. It's been a disaster and a complete waste of time. It has been remarked before that modern economics is belief in a perpetual motion machine. Capital and labour, but no mention of energy. Without energy the whole thing grinds to a halt and the whole theory is demonstrated to be totally false. I'm late in the game at recognising this. One of my new heroes is an economist called Kenneth Boulding who, at 22, got a paper into Keynes's journal. At the age of about 50 he realised that economics was not taking its job seriously, that it was not interested in utility, in real serious improvement in the world, but that it was increasingly interested in new, elegant mathematical theories designed to get career advancement, over usefulness. He said the only people who believe you can have compound growth in a finite world are either mad men or economists. He also said: "Mathematics has brought rigor to economics. Unfortunately, it also brought mortis." The first point is that each fund we have at GMO ‚Äî maybe 80 or so ‚Äî is run by its own team. I don't think that money management can easily have too many rules coming down from the top. Our first responsibility is to make money for our clients. I'm happy to write them letters trying to persuade them to do this, that and the other, but if they choose not to, that is their choice, not ours. We should just be a conduit for the client's decision on ethics. They will usually sign up for a strategy for which quite a lot of institutions have the same portfolio. My job as the quarterly-letter writer is to try and influence the game a bit, but it has to be done in a firm like ours at the top level. The solitary factor that might appear to be an exception is that we are getting close to the decision [at GMO] not to carry coal stocks and anything that has a material amount of tar sands. We have a resource fund which, of course, has stuff in the ground. It owns oil and gas companies, but it does not own coal companies or tar sands enterprises. I have written in Fortune magazine that those extreme, dangerous, carbon-intensive and polluting resources run the very substantial risk of being stranded assets because, on one hand, I think the progress of solar and wind is moving faster than most investors realise and, on the other, I expect the continuous rise in the price of hydrocarbons as we continue to move through the cheap stuff and move on to the more expensive stuff in terms of getting it out of the ground. And I don't think that if you put billions of dollars into a new tar sands project that you will see a decent return on it. It will be underpriced by solar, wind and other alternatives which are moving at considerable speed. And point two is they will slap a carbon tax on coal and tar sands which increasingly countries here and there will do ‚Äî and, eventually, the U.S. in the hopefully not-too-distant future ‚Äî and that will be a death blow. If all this doesn't make these investments unprofitable, they will be very lucky. The probability of them running into trouble is too high for me to take that risk as an investor. If you look at the damage and you adopt a practical triage attitude, what you realise quickly is that every barrel of good, old-fashioned, relatively cheap oil will be pumped, as will every cubic foot of old-fashioned, low-cost natural gas. The real damage to the environment is the massive reserves of coal and tar sands, and elaborate, high-cost secondary/tertiary recovery of oil and gas. That's where the battle will be fought out and, frankly, that's going to turn out to be 60%-70% of the potential damage to the planet and we, with a bit of luck, can adjust to a world that uses up its conventional oil and gas if we behave well and drag that period out into the distant future. A lot of it will be used as chemical feedstock which is a higher and better use than using those precious resources as a fuel. Fracking enters the grey area. It's not old-fashioned natural gas that desires to burst to the top under its own free will. You have to torture it out of solid rock and that takes extra energy and extra pollution, and so on. That's why it is a grey-area fuel and that runs some risk of eventually becoming too high cost ‚Ä¶ The [Grantham] foundation can invest in anything it wants. It would be nice to make lots of money [for the foundation]. I believe there are certain forms of sustainable farming that will indeed perform well in the stock market and as an investment. This is not the money that we give out as grants each year. This is the principle behind it. So it's good to have some influence on both ends. [At GMO] we don't aim to have more than 10-15% in farms and forestry. The funds we run for clients are, to a certain degree, neutral on ethical issues. If there is a demand from the client ‚Äî which I hope there will be ‚Äî to have more green and sustainable funds, I hope GMO will do it one day. But in the meantime, with my foundation, I am the client, so it is entirely my right to set our own ethical standards. For the record, for the foundation I also approve the purchase of oil companies. I just won't buy coal and tar sands, for the reasons I've given. I reserve the right at a later date to say that one or two oil companies are simply too badly behaved. I haven't done that yet, partly because I don't have the required information. It also involves different interpretations of effectiveness and propaganda. I have an honest disagreement with Bill McKibben. Our foundation helps fund his efforts and I have great admiration for him. But I have argued with him that there's probably more juice to be had by going to the campuses and getting the students to stamp their feet that the college endowment should get rid of all their coal and tar sands investments because they can do that. For the record, we need oil. If we took oil away tomorrow, civilisation ends. We all starve. It's a little impractical and idealistic [to abandon oil immediately], perhaps. Now I understand there are other big issues, such as what does it take to concentrate the mind of a student and get them enthusiastic. In the long run, the carbon equation that Bill McKibben has gloriously helped to popularise in Rolling Stone is in front of everyone's nose. We've got five times the amount of carbon reserves to cook our goose. The question is what can we get away with and what sends the biggest signal. My thinking is that, if we could get dozens and dozens of colleges and foundations to sign up to getting rid of coal and tar sands, we're attacking something that is doable at the portfolio level ‚Äî the college is not going to feel that is a tremendous encumbrance for them to optimise their return ‚Äî but it represents 60-70% of the whole climate problem. By my reckoning, it's a very focused and efficient strategy. And when everything has been disposed of and there's a groupthink on the issue it's a very powerful statement to send rattling round the world. Coal and tar sands are not even 1% of a typical portfolio. Oil and gas, as one of the biggest industries out there, is huge, but coal and tar sands is negligible. Far better to nail that and send a very powerful signal. And why wouldn't the colleges sign up because it's very good business. I love the idea when you have an environmental argument backed by a good economic argument. I would like to concentrate my efforts in those areas. I understand the principle entirely of not interfering [with a fund manager's decision-making], but I wouldn't dream of doing that unless I believed the pay-off was very large and the penalty for doing nothing was very high. I think there is a wonderful case for a prestigious, leading university to have their endowment officially to take into account the long-term effect on the environment - not blanket forbidding this, that and the other, but just taken into account in a sensible way. There are other advantages, too. Rather like the corporations who have become quite green and project that image, the people who have signed up for a job have broadened a bit and as they build that image it has become a commercial advantage. It might be that only 10-20% of the graduating population of the top students are interested in the long-term wellbeing of the planet, but it's a measurable number and it's getting bigger and it's enough to be commercially interesting. If you are losing 20% of the brightest students because you have an undesirable image then you had better start to change it. This is one of the soft underbellies of the capitalist system and it's one way that they are impacted by, let's call it, good behaviour and sustainability in the broadest sense. It would also apply to students applying for college. My view of food leads me to believe that a spectacular investment is in farm land and in forestry. Or, if you prefer it, land. They don't make any more of it, as they say. Fifteen years ago we started a forestry division [at GMO] because I had fallen in love with land and trees and because I realised it was a mispriced asset class. We have done extremely well in that sector outperforming the benchmark for 15 years. I think farm land is a terrific investment area. But that doesn't mean that some mid-western land isn't ahead of itself because of recent grain prices. It's a very inefficient asset class and every farm is different, but you can hunt around the edge, and outside America, and you can find a decent return in an equity market that is becoming, in the US at least, rather overpriced. If you were to buy a farm, and I would be urging any buyer to think in terms of the sustainability of the farming technique, but here again our farming portfolio is relatively green but it's not by any means limiting itself to sustainable or organic farming. My foundation, on the other hand, is at the early stages of what I hope to be a long and interesting experiment of investing in this kind of more avant garde sustainable farming. As we discover useful information and potentially profitably information we will pass it on to our GMO unit for the clients' benefit. We've recently become very aware of the fact that as our knowledge base accumulates so rapidly, our learning curve is so steep, that the point of maximum sensitivity is shifting so we are quite grateful that we can't commit all our resources on one project. Now we're beginning to think, perhaps, we should cool it for a year or two, because our learning curve is so steep, and wait to see. But if I had a magic wand it would be energy storage. Secondly, alternative energy, in general. And, perhaps, co-equally, farming and looking ahead to the next problem of how do we move the world to sustainable farming. We could go to a couple of leading farm research universities and ask what does it take to beef up the programme and to train organic farmers and to publicise it so that every young man or woman with an urge to think about this can go and get a good training. They don't really exist, by the way. The three people on the planet who do exist might write in and protest, but it's insignificant, a rounding error compared to the training in "Big Ag". One could have quite an effect, such is the small base. Research into organic farming - there's been fairly minimal research into the intermediate crops that you can put on between the cash crops. They flower two weeks too late, or early, to be convenient. One of things we tried to do last year, but failed because we couldn't buy a farm, was to scale up the efforts of the very best organic system which had only taken place on very small plots. We were going to buy enough land to offer a project where they would have 350 acres each, maybe three of them, and would have three years to work out which system was best. We wanted to see how close to Big Ag you could get in productivity. In half-acre lots they can get to parity. Could you do that with 350 acres? And they used far less of the expensive in-puts and increasingly less as the years go by. And as the price of fertiliser and fuel rises that becomes more and more commercial, so it will be pushing in favour of sustainable farming and it will continue to push until its fully commercial. But in the meantime, it would be nice to save 5-10 years along that road by doing trials. We would like to be able to start doing a few things like that that will save a few years when it matters. ‚Ä¶ We're moving quite fast on various types of highly improved organic farming, upgrades to land, sequestered carbon, doubling of cattle capabilities, re-considering marginal land that had been degraded. It might not fall with organic certification standards, but it takes those principles and concentrates on developing sustainable methods of food production‚Ä¶ We [at the foundation] also want to project the argument for sensible behaviour in a world where the news media is full of anti-science nonsense. Heartbreakingly, the Guardian is an island amid remarkably bad British coverage of the environment, much worse, on average, than in the US. The newspaper industry [in the UK] has covered itself in shit when it comes to environmental reporting, except the Guardian. The TV is much worse in America than the UK, though. An accident of history. I can tell you where I stand today [on GM crops] and I will have to tell you again next year. That's part of the reason why we want to do these trials to find out exactly what you can do in terms of sustainability and simultaneously ask the question of what are the compromises. How much would it hurt your productivity and cost structure to move to a more hybrid version of organic? Is it a bargain given that pure organic gets a big premium? It may well be that hybrid form of farming may give you the best output per unit of sustainability, but the most money per unit may well come from total organic following the rule book and picking up a 50% premium for your product. ‚Ä¶ We have a 50% surplus of food, as we speak. We have tons of waste and a decent amount of land and huge areas which can be increased in efficiency by going organic in, say, Africa. If hypothetically someone said to you we all must change to organic across the board, you wave your wand and everyone does it, your productivity drops by 18%. We can absorb that today. By if we wait 30-40 years and have an 18% hit, they all starve. Fiscal and monetary policies are extraordinarily difficult at the moment. The history is not clear as to what works. The theory is even less clear. My guess is that you want to be careful about how quickly you tighten the austerity screws and that the more austerity-orientated approaches look to me more dangerous and seem to be delivering greater pain on the economy. Eventually, you have to address the question of debt, but I'm on the record as saying that I think the world in general exaggerates the significance of debt. That isn't to say it's insignificant, but what it is to say is that it's a paper world and it takes our attention away from the real world of the quality of education and training and the quality and quantity of capital investment and legal structure. We don't build things on paper and yet we've begun to talk as if we do. People say that the Chinese have built all their railroads on debt, to which I say, "no, they haven't". They've built them with real Chinese people and real cement and real steel that are part of the real world. When you run out of people and capital capacity then you can't increase any more. America conducted the world's greatest experiment in debt. It tripled the debt-to-GDP level from 1982, where it was 1.25x GDP, up to 3.5x over the next 30 years. And during this time what effect did this have on the long-term growth of the system? And that's the only reason they do it, just to get more growth? Everyone says that, of course, the financial burst caused devastation and brought us to our knees. Yes, it was a terrible idea and eminently avoidable, but if you look at the breaking of the housing bubble in America and you realise how many trillions of dollars would evaporate if it went back to the trend line of the ratio of house price to family income, you must realise that people are going to feel devastatingly poorer than they were. They still have the same house, but, in perception terms, they thought they had a pension fund stored up in their house and it went away. They feel poor and they are going to spend less and it will be a drag on the economy. It was a well-behaved bubble. It went extraordinarily high then all the way back in three years to trend line, and slightly below, and is now moving back up to trend. It was a huge hit to the economy and guaranteed the recovery would be slow. And if that was not enough there was a second factor ‚Äî the price of oil quadrupled and the price of other assets, such as metals and food, tripled from 2002-2008. Every time that had happened before, like 1974 and 1979 in the two oil crisis, it was followed by global recession. That alone should have been enough to cause a recession. Add that to the housing bust and you don't need to create any space to explain why we had a recession and a slow recovery. I remain open to persuasion that debt is that big a deal. We have had it foisted upon us that the general idea that finance is so incredibly important that, if a corner bank goes bust, the whole of civilisation grinds to a halt. It's enormously helpful to the banking system to have believed such nonsense, but I think that's what it is. Whether we have the nous to pull it off is an interesting question, but I think the odds are we will scrape through. Not that we deserve to. [Laughs]. It's a 50/50 shot that declining fertility rates and alternative energy will save our bacon. But nature and development don't run on a puritan basis of just punishment. It's often sheer luck. It's sheer luck we found hydrocarbons. It's sheer bad luck that carbon dioxide has a greenhouse effect. It's sheer bad luck that the oil industry has incredible vested power and is prepared to use it to delay the speed of our reaction. ‚Ä¶ It isn't that we can't do it, it's that the Anglo-Saxon countries ‚Äî where, by the way, there is a vast concentration of oil companies ‚Äî are rather intractable on this issue and they've managed to find a little army of non-scientific, persuasive "loony lords", as I call them, to argue the case, either because they like being wined and dined by the enemy, or because they're naturally contrarian and like the publicity, or that they are genuine idiots. Who knows? I'm always puzzled by the modus of these people. What we forget at the end of all this is Pascal's Wager. What is the penalty for acting as if this was really serious? You spend some money and end up with wonderfully cheap alternative energy? Big deal. Or you continue acting as if it's trivial and keep listening to the loony lords and doing nothing and having it cripple the planet as we know it? If the potential threat is big enough ‚Äî like insuring your house, it's a necessary payment even though you don't expect the house the burn down ‚Äî any sensible person who understands Pascal's Wager will agree to that. It's simply asymmetrical. The downside risk of this getting out of control is massive. The penalty for spending more money than you should have done because as it turns out, for scientific reasons, we have completed messed up and it's not as bad as we thought, are very modest in cost by comparison. That's the killer argument for any rational person, but, as we know, this is not about rationality. It's about our unwillingness to process unpleasant information. And the unwillingness of vested interests to stop funding this damn stuff. The Manhattan Project was brilliant and is the highpoint of our achievements as a species. Anyone who says government can't do this, or can't do that, I say a pox on you, have a look at the Manhattan Project. They did remarkable things. They were outside the box. They stuck the brightest minds out in the desert. They were herding cats with great egos, but it worked. Amazing effort. If we did that on alternative energy we are home free. Even half that. It was our best-ever response to a problem. Civilisations have fallen for the lack of something like that. For once, we came up with the right response, but you can't count on that being our natural reflex as a species. If it was, we would have analysed the problem of climate change and energy, and decided it was a bigger threat than Hitler. But we didn't get a Pearl Harbour or invasion of Poland. We're not programmed to respond to vague, problematical ‚Äî you can't put a precise number on it ‚Äî and the long term. That is not our strength. We're much better when the tiger attacks and the bombs drop. [Superstorm] Sandy was probably the closest thing we've had [in the US] to a Pearl Harbour moment in terms of moving public opinion of whether climate change is real. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
What was the most moved-to city in America last year? According to new U-Haul data, it's Houston, Texas. † The rankings reflect destinations of U-Haul trucks rented for a one-way move. It's worth noting that a survey by Penske declared Atlanta the top destination for movers. And by U-Haul's count, Atlanta is all the way down at 33. Here's the full list: 1. HOUSTON 26. FORT WORTH, Texas 2. ORLANDO, Fla. 27. RALEIGH, N.C. 3. CHICAGO 28. WASHINGTON, D.C. 4. LAS VEGAS 29. BALTIMORE 5. SAN ANTONIO 30. COLUMBIA, S.C. 6. AUSTIN, Texas 31. OKLAHOMA CITY 7. BROOKLYN, N.Y. 32. TULSA, Okla. 8. PHILADELPHIA 33. ATLANTA 9. KANSAS CITY, Mo. 34. COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. 10. SACRAMENTO, Calif. 35. VICTORVILLE, Calif. 11. COLUMBUS, Ohio 36. NASHVILLE, Tenn. 12. SAN DIEGO 37. PORTLAND, Ore. 13. NEW YORK CITY 38. SAN JOSE, Calif. 14. PHOENIX 39. TACOMA, Wash. 15. CHARLOTTE, N.C. 40. MIAMI, Fla. 16. INDIANAPOLIS 41. RICHMOND, Va. 17. DALLAS 42. SEATTLE 18. TAMPA, Fla. 43. CINCINNATI, Ohio 19. ST. LOUIS 44. LOUISVILLE, KY 20. JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 45. BAKERSFIELD, Calif. 21. LOS ANGELES 46. RENO, Nev. 22. TUCSON, Ariz. 47. OAKLAND, Calif. 23. SAN FRANCISCO 48. FRESNO, Calif. 24. BRONX, N.Y. 49. DENVER, Colo. 25. PLANO, Texas 50. EUGENE, Ore.
Molly CrabappleArtist Molly Crabapple describes 2011 as the year "everyone sat down in the main squares of their cities and said the old machine is broken." Occupy Wall Street began outside her window, and she began drawing the people that gathered in Zuccotti Park.¬†She then traveled¬†to Greece, London, and Spain to research how people were reacting to the prolonged financial crisis gripping the world. Her year of work is presented in ‚ÄúShell Game,‚Äù an exhibit that will be open to the public April 17 to 21 from 12 to 6 p.m. at the Smart Clothes Gallery in Manhattan. Crabapple sat down with Wired to explain how Occupy shaped the works and conversed with with Paul Mason to describe how she pulled it off. Crabapple told BI that the paintings "are sort of elegies for something gone" as the romanticism of the protests came back to earth in 2012. We've gathered Crabapple's pictures and commentary along with some of BI's pictures and observations from the opening.
The uncertainties and risks on the Korean peninsula have been with us for a long time, dating back to the end of the Korean War in 1953. The threat of invasion from North Korea and various actions it has instigated against South Korea over the years have been ongoing.¬†Therefore, most foreign investors are well aware of the situation and therefore we don‚Äôt believe we‚Äôll see any large scale investor withdrawal from South Korea at this stage, unless things change dramatically for the worse.¬†Certainly, any increase in tensions on the Korean peninsula could result in some capital moving from South Korea into other markets in Asia, such as China, Japan and Hong Kong. However, we do not see that happening broadly at this stage. Still not all that much is known about Kim Jong-un, the young man who took on the role of North Korea‚Äôs dynastic head. This does create some additional uncertainty and there is a risk that the regime will undertake some type of military action, launching missiles or nuclear tests, in an effort by the new leadership to try and show the outside world that there is no regime change, no plan for reunification with the south, or internal strife within the country. There‚Äôs no question that the U.S. has taken the most recent threats by North Korea seriously and we will keep a close eye on the situation. However, at this point at least, we aren‚Äôt seeing a market panic related to the tensions, but rather, some general nervousness tied to uncertainty. Risks and Reasons to be Optimistic  As we are long-time emerging markets investors, tensions on the Korean peninsula are not news to us. During crisis periods, market weakness can be viewed as potential buying opportunities, which could be the case in South Korea as we expect there could be periods of volatility. South Korea‚Äôs market also bears some risk from further weakness in the Japanese yen. Yen fluctuations can impact South Korea more than some other economies in the region because South Korea competes directly with Japan in the manufacture and export of value-added, high-technology products and machinery. Aside from these risks, we believe there are reasons to be optimistic about South Korea‚Äôs long-term investment potential. The government recently announced several policy measures to boost the domestic economy, and we think these measures could potentially kick-start growth and have a positive impact on the South Korean market once tensions ease. Right now we generally view valuations in Korea as attractive and corporate earnings appear resilient‚Äîjust like the Korean people. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
The Fed has clearly raised the issue of reversing their policy of quantitative easing, and investors have become more anxious. However, one should remember that the Fed is generally a lagging indicator, and that a tightening of monetary policy is unlikely so long as the overall economic growth and inflation remain anemic. Investors also seem to be missing the basic point that their own high levels of anxiety are one of the reasons the Fed is unlikely to begin reversing policy anytime soon. The Fed doesnít want to prematurely tighten monetary policy which might cause the financial markets to quickly reverse, the cost of capital to simultaneously rise, and investor and business confidence to rapidly decrease. History suggests that changes to monetary policy lag most cycles, and instances during which the Fed negatively shocked the markets have been rare. The economy will dictate policy to the Fed, and our guess is that the Fed will eventually tighten only when a strong and broad consensus forms that the economy can withstand a tightening cycle. That surely doesnít seem to be the case today. The Fed historically lags the markets It is somewhat curious that investors think the Fed is a leading indicator because history demonstrates that the Fed is typically a lagging indicator. It makes sense that the Fed is a lagging indicator because they focus primarily on inflation and the unemployment rate. Both inflation and the unemployment rate are classic lagging indicators of the US economy. Chart 1 shows the historical relationship between the Fed Funds target rate and the three-month t-bill rate for the roughly twenty-five year period prior to the recent credit bubble. The three-month bill rate generally led the target rate demonstrating that the markets are generally ahead of the Fed with respect to the tightening or easing of monetary policy. Richard Bernstein Chart 2 shows the current relationship between the 3-month bill rate and the Fed Funds target. The bill rate has not meaningfully increased, which argues that short- term interest rates, at least, are not set to rise. If the bill rate were to start meaningfully increasing, it might signal a significant change in monetary policy at the short end of the yield curve. Richard Bernstein Extricating from QE and the possible unexpected results Investors should consider two aspects to the Fed unwinding quantitative easing. First, will the central bank lead or lag the economy. In other words, will they anticipate sustainable growth or will they react to it? The analysis above and the Fedís own statements suggest that Fed policy, whether at the short-end or long-end of the yield curve, are likely to lag the cycle. If the Fedís policies will indeed be reactive, then the markets will give plenty of warning that a tightening of policy at the long end of the curve might occur. As mentioned, a consensus will likely form that the Fed is ìbehind the curveî. Second, investors should consider how the unwinding QE might affect the overall economy. In this respect, the thinking so far seems somewhat nai®ve to us. Most investors, and we believe the Fed itself, believe that the economy will necessarily slow if the Fed begins to reverse QE by selling longer-dated bonds and steepening the yield curve. We think it is more likely that the Fed might perversely stimulate the economy by improving the profitability on loans and carry trades. The combination of improved business confidence and improved lending margins seems likely to stimulate the economy rather than slow it. Playing catch-up once again to the inevitable end story The Fed believes that reversing QE will slow the economy. However, a steeping yield curve and stronger business confidence argue otherwise. If we are correct, then the Fed could once again be forced to play catch-up to the markets during the mid- and late-cycle. As most cycles mature, the Fed typically realizes that their policies have been too accommodative for the maturity of the cycle.†† †Production bottlenecks and shortages become more frequent, and inflation pressures begin to build. The Fed then rushes to tighten monetary policy in an attempt to make up for the earlier hesitancy to tighten. The traditional end result has been that the Fedís late-cycle aggressive policies go to far (i.e., they over-tighten policy), the yield curve inverts, and a recession follows. This cycle seems poised to follow that historical pattern. The Fed remains fearful of tightening too early and has told investors that they will react to the economyís strength. Their reaction time will probably be slow as well. If our contention that reversing QE might stimulate the economy is correct, then the frequency and magnitude of Fed tightening is likely to accelerate as they realize theyíve created a monster. Their rush to equalize monetary policy with the strength in the economy could lead them to over-tighten and invert the yield curve. A recession would probably follow, and the cycle would end in a very traditional manner. Near-term investors seem overly worried. When itís time to worry, theyíll likely be complacent. Our sentiment work indicates that investors seem too worried about the near-term effects of a tightening of monetary policy. However, we think the Fed will be slow to tighten, and weíre not sure their tightening efforts will succeed.†† †We anticipate, however, that investorsí fears today will morph into confidence which will, in turn, transform into the overconfidence that characterizes every late-cycle environment. Investors generally ignore the warning signals of inverted yield curves. Instead of following the powerful historical signal, they get caught up in the bullish moment. Late-2006/early- 2007 was the last example. This cycleís construction has been different, but most cycleís constructions are unique. Was the 1982 bull market, with massive and unprecedented interest rate cuts constructed any more unusually than todayís bull market? Was the 1991 bull market in the aftermath of the S&amp;L crisis and the RTC constructed any more unusually than todayís bull market? As weíve pointed out many times, fear and indecision are the cornerstones of bull markets, and it is certainly the cornerstone of the present one. Will this bull market end any differently than have other bull markets? We doubt it. When the curve inverts and the consensus is that the inversion doesnít matter, thatís probably when investors should worry. Until that occurs, we think it will ultimately pay to be bullish.
An envelope sent to an office of Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) tested positive for the deadly poison ricin, according to a report in¬†Politico. CNN reported that the envelope was intercepted¬†at the U.S. Capitol's off-site mail facility in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday. It was tested three times for ricin and tested positive all three times.¬† A Wicker spokesperson said that the investigation was "ongoing" and directed inquiries to Capitol police. Capitol police didn't immediately respond to repeated inquiries. NBC's Kasie Hunt reported¬†that mail to the Senate has been halted, likely through the end of the week. According to CNN, Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) told reporters that police have already identified a suspect. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, ricin is a poison naturally found in castor beans. It gets¬†inside the cells of a person's body, preventing the cells from making any proteins. It¬†can come in the forms of a powder, a mist, or a pellet, or it can be dissolved in water or weak acid. A ricin scare in 2004 temporarily shut down three Senate offices.¬†Postal workers began sorting through an off-site after the 2001 anthrax attacks that targeted, among others, then-Majority Leader Tom Daschle and Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from¬†Business Insider¬†that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Stock Market Is 'Due For A Wipeout' (Advisor Perspectives) Adam Butler, Mike Philbrick, Rodrigo Gordillo of Butler|Philbrick|Gordillo &amp; Associates write that stock investors should be worried. They looked back to 1871 to identify bull markets (a 50% rise in prices from the peak that last at least 30 months) based on the S&amp;P 500 Shiller series. Here's what they found: "The core hurdle is that the current bull market has (through end of February) already delivered 105% of gains, against the median 124% bull market run through history (using monthly data). Of course, this means that, should this bull market deliver an average surge, investors can hope for less than 20% more growth from this cycle. Further, given that the median bull market has historically lasted 50 months, and we are currently in our 49th bull month, we are about due for a wipeout. "It's troubling enough that the current bull market has already delivered 85% of the gains, and lasted about as long, as the median historical bull market. More disconcerting still is the fact that, when the bear market comes, ‚Ä¶it is likely to wipe out 38% of all prior gains. And this has profound mathematical implications for current equity investors." Investors Are Bullish On U.S. Stocks And Bearish On Emerging Market Stocks, Especially India (Marketwatch) Bank of America's latest fund manager survey found that 20% are overweight U.S. stocks, a 10-month high. Only 7% now worry about a U.S. fiscal crisis, down from 37% in January. 13% are overweight emerging markets stocks, this is an 18-month low. Investors were most down in India going where they were 27% underweight.  There's Big Trouble Coming For Corporate Profit Margins (Gluskin Sheff) While the unemployment rate has ticked lower, it is because of a decline in the labor participation rate. But this decline has a lot to do with people voluntarily quitting.¬† And this ultimately points to higher wage growth.¬† While this might be good for people, "the flip side is that as the labor share of the national income pie mean reverts off its all-time lows, we are likely to see profit margins pinched," writes Rosenberg. "This is the big risk ‚Äì margin compression affects the 'E', while inflation, insofar as the tight historical relationship with final prices holds, even if to a smaller degree this time around, affects the P/E." Gluskin Sheff Federal Court Finds Matthew Hutcheson Guilty Of 17 Counts Of Wire Fraud (Investment News) A federal court in Idaho has found retirement trustee Matthew D. Hutcheson guilty of 17 counts of wire fraud involving two retirement accounts. The first 12 frauds involved wire transfers in the amount of $2.03 million from the G Fiduciary Retirement Income Security Plan's account. The other five wire frauds amounting to $3 million involved the Retirement Security Plan &amp; Trust. Hutcheson will be sentenced on July 23. A related civil case in ongoing. The Citi Economic Surprise Index Just Went Negative (Business Insider) Citi's Economic Surprise Index attempts to capture economic data relative to expectations. A positive number in the index shows that data is beating expectations, a negative number shows that data is missing expectations. Recently, data has been missing expectations. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Americans' sentiment toward gold as an investment has been on the decline.¬† But according to a new Gallup poll, gold was nevertheless perceived as the best investment by 24% of Americans. That's more than those who prefer stocks or bonds. Gallup's survey was conducted from April 4-7, which was before the recent gold price collapse. Here's the chart: Gallup And here's a demographic breakdown of the responses: Gallup What's most striking here is the male-female breakdown: while 29% of the former believe gold is safest, just 19% of the latter do.
More than thirty people were charged by federal authorities in a massive illegal gambling, money laundering, and extortion scheme tied to Russian organized crime, according to an indictment in the U.S. District Court Southern District of New York. The operation allegedly involved two criminal organizations, Nahmad-Trincher (based in Los Angeles and NYC), which catered to millionaires, billionaires and poker pros, and Taiwanchik-Trincher (based in Kiev, NYC, and Moscow), which serviced oligarchs from Russia and the former Soviet Union. According the indictment, these groups had operations spanning across continents with defendants located in Los Angeles, Russia, New York and the former Soviet Union, bank accounts in Switzerland, holding companies in Cyprus and the United States, and a gambling website in Taiwan. The characters in the drama include the son of a billionaire art dealer, a Bronx plumber, a JPMorgan branch manager, a real estate firm in New York, a car repair shop in Brooklyn, and a Russian man charged with allegedly bid-rigging the Salt Lake City 2002 Olympic Games, etc.¬† Basically, this goes deep. The Taiwanchik-Trincher Organization, which the indictment identifies as an "international organized¬†crime group with leadership based in New York City, Kiev, and¬†Moscow," was allegedly led by Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov (a.k.a. "Alik"), Vadim Trincher (a.k.a. "Dima"), and Anatoly Golubchick (a.k.a. "Tony"), the indictment said. They are all named as defendants. You might recognize the name Tokhatkhounov. He was the guy charged with allegedly bribing officials at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City, according to the indictment. Based in Russia,¬†Tokhatkhounov was allegedly referred to as "Vor," which is defined as a Russian term meaning "Thief-in-Law." It's basically like a version of the "Godfather," and is a moniker bestowed on the highest-level criminal figures from the former Soviet Union. According to the indictment, a "Vor" gets tribute from other criminals, offers protection, and uses "their authority to resolve disputes among criminals." Tokhatkhounov's group allegedly ran an¬†illegal¬†gambling business, money laundering, extortion, and other¬†criminal operations.¬†The crux of their business, however, was a series of high-stakes poker games and gambling activities frequented by oligarchs. Nahmad-Trincher, based in Los Angeles and NYC, was structured in much the same way, but catered to Wall Streeters, pro athletes, and Hollywood stars, The New York Times reported. No famous figures were named specifically in the indictment. Names or not, we're talking big money here ‚Äî like $50 million running through Cypriot and American shell companies, or $499,800 sent to a bank account in Taiwan owned by an illegal gambling website operating in the United States, or $850,000 moving from a Swiss bank account to a U.S. bank account under the control of Noah "The Oracle" Seigel. To hide all these transactions, says the complaint, the Trincher groups relied on a sophisticated money laundering operation. Not only did they run money through a Brooklyn car garage, a real estate company, and an online used car dealership, but they also used a JP Morgan branch manager in NYC named Ronald Uy. Uy, who was named as a defendant, allegedly assisted "in structuring several transactions at the Bank¬†designed in part to avoid generating currency transaction¬†reports," according to the indictment.¬† Of course, gambling doesn't work out for everyone all the time. When one client wins, another one must lose. Losers playing in the Trincher group's high stakes games could, according to the Feds, expect violence or at least threats of it. In one case," Nahmad-Trincher allegedly took control of 50% of "Client-3's" Bronx-based plumbing business when he racked up $2 million in gambling debt. There were several arrests made today in New York, Los Angeles, Miami and other places, according to the New York Post.¬† Earlier this morning, the FBI raided Helly Nahmad Art Gallery at the swanky Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan's Upper East Side. The Feds were looking for Helly Nahmad, the son of billionaire art baron David Nahmad.¬†
I am very disappointed by, but not surprised at, the latest transfer of weath to the bankers from everyone else.¬† The most recent gold bear raid has vastly enriched the bullion bankers, once again, at the expense of everyone trying to protect their wealth from global central bank money printing. The central plank of Bernanke's magic recovery plan has been to get everybody back borrowing, spending, and "investing" in stocks, bonds, and other financial assets.¬† But not equally so - he has been instrumental in distorting the landscape towards risk assets and away from safe harbors. That's why a 2- year loan to the US government will only net you 0.22%, a rate that is far below even the official rate of inflation.¬† In other words, loan the US government $10,000,000 and you will receive just $22,000 per year for your efforts and lose wealth in the process because inflation reduced the value of your $10,000,000 by $130,000 per year.¬† After the two years is up, you are up $44k but out $260k for net loss of $216,000. That wealth, or purchasing power, did not just vanish: it was taken by the process of inflation and transferred to someone else.¬† But to whom did it go?¬† There's no easy answer for that, but the basic answer is that it went to those closest to the printing press.¬† It went to the government itself which spent your $10,000,000 loan the instant you made it, and it went to the financiers that play the leveraged game of money who happen to be closest to the Fed's printing press. This explains, almost completely, why the gap between the rich and everyone else is widening so rapidly, and why financiers now populate the top of every Forbes 400 list. ¬†There is no mystery, just a process of wealth transfer of magnificent and historic proportions; one that has been repeated dozens of times throughout history. This Gold Slam Was By And For The Bullion Banks A while back I noted to Adam that the gold slams that were first detected back in January were among the weakest I'd ever seen. ¬†Back then I was seeing the usual pattern of late night, thin-market futures dumping which I had seen before in 2008 and 2011, two other periods when precious metals were slammed hard.¬† The process is simple enough to understand; if you want to move the price down for any asset, your best results will happen in a thin market when there's not a lot of participation so whatever volume you supply has a chance of wiping out whatever bids are sitting on the books. ¬†It is in those dark hours that the market makers just dump, preferably as fast as possible. This is exactly what I saw repeatedly leading up to Friday's epic dump-fest. The mainstream media (MSM), for its part, fully supports these practices by failing to even note them, and the CFTC has never once commented on the practice, and we all know that central banks support a well contained precious metals (PM) price because they are actively trying to build confidence in their fiat money, and rising PM prices serve to reduce confidence. Here's a perfect example of the MSM in action, courtesy of the Financial Times: ‚ÄúThere is no other way to put gold‚Äôs recent sell-off: nasty,‚Äù said Joni Teves, precious metals strategist at UBS in London, adding that gold would have to work to ‚Äúrebuild trust‚Äù among investors. Tom Kendall, precious metals analyst at Credit Suisse said ‚ÄúOnce again gold investors are being reminded that the metal is not a very effective hedge against broad-based risk-off moves in the commodity markets.‚Äù There are two things to note in these snippets.¬† The first is that the main ideas being promoted about gold are that it is no longer to be trusted, and that somehow the recent move is a result of "risk off" decisions meaning, conversely, that there is increased trust in the larger financial markets that 'investors' are rotating towards.¬† Note that these ideas are exactly the sort of messages that central bankers quite desperately want to have conveyed. The second observation is even more interesting; namely that the only people quoted work directly for the largest bullion banks in the world.¬† These are the very same outfits that stood to gain enormously if precious metals dropped in price.¬† Of course they are thrilled with the recent sell off.¬† They made billions. In February Credit Suisse 'predicted' the gold market had peaked, SocGen said the end of the gold era was upon us, and recently Goldman Sachs told everyone to short the metal. While that's somewhat interesting, you should first know that the largest bullion banks had amassed huge short positions in precious metals by January.  The CFTC rather coyly refers to the bullion banks as simply 'large traders' but everyone knows that these are the bullion banks.¬† What we are seeing in that chart is that out of a range of commodities the precious metals were the most heavily shorted, by far.¬† So the timeline here is easy to follow - the bullion banks: While I am almost 100% certain that any decent investigation by the CFTC would reveal that market manipulating 'dumping' was happening, I am equally certain that no such investigation will occur.¬† That's because the point of such a maneuver by the bullion banks is designed to transfer as much wealth from 'out there' and towards the center and the CFTC is there to protect the center's 'right' to do exactly that. This all began on Friday April 12th, and one of the better summaries is provided by Ross Norman of Sharps Pixley, a London Bullion brokerage: The gold futures markets opened in New York on Friday 12th April to a monumental 3.4 million ounces (100 tonnes) of gold selling of the June futures contract (see below) in what proved to be only an opening shot. The selling took gold to the technically very important level of $1540 which was not only the low of 2012, it was also seen by many as the level which confirmed the ongoing bull run which dates back to 2000. In many traders minds it stood as a formidable support level... the line in the sand.¬† Two hours later the initial selling, rumored to have been routed through Merrill Lynch's floor team, by a rather more significant blast when the floor was hit by a further 10 million ounces of selling (300 tonnes) over the following 30 minutes of trading. This was clearly not a case of disappointed longs leaving the market - it had the hallmarks of a concerted 'short sale', which by driving prices sharply lower in a display of 'shock &amp; awe' - would seek to gain further momentum by prompting others to also sell as their positions as they hit their maximum acceptable losses or so-called 'stopped-out' in market parlance - probably hidden the unimpeachable (?) $1540 level. The selling was timed for optimal impact with New York at its most liquid, while key overseas gold markets including London were open and able feel the impact. The estimated 400 tonne of gold futures selling in total equates to 15% of annual gold mine production - too much for the market to readily absorb, especially with sentiment weak following gold's non performance in the wake of Japanese QE, a nuclear threat from North Korea and weakening US economic data. The assault to the short side was essentially saying "you are long... and wrong".  (Source - originally found at ZH) The areas circled represent the largest 'dumps' of paper gold contracts that I have ever seen.¬† To reiterate Ross's comments, there is no possible way to explain those except as a concerted effort to drive down the price. To put this in context, if instead of gold this were corn we were talking about, 128,000,000 tonnes of corn would have been sold during a similar 3 hour window, as that amount represents 15% of the world's yearly harvest.¬† And what would have happened to the price?¬† It would have been driven sharply lower, of course.¬† That's the point, such dumping is designed to accomplish lower prices, period, and that's the very definition of market manipulation. For a closer-up look at this process, let's turn to Sunday night and with a resolution of about 1 second (the chart above is with 5 minute 'windows' or candles as they are called).¬† Here I want you to see that¬† whomever is trading in the thin overnight market and is responsible for setting the prices is not humans.¬† Humans trade small numbers of contracts and in consistently random amounts. Here's an example:  Note that the contracts number in the single digits to tens, are randomly distributed, and that the scale on the right tops out at 80, although no single second of trades breaks 20. Now here are a few patterns that routinely erupted throughout the drops during Sunday night (yes, I was up very late watching it all):    These are just a few of the dozens of examples I captured over a single hour of trading before I lost interest in capturing any more. As I was watching this and discussing it with Adam in real time, I knew that I was watching the sort of HFT/computer trading robots that we've discussed here so much in the past.¬† They are perfectly designed to chew through bid structures and that's what you see above.¬† They are 'digesting' all the orders that were still on the books for gold, to remove them so that lower and lower stops could be run. Anybody that had orders up against these machines, perhaps with stops in place, or perhaps even asleep because this all happened in the hours around midnight EST, lost and lost big. There is really no chance to stand again players this large with a determination to drive prices lower.¬† At the very least, I take the above evidence of computer assisted declines of this magnitude to be a sign that our "markets" are completely broken and quite vulnerable to a crash.¬† That the authorities did not step in to halt these markets during such a volatile decline, when they have repeatedly stepped into other markets and individual equity shares on lesser declines, tells me much about the level of official support for such a decline. It also tells me that things are speeding up and the next decline in the equity or bond markets may happen a lot faster than anybody is expecting. Unintended Consequences If the intended consequences of this move were to enrich the bullion banks and to chase investors away from gold and other commodities and into stocks, what are the unintended consequences going to be? While I cannot dispute that the bullion banks made out like bandits, I also wonder if perhaps instead of signaling that the dollar is safer than gold, that the banks did not unintentionally send the larger signal that deflation is gaining the upper hand? With deflation, everything falls apart.¬† It is the most feared thing to the powers that be and for good reason.¬† Without inflation, and at least nominal GDP growth, if not¬†real¬†growth, then all of the various rescues and steadily growing piles of public debt will slump towards outright failure, and possibly collapse. ¬†The unintended consequence of dropping gold so powerfully is to signal that deflation is winning the day. If this view is correct, then the current sell off in gold, as well as in other commodities (detailed in part II), will simply be the trigger for a loss of both confidence and liquidity in the system and that will not bode well for the larger economy or equities.¬† In Part II: Protecting Your Wealth From Deflation we explore the growing signs that the money printing efforts of the central planners are seeing diminishing returns and are failing in their intended effect to kick-start global economic growth higher. Deflationary forces appear poised to take the upper hand here, sending asset prices lower -- potentially much lower -- across the board.¬† If deflation indeed manages to break out from under the central banks efforts to contain it, even if only for a short period, how bad will the ensuing wave of price instability be? How can one position for it? How extreme will the measures the central banks take in response be? And what impact will that have on asset prices, the dollar and precious metals? We are entering a new chapter in the unfolding of our economic emergency, one in which the risks to capital are greater than ever. And the rules are increasingly being re-written to the disadvantage of us individuals. The one unfair advantage we have is that history is very clear on how these periods of economic malfeasance end. Let's exploit that as best we're able. Click here to read Part II of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access).
Steny HoyerTwo hot-button political issues were tied to the Boston Marathon bombings on Tuesday, as both conservatives and liberals used the event to push their respective policy agendas. On the conservative side, several conseravatives have suggested¬†that the Boston Marathon attacks should delay the debate over immigration reform, which was expected to begin in the Senate this week.  Meanwhile, top liberals and Democrats used the incident as an excuse to rail against the across-the-board budget cuts known as the sequester, with former Rep. Barney Frank saying that the attacks show the importance of a "well-funded government."¬† Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), a prominent conservative known for his controversial statements, told¬†National Review Online that Congress should wait to move on immigration until a suspect is identified.¬† "Some of the speculation that has come out is that yes, it was a foreign national and, speculating here, that it was potentially a person on a student visa,‚Äù King told NRO. ‚ÄúIf that‚Äôs the case, then we need to take a look at the big picture.‚Äù "If we can‚Äôt background-check people that are coming from Saudi Arabia," he added, "how do we think we are going to background check the 11 to 20 million people that are here from who knows where?‚Äù His sentiments were¬†echoed by conservative radio host Laura Ingraham, who said on her radio show Tuesday morning that she didn't feel there were stringent enough background checks on people entering the country. "It's interesting that at this moment, we are considering legalizing or giving legalized status to millions of people," Ingraham said. "Pretty much none of them have gone through any rigorous background checks." Both statements came before officials said¬†that the Saudi national was being treated as a witness, and not a suspect. When asked about the tragedy, House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer said that the incident represented "proof" of the need to cancel the sequester cuts. "I think this is clearly another place where it is demonstrated why having the ability to address security concerns is important.¬† I think this is another proof of that.¬† If proof is needed, which I don't think frankly it is," Hoyer told reporters when asked about the sequester. Frank said it spoke to a need for a boost in government spending. "I never was, as a member of Congress, one of the cheerleaders for less government, lower taxes. No tax cut would have helped us deal with this or will help us recover. This is very expensive," Frank said. This post has been updated.
After being forced to ground flights for much of the day after a technical problem with its reservation system, American Airlines is back in service, but expects continued delays and cancellations, the company said in a Facebook post. The company said in the statement at 3:30 CDT that if passengers were already at the airport and had to travel Tuesday, they could rebook with another airline. If they had not yet arrived, they could rebook though American Airlines' reservation system or through another carrier, and the company would honor the difference. The airline also said it would not charge for reservation changes, and would offer full refunds to anyone who chose not to fly today. "It is important to note we see no evidence that todayís technical outage is related to the tragic events in Boston," the statement said. The American Airlines reservation system, which operates more than 3,000 flights daily, suffered a complete outage earlier today. Here is the company's statement. The Associated Press†noted†that†American had canceled at least seven flights and was experiencing delays on more than 50 others. FlightAware CEO Daniel Baker told CNBC that more than†100,000 people could be affected. "At 1 pm they basically stopped dispatching new flights, stopped boarding new flights, stopped allowing people to check in," he said. #BREAKING: @americanair reservation system experiencing outages. @angiecrouch just snapped this pic at #LAX. twitter.com/NBCLA/status/3Ö Here's what American has to say: UPDATE: Weíre currently unable to modify todayís reservations. However, when able, weíll offer refunds or update travel at no charge. † As of 4: 02 EST, @AmericanAir is still (politely)†telling people they have a system-wide outage. @trollercoasting We are experiencing a system outage at this time, Rusty. We appreciate your patience as we resolve the problem. † Some people are stuck on planes while others wait in the airport:
The big scandal in the world of economics today is a new paper attempting to refute claims put forth by Harvard econ professors¬†Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff that high levels of government debt result in slower growth. We already posted a response from Reinhart and Rogoff, which essentially says that the critique is overblown, and that ultimately the critics corroborate the essence of the paper, which is that high debt does result in slower growth. We just got the following chart from Professor Carmen Reinhart, which further clarifies the ¬†statement she sent out with Ken Rogoff. It shows that Herndon, Ash et. al. (the other papers authors) got almost the exact same results as she and Rogoff did in their original paper, "Growth in a Time of Debt" ‚Äî namely, that higher debt resulted in slower growth. The key thing to look at is the MEAN column under HAP (2013) which shows that as debt/GDP increases, mean GDP growth does decline. Still there's a difference. HAP's mean is 2.2%, whereas Reinhart and Rogoff's mean growth at the above 90% debt/GDP level is -0.1% for the years 1945-2009. Here is Reinhart's (brief) correspondence in full. We've also spotlighted the main sections in red: Further to our very preliminary reaction. I attach a table to help clarify the discussion. Carmen Reinhart
If you're going to quit your job to pursue your dream job of making cakes for a living, then writing your resignation letter on a cake is definitely the right move. On his 31st birthday, Chris Holmes‚Äînow known to the public as "Mr. Cake"‚Äîdecided it was time to quit his job as a¬†Border Agency official at London's Stansted Airport¬†and do something he's passionate about that would allow¬†him to spend more time with this family.  For Holmes, this meant pursuing a¬†cake business¬†called Mr. Cake¬†and notifying his employers with actual icing on a cake. Holmes' sweet resignation letter quickly went viral when his brother-in-law tweeted a picture of it to the world.¬†Note the bottom of the cake has a nice plug for his business, so this is great marketing as well: So, my brother-in-law has resigned from his 9-to-5 job in spectacular fashion. Jerry Maguire meets Masterchef. twitter.com/ee_stu/status/‚Ä¶ ¬† (Via @lucytobin and @Roeld_) In an interview with Elodie Harper at Sawston's local news station ITV news, Holmes said that his decision "seemed like the obvious choice."  "... Having set up a cake company, I thought I would leave them with a memento that would be a nice way of remembering me. I had the idea six months ago so I've kept it to myself since then." "I think [my boss] was pleasantly surprised, of all the resignations businesses get, I think that's probably a nice way for an employee to leave and I hope they enjoyed the cake as well as the resignation." Holmes' employers told Harper that they wished him "all the best"¬†in his new business venture.
IntelIntel CEO Paul OtelliniIntel's first quarter earnings report is out. The company reported earnings of $0.40 per share, right in line with estimates. Revenues came in at $12.58 billion, just below the $12.59 billion predicted by analysts. Intel said it sees second quarter revenues in the range of $12.4-13.4 billion. Analysts were expecting $12.85 billion. The stock is trading up 3.3% in the after-hours session. Below is the full text from the release: SANTA CLARA, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Intel Corporation today reported first-quarter revenue of $12.6 billion, operating income of $2.5 billion, net income of $2.0 billion and EPS of $0.40. The company generated approximately $4.3 billion in cash from operations, paid dividends of $1.1 billion, and used $533 million to repurchase 25 million shares of stock. ‚ÄúAmidst market softness, Intel performed well in the first quarter and I‚Äôm excited about what lies ahead for the company,‚Äù said Paul Otellini, Intel president and CEO. ‚ÄúWe shipped our next generation PC microprocessors, introduced a new family of products for micro-servers and will ship our new tablet and smartphone microprocessors this quarter. We are working with our customers to introduce innovative new products across multiple operating systems. The transition to 14nm technology this year will significantly increase the value provided by Intel architecture and process technology for our customers and in the marketplace.‚Äù Q1 Key Financial Information and Business Unit Trends Business Outlook Intel‚Äôs Business Outlook does not include the potential impact of any business combinations, asset acquisitions, divestitures or other investments that may be completed after April 16. Q2 2013 Full-Year 2013 For additional information regarding Intel‚Äôs results and Business Outlook, please see the CFO commentary at:¬†www.intc.com/results.cfm. Status of Business Outlook Intel‚Äôs Business Outlook is posted on intc.com and may be reiterated in public or private meetings with investors and others. The Business Outlook will be effective through the close of business June 14 unless earlier updated; except that the Business Outlook for amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, impact of equity investments and interest and other, and tax rate, will be effective only through the close of business on April 23. Intel‚Äôs Quiet Period will start from the close of business on June 14 until publication of the company‚Äôs second-quarter earnings release, scheduled for July 17, 2013. During the Quiet Period, all of the Business Outlook and other forward-looking statements disclosed in the company‚Äôs news releases and filings with the SEC should be considered as historical, speaking as of prior to the Quiet Period only and not subject to an update by the company. Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr / utnapistimMaybe we're not heading toward an economic spring swoon. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,756, +157.5 pts, +1.0%S&amp;P 500: 1,574, +22.2 pts, +1.4%NASDAQ: 3,264, +48.1 pts, +1.5% And now the top stories:
The world of economics is in meltdown mode over a new paper claiming professors Ken Rogoff and Carmen Reinhart were using improper data to make the case that large public debt is a terrible idea for economic growth. Their full response is below. Here are their main points:  We literally† just received this draft comment, and will review it in due course.†† On a cursory look, it seems that that Herndon Ash and Pollen also find lower growth when debt is over 90% (they find 0-30 debt/GDP , 4.2% growth;†† 30-60, 3.1 %;† 60-90, 3.2%,;† 90-120, 2.4% and over 120, 1.6%).† These results are, in fact, of a similar order of magnitude to the†detailed country by country†results we present in table 1 of the†AER†paper, and to the median results in Figure 2.† And they are similar to estimates in much of the large and growing† literature,† including our own attached August 2012†Journal of Economic Perspectives paper†(joint with Vincent Reinhart) .† However, these strong similarities are not what these authors choose to emphasize. The† 2012†JEP†paper largely anticipates and addresses any concerns about aggregation (the main bone of contention here), The†JEP†paper† not only provides individual country averages (as we already featured in Table 1 of the 2010†AER†paper)† but it goes further and provide episode by episode averages.† Not surprisingly, the results are broadly similar to our original 2010 AER table 1 averages and to the median results that also figure prominently..† It is hard to see how one can interpret these tables and individual country results as showing that public debt overhang over 90% is clearly benign. † The JEP paper with Vincent Reinhart looks at all public debt overhang episodes for advanced countries in our database, dating back to 1800.† The overall average result shows that public debt overhang episodes (over 90% GDP for five years or more) are associated with 1.2%† lower growth as compared to† growth when debt is under 90%.† (We also include in our tables the small number of shorter episodes.)† Note that because the historical public debt overhang episodes last an average of over 20 years, the cumulative effects of small growth differences are potentially quite large.††It is utterly misleading to speak of a 1% growth differential that lasts 10-25 years as small. By the way, we are very careful in all our papers to speak of ìassociationî and not ìcausalityî since of course our 2009 book††THIS TIME IS DIFFERENT†showed that debt explodes in the immediate aftermath of financial crises.† This is why we restrict attention to longer debt overhang periods in the JEP paper., though as noted there are only a very limited number of short ones.†† Moreover, we have generally emphasized the 1% differential median result in all our discussions and subsequent writing, precisely to be understated and cautious , and also in recognition of the results in our core Table 1 (AER paper). Lastly, our 2012†JEP†paper cites papers from the BIS, IMF and OECD (among others) which virtually all find very similar conclusions to original findings, albeit with slight differences in threshold, and many nuances† of alternative interpretation..† These later papers, by they way,† use a variety of methodologies for dealing with non-linearity and also for trying to determine causation.† Of course much further research is needed as the data we developed and is being used in these studies is new.† Nevertheless, the weight of the evidence to date ñincluding this latest comment -- seems entirely consistent with our original interpretation of the data in our 2010 AER paper.
Gage Skidmore via FlikrIn case you didn't hear, there has been a massive sell-off in the gold markets in the past few days. In fact, the two-day plunge was the ugliest move in 30 years. A lot of people have lost a lot of money. But the most vocal gold bulls are also taking hits to their reputations as they scramble to rationalize the metal's melt down. We went back and picked out some of the major gold bulls of the past few years. Call it another chapter in our ongoing "Goldenfreude" series.¬†
McDonald's sees value as the only way to get people in restaurants right now,†reports Annie Gasparro†at The Wall Street Journal. The Big Mac (at an average price of $3.57) is too expensive for many Americans. Instead, McDonald's is promoting its $1 cheeseburger, fries, drinks and wraps, according to WSJ.† The company even added a fancy new item to its Dollar Menu: a cheddar, bacon, onion burger. CEO Don Thompson had previously warned that profit growth was slowing because the chain "sacrifices margin in order to better compete for cost-conscious customers," according to Gasparro. Many Americans are concerned about the payroll tax increase, higher gas prices, and relatively high unemployment.† That means that fast-food chains have to use dollar menus to drive customers in stores.† "Value is critical right now," Lynne Collier, restaurant analyst at Sterne Agee, told WSJ. "The consumer is still very weak, facing higher gas prices, the payroll tax increase and employment barely inching up. Value is the No. 1 driver of traffic, and all these restaurant companies are dying for traffic." McDonald's competitors Burger King and Wendy's are also focusing on dollar menus.† The value menus are a "necessary evil" in today's economy, Darren Tristano, executive vice president at consultancy Technomic, told the Chicago Tribune.† "The three big burger chains would have to collude to end burgers for $1, he said, because 'if one stopped, the others would gain that business,'" the Tribune reported.†
WikipediaWe previously speculated there was a major danger in surging Bitcoin prices: it would eventually harm the Bitcoin economy. That's because, when a currency goes up, people hoard said currency, and that creates deflation. And when prices explode upward in a parabolic manner, then that can result in hyperdeflation. And today we get more evidence, via Forbes' Andy Greenberg who reports that people who use Bitcoin to buy drugs sit on their Bitcoins and don't deal in drugs: One Silk Road buyer and small-time drug dealer with the name Joey Terrifying writes that he used the site to buy a gram of Molly, a form of ecstasy, with the intention of quickly selling it to his own customers. By the time he‚Äôd sold it three weeks later, Bitcoin had risen in value so much that it dwarfed his profits from the drug sales. ‚ÄúI¬†would have more money now if I had just done nothing at all,‚Äù Terrifying laments. ‚ÄúHoarding is the rational response to runaway deflation,‚Äù adds one user with the name Astor. ‚ÄúIf I spend $100 on drugs now and the price of [Bitcoin] doubles in a week, then I‚Äôve effectively spent $200 on those drugs by next week." Bitcoin is currently trading in the high $70s.
WealthTrack via YouTubeThe latest jobs report showed that unemployment ticked lower because of a decline in the labor force participation rate. But many people leaving the workforce are actually quitting their jobs. David Rosenberg believes this trend puts pressure on companies to raise pay to keep their workforce. This is bad news for profit margins and ultimately stock prices. Here's Rosenberg: "At a time when firings are at record lows and job openings are rising at a double-digit annual rate, the number of people quitting their current job for greener pastures elsewhere is on a discernible uptrend. All this points to higher wage growth ahead, and frankly, this is a good thing for society.† "But the flip side is that as the labor share of the national income pie mean reverts off its all-time lows, we are likely to see profit margins pinched. "This is the big risk ñ margin compression affects the 'E', while inflation, insofar as the tight historical relationship with final prices holds, even if to a smaller degree this time around, affects the P/E." Here's a look at how this would play out with charts: Gluskin Sheff Gluskin Sheff Gluskin Sheff † Gluskin Sheff Gluskin Sheff Gluskin SheffGluskin Sheff
We've all seen this chart a million times. It's the price of gold versus the U.S. monetary base! (The expansion of the monetary base is the result of Federal Reserve quantitative easing since the financial crisis.) Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg This chart has really captured the imagination of a lot of gold investors in recent years. Since 2008, as the Federal Reserve has dramatically expanded the size of its balance sheet, it's been pretty easy for gold salesmen to make the argument that as long as the Fed keeps "printing money," gold will continue to go up. (Just glance at the chart!) But this chart sucks. If you would have bet on gold rising in response to an expanding monetary base pretty much anywhere between 1980 and 2001, you would have lost money (the chart shows that too). Furthermore, it's unclear why gold would have really gone vertical circa 2005 despite slowing expansion of the monetary base around the same time (also evident in the chart). On a related note, it's unclear how an exploding monetary base in 2008 caused gold to begin its epic trajectory upward starting in the early 2000s. And while it's not clear exactly what has happened to the gold market in the past week or so, what should be plainly clear is that this "relationship" does not always hold. What this chart really shows, as Pawel Morski eloquently phrases it in a tweet, is "two things that have both been rising since 2008." The truth is that there are other factors at work here. One of them seems to have been the dawn of ETFs in the gold market, which provided easy access to a huge group of retail investors looking for a simple way to diversify into the precious metal. Look what happened to the price of gold following the launch of the SPDR Gold Shares ETF (GLD, the main gold ETF) in November 2004. Matthew Boesler for Business InsiderClick to enlarge To reinforce this concept, take a look at a chart of total known ETF holdings of gold (measured in troy ounces) versus the gold price. Regardless of which way the causality runs here, the correlation between these two series makes a lot of sense. Matthew Boesler/Business Insider, data from Bloomberg We have noted that in 2013, ETFs have posted their biggest decline in gold holdings ever. It shouldn't be too much of a surprise, then, that the price of gold has finally started falling off as well. Getting back to the Federal Reserve, though ‚Äì looking at real interest rates is probably a better way to examine the relationship between Fed policy and the price of gold. Near the end of 2007 ‚Äì when the Federal Reserve began cutting rates in response to economic weakness and uncertainty in financial markets ‚Äì the gold price became closely correlated with real interest rates (proxied in the chart below by the yield on 5-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, on an inverted scale). Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg Clearly, this correlation that has characterized the crisis and post-crisis investment landscape has begun to break down,¬†even despite the fact that real interest rates aren't really going anywhere. So, no. The monetary base isn't shrinking (yet). And no, real interest rates aren't rising (yet). The thesis for those who see a link between gold and "money printing" is thus intact. But ETF holdings of gold are dropping fast, and so are prices. In other words, charting the size of the monetary base may not work so well for gold investors anymore ‚Äì the real story is a bit more complicated.
"You can fondle the cube, but it won't respond." -- Warren E. BuffettIt's the oldest market pattern in the book. A long-ignored asset finally gets hot, and its price rises for a while. The rising price of the asset attracts new investors, whose investments drive prices even higher. As the price rises, investors develop compelling explanations for why the price of the asset is rising, some of which may have a solid basis in fact. The price continues to rise, more investors arrive, and their buying drives prices even higher. Soon, the stories that explained the early price increases get repeated so often that they start to be regarded as fact. The price rises even further.¬†More investors hear the stories, and believe them, and hurry to get in on the action. And so on. At some point, however, for any of a number of reasons--often because the supply of the asset increases radically in response to the high prices--the spell breaks. Despite the "story" not having changed, demand for the asset no longer outstrips supply, and the price drops. At first, investors brush off the price drop as a temporary fluctuation--a "buying opportunity." Then, when the price drops more, they look for temporary explanations and causes. They also often begin to point fingers--blaming individuals, organizations, or conspiracies for the price decline, anything but the theory that the "story" they bought into might not be true. The declining price reduces demand for the asset--who wants to buy something when the price might drop? The reduced demand then causes prices to drop more, which further reduces demand. And so on. Eventually, when all of the petals have fallen off the rose, the price of the asset usually ends up about back where it started. And those who bought into the story--the theory that something was "different this time,"¬†that this asset was special--have to console themselves by learning from their experience. Over the past decade, the asset that has transfixed investors more than any other is gold. In the early 2000s, after drifting to a two-decade low below $300 an ounce, gold prices began to creep higher. At first, those who had been seduced by gold in the prior 20 years only to have their hopes dashed remained skeptical. Gradually, however, as gold kept marching higher, they became believers. Gold's endless bear market was finally over, the story went. Gold would now resume its normal trend upward. Gold, the only true "store of value" in a paper-money world, would increase its owners' wealth while stocks, bonds, real-estate, cash, and other popular asset classes destroyed it. Gold had a naturally limited supply. Gold was beyond the reach of meddling politicians. The "hyper-inflation" of paper currency caused by the frantic "money-printing" of the world's governments would be as nothing to gold: As the value of paper money collapsed, gold prices would soar, and those who had invested their fortunes in the shiny, permanent, coveted element would inherit the earth. Alas... In the past several months, gold prices have tanked. As recently as six months ago, analysts were predicting that gold would soar to $2,000, $3,000, $5,000, or more, and these predictions were being taken very seriously. Because this future was obvious: The world's governments were frantically "printing money." Soon, someday, inflation would soar, the value of paper money would collapse, and gold prices would skyrocket. And, maybe, someday, that will indeed happen. But it hasn't happened yet. Governments have been frantically "printing money" for five years now. But, as many respected economists suggested it would, inflation has remained remarkably subdued. The government in Japan, meanwhile, has been frantically borrowing and printing money for more than two decades. And, even in Japan, inflation remains very low (in fact, the big problem in Japan is deflation, not inflation.) So some cracks are showing in the story that gold believers have been telling themselves for the last five years. The recent plunge in the price of gold may well prove to be a "buying opportunity," at least temporarily.¬†And the story that recently propelled gold prices to nearly $2,000 an ounce may yet entrance a whole new wave of investors, driving prices to another big spike and high. But at some point, unless it really is "different this time," gold prices will likely drop sharply and stay down. And then the gold fever really will break. In case you have bought into the story that gold prices always go up, have a look at the charts below. The first shows gold prices since the 1970s. As you can see, a temporary investor love affair with gold is nothing new. And the key word there is "temporary." Business Insider, St. Louis FedGold prices since the late 1960s. It's also important to look at gold's long-term price trend in inflation-adjusted terms. After adjusting for inflation, you can see that gold has not generally trended higher over the past 40 years. Rather, at best, over the long-term, it has generally held its value--as long as you bought it when it was trading at or below about $400 an ounce. As you can also see, on an inflation-adjusted basis, gold has not even regained the euphoric high it hit around 1980, the last time investors temporarily fell in love with gold. Business Insider, St. Louis FedGold price since the late 1960s, adjusted for inflation. And then it's important to compare the performance of gold over this period with the performance of other assets--such as stocks. As you can see in the chart below, after adjusting for inflation, on a pure price basis, the performance of stocks and gold have been similar.Business Insider, St. Louis FedGold prices adjusted for inflation (red) and S&P 500 price adjusted for inflation (blue)¬† But there's one thing that is important to remember. Unlike gold investors, stock investors don't just get returns from price. They also get returns from dividends. The dividend payout on the S&amp;P 500 over the past 40 years has added at least 3% of performance per year. Adding that return to the price performance, and you will see that even after the recent gold price spike, and even after the lousy performance of the stock market for the past 13 years, stock returns have left gold returns in the dust. And stocks, it should be noted, also provide protection against inflation. Stocks are a real asset. Thanks to their dividends and earnings streams, they protect long-term investors against the "debasement" of paper money. Thanks to the success of free-market capitalism, they also usually, in aggregate, provide a long-term return that is significantly more than inflation. So they provide almost everything that gold is supposed to provide--and then some. About the only scenarios in which gold would permanently outperform stocks would be 1) a situation in which industrial demand permanently outstripped supply, or 2) a collapse in civilization, in which free-market capitalism and property rights disintegrated and governments fell. (And the utility of gold in this apocalyptic future might also be open to question.) If investors really think one of those two things is likely to happen, then, yes, they might be well-advised to own a lot of gold. If they don't, however, they might consider the possibility that it's not, in fact, "different this time" and that gold prices will eventually come tumbling all the way back down. SEE ALSO: Check Out This 800-Year Chart Of Gold Prices
Hedge fund hot-shot Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, recently purchased Sandy Weill's 200-foot yacht, CNBC's Kayla Tausche and Robert Frank report. He paid between $50 to $52 million for the former Citigroup CEO's "April Fool", sources told CNBC. † It was listed $69.5 million in 2011, according to the Wall Street Journal.†The price was lowered to $59 million, according to CNBC. Loeb was one of the best paid fund managers in 2012 taking home an estimated $380 million, according to Institutional Investor's Alpha.† The vessel features†1 master bedroom and 4 guestrooms, a gorgeous dining room, and a jacuzzi. Now let's take a tour.†
BeefeaterDesmond PayneFew drinks are as synonymous with a city as gin is with London, and in London there is only one major brand of gin still distilled within the city limits ‚Äî Beefeater. Beefeater aside, Gin has a major part in London's history. In the 1700s the town experienced a phenomena known as 'The Gin Craze' when citizens were hooked on the drink as an alternative to the city's unfiltered water. You can imagine how that turned out. It took some doing, but the government managed to bring the craze under control by charging distillers licenses to operate and sell their wares. That's when the cream rose to the top, and at the top still is Beefeater, the award winning brand known for the iconic Tower of London guard on its bottle. In 1863 founder James Burrough bought a distillery that had been operating since 1820.¬† From that point on Beefeater's recipe and process has remained mostly unchanged, safeguarded by master distiller Desmond Payne. Payne and his staff showed Business Insider around the London distillery Beefeater has occupied had since 1958, shared their gin-making technique, and let us poke around the stills. But not too close, obviously. Disclosure: Our trip to London, including travel and lodging expenses, was sponsored by Pernod Ricard, which is the owner of the distillery. Enjoy our tour with that in mind.
Flickr/Paul BeattieThe New Yorker has an awesome¬†interactive infographic showing the median income of New York's 21 subway lines based on data from the U.S. Census Bureau. The wealthiest subway stops are all in one census tract downtown: Park Place on the 123 line, Chambers Street on the 123 and ACE, and the World Trade Center on the E line. These three stops all have median incomes of $205,192. The next stops with the highest median incomes include 5th Avenue-59th Street on the NQR ($171,000), Williamsburg's York Street on the F line ($167,737), and Canal Street on the ACE line ($164,656). Some of the poorest subway stops include 125th on the 456 ($15,625) and Marcy Avenue on the M, J, and Z lines ($16,139). The infographic does an excellent job of demonstrating how dramatically income changes in New York City between neighborhoods. Check out the interactive infographic at the New Yorker &gt; The New Yorker
Reuters/ Chip EastCarl Icahn has released a statement saying that he retains absolute right to conduct proxy fight at Dell, Bloomberg News reported. † "I have refused to take a $25 million expense reimbursement from Dell as the price of giving up a proxy fight. In addition, I want to make it very clear that I have retained absolute right to conduct proxy fight at Dell, the billionaire investor said in a statement via @ReutersBiz. He also sees "meaningful" talks with other Dell shareholders, according to Bloomberg.† Earlier today, a special committee of Dell's board said in a securities filing that Icahn agreed not to acquire more than 10% of the company ownership.†
How come there are always buyers and sellers of a particular stock at any given time? Who buys the stocks the minute you want to unload them? Why are there stocks available for purchase when you want to invest? Kenny Polcari, director of NYSE Floor Operations for O'Neil Securities, and a CNBC contributor, explains what designated market makers (DMMs) are, and how they maintain orderly a fair and orderly market.  Produced by Business Insider Video
Reuters/Mike SegarEconomists have said that GDP growth is now tracking over 3% in the first quarter, after a revised 0.4% growth in Q4. But numerous economic indicators suggest that a spring slowdown in underway. Here's a quick look at some of the recent disappointing data:
Google FinanceMarkets are up, staging a big rally.¬† This comes after yesterday's massive sell-off. The Dow is up 140 points. Earlier this morning, Goldman Sachs, Coca-Cola, BlackRock, and Johnson &amp; Johnson all reported first quarter earnings that were better than expectations. We also learned that housing starts jumped in March, crushing expectations. All of this comes as economists and investors wrestle with the idea that the economy may be heading for a spring swoon.
In 2010, economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff released a paper, "Growth in a Time of Debt."¬†Their "main result is that...median growth rates for countries with public debt over 90 percent of GDP are roughly one percent lower than otherwise; average (mean) growth rates are several percent lower." Countries with debt-to-GDP ratios above 90 percent have a slightly negative average growth rate, in fact. This has been one of the most cited stats¬†in the public debate during the Great Recession. Paul Ryan's Path to Prosperity budget states their study "found conclusive empirical evidence that [debt] exceeding 90 percent of the economy has a significant negative effect on economic growth." The Washington Post editorial board takes it as an economic consensus view, stating that "debt-to-GDP could keep rising ‚Äî and stick dangerously near the 90 percent mark that economists regard as a threat to sustainable economic growth."¬† Is it conclusive? One response has been to argue that the causation is backwards, or that slower growth leads to higher debt-to-GDP ratios. Josh Bivens and John Irons made this case at the Economic Policy Institute. But this assumes that the data is correct. From the beginning there have been complaints that Reinhart and Rogoff weren't releasing the data for their results (e.g. Dean Baker). I knew of several people trying to replicate the results who were bumping into walls left and right - it couldn't be done. In a new paper, "Does High Public Debt Consistently Stifle Economic Growth? A Critique of Reinhart and Rogoff,"¬†Thomas Herndon, Michael Ash, and Robert Pollin of the University of Massachusetts, Amherst successfully replicate the results. After trying to replicate the Reinhart-Rogoff results and failing, they reached out to Reinhart and Rogoff and they were willing to share their data spreadhseet. This allowed Herndon et al. to see how how Reinhart and Rogoff's data was constructed. They find that three main issues stand out. First, Reinhart and Rogoff selectively exclude years of high debt and average growth. Second, they use a debatable method to weight the countries. Third, there also appears to be a coding error that excludes high-debt and average-growth countries. All three bias in favor of their result, and without them you don't get their controversial result. Let's investigate further: Selective Exclusions.¬†Reinhart-Rogoff use 1946-2009 as their period, with the main difference among countries being their starting year. In their data set, there are 110 years of data available for countries that have a debt/GDP over 90 percent, but they only use 96 of those years. The paper didn't disclose which years they excluded or why. Herndon-Ash-Pollin find that they exclude Australia (1946-1950), New Zealand (1946-1949), and Canada (1946-1950). This has consequences, as these countries have high-debt and¬†solid growth. Canada had debt-to-GDP over 90 percent during this period and 3 percent growth. New Zealand had a debt/GDP over 90 percent from 1946-1951. If you use the average growth rate across all those years it is 2.58 percent. If you only use the last year, as Reinhart-Rogoff does, it has a growth rate of -7.6 percent. That's a big difference, especially considering how they weigh the countries. Unconventional Weighting.¬†Reinhart-Rogoff divides country years into debt-to-GDP buckets. They then take the average real growth for each country within the buckets. So the growth rate of the 19 years that England is above 90 percent debt-to-GDP are averaged into one number. These country numbers are then averaged, equally by country, to calculate the average real GDP growth weight. In case that didn't make sense let's look at an example. England has 19 years (1946-1964) above 90 percent debt-to-GDP with an average 2.4 percent growth rate. New Zealand has one year in their sample above 90 percent debt-to-GDP with a growth rate of -7.6. These two numbers, 2.4 and -7.6 percent, are given equal weight in the final calculation, as they average the countries equally. Even though there are 19 times as many data points for England. Now maybe you don't want to give equal weighting to years (technical aside: Herndon-Ash-Pollin bring up serial correlation as a possibility). Perhaps you want to take episodes. But this weighting significantly reduces the average; if you weight by the number of years you find a higher growth rate above 90 percent. Reinhart-Rogoff don't discuss this methodology, either the fact that they are weighing this way or the justification for it, in their paper. Coding Error.¬†As Herndon-Ash-Pollin puts it: "A coding error in the RR working spreadsheet entirely excludes five countries, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, and Denmark, from the analysis. [Reinhart-Rogoff] averaged cells in lines 30 to 44 instead of lines 30 to 49...This spreadsheet error...is responsible for a -0.3 percentage-point error in RR's published average real GDP growth in the highest public debt/GDP category." Belgium, in particular, has 26 years with debt-to-GDP above 90 percent, with an average growth rate of 2.6 percent (though this is only counted as one total point due to the weighting above). Being a bit of a doubting Thomas on this coding error, I wouldn't believe unless I touched the digital Excel wound myself. One of the authors was able to show me that, and here it is. You can see the Excel blue-box for formulas missing some data: Next New Deal This error is needed to get the results they published, and it would go a long way to explaining why it has been impossible for others to replicate these results. If this error turns out to be an actual mistake Reinhart-Rogoff made, well, all I can hope is that future historians note that one of the core empirical points providing the intellectual foundation for the global move to austerity in the early 2010s was based on someone accidentally not updating a row formula in Excel. So what do Herndon-Ash-Pollin conclude? They find "the average real GDP growth rate for countries carrying a public debt-to-GDP ratio of over 90 percent is actually 2.2 percent, not -0.1 percent as [Reinhart-Rogoff claim]." Going further into the data, they are unable to find a breakpoint where growth falls quickly and significantly. This is also good evidence for why you should release your data online, so it can be probably vetted. But beyond that, looking through the data and how much it can collapse because of this or that assumption, it becomes quite clear that there's no magic number out there. The debt needs to be thought of as a response to the contigent circumstances we find ourselves in, with mass unemployment, a Federal Reserve desperately trying to gain traction at the zero lower bound, and a gap between what we could be producing and what we are. The past guides us, but so far it has failed to provide an emergency cliff. In fact, it tells us that a larger deficit right now would help us greatly. Follow or contact the Rortybomb blog:
Lately economic data seems to be coming in week, and it's gotten a lot of people talking about a "spring swoon" for the economy. Actually, there's a bigger patter people are worried about, that every year we seem to have these false dawns for the economy, only for things to get sluggish again. The March jobs report (which came in at just 88K) was the most glaring example of the weakness, but also there's been some weak housing and retail data. The Citi Economic Surprise Index is a measure that tries to capture how well the data is coming in relative to economic expectations. After all, this is what's key to markets. It's not so much about whether the data is good or bad, but whether it's better or worse than what people thought it would be. Positive numbers indicate that the data is still "beating." Negative numbers show missing. The index has just turned negative. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
Peter Macdiarmid/GettyFormer Goldman Sachs vice president Matt Levine, who is now an editor for popular financial blog Dealbreaker, has been writing a column for NPR's Planet Money called "Ask A Banker." In his latest column, a reader asked him how bankers can work crazy hours and still maintain a social life.¬† From¬†NPR's Planet Money:¬† Harold asks:¬†How can bankers consistently work 100-hour weeks? How can someone keep this up for 10-20 years? How can they date, have families, and be normal, social, friendly individuals who can smalltalk about sports, movies, music, whatever? Why don't investment banks hire more people, pay them less, and have them work saner hours? So there are three questions here. One is: how can bankers consistently work 100-hour weeks without, y'know, dying? Lots of junior investment bankers really are at work all the time. The way work flows work at banks, though, junior bankers spend much of their day more or less sitting around and listening in on conference calls, and really start pounding out the Excel models after their bosses dump a pile of work on them and leave for the night. It's not, like, 100 hours of manual labor, or even intellectual labor. It's 100 hours of being there. Another is: how can they be normal? One obvious answer to that is that they probably can't; many well-adjusted humans find investment bankers unpleasant to be around, or at least imagine that they do without much evidence. Another answer uses the horrible expression "work hard play hard": you can work 100 hour weeks and have an active social life if you're willing to sacrifice sleep. Cocaine, obviously, helps, though its heyday in the financial industry is long past. Also, most trading floors have big TVs showing CNBC on mute; during big sporting events people change the channel and half-watch sports at work. So you can keep up on sports. .... The first two to five years are the rough ones, he says.¬†
Stephanie and ShereenHarvard Business School is one of the most exclusive institutions in the world: Only 13% of applicants were admitted last year,¬†and it is US News' top-ranked business school. An MBA from Harvard is the path to the corner office and a six-figure salary right out of school, and also a place where entrepreneurs are born. Famous alumni include Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg and NYC Mayor and Bloomberg LP founder Michael Bloomberg.¬†¬† We found the most impressive students currently getting their MBAs ‚Äî many of whom aren't waiting to graduate to get their businesses going. One went to Princeton at 16 before joining Microsoft as an engineer. Another sold his successful startup for more than $100 million and published a book before enrolling. People we've spoken to at Harvard agree that these students are among the school's finest.¬† And they're just getting started.¬†
The IAB Internet advertising report for 2012 is out. Overall, digital advertising grew a respectable 15% in 2012, with the biggest increases coming in search, mobile, and display. The industry totaled $37 billion for the year, in the U.S. alone. Here are the highlights: Notably, as the following chart shows, digital advertising now dwarfs newspapers and magazines and is bigger than any other media in the U.S. with the exception of broadcast TV, which hit $40 billion. IAB Digital is also growing faster than all other media, thus gaining share fast: IAB To keep things in perspective, however, "broadcast" and "cable" TV should probably be combined into a single number for "Television." Total "Television" advertising spending was a staggering $72 billion in 2012, dwarfing every other medium. Even if the TV industry runs aground in the next few years, it will be a long time before digital advertising surpasses it. SEE ALSO: For Whom The Bell Tolls? It Tolls For TV
The Blaze via BuzzfeedGlenn BeckGlenn Beck¬†says there's something unusual about the plunge in gold prices, according to Buzzfeed.¬† Beck first expresses skepticism toward the recent plunge in prices. "The only thing I have to fear is the government, quite frankly," he said. "The government lying to you, the media not telling the truth. I mean, gold is the original gold standard, and something doesn't smell right. Such a currency of last resort that it's so unstable that the central banks are buying it up." He continued: "Let's say this turns out to be a terrorist operation with multiple bombs around the city. The stock market tanking, things going awry ‚Äî wouldn't this exactly be like how it would happen?" UPDATE: We earlier reported Beck was suggesting his viewers buy gold on the Boston bombings. A Blaze rep reached out to us noting he never explicitly made this connection. ¬†¬†
‚ÄúIf you‚Äôre constantly watching five naked girls having sex with dildos it actually could lower your lifespan.‚Äù ‚ÄúExcuse me, what?‚Äù I said. I was talking to John Romaniello (‚ÄúRoman‚Äù). We were randomly sitting next to each other at a dinner Tim Ferriss threw when he was launching his book, ‚ÄúThe Four Hour Chef.‚Äù Roman had a tattoo of a semi-colon and I wanted to find out what that was all about (he was an English major) but then our conversation, as they so often do, started to drift. ‚ÄúYeah, basically, if you get used to watching all this sex on the Internet then when you are in bed with your wife you will actually get LESS stimulated and aroused so your testosterone levels will start to go lower.‚Äù ‚ÄúThat DOES NOT happen to me,‚Äù I said. Claudia was sitting right next to me. I wanted to make sure she heard me. ‚ÄúHaha. Well [note: ignoring me], some of the effects of lower testosterone are: greater chance of getting fat, less muscle growth, increased risk of some cancers, and even less confidence and ambition. ‚ÄúThis is why since 1980, when they measure testosterone levels of people in the U.S., the average male has 22% less testosterone now than they had in 1980. This has to do with our lifestyle. There‚Äôs more technology. So we are more sedentary. We stare at screens more. Men watch pornography more. People actually get on average 45 minutes less sleep now than in 1980.‚Äù ‚ÄúI have to interrupt there,‚Äù I said. ‚ÄúI try to get 10 hours of sleep a day.‚Äù I was feeling very proud suddenly for my sleep-filled lifestyle. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs good,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúsleep is when human growth hormone is created in the body. So the more sleep, the more ¬†HGH, which leads to more testosterone. HGH is often called ‚Äòthe fountain of youth hormone.‚Äô‚Äù ‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt that what athletes who cheat take?‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah, but you don‚Äôt want to do what they do. They inject it. You want to build these things up naturally. That‚Äôs what I teach people how to do.‚Äù He also told me he was writing a book, ‚ÄúMAN 2.0.‚Äù He said he asked Tim Ferriss‚Äô advice on writing a book and he said Tim said to ‚Äúgo all out. Don‚Äôt just cobble together past writing. Put your all into this book.‚Äù I remembered that this weekend when I realized his book was coming out ‚Ä¶ tomorrow! So I called him because I have a book coming out on June 1 (‚ÄúChoose Yourself!‚Äù) and I wanted to find out how things were going and see if there was anything I could learn on how he was getting the word out on his book. But then the conversation drifted (see above) and I asked him, ‚ÄúSo you told me you were an English major. How the hell did you get into being the MAN 2.0 guy?‚Äù ‚ÄúI was a fat kid in college. I was 200 lbs. I started working out and I got ripped and lost 30 lbs. And then I wanted to get bigger so I built back 30 pounds of muscle. And then I started training other people how to do it.‚Äù ‚ÄúOk,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúso you were a personal trainer. A lot of people do that.‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúbut then I started doing all of this research and work on the relationship between certain exercises and ¬†testosterone and human growth hormone and I started putting together courses based on that.‚Äù ‚ÄúYou mean like steroids?‚Äù ‚ÄúNot like steroids when they talk about athletes abusing it. I wanted to find natural ways to build up these very useful chemicals in the body. And I did a ton of research plus work on my own body. ‚ÄúYou have to understand, if you go through a physical transformation, or any kind of transformation: emotional, mental, physical, whatever ‚Äì everything is going to transform in your life. When I went through my body transformation and when I kept continuing my study of the body it also transformed me as a businessman. I started selling training programs and really helping a lot more people than when I was training people one on one.‚Äù ‚ÄúSo you basically created your own career. You‚Äôre obviously not doing anything related to being an English major. You‚Äôre like a Choose Yourself physical trainer. That‚Äôs great.‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah, again, I really can trace it back to my body transformation and I equate that with the arc of the hero as described by Joseph Campbell in his books on mythology.‚Äù ‚ÄúWait a second, don‚Äôt go all English major on me! If you don‚Äôt mind my asking, how much money do you make? Physical trainers make a salary but you have a real business.‚Äù ‚ÄúWell, when I was just doing the physical training I was making six figures a year. Then in 2009 I started to blog about this stuff. I didn‚Äôt have many readers but I put together a course based on my ideas. People loved it and it was working so I started selling more and more. Now I make over seven figures a year.‚Äù ‚ÄúYou totally chose yourself. You made your career and used all the available platforms to spread the word.‚Äù ‚ÄúTotally, I was blogging on different sites. I was helping whoever I could. I started sending content to Arnold Schwarzenegger‚Äôs site on fitness because he started getting back into fitness after he was governor. I was his first writer. He even wrote the foreword to my book.‚Äù ‚ÄúWait. What?‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah, we were talking about fitness and he was very interested in what I was doing and agreed to write the foreword.‚Äù ‚ÄúSo wait, let me ask you a few questions: I‚Äôm not going to do any heavy weightlifting. I like yoga and stuff. But you‚Äôve seen my build. What can I do to build testosterone and human growth hormone?‚Äù ‚ÄúWell, you already sleep a lot so that‚Äôs great.‚Äù He then described some exercises involving squats I couldn‚Äôt quite follow but they are listed on his site. So I said, ‚ÄúLet‚Äôs say I want to do pushups?‚Äù He said, ‚ÄúStart with four reps of 15 pushups and build up from there.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhat should I be eating?‚Äù ‚ÄúTake fish oil capsules. And don‚Äôt be afraid of saturated fats.‚Äù He started throwing out chemical stuff about cholesterol and something called LDH. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt follow that at all. Is all of this in your book?‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah‚Äù. ‚ÄúOk,‚Äù I said, ‚ÄúA lot of women read my site. Should they be building testosterone also?‚Äù ‚ÄúAbsolutely,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúit instantly helps reduce fat, it helps balance the estrogen in the body to reduce the risk of later diseases like breast cancer or osteoporosis, it increases sex drive. Women absolutely should be thinking about testosterone levels.‚Äù ‚ÄúHey,‚Äù I said, ‚Äúif I put this on my blog can you check it out during the day and answer questions if anyone has any?‚Äù ‚ÄúYeah, definitely. I‚Äôd be happy to.‚Äù We got off the phone. I got right down on the ground and did ‚Ä¶ eight pushups. Ok, I will do more later. I could‚Äôve done 15 but it was late. You know how it goes. And then I remembered I forgot to ask him about how he was marketing his book. Ugh, I need to boost my testosterone levels just to get my memory back.
(AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)We talked about¬†CFA vs. MBA¬†previously, but this is more fundamental. It's one of those classic questions that always end up with "it depends".¬† I do get why we arrive at that conclusion, as the question is so broad and cannot be generalized for each candidate's circumstances. Yet, it' still so anti-climatic and unsatisfactory.¬† So, I'm just going to (wo)man-up, apply the 80/20 rule and take a more definitive stance on this controversial subject. My take? MBAs are becoming less worth it. Here's why. Which MBA?To assess this question, I focused on the top 30 MBA courses in the latest 2013 FT Global MBA Rankings. It's a common goal for candidates to aim for the top courses anyway.¬†What's the current conditions for MBAs? What do you aim to get out of an MBA?¬†Are There Better Ways to Achieve These Goals?Getting an MBA used to be a ticket to huge and sustainable salary boost. With that promise waning and the skyrocketing costs, is MBA still a worthwhile investment? To tackle this question, a good starting point is to think about the objectives of getting an MBA and ¬†evaluate if there are better alternatives: #1. Credentials and credibility - with the abundance of MBAs and degree inflation, I'd argue that employers would value actual work experience more as a signal of quality. Because anyone can buy an MBA, no one can buy the work experience and knowledge from doing the job itself. This certainly applies to me when I hire a junior in my team.¬†¬†#2. Improve skill set / knowledge - you learn best on the job. No amount of theory could prepare you for the practical skills needed. Plus it looks good on your CV too. Identify what skills or knowledge of a specific job you would like to obtain, then try to get a job in that area. Just like anything (even MBA applications), you need to be proactive to search and ask for the job you want experience in. At least you still get paid, practical work experiences and not end up with student debt. #3. Change careers / career advancement - Why do an MBA, incur $300k for 2 years, only to change jobs? Why not do it now? Ask for the internship, work for free even for a short time to gain valuable experiences for your CV to diversify and land the job you want, now. #4. Network - It's true that you have more time to meet new people, attend events and meet up for coffee when not working full time. But this shouldn't be your sole reason for taking up an MBA, as you can make time for this and start tapping and expanding your network now. Join societies, clubs or events post work or on weekends and off you go. #5. Have a good time¬†/ find yourself - The desire of a guilt-free career break or search for new direction is a common reason (subconscious or not) for taking an MBA. Given the high cost and additional work involved in this demanding course, I'd say it's better to take at least 6 months off to travel the world, meet people or spend time with family. Not only it gives you the battery recharge you desperately need, I'm confident that you will learn more about your true likes and dislikes during that period of idleness, to give you a better sense of direction and purpose for your next phase. For the rest of this post head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Pettis is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a finance professor at Peking University‚Äôs Guanghua School of Management, where he specializes in Chinese financial markets. He is author of the recently released and widely acclaimed book, The Great Rebalancing. He spoke at the Wine Country Investment Conference April 5. That event was sponsored by Mish Shedlock and his firm, California-based Sitka Pacific Capital Management, as a benefit for ALS, the disease which claimed Shedlock‚Äôs wife last year. China‚Äôs policy decisions will produce stress in various sectors of its economy, and political factors will ultimate dictate the direction its economy takes. China commands a pivotal position in the global economy. Its exports drive consumer spending in the developed world, and its industrial sector uses a disproportionate share of the world‚Äôs commodities.¬† Few things will matter as much in the coming decade as the fate of China. I‚Äôll look at the options Pettis laid out for a well-managed rebalancing and their implications. First, let‚Äôs review the conditions China faces in its economy today. Why China is a mess Debt is the key problem for China, according to Pettis, due to China‚Äôs investment-driven growth. No one should be surprised at China‚Äôs excessive leverage, which Pettis said substantially exceeds its published number of 80% debt-to-GDP. ‚ÄúWe have seen these investment-driven growth models before and they all end up exactly the same way,‚Äù he said. The initial spate of economically viable projects is ultimately displaced by less viable ones, and then by unviable projects. When that happens, he said, debt-servicing capacity becomes unsustainable. ‚ÄúThat is why we always run into a debt problem,‚Äù he said. One of the least understood issues, Pettis said, is that urbanization will exaggerate China‚Äôs debt problems. Urbanization is highly pro-cyclical, he said. It supports growth in good times: Migration to cities spurs consumption and employment, providing a source for cheap labor. But urbanization can also accelerate recessionary forces during bad times, because it leads to higher unemployment and crime rates. ‚ÄúUrbanization is now the default bull argument for China,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúBut is only a bull argument when things are going really well.‚Äù
Sotheby's International RealtyThe family summer compound purchased by a former President of Ally Financial (then-General Motors Acceptance Corp.) in 1927 is being sold for $10 million, says the WSJ. Grandson Davi Shuman said the Madison, Conn. property wasn't "appropriate" for his family every more. What the 21 bedroom property is ideal for, however, is a large extended family. It boasts 500 yards of private beach, a cottage, two houses, a tennis court, heated swimming pool and perhaps room for yet another house. Sotheby's International's Margaret Muir has the listing.
But both approaches have problems. George W. Bush tried supply-side tax cuts but nothing trickled down. Jobs and wages declined. And austerity economics has been a disaster for Europe. Unfortunately the U.S. is now adopting supply-side austerics by making the Bush tax cuts permanent for 98 percent of taxpayers, hiking Social Security taxes back up, and implementing the sequester. I‚Äôm on the Keynesian side. Yet the biggest weakness of modern Keynesian economics is it doesn‚Äôt have a clear answer for how much spending is necessary in an economy, like ours, in which wages keep dropping and government debt keeps growing. Simply arguing ‚Äúmore‚Äù won‚Äôt cut it.¬† John Maynard Keynes urged that governments ‚Äúprime the pump‚Äù to stimulate demand but pump priming has limited effect if the well is running dry.¬† Both sides of the modern debate have neglected the scourge of widening inequality. We‚Äôre now witnessing what happens when all of the economic gains go to the top, and the rest of the population doesn‚Äôt have enough purchasing power to keep the economy going. Four years into a so-called recovery and we‚Äôre still below recession levels in every important respect except the stock market. A measly 88,000 jobs were created in March, and total employment remains some 3 million below its pre-recession level. Labor-force participation is its lowest since 1979. Businesses won‚Äôt hire and expand unless they have more customers, but most Americans can‚Äôt spend more. Last Friday‚Äôs retail sales report showed sales down .4 percent in March. Consumer sentiment has fallen to its lowest level in nine months. The underlying problem is the vast middle class is running out of money. They can‚Äôt borrow more ‚Äî and shouldn‚Äôt, given what happened after the last borrowing binge. Real annual median household income keeps falling. It‚Äôs down to $45,018, from $51,144 in 2010. All the gains from the recovery continue to go to the top.¬† Widening inequality is not inevitable. If we wanted to reverse it and restore middle-class prosperity, we could.¬† We could award tax cuts to companies that link the pay of their hourly workers to profits and productivity, and that keep the total pay of their top 5 executives within 20 times the pay of their median worker. And impose higher taxes on companies that don‚Äôt. We could raise the minimum wage to half the average wage. We could increase public investment in education, including early-childhood. We could eliminate college loans and allow all students to repay the cost of their higher education with a 10 percent surcharge on the first 10 years of income from full-time employment. We could expand the Earned Income Tax Credit. And we could pay for all this by adding additional tax brackets at the top and increasing the top marginal tax rate to what it was before 1981 ‚Äì at least 70 percent. But none of this will happen until the public understands why widening inequality is so damaging. Even the rich would do better with a smaller share of a rapidly-growing economy than a large share of one that‚Äôs barely growing at all. Our political leaders in Washington have for now chosen supply-side austerity economics over Keynesian economics. That‚Äôs bad enough. Their inability or unwillingness to do much of anything about widening inequality will prove a larger problem. Read more posts on Contributor ¬ª
Doctors, nurses and administrative workers at Massachusetts General have been working around the clock to care for those injured in the Boston Marathon bombings yesterday. As it stands now, three are dead and 140 injured after two bombs exploded at the end of the marathon route. Witnesses said that the hospital's 24-bed Intensive Care Unit had never seen so many patients as medical professionals removed shrapnel and tended to severed limbs. Hospital administration sent the following letter to its staff as a thank you for their hard work and a memo on what's to come:Dear Colleagues, We want to thank you for your efforts in the wake of yesterday's devastating events during the Boston Marathon. Here at the MGH, we treated 31 patients, 10 who have been released at this time. Please know that although we do expect some delays, all clinical areas and all MGH health centers are open for business as usual today and we anticipate seeing a full range of patients. Yesterday was an extremely difficult day for Boston, for the MGH and for the many people affected by the tragedy. The Maxwell and Eleanor Blum Patient and Family Learning Center responded to hundreds of calls and walk-ins of people seeking information about loved ones and seeking help in dealing with the chaotic situation. The center is again open today to support anyone seeking counseling services. It is staffed by members of the Social Work, Nursing and Chaplaincy departments. Staff in need of emotional support are also encouraged to access the Employee Assistance Program, a free and confidential resource. Please feel free to call 617-726-6976. Managers can contact the EAP as well to consult about the needs of their staff. For more information, visit www.eap.partners.org. For parents seeking help in how to talk to their children, visit http://commonhealth.wbur.org/. Interfaith service today The MGH Chaplaincy will host a brief interfaith service today at noon in the O'Keeffe Auditorium to reflect on yesterday's events and gather today as a community to support one another. Staff, patients and families are all welcome to attend. Partners shuttle service Please plan extra time when using the Partners shuttle service. They are using alternate routes which is resulting in delays. Currently, the Prudential is open and can be accessed by the Huntington Street exit. For further shuttle inquiries, call 617-726-2250. MGH Blood Donor Center The outpouring of support from MGHers who wish to help in the wake of yesterday's tragic events has been overwhelming. We thank you and appreciate your willingness to lend a hand and desire to make a difference. Many have already visited the MGH Blood Donor Center, or planned to donate sometime this week. However, those interested in helping by donating blood at the MGH can be of greatest benefit by marking their calendar to donate instead either one or two weeks from today. Because blood is stored, it is important to replace supplies over the course of time. We know from the 9/11 experience that when too many donors give blood too soon that it unbalances the system. Staff at the Blood Donor Center will be happy to schedule an appointment for later April or in May. The MGH also is well-supported by the American Red Cross and those interested in donated to the Red Cross should be sure to call first in order to not overwhelm their capacity. Heightened security You may notice a heightened security presence throughout the institution in the coming day, including outside law enforcement. These are part of city-wide measures and there is no specific threat to the MGH. The extra police presence is there to ensure our staff, patients and their families feel secure while they are here. Thank you for your continued support.
A suspicious package has been found at LaGuardia Airport in New York City, according to Bloomberg News. One terminal was evacuated but the evacuation was later cancelled, Bloomberg reports. NBC New York reports that the airport was given the "all clear" around 15 minutes after it was evacuated. An email from Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said that the central terminal building (Terminal D) had been evacuated. Coleman says that the Port Authority Police Department‚Äôs Emergency Services Unit and the New York City Police Department‚Äôs bomb squad went to the scene. NBC New York reports that the package was in a shopping area in the terminal. WABC-TV reports some more details about the package: Sources tell Eyewitness News an electrical device was found at a phone booth on the upper level departure of Terminal B, known as central terminal. Sources add next to the bag is a substance that looks like marijuana. The source adds wires appear to be coming from the bag. According to Huffington Post's Ethan Klapper, the FAA has issued a ground stop (which prohibits all planes from flying) until at least noon EDT. Pictures show crowds waiting outside the terminal: Not to start a panic but my terminal at laguardia just got evacuated twitter.com/RhinoB/status/‚Ä¶ People being moved further away from the terminal. #LGA twitter.com/davehjoo/statu‚Ä¶ Passengers at Laguardia airport after central terminal evacuated for reported suspicious package (pic: @curtisorion) twitter.com/BuzzFeedNews/s‚Ä¶ Picture from friend at #LaGuardia Central Terminal evacuation twitter.com/WahWhoWah/stat‚Ä¶
Four times a year, investors focus on the most fundamental driver of investment performance: earnings. Unfortunately, like the economy, earnings growth remains sluggish. The first quarter of 2013 is likely to mark the fourth quarter in a row of low to mid-single-digit earnings per share growth. The dollar amount of earnings per share for the S&amp;P 500 companies is expected to be lower than in each of the past three quarters and only 1% higher than a year ago, according to the Wall Street analysts‚Äô consensus complied by Thomson/Reuters. The sluggish growth rate for S&amp;P 500 company earnings reflects not only slower growth among individual companies sales with revenues also expected to be up only 1% from a year ago, but also reflects the shrinking number of companies expected to post any growth in earnings at all, with four of the 10 sectors expected to reveal declines. LPL Financial Manufacturing ProfitsThe Institute for Supply Management (ISM) is one of the best leading indicators for the economy and markets. The ISM is a group that represents purchasing managers at U.S. corporations. The ISM surveys these purchasing managers each month and publishes the results in the form of an index. Although manufacturing businesses make up only about 40% of S&amp;P 500 company earnings, demand for manufactured goods has been a timely barometer of business activity of all types. Currently at about 51, the ISM suggests a sluggish environment for profit growth [Figure 1]. The level of the ISM index indicates that earnings growth may be slightly positive this quarter, but unless it picks up meaningfully‚Äîwhich seems unlikely given a soft U.S. consumer and the broadening recession in Europe among other challenges ‚Äî profit growth is likely to be only half as strong as the consensus expects in coming quarters. Looking AheadSo far, 29 companies of the S&amp;P 500 have reported earnings. This week, 74 companies are scheduled to report, with about half of the 500 companies due to report by the end of April. While investors are very focused on what the profits were for the past quarter, it is what they may turn out to be over the next several quarters that will likely have the most impact on the markets. Much like last year at this time, estimates for earnings growth in the third and fourth quarter are in the double-digits. In contrast to those lofty expectations, last year earnings growth in the second half ended up averaging just 3%. Again this year, the estimates for the coming quarters are likely to come down as earnings remain bound by the sluggish economic growth driving revenues. Analysts‚Äô 10% third quarter 2013 and 13% fourth quarter 2013 year-over-year earnings growth expectations are out of sync with their much lower 3% revenue growth forecast for the second half. Given weak productivity growth and already wide profit margins, it is unlikely companies can produce double-digit earnings growth on low single- digit revenue growth later this year. However, we may not see major downward revisions to earnings estimates in the coming weeks as first quarter reports come in. Despite being way too high last year, earnings growth expectations only came down about 1 percentage point during the first quarter earnings reporting season of last year. The likelihood of more gradual downward revisions to growth expectations is one of the reasons why we still believe another sharp 10‚Äì20% decline in the market‚Äîsimilar to those seen in the spring of each of the past three years ‚Äî is unlikely. See our March 25 Weekly Market Commentary: 10 Indicators of a Spring Slide in the Stock Market for more insights on our view of the conditions needed for a major market decline. What We Are WatchingEarnings may come in better or worse than expected for the quarter, depending primarily on factors that are hard to predict. U.S. consumers have benefitted from a return to all-time highs in the stock market and the return to a strong housing market ‚Äî these factors combined to result in strong consumer spending growth in the mid-2000s. On the other hand, the combined drags of higher taxes, high gasoline prices, sluggish job and income growth, and the overhang of more fiscal cliff battles to come may have weighed on spending. We will be watching to see how these drivers may have offset each other in the first quarter, especially relative to the high expectations for the consumer discretionary sector. About 40% of S&amp;P 500 corporate profits are derived from global sources. Asian economies experienced improving growth in the first quarter of 2013, while Europe‚Äôs recession lingered. The extent to which these factors offset each other across different sectors will be worth noting since the trend may continue for much of this year. Valuing EarningsInvestors are displaying the greatest confidence in continued earnings growth they have had in the past few years. This can be seen in the stock market rally lifting the price-to-earnings ratio, or what investors are willing to pay today per dollar of earnings over the past four quarters, to 15.3. This is now just above the long-term (since 1927) average of 15.1. The higher the price-to-earnings ratio, the brighter the implied outlook for future earnings growth.While the rise in the price-to-earnings ratio to the long-term average suggests stocks can no longer be considered cheap, they are not expensive. Since WWII, every bull market has peaked with a price-to-earnings ratio of 17‚Äì18, with the exception of the late 1990s/early 2000 bull market that peaked at a much higher 28 [Figure 2]. From a valuation perspective, this suggests the S&amp;P 500 could rise another 13% to 1800 without the benefit of any earnings growth before the stock market could be considered expensive and at significant risk of a bear market. All that said, we would not be surprised at a modest stock market pullback of 5‚Äì10% as the earnings season offers us a reminder that although a fiscal crisis in the United States and Europe may have been averted in the first quarter, it did come with a cost in the form of growth. LPL Financial
Regular readers of this blog will be aware of the occasional wrong turn. One of the most insightful lessons of Behavioral Finance is the overconfidence many people have in their forecasts of all kinds of things, from jellybeans in a jar to quarterly earnings.¬†A recognition of how little short term certainty there is creates some humility around position sizing, and hopefully makes the inevitable mistakes small. Writing about gold when it‚Äôs just had its biggest drop in 30 years is only for those who weren‚Äôt involved. The all-too-obvious problem with gold is that you can figure out its NPV, because it generates no cash. Instead it consumes a lot to dig it up, move it and store it. We don‚Äôt avoid it because we‚Äôre bearish, we just can‚Äôt figure out its value. From time to time I‚Äôll run in to people who own some gold as their, ‚Äúwhen all else is lost at least I‚Äôll have some‚Äù investment. The game‚Äôs not over, and they may turn out to be smarter than we are. But I always respond that if inflation is your fear, wouldn‚Äôt you rather own shares in companies that sell products everybody wants and have pricing power? Like Coke (KO), which reported earnings this morning ahead of analysts‚Äô expectations. There are some scenarios involving civil strife and a complete breakdown of civilization in which shares in KO or any other financial investment might be useless, and a stash of gold plus an armory a more appropriate position. You can‚Äôt be certain of very much, so even that has a probability &gt; 0%. But¬†5%+ inflation and the discrediting of fiat money is a higher probability (albeit not yet the most likely outcome in our view). A portfolio of investments in companies that look like KO will probably offer a better prospect of holding its value than a lump of yellow metal. Businesses that can sell a little more product annually to the growing consumer base in emerging economies, and can be relied upon to pass through the cost increases that higher inflation might impose, can remind you why you own them each quarter Gold will not have many days like yesterday, maybe not for at least another 30 years. But if you prefer the Coke Standard to the Gold Standard at least you have some future cashflows to estimate and present value back to today.  Read more posts on In Pursuit of Value ¬ª

Last Wednesday, Goldman's commodities team, led by Jeffrey Currie, issued a short gold trading recommendation to clients, right before the market completely melted down. In a new piece today ñ titled "Commodities Update: There are weeks when decades happen" ñ Currie and his team argue that the latest events in the gold market are a further indication that the run gold has taken over the past decade is over. At the same time, it seems like something similar is happening in the natural gas market ñ but there, it's bullish. The Goldman analysts even call it "the new safe haven." S&P, Goldman Sachs ECS Research (Short gold, long natural gas?) Currie writes: Over the previous five years the two highest conviction trades in the commodity complex were being long gold in response to the debasing actions of central banks around the world and short natural gas in response to the shale revolution. These two trends have now likely reversed (see Exhibit 1) and our conviction in these new trends has risen significantly over the past month as we have introduced both short gold and long natural gas trading recommendations.  Further, these shifts in trends represent a significant departure from the past decade and are implicitly interrelated. The shift in gold represents a more confident economic environment where there is a flicker of light at the end of the tunnel to this period of easy money while the shift in natural gas represents the ability for trend natural gas consumption in the US to near 3.0%. This underscores how the shale revolution has helped shape the improving economic environment in the US ñ making US natural gas and the US economy the new safe haven. This past week saw both of these trends accelerate with the extremely large gold move likely being triggered by growing fears that the central bank of Cyprus would sell its gold reserves, potentially triggering a larger monetization of gold reserves across other European central banks. The decline in prices was further exacerbated by the breach of a well-flagged key technical price support level at $1,530/toz and then at the $1,434/toz 200- week moving average, creating the largest one day price decline since the inception of the COMEX. Although gold has now traded below the $1,450/toz target embedded in our short gold recommendation, we are maintaining our short recommendation, as we argued last week that prices could decline more than we initially thought as positioning is stretched and the momentum is to the downside. The most recent data on ETF holdings from last Friday (April 12) showed acceleration in the liquidation of length, which points to a broad-based sell-off extending beyond the futures markets with potentially more room to go (Exhibit 2). Accordingly, we are now lowering†the stop to $1,400/toz (which locks in a potential gain of 12%) and waiting for evidence of a near-term bottom to establish a new target; however for now, we are not changing our price forecasts. For US natural gas, we maintain our $4.50/mmBtu target with forward prices currently trading near $4.30/mmBtu. Of course, it's not just gold that has been melting down over the past few days. The entire commodity complex has come under heavy selling pressure. Currie attributes this to fears over cyclical weakness as opposed to a structural shift lower in the commodity market. He points out that "despite renewed European and [emerging market] macroeconomic concerns and a spillover from gold creating sharp sell-offs in crude oil and base metal prices, the longer-dated commodity prices have been remarkably stable." "On face value such a dull and uninspiring description does not fit with the speed and velocity of the recent sell-off across the complex," says Currie. "However, the point is that the sell-off was at least partly driven by the non-cyclical commodities ñ precious metals ñ with the cyclical weakness concentrated in timespreads as long-term prices remained remarkably stable." In oil, Goldman says its†"cyclically bullish view ... has seen a significant setback in this sell-off." Brent crude oil is trading right around $100 a barrel today. According to the Goldman strategists, the "near-term risks of $90/bbl Brent remain high despite our base-case view for prices trading in a $105/bbl to $110/bbl range during the second half of this year."
NBC NewsRick DesLauriersIn a wide-ranging press conference that offered little new hard details on†the Boston Marathon bombings, FBI Special Agent†Rick DesLauriers pledged that the U.S. will go to "the ends of the Earth" to identify those responsible for the attacks. "This will be a worldwide investigation,"†DesLauriers said. Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick said that more than 150 people have been injured in the bombings, including three confirmed dead. He also†also immediately dismissed reports that more undetonated devices had been found after the attacks ó comments that were echoed by†ATF official†Gene Marquez. It was a press conference that was at-times emotional, as Boston Mayor Thomas Menino ó speaking from a wheelchair after a recent leg fracture ó declared that "Boston will overcome." "Yesterday, terror was brought to the city of Boston," Menino said.†"This is a tragedy, but Boston is a strong city," Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis said that the investigation was the most complex the Boston PD had ever undertaken. "We are in the process of securing the most complex crime scene in the history of our department," Davis said. Overall, little new information has emerged about the explosions over the past 10 hours. Late last night, police reportedly searched†a home in Revere, Mass., a suburb of Boston. The Revere Fire Department wrote on its Facebook page†that its firefighters responded to the scene in connection with a "person of interest," along with multiple law enforcement agencies that included the FBI. DesLauriers had little new information, saying that the investigation is ongoing and that there were no new known additional threats. DesLauriers also wouldn't comment on any materials used in the bombs or whether the FBI had anyone in custody. "I'm not going to say who might or might be in custody right now," he said. But Davis later said that "no one is in custody."
Goldman Sachs beat expectations in its first quarter earnings report this morning. There were a few sectors where the bank really hit it out of the park. Keep in mind that Wall Street is still trying to figure out how exactly it's going to make money in a post- financial crisis world. Sectors that used to be big money makers have been culled for a variety of regulatory and market factors (think: fixed income). If Goldman can figure out how to make money, obviously there's money to be made. And if there's a way the industry is going, Goldman is probably leading it. This is important stuff to watch if you care about the future of banking. In Q1 Goldman experienced the most impressive jump in revenue in debt and equity underwriting. Those two businesses experienced a 69% and 53% jump in revenue year over year, respectively. Total debt underwriting was up 63%. A lot of that is likely in junk bonds. Investors are looking for yield, and companies with low credit ratings have a huge incentive to borrow since rates are low for them. Back in February Bloomberg reported that major banks had already underwritten $89.6 billion of high-yield debt, which was up 36% from the same time in 2012. The fees in underwriting junk bonds, by the way, are about 3 times as lucrative as those for underwriting lower yield, higher credit bonds. Goldman made even more money in incentive fees, or rather, performance fees for their managers. Revenue there was up 141% year over year, jumping from $58 million to $140 million. Another interesting thing to note is that Goldman was up 24% year-over-year and up 40% for the quarter in its equity investments, excluding its stake in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC). The bank sold $1 billion in that stake earlier this year while the stock was on a tear (up 50% in 6 months). Usually, ICBC stock makes up a serious chunk of the bank's equity investing revenue. In the last quarter it made up 42% of all Goldman's $1.12 billion revenue in that sector. In Q1, however, Goldman upped its revenue in that business significantly without ICBC. ICBC contributed just $24 million (2%) of its $1.12 billion revenue. Check out Goldman's full revenue break down below: Goldman Sachs
Markets just opened after yesterday's nasty sell-off, and stocks are retracing their losses. Right now, the Dow Jones is up 115 points, or 0.8 percent. The S&amp;P 500 is up 0.9 percent, trading around $1566. Below is a chart of the S&amp;P 500 futures, which have been climbing steadily this morning. On the far left is yesterday's sell-off in the futures, which came right after the closing bell. Meanwhile, gold, which has seen the biggest sell-off in decades over the past few trading sessions, is up 2.4%. Thinkorswim
Economists have been cranking up their home price expectations. Some expect home prices to rise 8% in 2013. Housing pundit Ivy Zelman has said we're in "nirvana" for housing. But recently we've seen some signs that the recovery is slowing down. First, building permits have declined since January. And though housing starts have come in strong, up 7% in March, this was driven by a 31% rise in multifamily starts. Single family starts were down 4.8%. Bank of America's Michelle Meyer has previously pointed out that in this recovery multi-family rentals are creating a larger part of the housing stock. Business Insider ¬† Capital Economics Second, homebuilder confidence, climbed to its highest level since 2006 in December, rising to 47. After rising for eight straight months, it stalled in January and has decreased since, falling to 42 in April. Business Insider Third, homebuilders were frustrated about difficulties in "obtaining construction credit and overly restrictive mortgage lending rules," according to NAHB chairman Rick Judson. Meanwhile, Paul Diggle at Capital Economics previously warned that "capacity constraints in lenders‚Äô mortgage departments are one of the few remaining bottlenecks in the housing recovery." "Lenders‚Äô need to manage the level of mortgage applications given their constrained processing capacity is one explanation for why mortgage rates are at record highs relative to MBS yields and credit scoring criteria are very strict. All of this has helped contribute to the marginal role being played by mortgage-dependent buyers in the housing recovery." Capital Economics Fourth, foreclosure starts have begun to pick up again. RealtyTrac As a bonus, here's Goldman Sachs' housing swirlogram that shows we're not in the expansion stage yet. Goldman Sachs
The IMF slashed growth forecasts for half the world today. While much of the developing world emerged unscathed, Western nations will see anemic GDP growth at best for the rest of the year. What you see on this map is anemic growth in the west and horrible growth in Europe. The only parts of the world with STRONG growth are in Africa, China, and parts of south America. Here's the agency's updated map: IMF The Fund is now calling this a "three-speed recovery." You can check out the full report here.¬†
AP ImagesThe latest industrial production data for the month of March are out. Production expanded 0.4% in March, twice what was expected by economists. February industrial production growth was revised up to 1.1% from 0.7%. Capacity utilization rose to 78.5% from 78.4% in February. Below is a summary of the data, from the release: Industrial production rose 0.4 percent in March after having increased 1.1 percent in February. For the¬†Ô¨Årst quarter as a whole, output moved up at an annual rate of 5.0 percent, its largest gain since the Ô¨Årst quarter of¬†2012. Manufacturing output edged down 0.1 percent in March after having risen 0.9 percent in February; the¬†index advanced at an annual rate of 5.3 percent in the Ô¨Årst quarter. Production at mines decreased 0.2 percent in¬†March and edged down in the Ô¨Årst quarter. In March, the output of utilities jumped 5.3 percent, as unusually cold¬†weather drove up heating demand. At 99.5 percent of its 2007 average, total industrial production in March was¬†3.5 percent above its year-earlier level. The rate of capacity utilization for total industry moved up in March to¬†78.5 percent, a rate that is 1.2 percentage points above its level of a year earlier but 1.7 percentage points below¬†its long-run (1972‚Äì2012) average. Click here for the full release &gt;
Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesThe IMF has reduced its world growth forecast for 2013 to 3.3% from 3.5%, according to the agency's latest release. Practically no one was safe. Euro-area outlook was cut to -0.3% from +0.1%. U.S. growth was slashed ¬†-0.2% to 1.9%. China was cut to 8.0% from 8.1%. Russia was cut to 3.4% from 3.7%. Only Japan and Sub-Saharan Africa saw increases. Here's the full chart: IMF
Bloomberg TVKit JuckesThe last few days have seen a total liquidation in the gold market. Yesterday, the metal was down more than 10 percent, marking its worst one-day drop in 30 years. It's stabilized a bit this morning, but is still trading below $1400, around $200 less than it was worth just a week ago. Stocks had a nasty day yesterday as well, as weakness from the commodity markets seeped into the equity markets. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale FX strategist Kit Juckes says this morning that a lot of his clients are asking whether what just happened to gold will happen to stocks next. "I rather sense that today we're all waiting for some new news while nervously wondering if there is more liquidation to come," wrote Juckes in an email. "The majority of the mails I get wonder less about gold and commodities (the damage is done), and more about whether we will see a repeat in equities." For his part, Juckes doesn't think so ‚Äì but the thought is definitely floating around out there, nonetheless.
A video taken from one of the Boston Marathon runners appears to show one of two explosions that left at least three dead and more than 100 injured Monday afternoon. About seven seconds into the video, an explosion occurs with a near-deafening sound. The person appears to scamper back in the opposite direction after seeing the explosion. (Keep in mind that this was near the end of a 26-mile race.) "This is a video my mom recorded of the explosion," the YouTube video's description reads. "We are so lucky we got out of there when we did. My mom didn't finish the race but we are all safe and that's what matters. My heart goes out to victims." Watch the video below: 
Flickr / dfbphotosThe CPI release is out. Consumer prices unexpectedly fell 0.2% in March from the previous month. Economists were predicting a flat reading. Excluding food and energy, prices were up 0.1% (economists were looking for a 0.2% advance). Year over year, consumer prices were up 1.5% (versus 1.6% expected and 2.0% in February), and prices excluding food and energy were up 1.9% (versus 2.0% expected and 2.0% in February).
Reuters/Mike BlakeHousing starts beat expectations in March, rising 7% to¬†an annualized level of 1.03 million.¬† Multifamily starts were up 31%, but single family starts were down 4.8%. This beat expectations for a 1.4% rise to an annualized level of 930,000. Permits fell 3.9%. This missed expectations for 0.3% rise to an annualized level of 942,000. Homebuilder confidence fell to 42 in April, and builders cited "difficulties in obtaining construction credit, overly restrictive mortgage lending rules." Investors watch this data because it is a key insight into the demand for homes. Click here for the full release.
AMC screencapGoldman Sachs, Coca-Cola, Johnson &amp; Johnson, and Blackrock all reported quarterly financial results this morning. All of them beat analysts' estimates on profits and revenues in the first quarter, and all of the stocks are trading higher in the pre-market session. Goldman reported earnings of $4.29 per share (versus $3.86 expected) and revenues of $10.09 billion (versus $9.65 billion expected) on strong investment banking business in the first quarter. The stock is up 0.2%. Coca-Cola said it made $0.46 per share (versus $0.44 expected) and brought in $11.04 billion in sales (versus $10.94 billion expected) on strong gains in Latin America. The stock is up 3.0%. Johnson &amp; Johnson's earnings came in at $1.44 per share (versus $1.39 expected) and revenues were $17.51 billion (versus $17.41 expected) on robust pharmaceutical sales. The stock is up 1.4%. Blackrock reported earnings of $3.65 per share (versus $3.57 expected) and revenues of $2.45 billion (versus $2.44 billion expected) thanks to increased investor interest in ETFs in the first quarter. The stock is up 2.2%. Regardless of what the results say about the economy, markets seem to like the news, and the stocks are being rewarded.
Much of the U.S. economic data in the last two months have been weaker-than-expected.¬† And now some economists are warning of a spring swoon. However, it's not all bad news.¬† In fact, some of the headwinds of recent weeks appear to be turning into headwinds. High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan points to lower gas prices and accelerating tax refunds. ...Gasoline prices have continued to decline and refunds have continued to show catch-up after this year‚Äôs slow start. The chart above shows the downtrend in wholesale and retail gasoline prices; the chart below shows the four-week total in tax refunds. Retail gasoline prices are on track to fall by around 4% before seasonal adjustment in April, which implies a 9% decline after seasonal adjustment‚Äîeven larger than the 5% drop we expect in today‚Äôs CPI for March. The data provide more reason not to simply extrapolate the weaker-than- expected March numbers. Here's a look at gas prices: High Frequency Economics And here's a look at the recent pickup in tax refunds: High Frequency Economics
The bank beat earnings and revenue forecasts. For Q1, the bank posted adjusted EPS of $4.29, versus analysts' estimates of $3.87.¬† Revenue for the first quarter came in at $10.09 billion versus analysts' estimates of $9.65 billion.¬† The stock was last trading up more than 1% in the pre-market. Here's an excerpt from the earnings release:¬† The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) today reported net revenues of $10.09¬†billion and net earnings of $2.26¬†billion for the first quarter ended March¬†31,¬†2013. Diluted earnings per common share were $4.29 compared with $3.92 for the first quarter of 2012 and $5.60 for the fourth quarter of 2012. Annualized return on average common shareholders‚Äô equity (ROE)¬†was 12.4% for the first quarter of 2013. Highlights ‚ÄúWe are pleased with our performance for the quarter,‚Äù said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ‚ÄúOur strong client franchise across our businesses drove generally solid results. Still, the potential for macro-economic instability was felt in the quarter and constrained overall corporate and investor activity. We continue to be very focused on controlling our costs and efficiently managing our capital.‚Äù Net Revenues Investment Banking Net revenues in Investment Banking were $1.57¬†billion for the first quarter of 2013, 36% higher than the first quarter of 2012 and 12% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $484¬†million, essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2012. Net revenues in the firm‚Äôs Underwriting business were $1.08¬†billion, 63% higher than the first quarter of 2012. This increase primarily reflected significantly higher net revenues in debt underwriting, due to leveraged finance and commercial mortgage-related activity. Net revenues in equity underwriting were also significantly higher compared with the first quarter of 2012, reflecting an increase in client activity. The firm‚Äôs investment banking transaction backlog decreased compared with the end of 2012.¬†(8) Institutional Client Services Net revenues in Institutional Client Services were $5.14¬†billion, 10% lower than the first quarter of 2012 and 18% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $3.22¬†billion, 7% lower than the first quarter of 2012. Net revenues were lower across most businesses, primarily reflecting significantly lower net revenues in interest rate products compared with a strong first quarter of 2012. Net revenues in mortgages were higher compared with the first quarter of 2012. During the quarter, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in an environment characterized by generally tighter credit spreads and improved client activity levels compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. Net revenues in Equities were $1.92¬†billion, 15% lower than the first quarter of 2012, primarily reflecting lower net revenues in equities client execution. This decrease reflected significantly lower net revenues in derivatives compared with a strong first quarter of 2012, partially offset by higher net revenues in cash products. Commissions and fees were lower compared with the first quarter of 2012, reflecting lower market volumes. In addition, securities services net revenues were lower compared with the first quarter of 2012. During the quarter, Equities operated in an environment generally characterized by an increase in global equity prices, lower volatility levels and improved client activity levels compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. The net loss attributable to the impact of changes in the firm‚Äôs own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $77¬†million ($42¬†million and $35¬†million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the first quarter of 2013, compared with a net loss of $224¬†million ($117¬†million and $107¬†million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the first quarter of 2012. Investing &amp; Lending Net revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $2.07¬†billion for the first quarter of 2013. Investing &amp; Lending net revenues were positively impacted by an increase in equity prices and generally tighter credit spreads. Results for the first quarter of 2013 included a gain of $24¬†million from the firm‚Äôs investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC), net gains of $1.10¬†billion from other investments in equities, primarily in private equities, net gains and net interest income of $566¬†million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $375¬†million related to the firm‚Äôs consolidated investments. Investment Management Net revenues in Investment Management were $1.32¬†billion for the first quarter of 2013, 12% higher than the first quarter of 2012 and 13% lower than the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in net revenues compared with the first quarter of 2012 was due to higher incentive fees and higher management and other fees. During the quarter, assets under supervision¬†(9)¬†increased $3¬†billion to $968¬†billion, reflecting net market appreciation of $12¬†billion, primarily in equity assets. Net outflows in assets under supervision were $9¬†billion, as outflows in money market assets and, to a lesser extent, alternative investment assets, were partially offset by inflows in fixed income and equity assets. Expenses Operating expenses were $6.72¬†billion, essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2012 and 36% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012. Compensation and Benefits The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, estimated year-end discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) was $4.34¬†billion for the first quarter of 2013, essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2012. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first quarter of 2013 was 43.0%, compared with 44.0% for the first quarter of 2012. Total staff¬†(10)¬†decreased 1% compared with the end of 2012. Non-Compensation Expenses Non-compensation expenses were $2.38¬†billion, essentially unchanged compared with the first quarter of 2012 and 19% lower than the fourth quarter of 2012. Non-compensation expenses for the first quarter of 2013 included lower depreciation and amortization expenses, primarily reflecting lower impairment charges related to consolidated investments, compared with the first quarter of 2012. This decrease was largely offset by higher other expenses, primarily reflecting increased net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings and higher expenses related to consolidated investments. The first quarter of 2013 included net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of $110¬†million. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2013 was 33.0%, essentially unchanged from the full year tax rate of 33.3% for 2012. Capital As of March¬†31,¬†2013, total capital was $244.24¬†billion, consisting of $77.23 billion in total shareholders‚Äô equity (common shareholders‚Äô equity of $71.03¬†billion and preferred stock of $6.20¬†billion) and $167.01¬†billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. Book value per common share was $148.41 and tangible book value per common share¬†(3)¬†was $138.62, both approximately 3% higher compared with the end of 2012. Book value and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 478.6¬†million as of March¬†31,¬†2013. On March¬†25,¬†2013, the firm amended its warrant agreement with Berkshire Hathaway to require net share settlement and to specify the exercise date as October¬†1,¬†2013. Under the amended agreement, the firm will deliver to Berkshire Hathaway the number of shares of common stock equal in value to the difference between the average closing price of the firm‚Äôs common stock over the 10 trading days preceding October¬†1,¬†2013 and the exercise price of $115 multiplied by the number of shares of common stock (43.5¬†million) covered by the warrant. During the quarter, the firm repurchased 10.1¬†million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $150.53, for a total cost of $1.52¬†billion. On April¬†15,¬†2013, the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) authorized the repurchase of an additional 75.0¬†million shares of common stock pursuant to the firm‚Äôs existing share repurchase program. The remaining share authorization under the firm‚Äôs existing repurchase program, including the newly authorized amount, is 86.4¬†million shares.¬†(11) Under the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank holding companies, the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 capital ratio¬†(6)¬†was 14.4%¬†(5)¬†and the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 common ratio¬†(7)¬†was 12.7%¬†(5)¬†as of March¬†31,¬†2013, in each case under Basel¬†1 and reflecting the revised market risk regulatory capital requirements which became effective on January¬†1,¬†2013. As of December¬†31,¬†2012, the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 capital ratio under Basel¬†1 was 16.7% and the firm‚Äôs Tier¬†1 common ratio under Basel¬†1 was 14.5% (prior to the implementation of the revised market risk regulatory capital requirements). Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics Dividends Group Inc. declared a dividend of $0.50 per common share to be paid on June¬†27,¬†2013 to common shareholders of record on May¬†30,¬†2013. The firm also declared dividends of $229.17, $387.50, $244.44, $244.44 and $371.88 per share of Series¬†A Preferred Stock, Series¬†B Preferred Stock, Series¬†C Preferred Stock, Series¬†D Preferred Stock and Series¬†I Preferred Stock, respectively (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock), to be paid on May¬†10,¬†2013 to preferred shareholders of record on April¬†25,¬†2013. In addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,044.44 per each share of Series¬†E Preferred Stock and Series¬†F Preferred Stock, to be paid on June¬†3,¬†2013 to preferred shareholders of record on May¬†19,¬†2013. Goldman will hold a conference call at 9:30 a.m. ET to discuss the results.¬† This comes in the wake of announcement from JP Morgan, Wells Fargo, and Citigroup.¬† All three banks beat expectations.
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
A large earthquake ó the†USGS puts it at a 7.8†on the Richter scale†ó has hit Iran†50 miles east of the city of Khash and near the Pakistani border. Earlier†Iranian state television reported that at least†40 people†have been killed, but†the governor of Sistan and Baluchistan has†told ISNA†news agency that "the earthquake resulted in no fatalities." Pakistani officials say at least†34 people†have died and more than†1Ç000 houses†in Pakistani areas have been partially damaged. Iran's Fars news agency reports that it's the biggest quake since a 7.7 in 1990 and the strongest in 40 years.†Fars notes that†many houses in the area "are made of mud brick, which can easily crumble in a quake." Given that the area is rural and poor, the emergency effort is expected to be difficult. #Iran's Red Crescent says facing "complicated emergency situation" in #quake area with villages scattered over desolate hills and valleys. This map is from the USGS. The big red dot is the earthquake. USGS.gov It is being felt across multiple countries. It was felt in New Delhi, #India. #quake Magnitude 8 earthquake strikes Iran; tremors felt in UAE, Oman and India. Gulf News People on the road on II Chundrigar Road #karachi after a 7.9rector scale earthquake in #pakistan and #Iran twitter.com/YesMQM/status/Ö USGS On April 10 a†6.3-magnitude†earthquake hit southwestern Iran, killing 35 and injuring about 800. Here's a map giving a better idea of where Tuesday's earthquake occurred: Twitter/f1shage <U+6C99><U+6208>
Caught in the big commodity downdraft is oil, as prices of West Texas Intermediate crude fall below $90. That's notable, but what's also interesting is the big picture. If you look at a chart going back several years, you can see that there are recurring peaks and troughs, but that each peak is a bit lower than the one before. And this year the peak really fizzled out fast. More evidence of a big secular trend for oil (lower demand, higher supply) and all commodities (higher supply, slower global growth, and a speculative unwind). Via FinViz: FinViz
It shows the debt/income ratios for households in a select number of countries. As we have noted,¬† Canada's has the dubious honor of the not just being at the top of the chart, but also seemingly continuing to move in the wrong direction.¬†¬† One of our interpretative points is that Bank of Canada Governor Carney is leaving for Canada as the proverbial bloom is coming off the rose.¬† The economy is under-performing.¬† The positive terms of trade shock appears to be going in reverse.¬† Excess are evident in the housing market and households.¬† Finance Minister Flaherty had hoped to make a recommendation to the government of Carney's replacement by the end of the month, but this may be delayed until early May.¬† Carney steps down in June and joins the Bank of England in July.¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Tyler Broda, at Nomura, is in the early running for quote of the day. We are running out of superlatives to attach to the gold price move since last Friday, with prices having reached as low as USD 1,322 overnight. The gold price is now rebounding, reaching USD 1,375/oz. Nomura
Yahoo Finance The market got clobbered yesterday, and so did Apple. Apple's stock closed at $419.85 ‚Äî its lowest closing price since its slide from $700 began last September. Apple is now down 40% from its peak. And anyone who has bought Apple in the past year and held it has lost money on it. What's going on with Apple's stock?¬† How low could it go? ¬†When might we see a bottom? On the first question, there are several things going on with Apple's stock. I'll discuss them in detail below. On the second question, the answer is, "probably not much lower ... unless the business takes another turn for the worse." And, unfortunately, it is quite possible that the business could take another turn for the worse, if not several more turns. (Companies don't go from spectacularly healthy to moribund overnight ‚Äî the process usually takes years.) On the third question ‚Äî when might we see a bottom ‚Äî there's a chance that we could hit at least a temporary one soon. For the last couple of months, Wall Street has been dreading Apple's first quarter earnings report. The prevailing theory is that Apple will not only report a lousy quarter, but will also offer guidance for the second calendar quarter that is well below Wall Street's current estimates. The hope among some Wall Street bulls is that this double-whammy of bad news will reduce expectations for the company just as anticipation begins to build about the summer and fall launch of several new products. This combination, the theory goes, could put in a bottom for the stock. Of course, if Apple's swoon over the past six months is the start of a long-term decline, this respite will likely be short-lived. Some of the issues plaguing Apple's stock are fundamental, having to do with changes in Apple's business. ApplePretty. But expensive.Others are related to sentiment and changes in Apple's shareholder base ("momentum" and "growth" investors are continuing to dump the stock, on the theory that Apple's growth days are over. And as they dump it, the only folks willing to buy it are "value" investors who care deeply about price). Here are some of the things investors are concerned about: All of these factors are weighing on Apple's stock. But here's the good news: The stock is now cheap. Apple is now trading at 10X trailing earnings per share. Apple could certainly get "cheaper," especially if its earnings continue to decline. The stocks of companies that are truly troubled, like Dell, BlackBerry, and HP, often trade at mid-single-digit PEs. (See: "How Low Could Apple Go?")¬†But for now, at least, Apple is still healthy, so if Apple ever gets to, say, 8X earnings, it will be screamingly cheap. At 10X earnings, Apple is just cheap ‚Äî cheaper, for example, than the stock market as a whole.¬†And Apple also has nearly $150 billion in cash. What will Apple's stock do from here? No one knows, so don't get fooled into thinking that there's some guru out there who can tell you definitively. Apple may release some exciting new products later this year that will get investors buzzing and cause them to pay, say, 14X for Apple's earnings instead of 10X. And that will produce a nice jump in the stock. Or Apple may be in the early innings of a long secular decline in which it eventually becomes the equivalent of Dell (or, worse, Nokia. Or Digital Equipment Corporation). That depressing future is entirely possible, so don't delude yourself into thinking that it isn't. One thing we can say, though, is that at 10X earnings Apple looks cheap and is still in robust financial health. That means that even modest unexpected good news may drive the stock significantly higher. (I don't buy individual stocks these days, but if Apple were to double its dividend to a 4%+ yield, I might find that irresistible. Even if Apple is in the midst of a secular decline, it will likely be able to keep paying those dividends for a good long time.) SEE ALSO: How Low Could Apple Go?
 My interview with Jeremy Grantham, the environmental philanthropist and legendary fund manager, was published in the Guardian on Saturday. As I have done for my interviews with the likes of Al Gore, Bill McKibben and James Lovelock (in 2010 and 2012), I have taken the time to transcribe the full interview so readers can see what Grantham said in the kind of detail that the print edition of the Guardian can't provide. The interview lasted three hours, so I have split the transcript in two. I will publish part two tomorrow, but here's part one... Jeremy Grantham on why he has stepped up his environmental activities: It's data driven. We [the Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the Environment] were gracefully moving into the environment, save these animals and habitats, and all these good things, then the data on resources - starting about four years ago ñ made me realise that some of these were really urgent. That we were already entering a food crisis, for example. This time last year I thought it was clear from the data that we were already five years into a food crisis and it is highly unlikely to go away. And unless we get our act together it is likely to become a cascading problem. On how much time we have to tackle the world's environmental problems: We're already in a bad place. We're on a sliding scale. The language "it's too late" is very unsuitable for most environmental issues. It's too late for the dodo and for people who've starved to death already, but it's not too late to prevent an even bigger crisis. The sooner we act on the environment, the better. The sooner we cut off the carbon dioxide going into the air, etc. The worse accidents we will prevent from happening are 20, 30, 40 years from now. The same applies to food. The faster we act to improve the situation, the fewer Africans ñ North Africans, in particular ñ will come to grief. What is happening through the market mechanism is that the rich countries, by being unnecessarily sloppy ñ and by the Chinese getting richer in a real hurry and eating more meat ñ we are pricing up grain so that the poor are getting hungry. It's hard to see this stopping in the immediate future. It's also very hard to see the poor and hungry getting richer at the same speed as the way we are driving up the price of grain. On feeding a growing human population: There is a stretching disparity between the haves and have nots. It's not the win-win of globalisation that we all grew up with studying in Econ 101. The irony is that as China gets richer, it burns more coal. They put pressure on the global environment and on global grain prices. So in order to give them a nice middle class, variegated diet, they could cause poorer Asians and Africans to starve. There is no mechanism to prevent that. Egypt runs a trade deficit. Their population is programmed to grow dramatically. Three million at the time of Napoleon. Eighty-three million, said their standard when they marched into the Olympic Games last year. And they're on their way to 140m. They've always been very efficient, but they can't feed much more than half their people. The price of grain from about 2002-2008 ñ a tiny window ñ tripled. Why did it grow so sharply? We knew population was growing, but it was growing steadily, if dramatically. When I was born there were two billion, now there are seven billion. It's the kind of curve than anyone in finance would look at and jump nervously, when you see an exponential curve like that. That's one factor, but nothing particular to the period of 2002-2008Ö On the rising price of oil: Ö2002 was a nothing year. The only numbers I was paying attention to in 2002 was for oil. A little wheel was turning at the back of my brain that noted that oil was beginning to act differently. Our firm specialises in the study of investment bubbles. We have the best data. Over the years, we have put together a database that has 330 bubbles of which about 40 are really important ones. What we found about the important bubbles is that every single one had burst completely back to the original trend. Three years up to something triple, and then three years down. They actually tend to go down a little more quickly than they went up, which is surprising. But they always broke. I used to specialise in asking financial audiences to give me an example of the paradigm shift, a major shift in a major financial asset class. And never was one offered. Six years ago I wrote about the paradigm shift in the New York Times. It had 100 years of oil prices ñ very volatile, but a very central, steady trend line of about 16 dollars a barrel in today's currency. But then around OPEC in 1972/3, the price trend leaps up to $36. On the unwillingness to process unpleasant data: I find the parallels between how some investors refuse to recognise the trends and our reaction to some of our environmental challenges very powerful. There is an unwillingness to process unpleasant data. In a bull market you want to believe good news. You don't want to hear that the market is going to go off a cliff. You don't want to listen to the climate people who are telling you it is getting worse and even worse unless you do this and that. You want to listen to the good news. There were always people willing to tell you that smoking was OK and that stuff about cancer was exaggerated. There's a professor at MIT who defended tobacco who now defends carbon dioxide saying it seems to have lost its greenhouse effect, or whatever. And then there are the vested interests. They are the single most powerful force because you are dealing with an audience who wants to hear good news and into the stock market come all the bullish stock market giant firms telling you everything's fine because they love bull markets because they make a fortune. They don't even mind crashes because they don't do so badly there either. What they would die at is if the market went up at its long-term trend line at 1.8%, plus inflation, a year. But we're not going back to 2% growth. Maybe we'll do 1% and it will be reported as 1.5% and once again people don't want to hear that. They want to hear Ben Bernanke's news that it should return to 3%... Me calling bubbles correctly is all data driven and based on the optimism that is built into humans. Every time we see a bubble, we see an army of people screaming, "No, no, it's not a bubble, everything is fine." We see the climate and scores of people screaming the same that everything is fine, or that it's a plot. It's par for the course. The general public don't want to hear it and will choose to listen to the optimistic interpretation. It's a real uphill struggle. You don't stop the bubble really until the damage is done. It goes so high that it can't sustain itself and just pops. And maybe that will happen here and our job is to try to do a better job than we did in the tech bubble. On climate sceptics: The misinformation machine is brilliant. As a propagandist myself [he has previously described himself as GMO's "chief of propaganda" in reference to his official title of "chief investment strategist"], I have nothing but admiration for their propaganda. [Laughs.] But the difference is that we have the facts behind our propaganda. They're in the "screaming loudly" rather than the "fact based" part of the exercise, because they don't have the facts. They are masters at manufacturing doubt. What I have noticed on the blogs and in the comments section under articles is that over several years, as the scientific evidence for climate change gets stronger, the tone of the sceptics is getting shriller and more vicious and nastier all the time. The equivalent on the other side is a weary resignation, sorrow and frustration and amazement that people on the other side can't look at the facts. The sceptics are getting angrier and more vicious every year despite the more storms we have, and the more mad crazy weather we haveÖ One of the problems is that typically you are not dealing with the facts. Putting in more facts makes the sceptics more angry. They have profound beliefs ñ as opposed to knowledge ñ that they are willing to protect by all manner of psychological tricks. So you have people who are very smart - even great analysts and hedge fund managers - who on paper know that their argument is wrong, but who promote it fiercely because they are libertarians. Libertarians believe that any government interference is bad. Anyone with a brain knows that climate change needs governmental leadership and they can smell this is bad news for their philosophy. Their ideology is so strongly held that remarkably it's overcoming the facts. They are using incredible ingenuity to steer their way around facts that they do not choose to accept philosophically. Laying down more facts just makes them more angry. You may win over a few neutrals. They are the people you can win over. But it's very hard to win over the hardcore sceptics, of which there are plenty. We can try to bypass them on one level and we try to contest the political power of the sceptics. They are using money as well as propaganda to influence the politicians, particularly in America. It almost doesn't even exist in countries outside the US, UK and Australia. A cynic would say that the petrol-chemical industry also happens to be Anglo-Saxon. Where are the great oil companies based? They still have great power. The oil companies seem to have pulled back from directly supporting climate sceptics over the past few years because - in England, in particular - they were embarrassed and it became untenable to be so obvious. But they're still influential. You don't have go via back-channels any more, courtesy of the US Supreme Court, because it is completely legal for a corporation to invest tons of money in advertising programmes to say who is good and who is bad in a race for the Senate without even asking permission from the people who actually own the company. Corporations are treated as human beings and money is treated as having the right to speak. There's dark money and light money. The anonymity they adopt is legal. They don't have to say who their donors are. It is quite remarkable. And then you get the Something Something for the Environment, which are actually just sceptics funded by the bad guys. And then there are the thinktanks who have become propaganda-tanks. I used to respect the Cato Institute when it came out with reports on this, that and the other, and they have received a lot of hydrocarbon funding. But when the University of East Anglia break-in was engineered they had something like 20 press conferences the following month. The response to the break-in was almost immediate and co-ordinated. I don't think it was suspiciously rapid, but I do think it was unusually and unexpectedly rapid. It's very likely that it was simply a terrific response of their behalf. They moved very fast. The good guys are learning slowly, but surely, to step up their response timeÖ If you're saying something that people don't want to hear or accept, a significant proportion of them will reply with hostility. Not because they know the facts, or because they have researched it themselves, but because they're so psychologically involved in believing good news that they will oppose it with a reflex. In addition, if the solutions proposed sound like they involve the government, you will have all the political rightwing try to block it as a reflex, even if it means them overriding hard science, which is what's going on today. Changing people's minds is almost impossible, even among scientists. Max Planck said, to paraphrase, that science advances one funeral at a time. You could add that economics advances the same way. You have to wait to get rid of the people who have career investment in a topic before a new generation can see the light. On the UK's unseasonably cold spring in 2013, and recent icy winters: The scientists are getting very concerned privately ñ they are conservative in public and have yet to write it up ñ that blocking processes are sticking in the system. The jet stream is behaving very strangely. One very senior atmospheric scientist said to me recently off the record that we are liable to wake up one day and find ourselves on the latitude ñ which we are in the UK ñ of Montreal. It's a liveable place, but not like London. They have underground tunnels because of their winters. The Gulf Stream is having a few wobbles, too, and the theory there is the melting in Greenland and the Arctic is creating a lot of cold, fresh water, which is a possible source for loss of power in the conductor, so it moves less warm water up from the Caribbean. On how he chooses where to spend his foundation's money: We don't fund the hard science of solar technology. That would take hundreds of millions. But what we are funding is bringing together the data and put it together and representing it conveniently to the outside world. And we want to train people with a good range of skills so they can produce good PhDs for the future at LSE and Imperial. We also fund old-fashioned style investigative journalism which is dying out in newspapers because the newspaper industry has become incredibly tough. The first people to get fired were the environmental journalists. We had a prize for environmental journalism which we brought in at the top of the market, but we discontinued it last year because there was basically no leverage left for the two-and-a-half environmental journalists left. All we were interested in was the net result of whether it could produce a more effective presentation of the facts. We got going in the nick of time to see that it could drag up environmental journalism, but then all the "dragees" were suddenly looking for different jobs, or put on different beats. Or that they were already working for the handful of independent investigative organisations. We fund about a dozen fledgling journalistic projects. Our argument was they are all fledgling so let's fund them all first, then winnow them down later ñ come back in 3-4 years and pick eight and, a couple of years later, pick five. In the end, it doesn't matter if there are one or two, but that they are the best. They whole point really is to allow these people to do their thing and to play to their skills and to pick the people who are highly motivated and very skilled. None of them would be very happy if we tried to tell them what precisely to do and we don't know what they should do. On assessing if the money his foundation spends has achieved its objectives: It's a great problem for philanthropists and NGOs. The problems where you can measure the impact are not common in the environmental field. If you can measure them, they tend to be over decades. One is the wildlife population of Namibia. That is by far and away the most successful [conservation project the foundation has funded], by the way. You can see the population of the various types of antelope have improved. But that is unusual. But the ones you feel are most important are the vaguest of them all. How do measure the shift in attitudes towards processing the data? There are guys working on studying the changes in attitudes in the media. But you have to take a leap of faith that they are smart and dedicated. On whether he tries to persuade other philanthropists to support his causes: No, I don't. We might discuss such things informally over lunch. There's a handful of hedge fund managers, mainly, who have decided to be aggressive about the environment, thank heavens. This doesn't exist in England where you could get them all on the finger of one hand. I can try to persuade them. I gave a talk in London recently at the head office of a major financial player and someone went to considerably effort to make sure a couple of hundred potential philanthropists and wealthy individuals were there for me to have a go at them. A lot of them left their business cards and if you do that you are kind of asking for trouble. [Laughs.] I believe the majority left their cards, which as things go, is a huge potential hit because even if you get one or two that could be significant. They were a receptive audience. I try to paint the picture of how I got to where I am [as an investor] and then of how fact based the issues appear to be to me. I now try to add my thoughts about food and the "carbon math"Ö On the "carbon math": ÖIt's simple, comprehensible maths, as Bill McKibben explained in Rolling Stone last year. There are five times the amount of proven carbon reserves as we can possibly allow to be burned if we want to remain under 2C of warming, which is now not even considered to be a safe margin. We must burn just a fifth of what's there. We will burn all the cheap, high-quality oil and gas, but if we mean to burn all the coal and any appreciable percentage of the tarsands, or even third derivative, energy-intensive oil and gas, with fracking for shale gas on the boundary, then we're cooked, we're done for. Terrible consequences that we will lay at the door of our grandchildren. Some things might change very quickly, though. For example, the business mathematics of alternative energy are changing much faster than the well-informed business man realises. On the falling costs of alternative energy: Read my next quarterly newsletter entitled, "The Race of Our Lives", [will be available here] on why civilisations fall and why they've always fallen and why we may not because we have two advantages that they did not - a voluntary fall in fertility, which is just amazing, and alternative energy. Every wave of technology has seen an incremental increase in energy needed ñ steam engines, cars, air conditioning, iPads ñ they all add to our energy needs and mean we dig a deeper hole, but we feel we are making wonderful progress. But now we have a technology wave which protects us from needing to burn every last ton of coal. Solar, wind, biomass, intelligent grids, and storage - please, more storage - protect us. That is the best part of capitalism. The price of solar panels is now 25% of what it was two years ago and that's the bit people have missed. If these prices were to be held ñ they may not be ñ we are competitive, without a carbon tax, in the areas that have the sun - California, North Africa, Spain, etc. You can build a solar farm and it can be commercial. Meanwhile, the price of hydrocarbons are getting more expensive all the time, because you've extracted all the easy stuff first and with China rising and still growing at 7% a year. And that's just China. Don't forget India which actually has more coal power plants down to be built on the books at the moment than China. Now you start to get an idea of, wow, why this does not compute. If it computes, it's only at the enormous increase in cost of digging and shipping coal. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, solar and wind power are getting cheaper and cheaper. Those lines are going to cross big time in the next 20 years. There is no such thing as "locked in and committed" because you can reverse. They might build a few more coal-fired plants, but then they will stop completely. The pay-off for China of getting out of the way of those lines crossing is so great. On why China is his big hope: China is my secret weapon. I call them the Chinese cavalry riding to the rescue. They have the capital. They have an embarrassment of capital ñ 50% of their GDP is capital investment. We have a shortage of capital and also have debts. Their problem is how to invest all that capital. My partners worry all the time about them wasting their money. What better programme could they possibly have, with huge social pay-off, than a massive replacement of sustainable energy? When you think what it would mean to them ñ it would get rid of their pollution ñ it makes sense. Because of that pollution, they announced recently an incredible increase of 65% in their plans to install by 2015 ñ just three short years away ñ 36GW, which is equivalent to 20 vast, state-of-art coal plants, of solar. Throw in wind, too. And, by the way, we will have many breakthroughs in storage. If I had to make a bet, I would say that's the most promising, important breakthrough of the next several years. Everyone is working on this. If you have a big smart grid ñ and all the desert of Xinjiang and all the wind of Inner Mongolia ñ and it's all swirling around with relatively little loss and you have a grid smart enough to go in there Chinese-style and turn your fridge off for half an hour to save energy, and do this and do that, you don't need nearly the back-up. The bad guys will tell you that you need 100% back-up and messianic environmentalists will tell you that you need 0%. But maybe 20% back-up will be needed as everyone is working on storage. I'm certain it will happen. Some technologies take time then go, "Bang!". Look at video conferencing. It has been around forever and the quality was terrible. But now it is so clear and instant. Technology has a habit of boring you to death and disappointing you for 20 years then suddenly it delivers a new worldÖ I have very high hopes for China because they have embedded high scientific capabilities in their leadership class. And that is huge. They know this is serious. They can calculate the social threat of getting this pollution, weather instability, water out of control. And they are acting much faster now than we are. They have it within their capabilities of coming back in 30 years with the guarantee of complete energy independence ñ all alternative and sustainable forever. They have an embarrassment of capital. We have an embarrassment of debt. So they can set a stunning pace, which they are doing. And they could crank it up. To hell with their five-year plans, they should move up to 25-year plans for alternative energy - energy security, reducing pollution and low cost. They would have such low-cost energy at the end of it they will be the terror of the capitalist system. With low energy and low labour, that's the ball game. Five years into a 25-year programme and any capitalist will be urging their government to copy them. On the Scandinavian countries: I am inspired by [them]. They have to cope with short-term election cycles and a parliamentary system and all four of them nevertheless act responsibly, not just on alternative energy and environmental issues, but also on social issues that matter. They are, by and large, models of good behaviour. They say in America to me what's the solution to all this, I say cede your government to Denmark. [Laughs]. They are good enough that they would get the job done. On environmentalism's track record of making predictions: Go and read Limits to Growth, which I did recently. They pretty much predicted doom and gloom 20 years from now. They have been grossly misinterpreted and are pretty much on schedule. There are details that are over and under, but it is amazingly accurate. The William Ophuls model is that we are hard-wired to collapse. Given half a chance we will over-reach. We are over-confident that we will solve every problem. But we will leave it too late and we will crash. All the confidence that people try to give you ñ the "infinite capacity of the human brain", unquote ñ all of that hinges on the apparent infinite supply of hydrocarbons. No civilisation looked durable and resilient until coal and then we acquired this amazing power. We are now coming to the end of that era. If we don't use that window to fix it and have a sustainable replacement, we are toast. Don't worry about peak oil, worry about peak temperature. All our flora and fauna has thrived in the last 10,000 years since the end of the last ice age, a period which has seen unbelievable stable weather by long-term standards. Now it is becoming unstable. If you drive the temperature above 40C, well-known brands of corn will not produce. They just stop. You might be able to twist and turn and get it to produce at 41C, and you might move further north in latitude, but temperatures rises are very bad news for grain. The wider point is it [temperature rise] is generally bad for everything that evolved in one stable environment. It has no resilience to produce outside the temperatures experiences during this 10,000 year period. Quite a few grains are now topping out in terms of productivity. I look around and I say just look at the food-producing problems we face. In fact, let's make it even simpler: look at the grain-producing problems we face around the world. We've just had three consecutive monster-bad grain harvests. Not one of those three poor harvests was more likely than a one-in-25-year harvest. But the terrible thing is they went, "whack, whack, whack". I took some grief when I wrote about the first one and said next year was bound to be less bad, but the next year became a monster. I've done more research and reading in the last two years than I ever did at college. I've read all the classics. All the limits to growth, all the end of civilisations stuff, all the peak everything stuff, all the soil destruction stuff. On confronting our environmental problems: Asking, "Are we too late?", is not the logic for this problem. It is too late for the dodo. It is too late for the one third of arable land that we have destroyed in 10,000 years. It's too late for 10% of global biodiversity, and almost certainly another 10%, and 50/50 for yet another 10% after that. But it would be nice to end up with a planet that we can still relate to, that still has a fairly handsome biodiversity. We can still do that. There is one chance that the real pessimists are right. The chance that on our way to a 4-8C rise, and a 10-15ft rise in the oceans, which is probably what's going to happen over the next two centuries, that things will get worse before they get better, because there is inertia built into the system. You can easily imagine resource wars breaking out unless we put our best foot forward on alternative energy. This would buy us time for everything else to be solved. If you can become energy sustainable in the next 40 years and suck up the pain that will have been paid by then, then you have probably bought the time for another 40 years to transfer the whole of global agriculture into a fully sustainable system before we run out of the resources to run old-fashioned agriculture. And if you do that then, in turn, you have probably bought enough time to deal with the intractable long-term issue of metals, which are entropy writ large. No matter how careful you are with them, they slip through your fingers. In the end, you will need to use organic replacements, which will take a long, long time [to develop]. We'd better start working on it now, but not too many are and they're not getting much funding. You've got to get the population down and you've got to ignore the Economist magazine and others talking about rising population as a terrible economic problem. It is a necessary, short-term, intermediate pain to pay for the absolute minimum hope of survival, which is a gracefully declining population, because if you don't do that you will have a rapidly imploding population one day. In part two tomorrow: Jeremy Grantham on genetically modified food, capitalism vs the environment, and why he still invests in oil and gas This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Here's the latest technical take from the folks at SocGen, who see gold going to $1265 (right now it's at $1373, up about $50/oz from its overnight lows). We're not sure what all of the lines mean, but you may enjoy it nonetheless. SocGen
audiocomplex / Creative CommonsThe ZEW survey of economic sentiment -- a widely regarded German survey -- plunged in April. The dive from 48.5 to 36.3 greatly exceeded the expected drop to 42. Here's the press release: In April 2013 the ZEW Indicator of Economic Sentiment for Germany has fallen by 12.2 points and is now at a level of 36.3 points. Despite its decline, the indicator currently hovers at its third highest mark within the last 24 months. The current level has only been exceeded in the two preceding months.¬† "Basically, the surveyed financial market experts remain confident, but are less optimistic than they have been in the previous month. The decline in economic sentiment is consistent with the release of economic data that fell short of expectations", says ZEW President Prof. Dr. Clemens Fuest. German exports into the Eurozone as well as the rest of the world have declined, for instance. The debt crisis in the Eurozone is still unresolved and causes uncertainty.¬† The assessment of the current economic situation for Germany has slightly declined in April. The respective indicator has fallen by 4.4 points and now stands at the 9.2 points-mark. Economic expectations for the Eurozone have decreased again in April. The respective indicator has fallen by 8.5 points to 24.9 points. The indicator for the current economic situation in the Eurozone has remained almost unchanged and now stands at the minus 76.0 pointsmark.¬†¬†
Just a few days ago, Bitcoin was over $260. Now: $57. Via Clarkmoody.com: http://bitcoin.clarkmoody.com/
The Library of CongressThere's a perception that the US economy is doing that thing again, where it weakens markedly in the spring. And given yesterday's tumble in the stock market (coupled with the swift deflationary downdraft in gold and silver), nerves are on edge about what exactly is happening to economy and markets. As such, today's economic data is all interesting. Via Calculated Risk, these are the three datapoints: ï At 8:30 AM ET, Housing Starts for March from the Census Bureau. The consensus is for total housing starts to increase to 930 thousand (SAAR) in March, up from 917 thousand in February. ï Also at 8:30 AM, the BLS will release the Consumer Price Index for March. The consensus is no change in CPI in March (due to lower gasoline prices) and for core CPI to increase 0.2%. ï At 9:15 AM, the Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for March. The consensus is for a 0.2% increase in Industrial Production in March, and for Capacity Utilization to decrease to 78.3%. All three of these are important. Housing will be key, since some housing data lately has stalled out a bit. The CPI will be crucial since that will get at this deflation question. And industrial production is always crucial.
The death toll from yesterday's horrifying attack on the Boston Marathon remains at 3, while the number of those taken in for injury is above 140. Police are still searching for suspects and a motive. Here's the devastating cover of The Boston Globe. WorldCrunch.com
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi BOSTON (AP) ó The bombs that blew up seconds apart at the finish line of one of the world's most storied races left the streets spattered with blood and glass, three dead, more than 140 wounded and maimed and gaping questions of who chose to attack at the Boston Marathon and why. Federal investigators said no one had claimed responsibility for the devastating attack on one of the city's most famous civic holidays, Patriots Day. But the blasts raised alarms of another terror attack in the U.S. after the explosions at a public event among crowds of thousands of spectators. President Barack Obama was careful not to use the words "terror" or "terrorism" as he spoke at the White House Monday after the deadly bombings, but an administration official said the attack was being treated as an act of terrorism. "We will find out who did this. We'll find out why they did this," the president said. "Any responsible individuals, any responsible groups, will feel the full weight of justice." The Pakistani Taliban, which has threatened attacks in the United States because of its support for the Pakistani government, Tuesday denied any role in the marathon bombings. The group's spokesman, Ahsanullah Ahsan, denied involvement in a telephone call with The Associated Press. He spoke from an undisclosed location. The FBI took charge of the investigation into the bombings, serving a warrant late Monday on a home in suburban Boston and appealing for any video, audio and still images taken by marathon spectators. The fiery explosions took place about 10 seconds and about 100 yards apart, knocking spectators and at least one runner off their feet, shattering windows and sending dense plumes of smoke rising over the street and through the fluttering national flags lining the route. Blood stained the pavement, and huge shards were missing from window panes as high as three stories. Victims suffered broken bones, shrapnel wounds and ruptured eardrums. Roupen Bastajian, a state trooper from Smithfield, R.I., had just finished the race when he heard the explosions. "I started running toward the blast. And there were people all over the floor," he said. "We started grabbing tourniquets and started tying legs. A lot of people amputated. ... At least 25 to 30 people have at least one leg missing, or an ankle missing, or two legs missing." At Massachusetts General Hospital, Alasdair Conn, chief of emergency services, said: "This is something I've never seen in my 25 years here ... this amount of carnage in the civilian population. This is what we expect from war." As many as two unexploded bombs were found near the end of the 26.2-mile course as part of what appeared to be a well-coordinated attack, but they were safely disarmed, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigation. WBZ-TV reported late Monday that law enforcement officers were searching an apartment in the Boston suburb of Revere. Massachusetts State Police confirmed that a search warrant related to the investigation into the explosions was served Monday night in Revere, but provided no further details. Some investigators were seen leaving the Revere house early Tuesday carrying brown paper bags, plastic trash bags and a duffel bag. Police said three people were killed. An 8-year-old boy was among the dead, according to a person who talked to a friend of the family and spoke on condition of anonymity. The person said the boy's mother and sister were also injured as they waited for his father to finish the race. Hospitals reported at least 144 people injured, at least 17 of them critically. Tim Davey of Richmond, Va., was with his wife, Lisa, and children near a medical tent that had been set up to care for fatigued runners when the injured began arriving. "They just started bringing people in with no limbs," he said. "Most everybody was conscious," Lisa Davey said. "They were very dazed." The Boston Marathon is one of the world's oldest and most prestigious races and about 23,000 runners participated. The race honored the victims of the Newtown, Conn., shooting with a special mile marker in Monday's race. Boston Athletic Association president Joanne Flaminio previously said there was "special significance" to the fact that the race is 26.2 miles long and 26 people died at Sandy Hook Elementary School. One of the city's biggest annual events, the race winds up near Copley Square, not far from the landmark Prudential Center and the Boston Public Library. It is held on Patriots Day, which commemorates the first battles of the American Revolution, at Concord and Lexington in 1775. Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis asked people to stay indoors or go back to their hotel rooms and avoid crowds as bomb squads methodically checked parcels and bags left along the race route. He said investigators didn't know whether the bombs were hidden in mailboxes or trash cans. He said authorities had received "no specific intelligence that anything was going to happen" at the race. The Federal Aviation Administration barred low-flying aircraft within 3.5 miles of the site. "We still don't know who did this or why," Obama said at the White House, adding, "Make no mistake: We will get to the bottom of this." With scant official information to guide them, members of Congress said there was little or no doubt it was an act of terrorism. "We just don't know whether it's foreign or domestic," said Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. A few miles away from the finish line and around the same time, a fire broke out at the John F. Kennedy Library. The police commissioner said that it may have been caused by an incendiary device but that it was not clear whether it was related to the bombings. The first explosion occurred on the north side of Boylston Street, just before the finish line, and some people initially thought it was a celebratory cannon blast. When the second bomb went off, spectators' cheers turned to screams. As sirens blared, emergency workers and National Guardsmen who had been assigned to the race for crowd control began climbing over and tearing down temporary fences to get to the blast site. The bombings occurred about four hours into the race and two hours after the men's winner crossed the finish line. By that point, more than 17,000 of the athletes had finished the marathon, but thousands more were still running. The attack may have been timed for maximum carnage: The four-hour mark is typically a crowded time near the finish line because of the slow-but-steady recreational runners completing the race and because of all the friends and relatives clustered around to cheer them on. Runners in the medical tent for treatment of dehydration or other race-related ills were pushed out to make room for victims of the bombing. A woman who was a few feet from the second bomb, Brighid Wall, 35, of Duxbury, said that when it exploded, runners and spectators froze, unsure of what to do. Her husband threw their children to the ground, lay on top of them and another man lay on top of them and said, "Don't get up, don't get up." After a minute or so without another explosion, Wall said, she and her family headed to a Starbucks and out the back door through an alley. Around them, the windows of the bars and restaurants were blown out. She said she saw six to eight people bleeding profusely, including one man who was kneeling, dazed, with blood trickling down his head. Another person was on the ground covered in blood and not moving. "My ears are zinging. Their ears are zinging," Wall said. "It was so forceful. It knocked us to the ground." ___ Associated Press writers Jay Lindsay, Steve LeBlanc, Bridget Murphy, Rodrique Ngowi and Meghan Barr in Boston; Julie Pace, Lara Jakes and Eileen Sullivan in Washington; and Marilynn Marchione in Milwaukee contributed to this report. Copyright (2013) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press text, photo, graphic, audio and/or video material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium. Neither these AP materials nor any portion thereof may be stored in a computer except for personal and non-commercial use. Users may not download or reproduce a substantial portion of the AP material found on this web site. AP will not be held liable for any delays, inaccuracies, errors or omissions therefrom or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof or for any damages arising from any of the foregoing. 
We reported earlier that US futures were higher, and that gold had halted its collapse. And all that's true. However, Europe is weak. European markets are down across the board. Italy is among the weaker countries, falling 0.8%. FTSE MIB
Love The Beast TrailerAfter a very volatile day in markets yesterday, today is already looking for more calm. Remember, US stocks got clubbed to the tune of 2.5% yesterday, as the collapse in commodities (especially precious metals) made its way into equities. Today US equity futures are pointing higher (by about 0.5%). Gold has stopped its collapse, and is up modestly, although it's still only at $1372/oz. far below where it started the week. European stocks are down a bit.
