Sequestration ‚Äî a series of blunt and indiscriminate cuts to almost every government agency ‚Äî will go into effect on March 1. Members of both parties are attempting to delay or mitigate the full force of the cuts, since by design nothing is safe in the budget.¬† A series of proposals have come together to offset the cuts from both sides. While many see the cuts as inevitable, some have hope that the austerity can be deferred or replaced. Here are the details of the major proposals in the works.¬†¬† Produced by Daniel Goodman
Yahoo FinancePIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian has been of the belief that central banks have been distorting asset prices. Specifically, asset prices have disconnected from their fundamentals. But he doesn't believe this discrepancy can hold for much longer. "There are those that believe that high asset prices will pull up the fundamentals, and then everything will go higher," he said in an interview with Daily Ticker's Lauren Lyster.† "And then there are those that say 'Wait a minute. I've seen this move before.† What ends up happening is asset prices come down to the fundamentals, so I'm going to take some risk off the table.† And I'm going to do it gradually.† Because central banks are not gonna exit any time soon.'" "We would be in the second camp," said El-Erian. "We think that prices are artificially high, that maintaining them here is going to be hard as central banks become less effective, and that it's time to book some profits.† It's time to wait for better entry points." But this doesn't mean that he thinks prices will collapse any time soon. "This is not a 2008 situation," he continued.† "This is not a Lehman moment.† But this is rather that price have gotten way ahead of what policy can deliver." Watch the whole interview at Yahoo Finance.
Bank Of England / FlickrTotal gold demand in dollar terms increased in 2012, but declined in tonnage.¬† This is according to the World Gold Council. The world's central banks were among the biggest customers, buying 534.6 metric tons of gold last year. And the buying has continued into this year. The World Gold Council reports that worldwide official gold holdings increased to 31,597 tons in February, up from 31,575.1 tons a month ago. We pulled the numbers on the 10 biggest official reserves. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements.¬†The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from September 27, 1999 to September 26, 2004.¬† The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from September 27, 2004 to September 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009.
Hedge funds are often pitched to prospective clients as an asset class that can beat the markets or a specific benchmark like the S&amp;P 500. However, hedge funds have been failing to deliver in recent periods. The January 2013 performance figures for the DJ Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index are out.¬† And as you'll see in the table below, every single major category of hedge fund lagged the S&amp;P 500, which climbed 5 percent in January. Dow Jones, Credit Suisse.
Here‚Äôs an interesting bit of correlation (and causation?) for you.¬† Have a look at the chart I formulated below showing NYSE Margin Debt and the S&amp;P 500.¬† The two data sets show a correlation over 85%.Now, this is really interesting in that it melds with our work on¬† Monetary Realism and monetary theory quite nicely.¬† Using Werner‚Äôs concept of disaggregation of credit we can clearly formulate how credit is being used at various times to benefit from improvement in the stock market.¬† If you‚Äôre not familiar with the concept of disaggregation of credit please see here.¬† But, in short, it is based on the understanding that our monetary system is almost entirely built around credit and how banks issue credit to perform various functions.¬† These functions can be both good and bad.The concept of disaggregation of credit shows how there can be productive and unproductive uses for this credit.¬† Some forms of credit are purely good.¬† For instance, a business that takes out a loan to pay employees, expand operation, perform R&amp;D is a form of productive credit.¬†¬† An unproductive from of credit might be a trader who borrows on margin to leverage a position in a secondary market purely for market gains.It‚Äôs interesting to note the tight correlation between margin debt and stock prices in our world that is so overly obsessed with nominal wealth.¬† And we even encourage the use of leverage in the chase for this nominal wealth.¬† Is that stabilizing?¬† Or is it more destabilizing than anything else?¬† I would argue that this obsession puts the cart before the horse, but that‚Äôs just me‚Ä¶.Chart via Orcam Investment Research: Orcam
Investment-banker-turned-sex-therapist Mike Lousada made headlines recently for his comments on bankers with erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation‚Äîproblems related to performance anxiety in a high-stress job. Of course that's not the only high-stress job. Vivia Chen at The Careerist learned from Lousada that several senior lawyers also number among his clients. ¬†"Professions like banking, law, accountancy are very mind-oriented," explained Lousada. "Sitting in front of a computer screen is not what their bodies are supposed to do." And while his answers for male lawyers were pretty standard ‚Äî erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation ‚Äî¬†his answer that female lawyers suffer from "a loss of femininity" was an interesting concept.¬† While there are medicines that can help men work through their problems, Lousada has specific advice for women.¬† "I‚Äôm not saying throw out the career. I support integrating both parts of you," he told Chen, adding that women need to be able to drop their masculine, high-power side at the bedroom door.¬†"The essence of the feminine is to be in the moment, and to fully experience the state of being while the masculine is more goal-oriented."
How do you keep a $23 billion deal between international investors a secret? Code words, obviously? Warren Buffett and Brazil's richest man Jorge Lemann planned their purchase of Heinz (announced yesterday) in just 6 weeks. That means there was probably a lot of communication between lots of people to make it happen so fast. To keep it all secret, says Reuters, the dealmakers used code words. From Reuters: ... according to two sources. 3G was called "goose," Heinz was referred to as "penguin" and Berkshire was known as "owl." The news release also refers to the buyer as "Hawk Acquisition Holding Corp". Cool, right? Except that it very well may not have worked. The SEC is suing some unknown traders for buying Heinz options before the deal was announced. That means someone knew that the price of Heinz stock would spike, so they wanted to buy the option to buy it at a lower price. Whoops.
Thos003 / FlickrIn a new blog post, Facebook is telling us that it was hacked. "Last month, Facebook Security discovered that our systems had been targeted in a sophisticated attack," they wrote.  "This attack occurred when a handful of employees visited a mobile developer website that was compromised. The compromised website hosted an exploit which then allowed malware to be installed on these employee laptops. The laptops were fully-patched and running up-to-date anti-virus software. As soon as we discovered the presence of the malware, we remediated all infected machines, informed law enforcement, and began a significant investigation that continues to this day." The key sentence for Facebook users: "We have found no evidence that Facebook user data was compromised." Read the whole post here.
GettyAs the sequester deadline looms over Congress, House Republicans have been talking up the fact that they have "taken action" to avert the across-the-board budget cuts, pointing to two bills they passed in the House last year.† Republican leaders have used those two bills as evidence that President Barack Obama and Democrats have not made an effort to avoid the sequester. But in reality, the †plan put forward by Senate Democrats Thursday†probably has a better (albeit still slight) chance of becoming law than the Republican plan ever did.† That's because, as†the†Washington Post's Greg Sargent puts it, the Republican plan included 100 percent of what they wanted and 0 percent of what the other side wanted; the legislation merely replaced the $55 billion in scheduled defense cuts with additional cuts to domestic programs. The bill, called the "Sequester Replacement Act," was first introduced by House Budget Chair Paul Ryan early last summer, and House Republicans reintroduced a slightly modified version during the "Plan B" debacle†during the fiscal cliff negotiations in December.† The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the GOP bill would result in $217.7 billion of deficit reduction over 10 years. But the cuts would have been wildly unpopular ó which is why the legislation was never taken up in the Senate and threatened with veto by the White House. The†Washington Post's†Brad Plumer broke down some of the cuts it would have enacted: The bill also would have defunded some of the financial regulatory reforms passed in 2010. It would have slashed funding to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and halted the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's power to bail out financial firms. In short, there's a reason the bill barely passed both times it was brought to a vote. Although the legislation expired with the end of the 112th Congress in January, Republican House Speaker John†Boehner signaled Thursday that he wouldn't bring the bill up again for a vote.†
This just in from Bloomberg: the SEC is suing some unidentified traders over suspicious trading activities before the Heinz deal Warren Buffett did this week (check out the complaint here). Yesterday, Warren Buffett teamed up with the richest man in Brazil, Jorge P. Lemann, to buy Heinz for $23 billion. Thing is, regulators noticed some strange trading activity in the stock right before the trade was announced, that may indicate that inside information on the deal was leaked out. Here's what¬† what happened. On Wednesday, there was a surge in call options for Heinz. That means a ton of investors (in this case, 4x as many as there usually are) suddenly decided to buy the option to buy shares of Heinz at a given price on a future date. That means that if the stock surged (like it did when the Buffett-Lemann deal was announced), an investor with a call option could exercise their option to buy the stock at a lower, pre-surge price. From The NYT: As recently as Tuesday, there was scant activity in Heinz options. But by Wednesday, as the companies were putting the finishing touches on the deal, options trading jumped, data from Bloomberg shows. The activity came from a Goldman Sachs account, and the calls were set at $65. A nice prize given that the stock price jumped to over $72. Now it seems the SEC believes it may have found the source of those trades. We'll let you know more when we get it.
Emails dug up by Bloomberg News have revealed that Wal-Mart is having a terrible start to the month. Execs were freaking out. One called it a "total disaster," and said that it was the worst start to a month that he'd seen in seven years at the retailer,†according to the emails. Two execs identified a pair of factors that are causing this to happen. Finance and logistics VP Jerry Murray and U.S. replenishment SVP Cameron Geiger called out increased payroll taxes and delayed tax returns as the culprits. Geiger called them "a potent one-two punch" in one of the leaked emails. So, what's going on here? Now, look back to January. Consumers still hit the stores despite the tax hike and general merchandise came out okay ó spending rose about 1 percent, according to Marketwatch. The Census Bureau reported that†overall retail sales rose a seasonally-adjusted 0.1 percent†during the month, which was in line with expectations. But this doesn't paint the full picture. January has always been considered a heavy "clearance" month. Retailers traditionally mark down a lot of their wares in order to get rid of winter merchandise left over from the Christmas rush.  For instance, look at this massive 75 percent off clearance day Wal-Mart had at the beginning of January. It's a particularly appealing time to shop for those who don't have much left in their wallets. "Consumers were shopping and hunting for those clearance items," Michael Niemira, chief economist at the ICSC, told the AP. "Despite the strong reading, January may be one of the highest points of the year." And now, those two punches noted by Wal-Mart execs seem to be hitting in force, without the big clearances of old holiday merchandise to prop it up. Which raises the question: If a mega-giant like Wal-Mart is struggling in the face of these external factors, what about its weaker competitors?† "It could mean that more retailers are researching and will put out major earnings warnings," said NBG Productions chief equities analyst Brian Sozzi. "There's no reason to be optimistic." We'll get a lot more information on February 21 when Wal-Mart reports its Q4 earnings.
kelly zen / FlickrBloomberg said they obtained a pretty bearish email from the execs at Walmart. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,981, +8.3, +0.0 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,519, -1.5, -0.1 percentNASDAQ: 3,192, -6.6, -0.2 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
One of the most troubling aspects of the current economic recovery has been the lagging labor market recovery. Since the recession, corporations have been operating on extremely lean cost structures and low employee had counts.¬† These productivity gains manifested in the form of surging corporate profits on modest revenue gains. However, the latest economic data suggests productivity gains may have topped out.¬† Deutsche Bank economists Carl Riccadonna and Joseph LaVorgna write that this is good news for hiring. From their note (emphasis ours) ...The decline in productivity (-2.0% in the quarter) is the largest drop since the economy was in sharp contraction in late 2008. Productivity has risen just +0.6% over the past four quarters‚Äîwell below its long-term average of approximately 2.1%. While slowing productivity over a broad time horizon is a troubling prospect for the economy, in the short term it is positive news for the labor market. In a low productivity environment, economic growth coincides with a faster pace of job creation. We see little reason to believe that at this point the productivity slowdown is anything more than a typical cyclical development... ...The second chart shows how a broad productivity growth deceleration has coincided with faster hiring in the current economic cycle. A pace of hiring in excess of ‚Äústeady state‚Äù (which is approximately 100k to 125k per month) will lead to intensifying pressures in the labor market and should result in a more pronounced downtrend in the unemployment rate. However, faster hiring may not be apparent in the February labor, due to distortions from the recent Northeast snowstorm... Here's the chart: Deutsche Bank
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. A Whole Bunch Of Brokers Are Going To Switch Firms This Weekend (Wall St. Journal) The Presidents Day weekend is a popular time for brokers to switch firms, and this year's expected to be a doozy. More brokers that usual are likely to make the move now, since there's a lot of speculation that regulators may make it mandatory for brokers to tell their clients about bonuses they receive when they switch firms. Among the those making the move are a Morgan Stanley team who're heading to Bank of America's Merril Lynch, and a Merril Lynch team who are going independant, according to recruiters. "Any three-day weekend is popular, particularly when the holiday itself is not religious," recruiter Bill Willis of Willis Consulting told the WSJ, adding that the departing broker can work on contacting and transferring over his clients Friday afternoon, all weekend and Monday. With the extra day, the broker is likely able to call all of his accounts. The Market Is Unprepared For When The Fed Tightens Policy (iShares Blog) Once the Fed starts to tighten monetary policy, the Federal Funds Rate is going to start to rise, said CFA Matt Tucker in a blog post, and the question on investors‚Äô minds is: How high will rates go and when? Even though the Fed seems bullish on how much the U.S. economy will grow and estimates that this monetary tightening might begin in 2014, the market is not anticipating a strong reaction to Fed tightening. This could make the market vulnerable, said Tucker. "If investors begin to think rates will rise faster than originally expected, they may begin selling bond holdings, including mutual funds and ETFs, driving rates higher and creating a self-fulfilling upward move in rates, at least temporarily. Ultimately though, rates should be held in check by the economic realities of modest growth," said Tucker. Affluent Investors Are Heading To Low-Tax Havens (Investment News) Financial Advisors are reporting that many of their clients are considering pulling up roots and heading to lower-tax cities thanks to multiple higher federal taxes and rising levies in states like California and New Jersey. In California, the tax rate on income exceeding $1 million jumped to 13.3 percent, the highest of any state, from 10.3 percent. While it's not a frenzy, top earners are making moves and being more proactive, Teresa Ridge, senior director of planning in California at Wells Fargo &amp; Co.'s unit told Investment News. Investors Are Pulling Billions Out Of U.S. Stocks (Business Insider) In January a historic quantity of money flowed into equities. And while money continues to pour into ETFs and equity mutual funds, in investors are pulling billions out of U.S. stocks. Funds invested in U.S. stocks suffered $3.65 billion in outflows this week. Citi analyst Markus Rosgen noted that "In the week ended 2/13/2013, inflows into equity funds slowed to $1.8 billion while bonds had an inflow of $2.6 billion, ending equities‚Äô nine-week winning streak versus bonds. The major laggards in equity funds were US funds which recorded $3.7 billion of outflow." Lipper, JefferiesThe Financial Crisis Might Have Cost More Than $10 Trillion (AdvisorOne) According to a report released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the Financial Crisis could have cost, based on value of goods not produces, services not rendered, anywhere between a few trillion to more than $10 trillion. Since the crisis began, federal, state and local governments have faced greater fiscal challenges ‚Äúin part because of reduced tax revenues from lower economic activity and increased spending to mitigate the impact of the recession.‚Äù The report also said that ‚Äúquantifying‚Äù the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act‚Äôs benefits since being passed into law in 2010 is ‚Äúdifficult.‚Äù While Dodd-Frank‚Äôs ‚Äúreforms could enhance the stability of the U.S. financial system and provide other benefits, the extent to which such benefits materialize will depend on many factors whose effects are difficult to predict,‚Äù said the GAO in their report.
Lynn, our child‚Äôs babysitter, was a drug addict and her doctor told her that her brain scan was the same as that of an 80-year-old man‚Äôs who had multiple strokes. Lynn was afraid to tell us she needed to take a few days off from watching Josie so she could go on Oprah to talk about her brain scan, drugs, sex, and whatever else. She was worried we would fire her and she had neglected to tell us some things when she was hired to babysit our one-year-old. Lynn was great with Josie and we considered her part of the family. Mollie was coming along soon and Lynn would be babysitter for both kids. She decided to tell us: She had been addicted to the drug, Ecstasy. She had been hospitalized. Her before and after brain scans were going to be on Oprah and it would be a mess to watch. And, finally, she would be sitting on the couch with Oprah and they would chat about it and reveal all. Lynn felt we should know all of this stuff before any of our neighbors told us. She was coming out of the subway the day she decided to tell us when the subway got bombed by terrorists. Not only the subway but the two buildings, the World Trade Center, that were on top of the subway. So everything got delayed. A week or so later she told us and then a week or so after that she was on Oprah. Here‚Äôs her brain scan:  Lynn chose herself to succeed. Nobody was going to give it to her. Her father was missing in action. She became an addict. She was a college drop-out. And things went from bad to worse when she had a mental collapse and found herself hospitalized. When she got out of the hospital she became Josie‚Äôs babysitter. She also decided she was going to use her experiences to help people. She wrote to MTV and went on one of their shows to describe what happened to her. Oprah saw the show and then wanted Lynn on the Oprah Show. After Oprah, Lynn put together a book proposal about her addicting. It wasn‚Äôt the regular twelve step thing. ‚ÄúYou have to love your addiction,‚Äù she told me. ‚ÄúYou have to learn to accept it and learn to accept what it is inside of you that caused you the pain that leapt into that addiction. Only then can you deal with it. Everything is about acceptance.‚Äù The other day she told me, ‚ÄúWe often hide the good, the pretty, the successful inside ourselves from the bad, the failure, the ugly. They have to unify else we get fragmented inside ourselves and we can‚Äôt accept who we are.‚Äù She got a book deal. A great one. She was still Josie and Mollie‚Äôs babysitter for another 18 months. But then unfortunately she quit. She moved to California and finished the book. Probably a better choice for her then watching two little kids. I highly recommend the book. She didn‚Äôt stop with the book. A vision expands and expands until it fills up your entire universe. You can‚Äôt stop it. There are no frontiers to passion. She started writing to schools and prisons and anywhere else she could think of to speak about addiction. She began traveling around the country giving talks. She was making a living. During this time I often got two questions from people who knew the story: ‚ÄúDidn‚Äôt you mind that a drug addict was your daughter‚Äôs babysitter?‚Äù Of course not. In fact, we paid her more when she asked for it. Everyone goes through adversity in their lives. Many people bury their unhappiness inside of their routed and judgmental lives. Being honest about the pain inside and not trying to run from it or even suppress it is the key to much success. I can say that since I‚Äôve started this blog, for instance, unbelievable opportunities have dropped down on me. The other question, the more annoying one, came from close relatives who asked: ‚ÄúIf a drug addict can get a book deal, don‚Äôt you think I should be able to get a book deal?‚Äù And my answer: of course not. You have nothing to write about. Then they say, ‚ÄúSo you‚Äôre saying I should be a drug addict.‚Äù I don‚Äôt know what I‚Äôm saying. I never really know what I‚Äôm saying so forgive me. Lynn moved to California, her book came out, and she became a successful speaker making thousands per talk and speaking all over the country. I had an investor, Dave, who was single. He lived in California also. He liked two things: surfing and investing. I introduced him to Lynn. On their first date they both called me afterwards and said they had a great time. On their second date, Dave was wearing a heavy backpack when he showed up at her house. Lynn said, ‚Äúwhy are you wearing a backpack?‚Äù And Dave said, ‚Äúbecause I‚Äôm moving in.‚Äù And he moved in for many years and whenever they could afford it they traveled all over the world. For awhile they even stayed in an abandoned home that I unfortunately owned until it was recently sold. Then they broke up. ‚ÄúTraveling is your first love,‚Äù Lynn told Dave. ‚ÄúAnd I can‚Äôt be in second place.‚Äù She wrote down all the things she wanted in life. Among them, one of the things she wrote was that she wanted a house with a treehouse. A year after that Lynn was married, pregnant, owned a beautiful house in LA. In the back, the house had a treehouse. Claudia and I visited a few days ago.I‚Äôm afraid of heights but I even went up there to look around at the LA horizon. But she still didn‚Äôt stop. Again, passion has no frontiers. It fills up every emptiness and delivers value to everyone around you. ‚ÄúTry these,‚Äù Lynn said, and gave us some cupcakes made by the business she and her sister were starting. The cupcakes are gluten free and the brand is ¬†called ‚ÄúWhisk‚Äù. The cupcakes were unbelievable and I normally hate gluten-free. I think I ate the whole box. Lynn‚Äôs new husband, Brady, is a talent manager and is able to help her get the cupcakes in the hands of celebrities. They all love the cupcakes. Here‚Äôs an example: (Ryan Seacrest and Chelsea Handler with a Whisk cupcake. Seacrest tweeted this is how Chelsea stays so thin). Lynn had dropped out of college when she was younger. ‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt learning anything,‚Äù she said. Her dad was never a help to her. She became a drug addict. She had been hospitalized and close to death because of it. Since then she‚Äôs spoken to and helped tens of thousands of kids about drug addiction, written a book, been on Oprah, gotten thousands of letters from kids who were grateful for her, married the man of her dreams and moved into the house of her dreams and now is ¬†creating a very successful gluten-free baking company. She has more energy than anyone I know. Coming out of an addiction (a negative passion) can unleash all the positive passions. I hope Josie and Mollie turn out just like her.
Instagram/kaylaykinsThis morning, an email hit our inbox with a big call on Wal-Mart from a firm called Cleveland Research. In the note, the firm said it was lowering its Q1 2013 same-store sales growth estimate for Wal-Mart to 0 percent from 1 percent. In other words, they expect Wal-Mart's sales to stagnate in the first quarter. The reason why, according to Cleveland Research (emphasis added): "A†pullback in consumer spending related to 1) payroll/social security tax increase, 2) delayed tax returns, and 3) rising gas prices." Below is the thesis: Walmart US sales appear to have slowed significantly over the past 3-4 weeks. We have been seeing a broader slowdown in consumer spending across all of our consumer coverage over this timeframe, but the magnitude at WMT seems more significant than we would have expected (likely due to greater exposure to low-end consumer). We believe 1Q-to-date comps are likely running negative. If this weakness persists, we believe WMT may react by getting more aggressive on price, which could negatively impact gross margin performance on top of the weak sales. We see downside to consensus comp and earnings expectations for the year as a result. The stock has recovered back into the low $70ís from the high $60ís. We believe there is potential downside back into the mid if not low $60ís based on 12x our Jan-14 estimate of $5.32. Bloomberg News just leaked emails from Wal-Mart executives this afternoon calling February sales a "total disaster," off to the worst start in seven years. That was good timing.
Sergey Gabdurakhmanov via flickrBefore his surprise resignation this week, Pope Benedict XVI may have lead the Church into one more scandal. Benedict is reported to have personally signed off on the Vatican Bank's new president, German financier Ernst von Freyberg ó new blood meant to head off recent financial scandals. A Church spokesperson was caught off-guard during the announcement of the new appointment today, however, when a reporter pointed out that von Freyberg chairs Blohm + Voss, a German firm that has supplied ships for the German military, reports the AP. The Vatican Bank traditionally avoids any link military manufacturing, so von Freyberg's links to Blohm + Voss appeared to be a conflict of interest. The Church has attempted to sidestep the controversy, telling reporters that von Freyberg chairs a civilian branch of Blohm + Voss ó but it's hard to understand how the Church could have been unprepared for the harsh questioning of the hire. Benedict's time as Pope has been marred with the scandals that besieged the Vatican Bank in the last few years, as a series of internal documents were leaked, earning the nickname "VatiLeaks". The documents, allegedly revealed by the Pope's faithful butler, revealed all sorts of conflict within the Vatican Bank, with allegations of cronyism and corruption going unpunished. The International Narcotics Control Strategy Report wrote last year that the the Vatican city was an area "of concern" when it comes to money laundering, and the Milan branch of JPMorgan Chase closed the Vatican bank account at the end of March 2012, citing a lack of transparency. Today's embarrassment is just one more thing to mar the reputation of the Vatican bank.
Bloomberg is reporting on emails circulating among Wal-Mart executives calling February sales a "total disaster." The emails say February sales are off to the worst monthly start in seven years. The executives attribute the dismal performance to the expiration of payroll tax cuts. Bloomberg's Renee Dudley reports: ìIn case you havenít seen a sales report these days,†February MTD sales are a total disaster,î Jerry Murray, Wal-Martís vice president of finance and logistics, said in a Feb.†12 e-mail to other executives, referring to month-to-date sales.†ìThe worst start to a month I have seen in my ~7 years with the†company.î ... ìHave you ever had one of those weeks where your best-prepared plans werenít good enough to accomplish everything you†set out to do?î Geiger asked in a Feb. 1 e-mail to executives.†ìWell, we just had one of those weeks here at Walmart U.S.†Where are all the customers? And whereís their money?î The stock just tanked on the news and is now down more than 3 percent in intraday trading. Click on the chart below to enlarge the image. Thinkorswim Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions and a specialist in retail stocks, told Business Insider: The bigger story is that these emails got out. This doesn't happen to Wal-Mart. they have pre-recorded earnings calls ñ very structured. This is just abnormal in Wal-Mart's world. It's more common in the tech industry. The barometer of the U.S. consumer if these emails are true reflects common sense: more retailers are researching major earnings warnings. There's no reason to be optimistic. The stock market is telling you to expect more. On the other hand, Miller Tabak Chief Economic Strategist Andrew Wilkinson is skeptical. He wrote in an email following the leak: While Wal-Martís discussion of same-store sales at the start of February is more current than the January retail sales report, we are a little suspicious of how deep the tremors will run from managementís leaked email.There are two issues. First is the rise in payroll tax from 4.2 to 6.2% on incomes up to $113,000. January retail sales data reported earlier in the week did not show any major surprises ñ discretionary spending appeared to hold firm.Second is the delay to tax refunds due to year-end complications from the fiscal cliff. The IRS delayed the filing process to the end of January and as a result early filers accustomed to receiving refund checks are running behind schedule this year. According to a one source, tax refunds this time one year ago were running at $19 billion.Perhaps Wal-Mart didnít sell as many flat-screen televisions in February as they did a year ago on account of delayed filings and subsequent delays to refund checks.Earlier consumer confidence data seems to refute the view that households felt a massive amount of pain from the payroll tax increase. It was the current conditions index that rose back towards its November peak most. The outlook component lagged and perhaps reflects on the prolonged wait by consumers for payroll refunds. Finally, there is one more issue to consider: gas prices. The cost of a gallon of gas has been rising steadily, and that is always a big headwind for the American consumer. SEE ALSO:†One Wall Street Analyst Nailed Wal-Mart Just Hours Before Emails Leaked &gt;
Bob Chapman, who runs Manhattan Beach, Calif.-based Chapman Capital, was on Bloomberg TV moments ago.† In a telephone interview with Bloomberg TV, Chapman said he completely exited his Herbalife position this morning following the disclosure of Carl Icahn's massive HLF stake†equal to 12.98%, or 14,015,151 shares. He's on the sidelines for now. He told Bloomberg TV he thinks Ackman will on some level succeed with getting a regulator to look at the company making it seem like he will win, but he thinks Ackman will ultimately fail. Chapman, who is an activist investor known for†sending vitriolic letters†to company boards, also said he thinks Ackman is "disingenuous" and his massive short case presentation was like "smoke and mirrors" with the facts. But what we couldn't help but notice during this segment is Chapman's incredible head shot. †Check it out:† Bloomberg TV
Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include the latest Industrial Production data released today. I've not yet included an update for the January Real Retail Sales data, released earlier this week, because the January CPI used to calculate the number won't be available until next Thursday. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:    The weight of these four in the decision process is sufficient rationale for the St. Louis FRED repository to feature a chart four-pack of these indicators along with the statement that "the charts plot four main economic indicators tracked by the NBER dating committee." Here are the four as identified in the Federal Reserve Economic Data repository. See the data specifics in the linked PDF file with details on the calculation of two of the indicators. The FRED charts are excellent. They show us the behavior of the big four indicators currently (the green line) as compared to their best, worst and average behavior across all the recessions in history for the four indicators (which have start dates). Their snapshots extend from 12 months before the June 2009 recession trough to the present. I've now updated this commentary to include the January data for Industrial Production, the purple line in the chart below. At this point, the average of the Big Four (the gray line in the chart) illustrates that economic expansion since the last recession, which had been hovering near a flat line for several months, has shown strong improvement in the past two months. However, the tax-planning skew for Personal Incomes that I discussed here definitely overstates the apparent improvement. That sharp upward slope in the red line in the chart above will definitely oscillate downward in the January Personal Income release on March 1st. As for today's Industrial Production, although the key number edged down 0.1 percent in January, the previous three months were revised upward -- December up 0.6 and November up 0.5, which definitely improves the Industrial Production slope for the latter part of 2012. And of course all recent data are subject to further revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. At this point the major negative economic headwinds are battle over the debt ceiling, sequestration and the real impact of the expiration of the 2% FICA tax holiday on incomes, spending and ultimately production. And on top of these will be the backside of the end-of-year tax strategy used by many businesses and individuals to take what would normally have been 2013 earnings in the final months of 2012. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries). ¬† ¬† The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively). ¬† ¬† And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income. ¬† ¬† History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators. ¬† ¬† The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward. But a closer look at the average shows a clear slowing of the trend in 2012. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS). ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) spliced with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that was date mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† This indicator is a splice of two seasonally adjusted series tracked by the BEA. The 1967-1996 component is SIC (Standard Industrial Classification) based and the 1997-present is NAICS (North American Industry Classification System) based. The data are available from the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Tables 2AU and 2BU. The FRED economists use the Real Retail Sales above for their four-pack. However, ECRI appears to use this series as their key indicator for sales. Note that the Manufacturing and Trade Sales data is updated monthly with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release, but the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬† ¬†  Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart.
Bloomberg TVJP Morgan's Tom LeeThroughout the month of January, as stocks have marched higher with no significant downward moves, the calls for a correction have been getting louder. We've finally arrived at the point where Wall Street strategists are declaring an expected pullback in the stock market this month as a "consensus" view. BofA Merrill Lynch technical analyst Mary Ann Bartels wrote in a note to clients that because everyone is now calling for a correction, it may in fact be delayed. JPMorgan's top equity strategist, Tom Lee, is considering the same thing ñ but he takes the thought experiment one step further today. What if we don't get a correction at all? In a note to clients, Lee writes: In our view, we still see [the first half of 2013] as tricky, but itís too early to call for retracement given where hedge fund beta and high yield spreads sit. Our base case has been for the S&amp;P 500 to start the year strong and rally to around 1500 before seeing a retracement towards 1350-1400. Investors have asked us recently whether the resilience in markets has altered our 1H13 views, especially as the S&amp;P 500 is above the 1500 level we initially targeted short-term. The key question is what is likely to be the ìdownsideî catalyst that significantly weakens markets to trigger a retracement. In our view, what typically happens prior to a 5%-10% retracement is that risk/reward for markets becomes balanced or even unfavorable as the market becomes positioned for only good newsó that is, vulnerability emerges when investors are already overweight stocks, valuations are more demanding and credit backdrop is less supportive. We have not seen such signs associated with near-term peaks, so we remain constructive for now. In any case, we recommend investors buy dips and overweight stocks throughout 2013. What could go wrong? Market does not correct in [the first half of 2013]. We see the biggest challenge to our view as the possibility that equity markets are not negatively affected by bad news and continue to strengthen through 1H. And this could be a result of a change in the marketís character. If investor confidence strengthens, there may be less volatility. Needless to say, this market has a lot of folks scratching their heads right now.
Wapner started the segment by asking him why he took such a big long bet?† "My bet might be longer," Icahn said, adding, "I buy things that I think are undervalued. I think Herbalife is a very undervalued situation. We have done a hell of a lot of research on this..." Icahn then proceeded to touched upon Ackman's belief of Herbalife being a pyramid scheme. He said Ackman has been unfair to Herbalife shareholders.† He then talked about Ackman's statement at the Harbor Investment Conference this week about his law firm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell agreeing with him that it's a pyramid scheme. "The most interesting thing I thought about that whole conference is Ackman stated his law firm Sullivan &amp; Cromwell, his attorneys...he said Sullivan &amp; Cromwell is comfortable that HLF is a pyramid scheme," Icahn said, adding that he says they have never said that publicly. Icahn said he likes Herbalife. Herbalife is at "the center of paradigm shift right now", he said.. †He said multi-level marketing is a great way to retail products. He noted that Herbalife makes a product at the forefront of obesity and that Ackman wanting to put Herbalife out of business "is going to hurt people." In terms of his investment, Icahn said "Ackman is giving me a great opportunity." †He said he thinks the stock is cheap and that it's going to grow.† He then took a jab at Ackman's mammoth presentation again. Putting a 300-page paper together "is nothing", Icahn said referring to Ackman's massive presentation he gave at a special Sohn Conference event in December. †He said if you're shorting a stock you should keep it quiet.† "What is he doing? He goes in he has this, I call it a scheme, what he does is put out a 300-page paper...with no expertise," he says. Wapner asked him "What's the real purpose? Is it really business or is it personal?"† "I don't like Ackman. Everybody knows that. †I don't respect him. Everybody knows that."† "I am not buying this company and putting money into it unless I've done a lot of research. †Forget the fact that I don't like him. †The bigger a short position, the more enticing it is," Icahn says. He also said that Herbalife is a company that could go private. "It's a great company to take private. This is the perfect quintessential company to take private."† Then, Wapner jumped back in to ask him if it's business or personal again. †He pointed out that he really accumulated this position after that CNBC battle they had last month. "Let me address that. †If you look at my buying pattern you would say it's not personal," Icahn said. † Wapner asked if he sees "real value" and if this is not an attempt to squeeze the "you know what" out of Ackman. "If Ackman gets squeezed I'm not going to feel sorry..." Icahn said, adding,†"The fact that I don't like Ackman you could say is the strawberry on top of the ice cream." Wapner wanted to know what happens if regulators come out on the side of Ackman? Icahn said he doesn't believe the regulators are going to act because someone comes out and says you're not doing your job right.† He called Ackman's arguments "amateurish" and that they don't have "professional backing."† "This is not about getting Ackman into a short squeeze. He got himself into that." "I'm sure he's resolute about Target. I'm sure he's resolute about JCPenney... He's very rigid. †They can make a lot of money, but they sure as hell can lose." "Look Ackman and I had our dispute. †I don't want to get back into that. †I told you how I felt about that. †This is about making money. †I'm sure it's about making money with him," Icahn said adding that only time will tell. Wapner asked if there's anything he wanted to say to Ackman. "In my opinion, Ackman took a shot. †This isn't about are you a bad guy or are you a good guy. He's doing what he does. He's trying to make money. I think he's wrong. He thinks I'm wrong."† Yesterday, the billionaire investor†got back at his rival Bill Ackman when he†revealed a huge stake in Herbalife yesterday evening†equal to 12.98%, or 14,015,151 shares.† The stock started falling during Icahn's talk, but it's still up more than 6%. The SEC filing also suggested that the company could be taken private.† "The Reporting Persons intend to have discussions with management of the Issuer†regarding the business and strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value, such as a recapitalization or a going-private transaction," the filing states Herbalife is the stock that Icahn's decade-long rival†Ackman, the CEO of†Pershing Square†Capital Management, is shorting. †Ackman, who believes the company is a pyramid scheme, is†shorting 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0.† Last month, the two hedge fund titans†brawled in a telephone interview live on CNBC†with Icahn hurling zingers a Ackman calling him a†"crybaby in the schoolyard" and Ackman saying Icahn is a "bully" and he doesn't keep his word. Ackman responded this morning to Icahn's latest move saying†that he welcomes his investment†in Herbalife and that he continues to believe the company is a pyramid scheme.†
Carl Icahn is on CNBC explaining his new massive long position in Herbalife. However, since Icahn started speaking at around 12:30 PM ET, shares have been fading. Here's the chart via Google Finance: Google Finance
The firm has about $15 billion assets under management, $9 billion of which belongs to Cohen. The rest is outside capital. Last year, the firm announced that investors had until yesterday to decide if they would pull their money. According to their agreement with SAC, they can pull 25% of their investment per quarter. That means about $660 million will leave the firm in Q1 and the full $1.68 billion will leave the fund by the end of 2013. To slow the flow of money from the fund, yesterday SAC told investors that they could decide whether or not to keep their money with the fund until May and still redeem their money in thirds, rather than quarterly increments. This skittishness all stems from federal investigations into SAC's trading practices. Since 2009, 6 former SAC portfolio managers or traders have been convicted or admitted to insider trading. Now the government is investigating Mathew Martoma, another former SAC portfolio manager, in the most lucrative insider trading case in history. SAC's founder and CEO, Steve Cohen, was mentioned in the complaint but has not been accused of any wrongdoing. SAC was up 2.5% net of fees in January and are in the black so far this month. Kelly also reports that while some investors are pulling their money, Steve Cohen and other insiders adding capital. Additionally, if SAC continues its historic performance, making about $270 million a month gross of fees, it can make up for the money spilling out of the fund.
Yesterday Berkshire Hathaway disclosed that it would buy Heinz in a $28 billion deal, but they're not doing it alone. For a buy this big, Buffett enlisted the help of Brazil's most famous banker and arguably fiercest dealmaker, Jorge Lemann. Over the course of his life, Lemann has gone from journalist to national tennis champion to banker and now billionaire investor. Last year, he overtook Eike Batista to become Brazil's richest man.†In terms of their business style, however, Lemann and Batista have little in common. Where Batista is a flashy playboy who's vowed to become to the richest man in the world, Lemann is a silent killer. He's known for a strict management style, and he doesn't seem to be in the game for the money (from Bloomberg): ìMoney is simply a way of measuring if the business is going well or not, but money in and of itself doesnít fascinate me,î Lemann said in January 2008, according to an interview published in HSM Management magazine. He declined to comment for this story. That says a lot.
Compound Interest Math Formula ‚Äì The Most Powerful Math in the Universe Please see my earlier post, Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this math in school? For the sake of blowing the lid off this vast cone of silence, here‚Äôs the compound interest formula: Future Value = Present Value * (1+Yield)N This is the formula you use if you want to see how money grows over time, to become ‚ÄúFuture Value.‚Äù Present Value is the amount of money you start with.¬† That could be $100, such as in my examples below, or likewise a series of $5,000 IRA investments each year.¬† Present Value is whatever you‚Äôre starting amount of money is today. Yield is the interest rate, or rate of return, you get per year.¬† Usually expressed as something like 5.25% or 0.0525.[1] N is the number of times you ‚Äòcompound‚Äô the yield.¬† In its simplest form as written above, if you compound annually, N is the number of years your money compounds. Example of the power of compound interest: Early investment for retirement ¬† When do you use this formula?¬† You use it when you want to know how much your $100 invested today, or this year, will grow over time. To offer you an extreme example, using the compound interest formula: What if you invested $100 today, left it invested for the next 75 years, and you were able to achieve an 18% annual compound return? ¬†How big an investment does your $100 become? The answer is $24,612,206. Can I interest you in $24 million?¬† Without working? As I say that out loud, I feel like a late-night infomercial guy.¬† And that feeling makes me want to take a shower.¬† But the money and the pitch is nothing more than compound interest math. I happen to believe there‚Äôs quite a few 20 year-olds who: a) Could put their hands on $100 today for the purpose of investing in a retirement account, and b) Would like, at the end their life, to boast a net worth of $24.6 million[2] I know all you realists out there will say that 18% annual compound return for 75 years is a fairy tale, and of course I can‚Äôt disagree with you. But I‚Äôm doing a magic trick here for the sake of making a point, so would you please suspend disbelief for just a moment and revel in the magic?¬† The point is not to argue about what reasonable assumptions may be, rather the point is to show why knowing how to do compound interest math could be a life-changing piece of information. At the very least, its a tool that ever citizen should be armed with.¬† Thank you. To be more slightly more realistic, but equally precise, with a series of other assumptions: If you‚Äôre 20 years old now and you let your money grow for the next 50 years, at 12% yield, your $100 invested today becomes $28,900.¬† That‚Äôs also an amazing result. Try it and find the Future Value for yourself, by inputting into the formula Future Value = Present value * (1+Yield)N PV = $100 Yield = 12% N = 50 Heck, having your money grow like this sure beats working for a living. These facts are so amazing, I think, that they might induce a 20-year-old to forgo his XBox purchase this year, and invest the money instead in stocks, in a retirement account. What about putting your money away in your IRA, $5,000 per year from age 40 to age 65, earning 6% return on your money every year?¬† Would you like to know what kind of retirement you will have at age 65?¬† Compound interest can tell you precisely the number.[3] You‚Äôll have $280,781.91[4] And all of that becomes possible if we have some insight into the inexorable growth, the most powerful force in the universe, the one math formula to rule them all, compound interest.[5] ¬† Please see Part I ‚Äì Why don‚Äôt they teach this in school? Part III ‚Äì Compound interest and Consumer Debt Part IV ‚Äì Discounted cash flows Part V ‚Äì Discounted cash flows ‚Äì another example Part VI ‚Äì Conclusion and why everyone needs to know this math for the good of society [1] I fear many of us learned how to convert a percent into a decimal in sixth grade, but not how to do anything useful with it. [2] Yes, I hear you cynics, that this is in nominal dollars, and $24 million won‚Äôt buy them then what it buys today.¬† But would you just stop being cynical for a moment, and appreciate the magic of compound interest?¬† Thank you. [3] If your assumptions are correct, of course. [4] To achieve this calculation, you‚Äôll have to add up 25 separate amounts, in a spreadsheet.¬† The first amount, invested at age 40, compounds the most times and is expressed as $5,000 * (1+.06)25.¬† The second amount, invested at age 41, compounds as follows: $5,000 * (1+.06)24.¬† The third amount is $5,000 * (1+.06)23, all the way until the 25th amount, which is simply $5,000 * (1+.06). [5] Thank goodness Sauron didn‚Äôt get his hands on the formula FV = PV*(1+Y)N, or else the hobbits would have been so screwed.¬† Ancient legend has it in the Silmarillion that Sauron actually did acquire the compound interest formula, but he interpreted the mysterious algebraic symbols as high Elvish, a language he could not read at the time.¬† Speaking of which, does anybody else want to use compound interest to become a Silmarillionaire?¬† Um, not so funny?¬† Ok, you‚Äôre right, but don‚Äôt worry, I‚Äôll be here all night folks.¬† Don‚Äôt forget to tip your waitress.¬† And try the fish. Post read (987) times.
President Barack Obama proposed a $1.75 increase in the minimum wage during his State of the Union speech, which would raise the labor price floor from $7.25 per hour to $9.00 per hour.† The amount of academic and economic research on minimum wage movements is immense, and often conflicted. First, the U.S. minimum wage has historically exceeded the proposed increase multiple times in its history, and as it stands the federal minimum wage is significantly lower than many other comparable western economies. A number of the nation's largest employers rely on minimum wage employees to sustain margins. Second, studies cast doubt on the potential impact of a wage increase on employment, but at the same time other studies indicate that a minimum wage increase has historically discouraged certain key demographics from entering the labor market.† Still, it's crucial to call the minimum wage hike what it really is: a comprehensive, dispersed stimulus package that doesn't cost the government a dime.† A February 2011 study from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago analyzed the impact of a $1 increase in the minimum wage on spending behavior from those affected.† What they found was surprising. Following a minimum wage hike, groups affected by the raise used their new funds to invest in durable goods like cars and other investments.† In each category, debt increases after a minimum wage increase, but particularly in collateralized loans tied to vehicles. We estimate that a $1 minimum wage increase causes auto†loan balances to increase by $205 [...]†Furthermore, home†equity lines, which can be used to purchase vehicles, rise be $130. Auto loans, home†equity, and credit card debt combined increase by $440. There is no increase in debt†among higher income (= $20, 000) individuals. The point is that following an Obama increase in the minimum wage, retailers of durable goods like cars, consumer electronics and home appliances may see a spike in sales as beneficiaries have new cash to make investments in their life.† Also of interest is the timeline for these investments. Check out this chart: Chicago Fed Here's what it means: While total spending is <U+FB02>at prior to the minimum wage increase, this masks ano<U+FB00>setting increase in non-durables and services (dashed red line, figure 2a) and a decline in†durables spending (dotted green line, Figure 2a). When the hike occurs at t=0, durables spending spikes up. Though non-durables and service spending increased two quarters before†the hike, it does not increase further during the quarter of the hike. Spending happens in the first quarter of the minimum wage hike. This is a closer look at spending: Chicago FedMoreover, most of this spending is in durable goods: Chicago Fed And spending on non-durable goods stays generally flat: Chicago Fed Here's another look at the quarterly changes in debt as measured by the credit bureaus after a minimum wage hike for nine quarters.  Total debt rises in the first year after a minimum wage hike for households with income below $20,000 but not for higher income households. In subsequent years, debt rises for a bit and then begins to fall as the purchases made following the initial investment period are paid off:Chicago Fed Finally, here's a look at what the paper eventually found. In the year before a wage increase, households that will be affected typically reduce purchases of durable goods. Then, following the increase, households seeing a $1 per hour raise invest in durable goods, potentially using money saved up during the preceding quarters as seed money for a down payment. Households then use the raise to pay off these loans: Chicago Fed Here's the whole point of analyzing these decisions. As much as President Obama painted the minimum wage hike as a moral issue, the reality is much more complex. Following a minimum wage increase, durable goods manufacturers will see increased revenues derived from the new liquidity in the market, having similar impacts as a stimulus. The minimum wage increase of $1.75 could have major positive impacts, therefore, on the economy. In short, if the president wanted everyone to buy a car, hiking the minimum wage is a really good place to start.† Read the full working paper here
Much has been made about a "Great Rotation" in the financial markets, which suggests money is coming out of bonds and into stocks. But it looks like the real Great Rotation has been out of beer and into wine and spirits. √Ångel Mart√≠n Oro points us to this chart from The Daily Reckoning: The Daily Reckoning Recently, bourbon manufacturer Maker's Mark announced it would be lowering the alcohol content in its drink to meet high demand.
Cisco has $46 billion in cash, but CEO John Chambers says he is no longer willing to use it to acquire U.S. companies. That's because 80 percent of that cash is stored in overseas accounts and if Cisco spends it in the U.S., the company will have to fork over 35 percent in taxes. For years, he has been trying to get the U.S. to change that tax rule. He's said before that this prevents him from hiring more U.S. workers. But now he's said he's also stopped shopping for acquisition targets in the U.S., too. That's a blow, as Cisco has historically been a company that acquires like crazy. Cisco is not the only company hoarding cash overseas to avoid taxes. U.S. companies have about $1.7 trillion offshore. For instance, Microsoft†keeps about 87 percent of its $66.6 billion stored outside the U.S.; Oracle, 80 percent of its $31.6 billion; and Apple about 68 percent of its $121.3 billion, reports CNBC's Jon Fortt. A lot of the money sitting overseas was earned overseas, but some of it is stashed there through accounting methods, a situation that Congress has recently been investigating. Chambers wants low tax rates when that money is used here (called repatriation), or preferably no taxes at all (called a repatriation holiday).† He explained on an interview on CNBC: "Tax policy will determine where our growth and head count will be. I' m a very loyal American citizen and company, but in terms of future growth, unless tax policy changes, you will see that occur outside the U.S. ... wherever we acquire is where our head count growth is going to be. If the majority of our money remains outside the U.S., and this depends on tax policies, that's where you'll see us acquire going forward." He's been true to his word so far this year. For instance, in 2012, Cisco bought 11 companies, nine of them from the U.S. and two from overseas including its massive $5 billion purchase of U.K.-based NDS Group. In 2013 so far, Cisco has bought two companies, both of them from overseas.
America's historic drought last summer has shifted meat prices upward through at least 2022, according to a new USDA report (via Jim Lane's Biofuels Digest). The drought wiped out lots of corn acreage, and by proxy increased feed costs. As a result: During the initial years of the projection period, prices in the livestock sector reflect reductions in total meat and poultry production in recent years...Over the rest of the projection period, higher net returns and improved forage supplies lead to¬†expansion of meat and poultry production. Here's the chart of the USDA's projections: USDA
Billionaire investor Carl Ichan and hedge fund heavyweight Bill Ackman, the founder of Pershing Square Capital, have been fighting for ten years now.¬† Their decade-long feud became legendary when the pair of hedge fund titans¬†duked it out during a live telephone interview on CNBC. ¬†Icahn was hurling insults at Ackman calling him a¬†"crybaby in the schoolyard," while Ackman called Icahn a "bully." Yesterday, Icahn came back at Ackman again when he revealed an Herbalife stake¬†equal to 12.98 percent, or 14,015,151 shares.¬†Herbalife is the same stock that Ackman is shorting because he thinks it's a pyramid scheme. ¬†He's short more than 20 million shares and has a price target of $0. Hilary Sargent, more popularly known as Chart Girl, created this handy flowchart that will tell you everything you need to know about this hedgefeud: Hilary Sargent
CriteoCriteo CEO and co-founder Jean-Baptiste Rudelle Ad retargeting company Criteo will go public later this year, according to a report by French publication JDN. JDN's sources say Criteo is still deciding between the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, but it will seek to raise between $270 and $400 million when it goes public. Criteo was founded in 2005 and it has grown from $60 million in 2010 revenue to about $400 million in 2012. It has raised $63.4 million to date from IDInvest Partkers, Elaia Partners, Index Ventures, Bessemer Venture Partners and SoftBank Capital. We reached out to one of Criteo's investors about the report who merely responded: "The company is doing very well." Here's the English translation of JDN's report.
Google BooksBilal Hafeez, Deutsche Bank's Global Head of FX Strategy, recently gave a speech at¬†the bank's annual Chinese New Year Dinner in London earlier this week. Hafeez took a sweeping tour across the global economic landscape, examining the big stories in the United States, Europe, and China. With regard to China, Hafeez focused on the obvious need for the country to rebalance from a centralized, investment-driven model to a more consumption-driven economy. What followed after that may not be as obvious: Hafeez advanced an interesting parallel between the U.S. economy and the communist ideal. An excerpt from the speech is included below: You may think that the US is the antithesis of the Marxist ideal. You may be mistaken. In the Communist Manifesto published in 1848, Karl Marx and Friederich Engels demanded a list of immediate actions that capitalist economies should follow on the path to communism. What were they? Free education, well the US has that. Progressive tax system: which the US has. Curbs on inheritance: which the US has. Fair labour laws: which the US has. Centralised credit: which was perhaps not the case before the 2008 crisis, but is certainly the case now with the nexus of the Fed and regulation providing a strong centralised system of credit. It also demanded the public ownership of land. This for many is the ultimate differentiator between a capitalist state and a communist state. But even for the US, the picture gets blurred when one considers that 30% of land in the US is¬†directly owned by the Federal government. Of the land that is not held by the US government, 80% of householders are either renting or have a mortgage. Remember, having a mortgage means that the property is owned by the mortgage provider, not the private individual. In a centralised credit system and as became apparent since 2008, the ultimate underwriter of these mortgages is the US government. So the vast majority of property in the US could be traced back to the state. The spirit of Karl Marx lives on in corners of the world one would least expect!¬†
CEO Antony Jenkins said the practice was¬†‚Äúnot compatible with our purpose‚Äù. The practice has been criticized for driving up the price of foodstuffs. The WDM says¬†¬†The bank made up to an estimated ¬£500 million from speculating on food in 2010 and 2011. The bank is undergoing a full blown transformation. According to EconomicVoice.com, Jenkins recently¬†told UK MPs he would build a ‚Äúsocially useful‚Äù bank and ‚Äúshred situations where we‚Äôre short-termist, too aggressive and too self-centred.‚Äù The Guardian says not all Jenkins' promises have been well received by City rank and file. Some in the investment bank are reported to have jeered during a session on cleaning up the culture. Jenkins insists he has a "good personal relationship" with Rich Ricci, head of the investment bank and a former lieutenant of Diamond. Barclays also recently announced a round of layoffs. On Monday, investigators will reveal the true source of a "mysterious" investment that helped balast the bank during the recession.¬†It had previously been accused of obscuring the funds' true source.
Gold prices are falling this morning.¬† The futures contract for April delivery just fell below $1,600/oz, down $35/oz for the day. G20 leaders are meeting in Russia.¬† The hot topic is currency wars, or the risk that global central banks will compete to devalue their currencies. Currency devaluation is arguably bullish for gold. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt think that Mario Draghi was trying to talk the euro up or down,‚Äù said ECB member Jens Weidmann to Bloomberg.¬† He believes that the ECB ‚Äúwill abstain from manipulating or directly targeting the exchange rate.‚Äù Meanwhile, a new report from the World Gold Council shows that central banks continue to add to their gold reserves. Here's this morning's chart via FinViz: FinViz
NissanCute and cool. But problematic. Recent moves by Japan's two largest automakers suggest that the electric car, after more than 100 years of development and several brief revivals, still is not ready for prime time - and may never be. In the meantime, the attention of automotive executives in Asia, Europe and North America is beginning to swing toward an unusual but promising new alternate power source: hydrogen. The reality is that consumers continue to show little interest in electric vehicles, or EVs, which dominated U.S. streets in the first decade of the 20th century before being displaced by gasoline-powered cars. Despite the promise of "green" transportation - and despite billions of dollars in investment, most recently by Nissan Motor Co - EVs continue to be plagued by many of the problems that eventually scuttled electrics in the 1910s and more recently in the 1990s. Those include high cost, short driving range and lack of charging stations. The public's lack of appetite for battery-powered cars persuaded the Obama administration last week to back away from its aggressive goal to put 1 million electric cars on U.S. roads by 2015. The tepid response to EVs also pushed Nissan's high-profile chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, perhaps the industry's most outspoken proponent of battery cars, to announce in December a major strategic shift toward more mainstream gasoline-electric hybrids, which overcome many of the shortcomings of pure EVs. The move was widely seen as a tacit acknowledgement by Ghosn that his all-or-nothing, multibillion-dollar bet on EVs is falling far short of his ambition to sell hundreds of thousands of battery-powered Nissan Leafs. Instead, Nissan plans to follow rival Toyota Motor Co, the world's largest purveyor of hybrids, which now is poised to leapfrog pure EVs altogether to pursue what might be the next big green-tech breakthrough: pollution- and petroleum-free fuel-cell cars that convert hydrogen to electricity. Vice Chairman Takeshi Uchiyamada, the "father of the Prius" who helped put hybrids on the map, said he believes fuel-cell vehicles hold far more promise than battery electric cars. "Because of its shortcomings ó driving range, cost and recharging time ó the electric vehicle is not a viable replacement for most conventional cars," said Uchiyamada. "We need something entirely new." TOYOTA'S LONG LEAD In the race to identify the Next Big Thing in automotive technology, the stakes are enormous. For example, Nissan, with French partner Renault, has committed $5 billion for development and manufacture of EVs and batteries ó a risky bet that could take years to pay off ó while Toyota has spent an estimated $10 billion or more over the past 16 years to develop, build and market an ever-expanding range of hybrids, led by the popular and now profitable Prius. While neither Nissan nor Toyota is likely to pull the plug on electric cars, it is clear from their recent moves that both companies are looking beyond EVs to meet future transportation needs. Both automakers began advanced green-car engineering programs in the mid-1990s, with Toyota introducing the first-generation Prius hybrid and Nissan unveiling the battery-powered Altra in late 1997. Toyota brought the Prius to the United States in 2000, but it took Nissan another 10 years to follow the low-volume Altra and other modest electric-car projects such as the Hypermini with the handsomely funded 2010 launch of the Leaf. With Uchiyamada overseeing continuous refinement of the Prius, Toyota took a 10-year lead in the green-car derby. Along the way, though, Toyota effectively subsidized billions of dollars in development, manufacturing and marketing costs through the first two generations of the Prius, according to former Toyota executives. While it took the Toyota hybrid six years to catch fire with U.S. consumers, the latest sales data points to the widening chasm between the two companies' radically different approaches to electrification. In the past year, Toyota has broadened its hybrid portfolio to 12 models, including four versions of the Prius, now in its third generation. Toyota in 2012 sold 327,413 hybrids in the United States and 1.2 million globally. Worldwide sales of its hybrids now approach 5 million. The Prius accounts for more than half of those sales, making it the most successful green car in history and one of the few exceptions to the public's yawning indifference to green vehicles and technology. The Leaf, on the other hand, has been the rule rather than the exception. Nissan unveiled the Leaf two years ago and to date has sold just under 50,000 worldwide. It sold 9,819 last year in the United States, well under its target of 20,000. As part of a year-end sales push, Nissan slapped incentives of almost $6,000 on the Leaf, and in January slashed the starting price by more than $6,000, to $29,650. Some Nissan dealers in Los Angeles are advertising Leaf lease rates as low as $199 a month with $1,999 down, according to industry research firm TrueCar. "When new technologies are launched, sales do not grow as quickly as everyone expects," said Mitsuhiko Yamashita, Nissan executive vice president and head of research and development. But "with EV technologies continuously improving and with prices falling, there is a possibility that sales could explode." That isn't likely to happen anytime soon. Nissan may be mildly encouraged that the Leaf is the best-selling pure EV in the United States. But total EV sales last year were only 14,687, representing 0.1 percent of total U.S. sales of 14.5 million. In comparison, hybrid sales in 2012 climbed to 473,083, or roughly 3.3 percent of the market. And of every three hybrids sold last year in the United States, two were a Toyota or a Lexus. Fueled by government subsidies and tax incentives, hybrid sales in Japan have rocketed to 40 percent of the industry total, with the Prius a top seller. Hybrids, however, have been far less popular with consumers in such major markets as Europe and China. "WE ARE PRAGMATIC PEOPLE" The outlook for pure electric vehicles is even more cloudy. At the moment, Ghosn's heady 2009 prediction that electric vehicles would capture 10 percent of the global market by 2020 ó 6 million battery-powered cars a year or more ó doesn't seem remotely within reach. Yet the gradual tightening of global fuel-efficiency standards from 2020 on is forcing automakers to assess their options, including the application of advanced technology. Says Nissan's Yamashita: "It is not possible to meet (future) regulations unless vehicles are electrified." The harsh reality of the market and the public's underwhelming demand for EVs, however, illuminate Nissan's recent decision to shift more of its green-tech investment into hybrids. In December the company announced it plans to introduce 15 new hybrids globally by early 2017. At the time, Ghosn said, "We are going to continue to heavily promote electric cars, but at the same time, we are business people, we are pragmatic people. We will also develop and deliver hybrids because there are markets and consumers that require hybrids." Last September, Toyota publicly walked away from plans to build several thousand electric cars, scaling back projected volume to a mere 100 battery-powered minicars. Both Japanese automakers, meanwhile, have forged new alliances to develop hydrogen-powered fuel cell cars, Toyota with BMW and, in a deal announced last week, Nissan with Daimler AG and Ford Motor Co. In the meantime, despite massive investments in battery technology and vehicles, even the most ardent EV adherents seem a bit ambivalent about the future of battery cars. "We don't regret it yet," says Nissan's Yamashita of the company's multibillion-dollar gamble on EVs. "We might in a few years. No, we probably won't." SEE ALSO: Tesla Nightmare Shows Why Today's All-Electric Cars Are Basically Dead On Arrival (Additional reporting by Paul Ingrassia in New York, Laurence Frost in Paris, Deepa Seetharaman and Bernie Woodall in Detroit; Editing by Martin Howell and Douglas Royalty) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
For the past few months, there has been no sign of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, who has been reportedly holed up in a Cuban hospital following emergency cancer surgery in December. Venezuelan state television just released what they say are photos of Chavez in recovery. Communication Minister Ernesto¬†Villegas told viewers that Chavez is conscious and recovering, but is still having breathing problems and has to use a breathing tube. Villegas said Chavez is able to speak. Chavez's illness has left the future of Venezuelan politics in doubt. Below are a few screenshots of the television broadcast taken by Twitter users: Twitter / @taos Twitter / @esopino
Post-Soviet corruption and a lot of natural resources have led to an enormous amount†of unrecorded and untaxed†economic activity†in Russia. Just how large the underground economy is was identified in a report by†Global Financial Integrity†(GFI). As you can see in the chart below,†Russia's underground economy blows away other major countries in terms of the size of the underground economy relative to GDP.†Even Italy, where†the Mafia became the largest bank†in January 2012, doesn't come close to the shadiness-relative-to-GDP of the Kremlin. Global Financial Integrity A closer look at Russia reveals that its underground economy ó fed largely by oil and gas kickbacks ó†keeps growing, topping out at 19 trillion rubles ($630 billion) in 2011: Global Financial Integrity The report concludes that the†"massive illicit flows from Russia and how†they both drive and are driven by its huge underground economy are symptomatic of weak overall†governance," adding that implementing the recommended†policy measures should be†"the highest priority by the Russian Government." Given Russia's glut of natural resources and how much President Vladimir Putin†has benefitted from the current system, it doesn't seem likely that curbing the underground economy will become†Moscow's highest priority anytime soon.
AP ImagesThe University of Michigan's preliminary February consumer confidence survey reading is out. The reading suggests the index jumped to 76.3 in January, ahead of estimates for a slighter rise to 74.8 from last month's 73.8 reading. The economic conditions sub-component increased to 88.0 from 85.0 last month. The economic outlook sub-component increased to 68.7 from 66.6 last month. Solid gains in both sub-components mark a change from last month, when sentiment toward current economic conditions fell and that toward future conditions rose. Inflation expectations 1-year ahead were unchanged at 3.3 percent, while expectations for inflation 5 years out ticked up to 3.0 percent from 2.9 percent.
WTI crude oil futures are dropping fast this morning. The first big downward thrust came at 9 AM ET, at the NYMEX open, when funds were able to start selling. Now, oil is down more than 2 percent on the session. Trading has been volatile over the past few weeks. Click on the chart below to enlarge the image. Thinkorswim (h/t @EnergyRosen)
Wall Street, you should be terrified... Senator Elizabeth Warren (Mass.-D) had her first Senate Banking Committee meeting yesterday and she grilled regulators over having settlements instead of trials with big Wall Street firms. [via Morning Money] "So the question I really want to ask is how tough are you? How much leverage do you really have in these settlements? And what I'd like to know is tell me a little about the last few times you've taken the biggest financial institutions on Wall Street all the way to trial? Anybody?" [applause].¬† "I'm really concerned too big to fail has become to big for trial," she later added. Watch below:¬† 
Shares of Herbalife opened higher this morning after billionaire investor†Carl Icahn revealed a huge stake in Herbalife yesterday evening†equal to 12.98%, or 14,015,151 shares. Herbalife is the stock that Icahn's decade-long rival Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, is shorting. †Ackman, who believes the company is a pyramid scheme, is shorting 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0.† The two hedge fund titans recently brawled in a telephone interview live on CNBC with Icahn hurling zingers a Ackman calling him a "crybaby in the schoolyard."† Ackman responded this morning that he welcomes Icahn's investment in Herbalife and he continues to believe the company is a pyramid scheme.† The stock is now trading above the pre-Ackman short level. It was last trading up $†6.02, or†15.73%, at $44.29 per share. Check out the five-day chart:† Yahoo! Finance
Thinkorswim Heads up: we're seeing a few murmurs about gold approaching the "death cross," which refers to the point where the 50-day average gold price dips below the 200-day average gold price. It's regarded as one of the most basic sell signals in technical analysis. All it means though, really, is that sentiment toward gold has really headed south recently. However, as the FT's Jamie Chisholm notes, "traders may position to exploit such a move, thereby exacerbating it." The last time gold hit the "death cross" ñ in April 2012 ñ gold fell 9.1 percent over the next month before rebounding. The previous "death cross" ñ which you have to go back to September 2008 to find ñ resulted in an 18 percent drop over the next 8 weeks before turning around and heading higher. As of today, the gold price has fallen below both the 50-day and the 200-day moving averages. Note: Each bar on the chart above represents one trading session.
AP ImagesJanuary industrial production numbers are out. Industrial production contracted 0.1 percent in January. Economists expected it to rise 0.2 percent after expanding 0.3 percent in December. Manufacturing production contracted 0.4 percent versus estimates of a flat reading. Below is a summary from the release: The production of consumer goods declined 0.2 percent in January following an increase of 0.4 percent¬†in December. In January, the index for consumer durables decreased 2.0 percent, but the index for consumer¬†nondurables rose 0.4 percent. Among durable consumer goods categories, the production of automotive products¬†dropped 3.9 percent and the output of home electronics fell 1.3 percent; these losses were partly offset by an¬†increase of 2.0 percent for appliances, furniture, and carpeting and a small gain for miscellaneous goods. A¬†weather-related jump of 3.1 percent in the output of consumer energy products boosted the index for consumer¬†nondurables; the output of non-energy goods declined 0.5 percent, with decreases in all of its major components¬†except clothing. The output of business equipment edged up 0.1 percent in January and was 6.9 percent above its¬†year-earlier level. The small gain in January was supported by an increase of 0.4 percent in the industrial and¬†other equipment category; the indexes for transit equipment and information processing equipment each fell¬†0.3 percent. All three of the major components of business equipment have moved up over the past 12 months,¬†but the advance of 16.0 percent for transit equipment substantially exceeded the gains of around 4 percent for the¬†other categories. The production of defense and space equipment increased 0.4 percent in January following a decrease of¬†0.5 percent in December; the index was up 4.2 percent over the past 12 months. Among nonindustrial supplies, the output of construction supplies declined 0.1 percent in January¬†following gains of 1.0 percent in December and 2.5 percent in November. In January, the output of construction¬†supplies was 2.1 percent above its level of a year earlier. The production of business supplies rose 0.6 percent in¬†January after having decreased 0.2 percent in December. In January, the indexes for both categories of¬†nonindustrial supplies remained well below their pre-recession peaks. The production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector moved down 0.2 percent in¬†January after having risen 0.5 percent in December. In January, the output of durable materials slipped¬†0.2 percent; the indexes for equipment parts and consumer parts both increased slightly, but the index for other¬†durable materials fell 0.6 percent. The production of nondurable materials declined 0.7 percent; a gain of¬†1.8 percent in the output of textiles was outweighed by losses in the indexes for paper and chemicals. The output¬†of energy materials was unchanged. Click here for the full release &gt;
By†Kap Su Sol,†Research Analyst The latest annual corporate sustainability survey of South Korea published by SolAbility is an interesting read. It rightly points to the interplay between South Koreaís nominally comprehensive, but ultimately loophole-ridden regulatory framework and the pervasive power of the countryís family-controlled conglomerates, or chaebols. According to the SolAbility survey, most respondents single out CEOs and top management as the key driver of sustainability. What is notable by its absence is mention of the role of corporate boards. However, this is not a surprise. Thanks to their own political and economic clout and existing regulatory ambiguities, the chaebols, can dodge regulatory efforts and outside pressure to strengthen sustainability initiatives. Though it is legally required of public corporations to fill half their boards with outside directors, current regulations do not draw a clear distinction between an ìoutsideî versus an ìindependentî director. As a result, chaebols can still fill their boardrooms with what are essentially management allies. The result is that corporate leadership, the majority of who are scions of the chaebolsí founding families, do not have a strong incentive to initiate sustainability practices because of the lack of public accountability. Additionally, the ambiguous Korean regulatory climate and poor enforcement regime remain road blocks. A case in point is the recent fatal gas leak at a semiconductor plant of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. On Jan. 27-28, Samsung, the worldís largest memory chip maker, concealed two separate leaks of hydrofluoric acid gas from authorities for 26 hours until a contract worker died from exposure and three others were injured. The incident revealed that Samsung had been outsourcing safety management of the acid to a contractor who in turn outsourced parts of its job to a spin-off. Samsung did not immediately report the leaks because it did not want to get stripped by the government of a higher environmental/safety rating, which had been exempting the company from more rigorous safety inspections. In all fairness, the progress South Korea has made in corporate governance and sustainability should not be downplayed. The term ìcorporate governanceî only came into the countryís lexicon in the late 1990s when the country began to restructure its economy amid the Asian financial crisis. The concept of ìsustainabilityî is still in its infancy. However, the worldís 11th largest economy has yet to fully develop its own ESG identity. Good corporate governance and sustainability are inseparable. For South Korea, improving public accountability of corporate boards and strengthening the regulatory landscape is a good start towards achieving corporate sustainability gains. The post Corporate Sustainability Korea ñ A review of the SolAbility 2013 survey appeared first on GMI Ratings. Read more posts on GMI Ratings ª
jaynemoo via www.flickr.com creative commonsWho owns New York?After three terms starting in 2001, Michael Bloomberg is leaving his post as Mayor of New York City. He gave his last State of the City address at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn yesterday at noon. All of this means an epic race to Gracie Mansion (the Mayor's residence on the Upper East Side that Bloomberg never lived in). Most of the politicians that have thrown their hats in the ring have been waiting patiently for this moment for years. The general election will be held on the first Tuesday of November, with primaries over the summer as late as August. Here's who's going to play: Don't think for a moment, by the way, that just because NYC is a liberal town a Republican candidate can't win this ó that's how Bloomberg and Giuliani both won their seats.† That's what makes this race so fascinating (aside from the fact that these candidates are fighting to lead the capital of world, of course). Some of New York's deepest pockets have already chosen sides, the king makers are shining up their crowns, the candidates are staffing up, and at this point it's anyone's game.
But buried deep inside is a gem: the amounts and flows of Russian ìblack moneyî into and out of Cyprus. Cyprus is broke. Its banks carry on their books Ä152 billion in decomposing assets, about 8.5 times the countryís GDP of Ä17.8 billion. Of these ìassets,î Ä23 billion are nonperformingó130% of GDP! The banks also sit on Ä26 billion in Russian ìblack money,î according to a ìsecretî report by the German version of the CIA, the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND), leaked last November [here is my story on the leaked report...† The Bailout Of Russian ìBlack Moneyî In†Cyprus]. Now Cyprus needs a bailout of Ä17.5 billionó100% of GDPóof which Ä12 billion would go to the putrid banks. Itís the first Eurozone bailout that is so unpalatable that the German parliament might actually refuse to nod it through, which would scuttle it. But the GFI report isnít about Cyprus. Itís about Russia. And for Russia, as it outlines remedies that the Russian government might want to pursue. And in doing so, the report fingers the transfer of illicit Russian capital. The most common mechanics: ìmisrepresentation of export earningsî via ìendemic misinvoicing of trade,î a form of ìtrade-based money laundering,î aided and abetted by a ìweak customs administration,î primarily involving Russiaís crucial energy sector. And thatís where Cyprus comes into play. The report explains how it works: Company A in Russia sells oil to its Subsidiary B in the Netherlands at way below market price. But the invoice doesnít go to the Netherlands. Itís sent to Cyprus to a ìreinvoicing companyî that Company A owns. That outfit re-prices the shipment at market price and sends a new invoice to Subsidiary B in the Netherlands. Dutch customs officials glance at the invoice and, as the price is in line with prevailing market conditions, rubber-stamp it. Now Subsidiary B sells the oil to some company in Europe at a normal price, gets paid, and in turn pays the reinvoicing company in Cyprus for the invoiced amount, thus transferring most of the proceeds of the sale to tax haven Cyprus. The reinvoicing company is ìreaping a huge profit.î The illicit money sits in one of the Cypriot banks that are now crateringóthough that hadnít been part of the plan. Whenever convenient, itís ìround-tripped backî to Company A in Russia, where it is officially recorded as foreign direct investment, or FDI. The loop is closed. And the amounts are enormous. According to data reported by Russia to the IMF, tiny Cyprus was not only Russiaís largest destination of FDI but also its largest source. The peak year for this racket was 2010 when the sky was still blue in Cyprus. That year, FDI from Russia in Cyprus amounted to $153.9 billion. Conversely, FDI from Cyprus in Russia amounted to a breath-taking $179.2 billionó7.8 times the size of the entire economy of Cyprus! Explains the report: ìThe recorded FDI positions merely reflect the round-tripping of prior illicit deposits from Russia in Cyprus.î And by facilitating this process, Cyprus has become ìa major money laundering machine for Russian criminals.î Alas, the gravy train derailed. By 2011, money flows into and out of Cyprus plunged 28% and 21% respectively. The party was over. Cyprus was going bankrupt. Russian ìblack moneyî got scared. So the Russian government stepped in and bailed out Cyprus temporarily late that year with a loan of $2.5 billion, apparently worried that the oligarchs behind these companies might lose too much money. The report warns about the ìserious security aspectsî for Russia that are associated with these money flows and urges the Russian government to accord them ìthe highest priority.î But the hapless taxpayers in the Eurozoneóand in the US through US participation in the IMF, which is part of the bailout Troikaóare left wondering why on earth they should be forced to bail out these Cypriot banks, or rather their investors, counterparties, and shady account holders. But as always, there is never an alternative to a bailout. The state-sponsored chorus about the end of the debt crisis is deafening. It even has feel-good metrics: the ìEuro Breakup Indexî fell to 17.2%. In July, it stood at 73%. For Cyprus, it fell to 7.5%. ìA euro breakup is no issue anymore,î the statement said. Just then, top Eurocrats exposed what a con game they think these bailouts really are. Read....† †LEAKED: Mario Draghi And His Triumvirate Shut Up German Finance Minister To Keep Cyprus From Blowing Up The†Eurozone.
Instagram/jwheymanThe New York Fed's February Empire State Manufacturing survey is out. The headline index surged to 10.04 in February, way past economists' estimates of a slighter rise to -2.00 from last month's -7.78 reading. Below is a summary of the data from the release: The February 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that conditions for New York manufacturers improved for the Ô¨Årst time since the summer of last year. The general business conditions¬†index rose into positive territory, advancing eighteen points to 10.0. The new orders index also rose sharply, climbing twenty points to 13.3, and the shipments index increased to 13.1. The prices paid index pointed to a continued acceleration in selling prices, and the prices received index, while positive, inched lower. The index for number of employees rose for a third consecutive month and, at 8.1, registered its Ô¨Årst positive reading since September, though the average workweek index remained negative. Indexes for the six-month outlook were noticeably higher and suggested a Ô¨Å rming in the level of optimism about future business conditions. In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were asked about their 2013 capital spending plans and how the plans compared with actual spending for 2012. Roughly the same proportion of respondents indicated that they expected to raise as to lower capital spending this year. However, the median amount budgeted for 2013 was up 11 percent from what had reportedly been spent in 2012. The most widely cited factor constraining 2013 capital investment plans was tax and regulatory considerations. In the February 2012 and 2011 surveys,¬†more respondents had identiÔ¨Åed this as a positive than a negative factor. Click here for the full release &gt;
This puts pressure on hedge fund giant Bill Ackman, who has built up a massive short position against the stock.† Central to Ackman's investment thesis is his belief that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. This morning, CNBC's Scott Wapner reports Ackman's first response to Icahn's recently disclosed position. According to Wapner, Ackman continues to believe with certainty that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme.† He also says his conclusion is unaffected by who is on the other side of his short position. Regarding Icahn's investment, Ackman says he welcomes it if it helps shine a a light on Herbalife. Last month, Ackman and Icahn engaged in a war of words riddled with accusations and profanities live on CNBC. Carl Icahn is schedule to be on CNBC at 12:00 PM ET today.
Owen Thomas, Business InsiderTim Cook at Goldman Sachs Tech Conference 2013 A couple of years ago, Apple made the decision to build a critically important new product, the iPhone 5, with a relatively small screen. This decision, combined with the time it took Apple to release the phone--the iPhone 5 arrived about 15 months after many Apple observers expected it to appear--contributed to Apple losing its lead in the global smartphone market. By the time pictures of the as-yet-unreleased iPhone 5 began to leak onto the Internet last summer, Apple's biggest competitor, Samsung, had already launched a well-received phone with a much bigger screen: The Galaxy S III. In comparison to the Galaxy, the early photos of the iPhone 5 made the iPhone 5 look disappointingly small and ordinary. When Apple officially launched the iPhone 5 last fall, the company argued that the iPhone 5's screen size was the "right size," because it was the only size that allowed the phone to be held comfortably in one hand. WATCH: Here's One Reason Why You Shouldn't Buy The iPhone 5That argument won over some consumers, but many other buyers decided they preferred Samsung's bigger screen. And that and other feature comparisons led Consumer Reports to rank the iPhone 5 merely the third-best of the top smartphones, behind Samsung's Galaxy and an LG phone based on Google's Android platform. What this meant was that, after five years of dominating the global smartphone market, Apple had finally lost its lead. Because the hyper-growth in the smartphone market had already shifted to price-conscious emerging markets, where most consumers cannot afford to pay $600 for a phone (and there are few carrier subsidies)--and because Apple missed much of this growth by not offering a cheaper phone--Apple also rapidly began to lose global smartphone market share. So that brings us to today. The iPhone is still Apple's most important product by a mile. In addition to generating about half of Apple's revenue, the iPhone also likely generates well more than half of Apple's profit. The iPhone, in other words, is directly responsible for Apple's astoundingly high profit margin and even more astounding ~$40 billion of annual profit. To regain its mojo in the stock market--and its halo of invincibility and superiority with consumers--Apple needs to regain its mojo in the smartphone market. Specifically, Apple needs to once again leapfrog competitors that, over the past five years, have finally caught up to it. There has been hope in some circles that Apple's next iPhone model, a big-screened version described as the "iPhone Maxi," as well as the launch of a cheaper iPhone model, would help it do that. For those holding on to this hope, one report from earlier this week was not encouraging. An analyst named Peter Misek of Jefferies reported that Apple had wanted to release a forthcoming big-screened iPhone this year, but that manufacturing problems have forced the company to push back the launch until 2014. Specifically, reports BI's Jay Yarow, Misek says that Apple wanted to launch the larger model in October. But Apple's screen suppliers were not able to manufacture enough screens in that timeframe: Apple's iPhone uses a technology called "in-cell," which essentially meshes the touch screen with the glass screen into one thin display. Its partners can't get good enough yields making those displays bigger to launch the iPhone 6 this year. If Misek's report is accurate (no guarantees, obviously--and given the steady stream of often-inaccurate reports about Apple's future products, it's best to regard it as a rumor), this is a major setback for Apple. WATCH: Samsung's Giant Phone, The Galaxy Note, In ActionSamsung is currently gearing up for the launch of its next version of the Galaxy phone, which is expected this spring. The next-generation Galaxy will likely have a screen that is as big or bigger than the current Galaxy S III. Samsung expects the phone to be so popular that it is reportedly gearing up to make 100 million of them this year. And it is planning to launch the phone with a massive marketing blitz. If Samsung does launch the new Galaxy this spring, and Apple can't launch its own new phone until next year, Samsung may have as long as 9-12 months to market and sell a new phone that many consumers will consider obviously superior to Apple's iPhone before Apple is even in the market with a big-screened phone. (Apple fans may cling to the argument that the bigger phones don't fit comfortably in one hand, but lots of consumers don't appear to be bothered by this. Many iPhone 5 owners--including this one--are envious of the size of the Galaxy screen whenever they see one. And even diehard Apple fans have become obsessed with the idea of Apple launching a bigger iPhone, with some creating beautiful renderings of what such a phone might look like.) If that happens, it will seem to many consumers as though, in the space of a few years, Apple has gone from having a year-long lead over all competitors in the smartphone market, to being a year behind. For a company that is as dependent on the iPhone and iPhone profits as Apple is, that would be devastating. SEE ALSO: The Good News Is... Apple's Stock Now Looks Cheap
Kevin Winter/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Lipper, Jefferies January's historic fund flows may finally be starting to reverse. This week, flows into equity mutual funds and ETFs around the world continued ‚Äì but not in the United States. Funds invested in U.S. stocks suffered $3.65 billion in outflows this week. The table above, via Jefferies, details the flows. Citi analyst Markus Rosgen also notes something interesting: "In the week ended 2/13/2013, inflows into equity funds slowed to $1.8 billion while bonds had an inflow of $2.6 billion, ending equities‚Äô nine-week winning streak versus bonds. The major laggards in equity funds were US funds which recorded $3.7 billion of outflow." The table below, via BofA Merrill Lynch, shows where all the flows into bond funds went this week. BofAML Global Research, EPFR Global
With stocks sitting near all-time highs, some experts warn that market sentiment is getting frothy.† Historically, when sentiment peaks, stocks start to sell-off. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Savita Subramian agrees that sentiment has improved.† But she argues that they are far from those dangerously bullish levels. "Even though the S&amp;P 500 has already risen 10% in the six months since sentiment bottomed, history suggests that rising markets can persist for years after sentiment troughs," writes Subramanian in a new note to clients.† "Some have argued that our measure of sentiment, which is based on sell side strategistsí equity allocation recommendations, does not adequately capture todayís bullish market sentiment, as evidenced by the recent surge in equity inflows and rising stock prices." Here's a look at where BAML's popular proprietary indicator.† It's still bullish for stocks. BAML Subramanian expands on two reasons why she still thinks sentiment isn't very bullish. 1) Sell-side strategists aren't bullish "While 13 of the 15 strategists contributing targets to Bloombergís strategist poll at the start of the year were forecasting that the S&amp;P 500 would end the year higher in 2013, the average implied upside was less than 5%, below the 50-year average price return of 7% and the lowest forecasted upside in eight years. In fact, following the marketís recent rally, the forecasted upside for the rest of the year has fallen to only 1%. This corroborates the subdued sentiment reading from the Sell Side Indicator." BAML 2) Equity inflows have been big, but not big enough to offset years of outflows "Despite record inflows into equity long-only funds this year, it has not been enough to offset capital outflows over the past several years. As a result, equity long-only funds remain one of the only asset categories to have negative cumulative inflows over the past three years." BAML Subramanian sees the S&amp;P 500 ending the year at 1,600.
Linh_rOm / FlickrAustralia's economy has been largely driven by its enormous mining industry, which has been supplying big emerging markets like China. However, as the emerging markets slowed, Australia got slammed. In a new post on iSharesBlog.com,† BlackRock's Russ Koesterich lists four current concerns he has about the country (verbatim): Koesterich has been bullish on the Australian stock market since the beginning of 2012.† However, he notes that he could soon downgrade that position. Read more at iSharesBlog.com.
It has been an excruciatingly quiet week for economic data and earnings announcements. And stock markets have mirrored this calm, trading within a historically narrow range. alidelagarza/statigr.amHowever, there are some pretty big economic reports coming out today that could change all of that. Here's a round up from Calculated Risk's Bill McBride: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the NY Fed will release the Empire State Manufacturing Survey for February. The consensus is for a reading of minus 2.0, up from minus 7.8 in January (below zero is contraction). ‚Ä¢ At 9:15 AM, the Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for January. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in Industrial Production in January, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 78.9%. ‚Ä¢ At 9:55 AM, the Reuters/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (preliminary for February)will be released. The consensus is for a reading of 75.0, up from 73.8. Any one of these reports could change the way we think of the trajectory of the economy.
London-based writer and designer David McCandless, charted out the biggest corporate fines and settlements of the past seven years, and expressed them as percentage of the company's annual revenue. David McCandless, Information Is Beautiful
When massive private and public sector debts result in a credit collapse and recession, the efforts to pare down the debt is deflationary.¬† Measures to inflate our way out of the situation are likely to fail as households are attempting to pay down debt and increase savings, rather than start a new round of debt accumulation.¬† In addition, financial institutions are willing to lend to only the strongest borrowers, another factor limiting credit expansion.¬† This is called a "liquidity trap" and is very difficult to extricate ourselves from.¬† Total U.S. credit market debt (government and private) grew from about $1.5 trillion (tn) in 1970 to over $55 tn. presently. ¬†Presently, the public and private debt peaked at about 385% of GDP in 2008 and is not much better now.¬† Over time it has taken more and more debt to create a given amount of GDP growth, and when debt is declining, as it must, it is difficult to get any growth at all.¬† In fact, Bill Gross put the problem in perspective in his latest newsletter, where he states, "Each additional dollar of credit seems to create less and less heat (referring to GDP).¬† In the 1980s, it took four dollars of new credit to generate $1 of GDP.¬† Over the last decade, it has taken $10, and since 2006, $20 to produce the same result". Bernanke understands the problems of deflation under the present situation where most people still believe that inflation will be the consequences of the enormous debt we've accumulated over the past two decades.¬† Trying to remedy the significant amounts of debt the global economy built up, could lead to a debt collapse and depression if not dealt with aggressively.¬† Bernanke, being a student of the "Great Depression", warned Japan about this same dilemma in 2003 where he advised Japan to aggressively stimulate both fiscally and monetarily. We've received numerous feedbacks from our weekly comments regarding the fact that we used the "Cycle of Deflation" (attached) numerous times over the past few years and warned about potential "competitive devaluations", and "beggar-thy-neighbor" policies that are all symptoms of the deflation we expect to take place very soon.¬† Most of the feedback received gave us credit for bringing up these terms years ago, when they never heard of them before.¬† Now they are being used in the financial media every day.¬† Actually, we believe that we are in the "competitive devaluation" stage presently as country after country is printing money in order to lower rates and doing whatever possible to devalue their currency in order to export their goods and services.¬† Remember, deflation is a product of too much debt in the U.S. and we either default on the debt or pay it off.¬† When we get to the dashed line in the "Cycle of Deflation" chart, right after "protectionism and tariffs," is when the deflation sets in and economic pain becomes unbearable.¬† The main driver of the recent currency movements has been the various monetary policies of the world's major central banks.¬† The U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed), the Bank of England (BOE), the Bank of Japan (BOJ), the Peoples Bank of China (PBOC), and the European Central Bank (ECB), are all attempting to grow their economies with different policies.¬† These are just the major central banks.¬† Actually, there are 38 central bankers around the world either printing money or initiating loose monetary policies.¬† Some, as was the case just a few days ago in Venezuela,¬†just devalue their currency (the Bolivar).¬† But some have it easier than others.¬† In fact, because the ECB is not able to pinpoint exactly which of the 17 countries in the Euro Zone¬†need the most help they are forced to offer three year loans to banks at the cheap interest rate of 1%.¬† This policy was initiated over a year ago by Mario Draghi right after he became President of the ECB.¬† The Euro vs. the dollar continued rising by almost 10% since then, and was up more than 20% for the last 3 months.¬† This put the Euro Zone under economic pressure as they found it difficult to export goods to their trading partners with an increasing currency.¬† In fact, the latest statistics release today showed the 4th quarter annualized GDP of Germany to be down 2.3%, France down 1.1%, Italy down 3.7%, Spain down 2.8%, and Portugal down 7.2 %.¬† Also, the ECB forecasted zero growth for the Euro Zone this year.¬† Since all this competitive devaluation is affecting the Euro Zone so negatively, Japan has decided to do whatever is possible to lower the value of the Yen and increase inflation.¬† They realized that they were not aggressive enough with competitive devaluation over the past couple of decades.¬† So far, they have been very successful, but at the expense of being the target of all of their trading partners. It is clear this is not over yet, and the competition to have the fastest¬† currency in the down-slope race to the bottom is not over.¬† Stay tuned to the "Cycle of Deflation" as we continue to update it.¬†¬†
ioanna hatzipanigyri / FlickrMost markets are down a bit early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is down 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is down 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.5%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.1%. G20 leaders are meeting in Russia.† The hot topic is currency wars, or the risk that global central banks will compete to devalue their currencies. ìI donít think that Mario Draghi was trying to talk the euro up or down,î said ECB member Jens Weidmann to Bloomberg.† He believes that the ECB ìwill abstain from manipulating or directly targeting the exchange rate.î Click Here For Updates &gt;
China and India may be Asia‚Äôs largest economies, but they aren‚Äôt the only countries with growth potential on the continent. Southeast Asian countries can also offer compelling investment opportunities. Thailand, known as the ‚Äúland of the smiles‚Äù because of the expression its natural beauty and friendly people inspire, is a country where we believe the economic prospects could give investors reasons to smile too.¬† Kicking and Smiling Unlike other Southeast Asian nations, Thailand (known as Siam until 1939) managed to escape European colonial rule. That doesn‚Äôt mean Thailand has escaped Western influence, or internal conflict. Coups, protests and periods of military rule have triggered social and economic turbulence throughout its history, and political leaders today have struggled to reconcile with opposing forces and reform the constitution (drafted in 2007 under military rule). Thailand has endured other challenges, too, such as the financial crisis in the late 1990s, a tsunami which struck in 2004 and devastating floods in 2011. All of these events caused serious economic setbacks, but Thailand has been adept at battling back from adversity, which is fitting for a country whose national sport is kickboxing, or ‚ÄúMuay Thai.‚Äù An example of this fighting spirit was on full display when Thailand‚Äôs GDP growth sank in 2011 to a mere 0.1% in the wake of flooding there, but then quickly rebounded. While forecasts differ slightly, recently, Thailand‚Äôs central bank raised its expectations for 2012 GDP growth to 5.9%, with growth forecast at 4.9% for 2013. Policymakers said stronger-than-expected expansion of private investment helped drive improved growth prospects. Domestic economic strength helped Thailand‚Äôs equity market post one of the best performances in Asia (and even the world) in 2012, with the benchmark Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) Index returning more than 35%.1 Industry data showed loan growth supported banking stocks in particular. Interestingly, over the past two years, some European banks‚Äîdealing with a debt crisis at home‚Äîwithdrew from some emerging markets; this seems to have benefited local lenders in Thailand. The Thai construction industry was another well-performing sector story, as suggestions that a ramp up in Thai infrastructure projects could further increase demand for building materials. Capitalizing on the Rising Middle Class During Thailand‚Äôs more challenging times over the past decade, some questioned our investments there. Our essential investment philosophy is to look for long-term value on a stock-by-stock basis rather than with reference to index weightings or top-down macroeconomic calculations. We hand-select companies which we believe can survive downturns and have the potential to emerge even stronger, in Thailand or anywhere else on our emerging markets map. However, a number of our investments also reflect macroeconomic themes that we believe to be significant. For instance, we believe emerging market growth is likely to drive a secular bull market in commodities and, by our calculations, rising consumer wealth and the emergence of a large middle class should drive growing consumer demand. In our opinion, the economic backdrop for many emerging markets such as Thailand is currently stronger than that of most developed markets. Thailand‚Äôs natural resources, dynamic industrial scene, productive agriculture sector and robust tourism industry look like logical drivers for continued growth potential. Thai exports, including machinery and electronic components, agricultural commodities, and jewelry, dominate the country‚Äôs economic pie charts, accounting for more than half of GDP.2 Thailand is the world‚Äôs largest exporter of rice and rubber, and the country produces more than a third of the world‚Äôs computer hard disk drives. Although it still imports a significant amount of its energy needs, Thailand‚Äôs offshore natural gas reserves are also notable. Promoting from Within The Thai government has provided various stimulus efforts, including increases in the minimum wage, which should help boost consumer income levels and could fuel greater domestic-led growth. Tax reductions for companies should also spur business activities as well as domestic growth. Attracting investors to its markets is also important. The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) is developing rapidly and aiming to become a regional capital markets hub. Investors‚Äô appetites were whetted by a rise in high-value initial public offerings last year, new regional electronic trading links, a boom in Thai-companies‚Äô cross-border M&amp;A activity and a loosening of regulations that govern stock listings. Thailand has certainly suffered from political upheavals, with much of the turbulence stemming from power struggles between the country‚Äôs minority elite establishment and the rural poor, which represent the majority of its population. This certainly represents an ongoing risk to investing there. As investors, we don‚Äôt tend to take sides in such battles, but we do try to change the financial framework if we feel things are moving in an unsustainable direction. As a major trade partner to rapidly-expanding Asian economies, we believe Thailand has potential to benefit from the continued developments in emerging markets.¬†Current equity valuations in Thailand generally remain attractive to us (as of early February 2013), though not without potential growth obstacles that do bear ongoing scrutiny. But all in all, we believe investors in Thailand do have plenty to smile about. ¬† 1.Source: Bloomberg LLP. The SET Index is a capitalization-weighted index of stocks traded on the Stock Exchange of Thailand. ¬†Past performance is not indicative of future results. An index is unmanaged and one cannot directly invest in an index. 2. Source: CIA, The World Factbook, 2013. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his ‚ÄúInvestment Adventures in Emerging Markets‚Äù blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including ‚ÄúTrading with China,‚Äù ‚ÄúThe Investor‚Äôs Guide to Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúMobius on Emerging Markets,‚Äù ‚ÄúPassport to Profits,‚Äù ‚ÄúEquities‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄúMutual Funds‚ÄîAn Introduction to the Core Concepts,‚Äù ‚ÄùThe Little Book of Emerging Markets,‚Äù and ‚ÄúMark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets ¬ª
AP Photo/Christian LutzConcerns are starting to re-emerge in the euro zone. Yesterday's fourth-quarter GDP results were worse than expected, confirming fears that the pace of contraction in the euro-zone economy is accelerating. These disappointing growth figures are tied directly to the biggest problem that the eurozone now must face ñ staggering levels of youth unemployment across the region. Governments on the euro periphery ñ which desperately need to institute difficult economic reforms to put budgets on sustainable paths ñ receive little support from a younger generation that feels like its opportunities and its future have been crushed already by the very same actors. Societe Generale cross-asset strategists highlighted youth unemployment and the danger it poses to the eurozone in a recent note, writing, "Economic crisis in developed countries have reinforced unemployment, especially with the youth...With lower population support, large upheavals could threaten government stability."
