It's a pretty quiet night after major gains in the US, but Japan is heading higher in the early going. Nothing too special, but the main point is that the old "Abenomics trade" where the Nikkei just trends higher is back in action. Nikkei.com
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The trial of former Goldman Sachs bond trader Fabrice "Fabulous Fab" Tourre next week gives the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission an opportunity to prove that it can win big cases tied to the financial crisis. The SEC claimed an 85 percent success rate in all trials last year, but its critics have said that, when it comes to the financial crisis, its win rate has been dismal. Tourre's civil fraud trial, which starts in federal court in New York on Monday, could help silence those critics, but experts said the regulator is facing no easy task. The SEC has said that Tourre, while a vice president at Goldman Sachs Group Inc in 2007, misled investors in a structured investment vehicle called Abacus 2007-AC1 by not disclosing the role a hedge fund that planned to bet against the transaction played in setting it up. Investors lost more than $1 billion when the investment vehicle failed, according to the SEC. Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million in July 2010 to settle its part of the case, without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Tourre turned down a settlement offer and instead elected to fight, a person familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. For the SEC to prove fraud it must show Tourre intended to dupe the investors about the role played by the hedge fund run by billionaire John Paulson in the Abacus investment. A negligence charge will turn on whether the information about the part Paulson played was material to investors. Tourre's defense, as summarized by U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in June, is that the victims were "not be-hooded children, but rather large financial institutions, operating in a dog-eat-dog world." Tourre is "confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the SEC's charges," his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement on Thursday. 'ENORMOUSLY CHALLENGING' Thomas Sporkin, a former SEC lawyer who is now in private practice, said it is always difficult to hold an individual accountable for "institution wide culpability." Sporkin is not involved in the case. "It's an enormously challenging task to put institutional blame on one person," Sporkin said. Goldman Sachs, which agreed to cooperate with the SEC as part of its own settlement and which is also paying Tourre's legal fees, declined to comment. Sporkin said a finding of liability against Tourre even just for negligence would help show it can be successful at trial in complex case. "They'll be able declare victory and put Wall Street on notice that they can win complex cases against individuals at trial," he said. Andrew Ceresney, co-director of enforcement at the SEC, said losing is a risk the SEC has to take in any case. "We want to win every case," Ceresney said. "But it is probably true that if we're not losing a small number of cases, we're not being aggressive enough." The SEC has disputed that it has not tackled the financial crisis head on, pointing to charges brought against 157 entities and individuals and $2.68 billion recovered from defendants, largely in settlements. The stakes have grown even higher for the SEC since Chair Mary Jo White said last month that the agency was moving toward requiring defendants in some settlements to admit liability, a move that is likely to push more of them to take their chances in court. SUCCESS RECORD The SEC filed 734 cases in the 2012 fiscal year and obtained 714 settlements, according to the SEC and NERA Economic Consulting. It took 15 cases to trial, losing just two of them, the SEC said. Among the victories, the agency secured judgments of nearly $8.9 million against investor relations firm Big Apple Consulting USA Inc and its executives after a jury trial in Florida. A jury in Nebraska found two former chief financial officers of infoUSA Inc liable for their roles in a scheme to enable the company's CEO to illegally use millions of dollars in corporate funds for perks. The CEO settled without admitting or denying the charges. But in cases against individuals at Wall Street firms at the center of the financial crisis and mortgage meltdown, the SEC's setbacks have mounted. In July 2012, a federal jury in New York found former Citigroup manager Brian Stoker was not liable for violating securities laws regarding a $1 billion collateralized debt obligation tied to risky mortgage debt. And in November the SEC dropped a similar case against Edward Steffelin, a former managing director at GSC Capital Corp, who was accused of negligence in his role in a mortgage-bond deal by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.. JPMorgan agreed to pay $153.6 million to settle related charges without admitting or denying the charges. The same month, a jury in New York cleared Bruce Bent, the chairman of Reserve Management Co, of civil fraud charges stemming from his management of the $62 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which "broke the buck" after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. The SEC does not count that case as a loss: While the jury cleared Bent's son Bruce Bent II on fraud charges, it found him liable for negligently violating securities laws and also held two corporate entities liable. But critics of the SEC say it was a loss because the SEC failed to secure a finding of liability against the senior Bent, one of the few Wall Street leaders to face trial after the financial crisis. "The ability to handle large, complex cases is beyond the SEC," said John Coffee, a law professor at Columbia Law School. In an op-ed piece in the National Law Journal in January, Coffee said the SEC's record was close to zero in financial crisis trials, saying it should hire private lawyers on contingency to bring cases on its behalf. While many former SEC lawyers said Coffee's attack was overblown, they acknowledge a public perception that the SEC cannot win trials, thanks to the financial crisis cases. Sporkin, one of the former SEC lawyers, contrasted the SEC's failures in cases over the financial crisis to an unbroken streak of convictions U.S. prosecutors have secured in their insider trading crackdown, including against Raj Rajaratnam. On Wednesday, the SEC won a small victory in the Tourre case, when Judge Forrest ruled it could use as evidence an infamous email in which Tourre was referred to as "the fabulous Fab. And it appears to be devoting significant manpower to the case. In an unusual move, it has put the head of its national trial unit, Matthew Martens, in charge of the case. "In all my years at the SEC, I can't remember when the head of the trial unit actually tried a case," said Mark Fickes, a former SEC trial lawyer who is now in private practice. "But I guess this is a pretty big case." (Reporting by Nate Raymond; Additional reporting by Sarah Lynch in Washington; Editing by Eddie Evans and Carol Bishopric) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
ReutersFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. There Is A Nice Near-Term Bond Buying Opportunity In The Bloodied Bond Market (Gluskin Sheff) "The bond market has become bloodied enough that one could easily ‚Äî and likely should ‚Äî expect a near-term reversal in the breathtaking yield jump of late," writes Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. "The selling has been nothing short of dramatic and looks to be overdone, if not a capitulation of sorts.¬† "Municipal bonds, in particular, where the underlying fundamentals have hardly changed ‚Äî and yet June's net fund outflow represented a huge 2.2% of assets under management in what was the second largest on record (the yield on 10-year, triple-A rated municipal bonds is now a relatively juicy 2.4% ‚Äî we haven't seen that in at least two years!). "So if it is the case that investor risk appetite overall is intact, and all we saw here was either some massive profit-taking or forced selling in the bond market, it would seem that for a trade the cheapening-up in part of the fixed-income space now offers up a nice near-term buying opportunity at better price levels for those with the dry powder at hand." Gold Is In A Sweet Spot (JonesTrading) Gold was up a whopping 3% on Thursday to $1,284.80. But gold is still well off its peak of $1,900. Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading says gold is now in the sweet spot, and that Bernanke has lost some credibility. "We don‚Äôt believe the Chairman‚Äôs intentions have changed.¬† Regardless, the Chairman‚Äôs credibility is once again damaged.¬† If the Dollar breakdown continues, it will be a sign that the market believes the Chairman has again lost control over policy.¬† The asset clearly in the best position in such an environment is Gold.¬† After such a notable correction in the past 9 months, the precious metal once again becomes a very attractive global asset if monetary policy in the largest economy of the world spins out of control." The Great Rotation Into Stocks Is Beginning (Advisor Perspectives) Scott Colyer at Advisors Asset Management thinks a Great Rotation is starting, and money is flowing from bonds and into stocks.¬† "The flight of capital from the bond markets is not so much a statement of the credibility of the issuers in the market, but a general lack of potential reward as compared to the record duration risk linked to bonds. Money that is invested in the bond markets is generally there because it is risk adverse and looking for income. When the volatility begins to increase, any yield is wiped away quickly and losses quickly emerge.¬† "Selling is almost instantaneous and significant into a market in which dealers have greatly scaled back their capital. Could this be a buying opportunity? Maybe in the short term, but in the longer term a better U.S. economy tends to support higher interest rates and lower bond prices. We believe that investors who have been holding their breath in the bond markets have likely run out of oxygen. The Fed is trying to push money into risk assets‚Ä¶don‚Äôt fight the Fed. We see the balance of 2013 as supportive for equities and we see the flight of funds from bonds flowing toward equities." Why You Shouldn't Dismiss Concentrated Portfolios Outright (The Aleph Blog) David J. Merkel or The Aleph Blog has a new post defending concentrated portfolios. After hearing Dave Ramsey criticizing stock pickers on air, Merkel writes that he also said concentrated portfolios are too risky. Merkel however thinks there is tremendous value in knowledge. "The idea is that value investors gain detailed knowledge of companies that they invest in.¬† That takes time and effort, so they limit the number of companies that they invest in.¬† The idea is to do so much research, that you have an information advantage over 99% of the market.¬† It pays off. "Buffett himself wrote an article called, ‚ÄúThe Superinvestors of Graham and Doddsville [PDF],‚Äù which was published in Hermes [Columbia Business School], and republished as a forward to later versions of ‚ÄúThe Intelligent Investor.‚Äù¬† Most of the ‚ÄúSuperinvestors‚Äù ran concentrated portfolios by today‚Äôs standards.¬† Some were highly concentrated ‚Äî the one common thing among them is a value style that focuses on a margin of safety to avoid large losses, and purchasing shares of companies whose assets are out of favor, where a bargain price can be obtained." Why The Barrier To Entry For Advisors Is Too Low (The Wall Street Journal) The Series 7 exams and the NASAA's Series 65 Uniform Investment Advisor exams are the only barriers to entry for advisors. And most advisors pass these exams so it's difficult for clients to choose advisors, writes Victor Hicks of Lumin Financial in a Wall Street Journal column. Part of the reason the barrier to entry is so low according to Hicks is because there aren't enough advisors. "So why can't lawmakers raise the barrier to entry to our profession to a similar level by simply making the CFP a requirement for all advisers? The answer comes down to supply and demand: There simply aren't enough advisers to serve all the individuals who need financial advice. At the moment, only 20% of advisers are CFPs, according to a recent report by the CFP board. Restricting the number of advisers in the field by raising the bar to enter would both increase the cost of financial advice across the board and prevent many individuals from getting any financial advice at all. In a country where the average family is saving only about half of what they'll need for retirement, limiting the accessibility of financial advisers would do more harm than good."
Now that summer is here and the work grind is finally (hopefully?) starting to simmer down, there's no better time for a mid-year 401(k) check-up. Don't let the bull market get you too complacent with your portfolio. There are no guarantees in the savings game, and as an added incentive, you'll be way ahead of the game when it comes to the end-of-year tax race. To make the job easier for you, we've gathered some tips from the financial experts at Charles Schwab.  Diversify. We know. This whole 'diversify' line is getting old. But it's a crucial part of the game, and as you age, you'll need to rejigger your investments to reflect your risk tolerance. With the recent stock market comeback, you may need to consider¬†rebalancing to get back to your target allocations. If you're unsure, seek advice from a fee-only financial advisor.¬† Match, match, match.¬†This is a no-brainer. Have an employer that matches your retirement contributions? Do whatever you can to contribute as much as they're willing to match, or you can kiss that free money goodbye. Don't even think about it. Automate your paycheck so that a portion goes immediately into your 401(k) and never touches your hands. Trust us ‚Äì‚Äì it's harder to miss something you never had. Don't over-invest in your employer. The ideal allocation for company stock is between 10 and 20% (and that's being generous). You don't want to load up too heavily on employer stock options, no matter how well they've performed this year. Revisit your fees. New fee regulations on 401(k)s haven't exactly made them all that much more transparent, but that doesn't mean you can't do your own digging to find out if you're getting fleeced. You'll have to dig into your plan documents online, or you can try giving your customer service center a call. Look for a section titled "Expense Ratio." High fees of actively-managed funds are why we are huge proponents of low-cost investment options like an index fund. They are super cheap and have proven time and again to beat the market ‚Äì‚Äì and investment professionals themselves. Luckily, many employer-provided plans include index fund options.¬†
REUTERS/Ricardo MoraesBrazil is pouring approximately $15 billion dollars into the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Olympics. The sporting events are expected to generate a combined 3.6 million temporary and long-term jobs and to boost GDP growth by 0.4% every year through 2019. But after growing 7.5% in 2010, Brazil's economy grew just 0.9% in 2012. Q1 wasn't much better, with GDP rising 0.6% from the previous quarter. At 6.5%, inflation is high and hurting real wages. Which explains why consumption grew just 0.1% in Q1. Meanwhile, the Bovespa is down nearly 28% year-to-date. And all this has finally come to a head. Last month, Brazilians took to the streets over high costs around the World Cup and the Olympics. Protestors have largely become tired of poor public services, corruptions, and rising costs. "There are deeper issues behind the riots, such as the erosion of income caused by high inflation, the bad quality of public services in general, and frustration of the ìnew middle classî about the lack of further improvement in living standards, despite high expectations generated† by the hype surrounding the Brazilian economy in the past few years," Deutsche Bank's Esteban Polidura wrote in a note to clients.† For many the idea of Brazilians protesting football is hard to wrap their head around. "It is not the game itself that they have forsaken, but rather the kind of game that football has become: a billion-dollar business, a prestige object for louche plutocrats, and an extravagant showpiece for corrupt governments and international sporting organizations," wrote Ian Buruma in a Project Syndicate column.  And protests like the ones we saw last month are rare. "The protests are very peculiar but I think are very relevant especially considering Brazilian history," Fernando Losada, senior economist at AllianceBernstein told Business Insider. "Brazil is different from other countries in Latin America. You probably heard of the cases of Argentina, even Mexico, where people go out on the streets to beat pots and pans, to do the so called cacerolazo, to protest against the government. That's rather unusual in Brazil." While the decline in credit-fueled consumption growth has been a large factor in Brazil's economic slowdown, so has the decline in investment. After Dilma Rousseff took office, the government veered towards more interventionist policies hurting investment, Losada said. And the slowdown in the global economy hasn't helped either. In an attempt to pacify protestors the government has made some changes. It rolled back the fare hikes that sparked the initial protests. It has since announced a bigger punishment for corrupt officials. Oil revenue will be channeled to improve education and healthcare, and Congress is considering a motion for a popular vote on political reform.  Major fiscal policy changes are unlikely ahead of the 2014 presidential election. After that, all bets are off. "In her second term, Dilma will have no horizon to be re-elected, and the attitude of the government may change then," Losada told Business Insider. Monetary policy will likely be tightened to curb inflation and boost real income. To boost economic growth, the government will have to do more to attract investment. An improvement in the global economy will also go some way in helping GDP. But even if that were to play out, Brazil has one other problem to contend with. Major sporting events have often had a negative longer-term economic impact on the host country.
Inspired by the film Gladiator (Universal Pictures) Five years ago, Sears Chairman Eddie Lampert broke†the company into 30 plus autonomous businesses, each with its†own president, chief marketing officer, board, and separately measured profit and loss. His idea was to harness the power of the free market, and to produce better and deeper data than anyone else. But the radical restructuring went horribly wrong, as divisions engaged in cutthroat competition against each other,†reports Mina Kimes at Bloomberg Businessweek. Some highlights from her report: In order for a division to get help from the IT or HR departments, it had to write up a formal agreement or use a contractor. Since each company had its own board of directors, some executives were on five or six of them and spent all day in meetings. Executive bonuses were based on individual unit performance, so people tried to boost their own division's profit at the expense of others. Kenmore, a brand sold exclusively by Sears, is its own unit. Sears's separate appliance unit found it could make more money selling other company's products, however, and therefore it gave outside merchandise more prominent placement than one of the company's signature products. It got to the point where execs started bringing laptops with screen protectors to meetings. We recommend reading†Kimes's full nightmare report at Bloomberg Businessweek. What went wrong? Lampert, who also manages hedge fund ESL investments, appears to have chosen fundamentally bad incentives, encouraging internal rivalries while ignoring external competition and their own customers.†Creating major internal divisions blocked internal synergy.†Even†attempt to generate better data was corrupted by internal machinations. Although only been CEO since January, Lampert has been the chairman and dominant power at Sears since†spearheading Kmart's takeover of the company in 2005. While†Sears has been suffering since the early 90s, the retailer has cratered since Lampert took over, with sales down $10 billion and the stock down 64%.†Even in a retail industry under significant pressure that's major failure. Despite all of that,†according to Kimes, the divisions are still in place today. Most public companies wouldn't be so patient ó just look how quickly JCPenney abandoned†former CEO Ron Johnson and his flailing turnaround plan.
West Texas Intermediate (WTI) prices have been rallying hard since the end of June, and saw a huge bounce yesterday.¬† Today, they came down: Investing.com What gives?¬† It was inevitable that WTI prices would climb as operators increased pipeline capacity, easing the supply glut in Cushing, Oklahoma, where physical oil demanded from NYMEX WTI futures contracts gets delivered and sent on to refineries. BP also recently¬†restarted full operations at its refinery in Whiting, Indiana, which boosted demand, and imports have been constrained after flooding in Canada. But the latest spike is already proving short lived, because the U.S. continues to pump out shale oil like never before. Production is¬†now 16% higher¬†than where it was a year ago. The current move in oil prices appears to have been fueled by huge trading volumes. "In spite of fact that supplies of¬†crude oil at the NYMEX hub in Cushing, OK are¬†brimming, guys living in Greenwich, CT and Bronxville, NY now own 5√ó the amount of physical ¬†oil sitting in tank," said energy expert Stephen Schork in a note Wednesday. So the WTI surge may have been good news for traders, depending on their positions. And it's probably bad news for refiners, since their costs now go up. But what about American drivers? Here's the thing about gas prices: they are more sensitive to Brent oil prices, not WTI.¬† Because refined products like gasoline can be exported, it makes sense for its price to fluctuate with Brent, which is dictated by supply-demand dynamics in the U.S. Thus, as long as U.S. refiners are selling product into the international market, U.S. gasoline prices will continue to reflect the price of Brent. Unfortunately, Brent has also been going up ‚Äî but for reasons totally unrelated to the WTI moves (mostly news in Egypt and a slightly improving demand picture): Investing.com The only way for the shale boom to bring Brent down would be for the government to allow raw crude to be traded globally. That hasn't been allowed since 1979.¬† Until that changes, if you wanna know where pump prices are going, Brent's your guy.
Earlier today, the House passed the Farm Bill without any funding provision for food stamps. For some context, here's a chart tweeted on Monday by Bloomberg Briefs' Economist Michael McDonough. The cost of the program ‚Äî which¬†spiked during the recession ‚Äî currently accounts for nearly 14% of grocery store sales, with 47.8 million Americans receiving the subsidy. One explanation for the spike in people on food stamps is higher participation rates. Ten years ago, far fewer people who qualified for food stamps actually got them.  Michael McDonough/Bloomberg Participants receive an average of $133.14 per month in food stamps, hardly enough to live on.
Never, ever to be daunted, Carl Icahn is on Bloomberg TV right now talking about his attempt to buy Dell, and says he'll go to shareholders with a higher offer tomorrow. This week Institutional Shareholder Services, a shareholder advisory board, recommended that Dell shareholders spurn Icahn's deal in favor of the deal put together by Dell founder Michael Dell and private equity firm Silver Lake. Here's the new deal Icahn told Bloomberg he's willing to put on the table: ìWe are going to be coming up with a higher bid†tomorrow†morning. A little bump on my part. That is what I am looking for. You are giving US $14. You have a 73-percent taking. I think this is superior to the $14.65. We will add to that bid. We will warrant to that. The bid will be superior, even to what is superior. We are giving $14. They are 75-percent. Then they will own the stub for 25-percent of the stock. We think it is worth more than $14. We will do a warrant which is will be valuable. This is vastly superior to the Dell dealÖ We are going to come and add to the package which we think is superior already. We think that it will be around $20, buy the stock at 20 and we will give the shareholders a piece that warrant. We think that will make it utterly superior and we will go to the independent board. We will show them this and tell them that we think it is superior. This is our recommendation and we hope that it has traction. You cannot be sure, obviously, so, we will see what happens. So you heard it here first.î Dell is offering $13.65 per share, but in a statement filed early this week Icahn is urging shareholders to take that offer to a Delaware Court and have it appraised. He's hoping if shareholders make that move, he'll be able to negotiate a better price in the process. From the statement: We are in the process of perfecting our right to seek appraisal of our Dell shares and we believe that you should also perfect your appraisal rights. Under Delaware law if a merger occurs and you did not vote for it, you are entitled, through appraisal, to the fair value of your shares as determined by a Delaware court. We have done a great deal of due diligence concerning the value of Dell, and as we have said in the past, we believe the $13.65 merger price substantially undervalues your Dell shares, and we believe if you seek appraisal, you will receive more. BUT WHAT IS MOST IMPORTANT ABOUT SEEKING APPRAISAL IS THAT YOU CAN CHANGE YOUR MIND ABOUT APPRAISAL UP TO 60 DAYS AFTER THE MERGER AND STILL TAKE THE $13.65 PER SHARE. During the ìfree 60 day periodî we believe Dell may wish to negotiate with those that sought appraisal and possibly pay a premium over $13.65 to get them to settle and drop their appraisal claims, as explained below. To add a new twist to an old saying, ìyou can have your cake and eat it tooî. It's good that Carl always has a sense of humor.
REUTERS/Chip EastMotorcycle rider Robbie Knievel checks out the ramp prior to jumping over seven military aircraft on the flight deck of the USS Intrepid in New York, July 31, 2004. Thanks, Ben Bernanke! First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Flickr / Microsoft SwedenBill Gates using an early version of Microsoft ExcelWe've been writing a lot about Microsoft Excel formulas. The program is the gold standard of programs. It's elegant, ubiquitous, and outstandingly powerful. American business lives and dies by the ¬†spreadsheet, and everyone is always looking to hone their skills.¬† There's one trick, though, that separates the quants from the interns. That trick is Index/Match, a function that can find any value in any spreadsheet.
YouTube/CBSNewsOnline, Business Insider/Mike NudelmanThere is a common perception that WSJ reporter Jon Hilsenrath, perhaps one of the most well-connected journalists at the Federal Reserve, is in such close contact with Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke that markets should hinge on his every word. Stephen Roach even went so far as to assert that "Jon Hilsenrath is actually the chairman of the Fed," saying that "when he writes something in the¬†Wall Street Journal, Bernanke has no choice but to deliver on what he wrote." If you subscribe to that notion, then Jon Hilsenrath is probably not who you think he is ‚Äì and his appearance on CNBC today probably serves as a pretty good example of why that is the case. Yesterday, after Bernanke's comments that (1) weakness in the labor market was understated, (2) the rise in Treasury yields was leading to a tightening of financial conditions, and (3) falling inflation ‚Äì like we're seeing now ‚Äì could damage the economy, U.S. stock and bond markets spiked. The market was taking Bernanke's comments as a "dovish" sign ‚Äì i.e., he made it sound like the Fed would be accommodative for a longer period of time than the market was already pricing in. Hilsenrath went on CNBC this afternoon and argued that, in fact, the overall message from the Fed yesterday was "hawkish" (the opposite of dovish), placing emphasis on the minutes of the June FOMC meeting that were released hours before Bernanke spoke. Furthermore, he argued that Bernanke was only saying the same thing he's already been saying for weeks ‚Äì that tapering of bond purchases is going to happen, but interest rates will stay pinned at ultra-low levels for a long time. When Hilsenrath presented that argument, he got a lot of blowback ‚Äì perhaps because those who view him as a mouthpiece for Fed policy couldn't reconcile the argument he was making with the market reaction to Bernanke's comments. "I don't know, John," said CNBC anchor Scott Wapner. "I look at markets across the board that are reacting as if the Fed chairman changed the game at 5:00 yesterday afternoon." Markets didn't budge after Hilsenrath's comments in the CNBC interview today. Maybe that is a sign that the perception of him as some sort of mouthpiece is fading. That may represent a notable shift, then, from just a few weeks ago, when a Hilsenrath blog post published on WSJ.com ahead of the June FOMC meeting ‚Äì titled "Analysis: Fed Likely to Push Back on Market Expectations of Rate Increase" ‚Äì caused stocks and bonds to rally. Hilsenrath himself did not suggest in his post that he was delivering any "news" to market participants. Indeed, the headline stated right up front that it was merely "analysis." But the perception of Hilsenrath as Fed mouthpiece was clearly alive and well, judging by the market's reaction to the post. Like any first-rate reporter, Hilsenrath has some excellent scoops. Yet there have also been times when his scoops were clearly something other than the voice of the Fed. Take March 2012, for example, when Hilsenrath reported that Fed officials were considering a "sterilized" version of bond buying. That sterilized bond-buying program never came to fruition. It sure doesn't seem like Bernanke is whispering to Hilsenrath what to say next. After a similar experience in which the market treated him as a mouthpiece for Fed policy a few weeks ago ahead of the June FOMC meeting, the FT's Federal Reserve correspondent, Robin Harding, put it like this in a tweet: But people need to chill out. The Fed does not leak anything to any journalist to steer markets - especially during blackout. Hilsenrath's analysis in that post may have been right, but in hindsight, it certainly wasn't a reason for investors to plunge in headfirst.
In an interview outside the company's Fremont, Calif. plant, Ohnsman writes, Musk said: We‚Äôre above 400 a week at the current manpower, and not trivially above it," adding that in late 2014, the pace is ‚Äúgoing to 800 a week. I‚Äôm very confident we‚Äôll get there.‚Äù Tesla's stock is up 2% today. Read the full story on Bloomberg ¬ª
According to new Monthly Treasury Statement , the U.S. posted a $116.5 billion budget surplus in June. Revenue climbed 10.2% to $286.6 billion, while outlays plunged 46.8% to $170.1 billion. This is the biggest surplus since April 2008. This was also higher than the $115 billion surplus expected by the CBO and by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. "Some of the swing in the budget in today‚Äôs report for June will be exaggerated by calendar quirks and a payment from Fannie Mae, but the trend is clearly toward improvement," said High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan before the statement was released.¬† "The deficit has dropped to an estimated 4.4% of GDP in the past four quarters from 8.0% in the previous four quarters and more than 10% at the peak in 2009. The downtrend has reflected strength in revenues as well as weakness in outlays. Some of the strength in revenues is the result of higher tax rates, but the data also suggest that GDP may have been undercounted." "Without those calendar shifts, the difference between the surplus in June and deficit last year would have been $102B," said UBS's Maury Harris ahead of the statement. Fiscal year-to-date, the budget deficit sits at $510 billion. "If the current laws that govern federal taxes and spending do not change, the budget deficit will shrink this year to $642 billion, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates, the smallest shortfall since 2008," said the Congressional Budget Office in May. All of this comes as the U.S. economy tries to gain steam amid a fiscal drag, which included the dreaded sequester. Treasury
The New York Fire Department responded to a possible building explosion¬†and fire in New York City's Chinatown today. According to Reuters, 10 people were injured in the incident, including two firefighters. Four of those hurt were injured seriously. The building is on Pike Street, according to a ABC 7. A fire broke out on the first floor, which might have been under construction. The first floor of the building houses businesses and apartments are on the floors above. It is currently unclear what caused the fire, though there have been local reports of a gas leak. Here are some photos from the scene: Fire in Chinatown! Just when I was going to buy a bus ticket! pic.twitter.com/jbgPQsYT54 ¬† At least five people injured after an explosion and flash fire on Pike Street in Chinatown. @eyewitnessnyc pic.twitter.com/AbsGAI2vrR ¬† BREAKING: Explosion, fire reported in Chinatown, NYC; no word on injuries http://t.co/5dz6UHgwQk - @NBCNewYork pic.twitter.com/pp60tNeD3q
Elizabeth Warren is making good on her promise to scare Wall Street. Today, she'll introduce a bill to reenact Glass-Steagall. Glass-Steagall is the 1933 law that separated commercial and investment banking. Back in 1999 it was repealed by the†Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act at the urging of Wall Street heavyweights like then-Citi CEO Sandy Weill. Then the financial crisis happened. Many banks failed and others got swallowed up into larger banks. After all that, Sandy Weill said he was wrong on national television. Elizabeth Warren was elected to the Senate based in part on her crusade against Wall Street excess. For many, this is one massive way to do that. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz), Washington Democrat Maria Cantwell and Maine Independent Angus King are co-sponsoring the bill. You can read it in full here, but the introduction follows: To reduce risks to the financial system by limiting banksí†ability to engage in certain risky activities and limiting†conflicts of interest, to reinstate certain Glass-Steagall†Act protections that were repealed by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and for other purposes. This is a move to reduce the size of America's behemoth banks. We've heard the slogans not just from Warren, but also Senators David Vitter (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH)ó "too big to fail," "too big to manage." † Wall Street's army of lobbyists are unlikely to let this stand without an epic fight. Let them march; Warren loves being a conversation starter, and she'll repeat this one over and over again. Read the full statement from Warren's office below: Washington, DC†- Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Angus King (I-ME) today will introduce the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act, a modern version of the Banking Act of 1933 (Glass-Steagall) that reduces risk for the American taxpayer in the financial system and decreases the likelihood of future financial crises. The legislation introduced today would separate traditional banks that have savings and checking accounts and are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation from riskier financial institutions that offer services such as investment banking, insurance, swaps dealing, and hedge fund and private equity activities. This bill would clarify regulatory interpretations of banking law provisions that undermined the protections under the original Glass-Steagall and would make "Too Big to Fail" institutions smaller and safer, minimizing the likelihood of a government bailout. "Since core provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act were repealed in 1999, shattering the wall dividing commercial banks and investment banks, a culture of dangerous greed and excessive risk-taking has taken root in the banking world," said Senator John McCain. "Big Wall Street institutions should be free to engage in transactions with significant risk, but not with federally insured deposits. If enacted, the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act would not end Too-Big-to-Fail. †But, it would rebuild the wall between commercial and investment banking that was in place for over 60 years, restore confidence in the system, and reduce risk for the American taxpayer." "Despite the progress we've made since 2008, the biggest banks continue to threaten the economy," said Senator Elizabeth Warren. †"The four biggest banks are now 30% larger than they were just five years ago, and they have continued to engage in dangerous, high-risk practices that could once again put our economy at risk. †The 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act will reestablish a wall between commercial and investment banking, make our financial system more stable and secure, and protect American families." "Too many Main Streets across America have paid the price for risky gambling on Wall Street," Senator Maria Cantwell said. "This bill would restore clear bright lines that separate risky activities from the traditional banking system. It's time to restore faith in our financial institutions by rebuilding the firewall that protected our economy for decades in the wake of the Great Depression. Restoring Glass-Steagall would focus our financial system where it belongs: getting capital into the hands of job creators and businesses on Main Streets across America." "As Maine families continue to feel the sting of the 2008 economic downturn, America's largest financial institutions continue to engage in risky banking and investment activities that threaten the health of our financial sector and our economy as a whole. While recent efforts at financial sector regulatory reform attempt to address the ëtoo big to fail' phenomenon, Congress must take additional steps to see that American taxpayers aren't again faced with having to bail out big Wall Street institutions while Main Street suffers," Senator Angus King said. "While the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act is not the silver bullet to end ëtoo big to fail,' the legislation's re-establishment of clear separations between retail and investment banking, as well as its restrictions on banking activities, will limit government guarantees to insured depository institutions and provide strong protections against the spillover effects should a financial institution fail." The original Glass-Steagall legislation was introduced in response to the financial crash of 1929 and separated depository banks from investment banks. The idea was to divide the risky activities of investment banks from the core depository functions that consumers rely upon every day. †Starting in the 1980s, regulators at the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency reinterpreted longstanding legal terms in ways that slowly broke down the wall between investment and depository banking and weakened Glass-Steagall. In 1999, after 12 attempts at repeal, Congress passed the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act to repeal the core provisions of Glass-Steagall.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingCarson Block, director of research at Muddy Waters, has an "mark my words" column in Dealbook this week. Block has warned about the risks in emerging markets countries like Brazil, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa.  Now, with EM seeing its largest outflows in years, Carson believes markets are not pricing enough risk into public companies that have "poured shareholder money into emerging markets." From Dealbook: We believe both the companies themselves and the analysts covering them have made overzealous assumptions about the safety and the expected earnings growth for these acquisitions. In the United States, too many analysts price growth at high multiples without thinking about where that growth is coming from. Many companies have made acquisitions that we think will ultimately generate returns lower than those of local market bond yields. In these situations, management would have actually created more value for shareholders by just buying local currency government bonds. What is more, many of these acquisitions were purchased by issuing debt in United States dollars and failing to hedge the currency exposure of the emerging market country ñ essentially doubling down on their bet. The markets have not reflected many American companies high EM exposure, Block argues, but investors would be wise to keep it in mind. He's been right many times before.
If SNL‚Äôs Emily Litella worked on Wall Street, she‚Äôd probably be asking ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs all this hubbub about the Fed‚Äôs tapir? After all, it‚Äôs a fine animal that never hurt anyone on Wall Street.‚Äù It would then be pointed out to her that the word was ‚Äútaper‚Äù and not ‚Äútapir‚Äù. She would politely end her commentary with her famous ‚ÄúNever mind.‚ÄùIndeed, it appears to us that investors should take the advice of Gilda Radner‚Äôs character to heart. Never mind the taper. A comparison of historical and current fundamentals suggests investors are overly apprehensive regarding the Fed‚Äôs taper of quantitative easing. History repeats As we have previously written (see hyperlink here), the Fed is generally a lagging indicator. Rather than setting monetary policy proactively, the Fed tends to react to the economy. The Fed‚Äôs dual mandate is based on monitoring two decidedly lagging indicators, unemployment and inflation, and history clearly shows that the markets tend to be well ahead of the Fed. The Fed has repeatedly emphasized to investors that its actions in the current cycle will lag the economic data, and that they will tapir ‚Äì sorry, taper ‚Äìmonetary stimulus as the economy strengthens. We interpret that to mean that because of the severity of the last recession and the on-going deflationary forces within the global economy, the Fed will be happy to lag the economy by even longer than might be normal. It serves no purpose for the Fed to prematurely reverse their monetary stimulus. The markets‚Äô recent negative reaction at the hint of the Fed reversing policy is a warning that the Fed is unlikely to ignore. The Fed surely already understands that reversing course when the economy is not robust could ruin everything they have accomplished so far. We still think the Fed will eventually be so slow to tighten that the consensus will be that the Fed is late by the time the Fed actually does reverse course. The current issue The current market environment can more easily be understood if one examines the relationship between the two main drivers of equity valuation: interest rates and earnings. The matrix below highlights that the combination of falling interest rates and rising earnings growth is generally a good one for equities, and that the opposite combination of rising interest rates and decreasing earnings growth is generally a poor one. Investors usually find it more difficult to assess the outlook for equities in the other two quadrants of the matrix because there is often a battle between the positive effect of one variable and the negative effect of the other. The past couple of years has been an example of the tug-of-war in the lower right quadrant. The profits cycle has been decelerating since June 2010, but the stock market has nonetheless risen because the positive effects of QE and the accompanying lower interest rates have been more powerful than has been the slowdown in earnings growth. The recent stock market volatility seems to indicate investors have become fearful that the combination in the lower left quadrant will occur, i.e., the possibility of continued slowing profits growth coupled with increasing interest rates as the Fed reverses QE. However, we continue to believe that the probability of the combination of the Fed tightening monetary policy and deteriorating fundamentals is extremely low. Rather, we think investors should ultimately be prepared for the exact opposite. It seems more likely that the Fed will eventually be too slow to tighten policy despite a booming economy than prematurely abort the economic recovery. Richard Bernstein Advisors The wall of worry now includes the fuss over the Fed The wall of worry continues, as it does through most bull markets. One can now add the Fed prematurely tightening monetary policy to the long list of worries like a double-dip recession, a weak banking system, imminent inflation, the dollar falling, the over-indebted household sector, government deficits, European growth, and emerging market instability. Bull markets tend to end when investors are certain, and not when there is considerable uncertainty. Certainty and investors‚Äô total confidence in the stock market will eventually return, as it does at all bull market peaks. We‚Äôd argue such cycle-ending certainty does not exist today.So, what‚Äôs all this talk about the Fed‚Äôs taper? Never mind.
Alex Wong/Getty ImagesThe House of Representatives will not tackle the issue of overhauling the nation's immigration laws before the annual August recess ó and it's likely that any resolution will come after what could be a long, protracted fight over raising the nation's debt ceiling. A House GOP aide said that while it could move on its piece-by-piece approach to immigration legislation, a final resolution ó an "end game" to the immigration debate ó probably won't come before the end of the year.† The delay raises new questions about the likelihood of an immigration reform bill becoming law by the end of this year, given both time constraints and whether this fall's partisan squabbles over budget issues will affect immigration legislation.† The National Journal last weekend reported on House Republicans' playbook for negotiations with President Barack Obama over raising the nation's debt limit. The nation's federal budget deficit is falling rapidly, according to the Congressional Budget Office, but Republicans are prepared to demand some of the most strict concessions in order to enact a short-term debt ceiling hike. The debt-ceiling playbook is based on the budget of Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). For a long-term debt ceiling increase, for example, Republicans are going to demand a plan to privatize Medicare ó the most controversial aspect of the Ryan budget. For even a short-term increase, they'll ask that Social Security and/or Medicare be means-tested. If Republicans and House Speaker John Boehner stick to this planned strategy, it will obviously run into some huge resistance from both House and Senate Democrats and Obama, who has said he won't negotiate again over raising the debt ceiling.† This could make for a long fight in September and October ó the debt ceiling needs to be raised, most likely, by sometime in November. And it could distract the House when it returns from its summer recess. In a joint statement released after their meeting on immigration Wednesday, House GOP leaders revealed some disconnect as to what aspects of immigration legislation they would support. "Today House Republicans affirmed that rather than take up the flawed legislation rushed through the Senate, House committees will continue their work on a step-by-step, common-sense approach to fixing what has long been a broken system.† The American people want our border secured, our laws enforced, and the problems in our immigration system fixed to strengthen our economy," they said in the statement.
Steve Marcus/ReutersWhile the monthly numbers can be volatile, it's nevertheless worth noting that investors opened the floodgates on their investment cash and directed the flow to hedge funds. TrimTabs and BarclayHedge note that hedge funds got a whopping $18.5 billion of net investment infllows in May. Here's the press release. TrimTabs and BarclayHedge Report Hedge Fund Inflows Hit Two-Year High of $18.5 Billion in May.New York, NY ‚Äî July 11, 2013 ‚Äî BarclayHedge and TrimTabs Investment Research reported today that hedge funds took in a net $18.5 billion (1.0% of assets) in May, more than a forty-fold increase from April‚Äôs $430 million inflow.¬† The results are based on data from 3,368 funds.‚ÄúIn May, the hedge fund industry saw its strongest net inflows in more than two years,‚Äù said Sol Waksman, president and founder of BarclayHedge.¬† ‚ÄúIn the first five months of this year, the industry took in $35.7 billion, compared with just $484 million in the same period last year.‚ÄùThe TrimTabs/BarclayHedge Hedge Fund Flow Report noted that Equity Long Bias Funds delivered a return of 2.6% in May, edging past the S&amp;P 500‚Äôs 2.3% gain.¬† ‚ÄúThis outperformance flies in the face of the trend in the past 12 months, when these funds earned 16.6% as the S&amp;P 500 gained 27.3%,‚Äù said Waksman. Funds of hedge funds took in a net $428 million (0.1% of assets) in May, reversing a $4.2 billion outflow in April and breaking a 14-month streak of net outflows.¬† Funds of funds underperformed the hedge fund industry by 67 basis points in May.The TrimTabs/BarclayHedge Survey of Hedge Fund Managers found that managers grew more bearish on the S&amp;P 500 in June, but opinions were pretty evenly split in July.  The TrimTabs/BarclayHedge database tracks hedge fund flows on a monthly basis.¬† The TrimTabs/BarclayHedge Survey of Hedge Fund Managers appears monthly, as does the TrimTabs/BarclayHedge Hedge Fund Flow Report, which provides detailed analysis of hedge fund flows, assets, and returns.¬† For further information, please visit http://www.barclayhedge.com/products/trimtabs-hedge-fund-flow-report.html.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVDavid Rosenberg was uber bearish after the financial crisis. But his tone has been getting increasingly rosy. And it's surprising almost everyone. And Rosenberg knows this change of tone has surprised his readers. Because, quoting economist John Maynard Keynes earlier this month he wrote: "When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?"
REUTERS/Jason ReedSetting up an IRA might be as simple as buying a takeout sandwich. Pick your vehicle--Roth or traditional--choose your investments, and plunk down your $5,500 ($6,500 if you're over 50). Done. However, if you've ever glimpsed at Internal Revenue Service Publication 590 or peeked into one of the dark corners of IRA-land, such as "the five-year rule," you know that the rules governing IRAs can get devilishly complicated. These byzantine rules, in turn, have the potential to trip up even sophisticated investors. Here are some of the common mistakes involving IRAs. Mistake 1: Triggering an Unexpected Tax Bill With a Backdoor IRA The so-called backdoor Roth IRA looks like a layup move for investors who earn too much to make a direct contribution to a Roth. (For 2013, single income tax filers cannot contribute to a Roth if they earn more than $127,000; married couples filing jointly cannot make direct contributions if they earn more than $188,000.) Because conversions from a traditional IRA to Roth are allowable at all income levels, the "backdoor" maneuver simply means that you can contribute to a traditional nondeductible IRA and then convert to a Roth shortly thereafter. Assuming you have no other traditional IRA assets, the only income taxes due would be on any investment appreciation since you opened the IRA. (Because it was a nondeductible IRA, you already paid taxes on your initial contribution.)¬† The trouble starts, however, if you have other traditional IRA assets besides your new traditional nondeductible IRA--that is, money that has never been taxed yet, such as assets rolled over from a previous employer's 401(k) plan. In that case, the taxes due after converting the new nondeductible traditional IRA to Roth would depend on the ratio of taxable versus nontaxable money in the total IRA kitty. For example, if a 45-year-old earning $150,000 a year plows $5,500 into a traditional deductible IRA but also has an additional $200,000 in a rollover IRA--meaning that money was never taxed by his previous employer--more than 97% of his total IRA assets are taxable.¬† Mistake 2: Rolling Over a 401(k) Plan Laden With Company Stock Savvy investors often assume that if they leave a former employer, their best bet is to roll the money over into an IRA as soon as possible. Not only does moving the money into an IRA enable them to circumvent the extra layer of administrative costs that may accompany the 401(k), but an IRA also gives them the ability to invest in a much wider range of investment options than are typically found on a 401(k) menu. However, a rollover to an IRA isn't always the best option, especially if a 401(k) contains a sizable stake in company stock that was amassed with the employee's own pretax contributions and employer-matching contributions. In that instance, it may be better to leave the money behind in the 401(k) and take distributions directly from the account. By leaving the money in place, the investor can take advantage of a special provision in the tax code that enables him to pay ordinary income tax on his cost basis in the shares, but long-term capital gains tax on the appreciation in the shares over and above the cost basis. By rolling money into an IRA, the investor would owe income tax on the whole amount of the distribution. Of course, rolling a company-stock-laden 401(k) into an IRA isn't always a mistake. If leaving the assets in place in the 401(k) means a woefully underdiversified portfolio and the investor won't be tapping the 401(k) for many years, rolling the assets into the IRA and reducing the company-specific risk is probably the right move. ¬†Mistake 3: Paying Too Much Attention to Tax Management Part of the point of investing in an IRA is that you get tax-deferred compounding--or tax-free compounding, in the case of Roth assets. And savvy investors have been schooled on the notion that in order to take maximum advantage of the free ride on taxes, IRAs should be used to shelter those investments that have high year-to-year tax costs, such as bonds and REITs. That's true, but skirting taxes shouldn't be the main consideration when deciding what types of assets to put inside of an IRA. Instead, your time horizon and your overall asset allocation should be the primary driver of what types of assets you hold. Only after you've determined the optimal mix of investments should you turn your attention to what goes where. If you're in your 20s and 30s, for example, there's no need to go out of your way to add bonds, REITs, or anything else that kicks off a lot of income to your IRA--unless you wanted those assets in your portfolio anyway. It's also worth bearing in mind that the ideal holdings for a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA may well be different. Your time horizon for each of these asset pools, as well as the tax treatment of each, can help you decide which security types to place where. Because Roth assets have the biggest tax advantages--they give you both tax-free compounding and tax-free withdrawals--the name of the game is to hang on to them as long as possible. That means a Roth IRA is the ideal receptacle for the longest-term assets in your portfolio, usually stocks, even though stocks can be quite tax-efficient on a year-to-year basis. Stocks are likely to appreciate the most during your holding period, and holding them inside your Roth will allow you to circumvent taxes on all that appreciation. Mistake 4: Failing to Be Selective About RMDs Savvy investors well know the importance of not missing their required minimum distributions once they've reached age 70 1/2. What they may not know, however, is that if they have multiple IRAs, they needn't take separate RMDs from each account. Instead, they simply need to calculate their total RMD amount due for all traditional IRAs, then pull the distribution from the account that makes the most sense from an investment standpoint. In this way, RMDs can be used to help address portfolio imbalances; many investors rebalance around year-end, when RMDs are due. Say, for example, a 73-year-old investor has $250,000 total in two IRAs--a stock portfolio worth $150,000, held in an IRA at a discount brokerage, and $100,000 in two bond funds held in a separate IRA at another firm. Assuming he wanted to reduce his stock holdings following the equity market's runup, he could take his entire $10,121 RMD from the stock portfolio while leaving the bond portfolio intact. (He would arrive at $10,121 by dividing $250,000 by his life expectancy factor of 24.7.) ¬†Note that being selective about RMDs only applies to like account types. For example, if you have both a traditional IRA and a traditional 401(k), it's not an option to pull the RMDs from the IRA while letting the 401(k) assets stay put. Mistake 5: Running Afoul of the 5-Year Rule Withdrawals from Roth accounts during retirement are tax- and penalty-free, right? Yes, most of the time. But that's not the case if you haven't met the so-called five-year rule, which stipulates that in order for a Roth withdrawal to be completely tax- and penalty-free, the assets must have been in the account for at least five years before you begin withdrawing them. (Roth contributions can be withdrawn at any time and for any reason without taxes or a penalty.) The clock for that five-year period begins on the first day of the tax year for which the IRA is opened and funded. So if you made a contribution for the 2012 tax year in April 2013, your five-year clock started Jan. 1, 2012. That's easy enough to get your head around, but things start to get tricky once you get into conversions from traditional IRAs to Roth. In that case, you need to be either 59 1/2 or five years must have elapsed since your conversion for you to be able to take penalty-free withdrawals on the converted amounts on which you paid taxes at the time of conversion. (You won't owe taxes on withdrawals of those monies because you have already paid taxes.) The five-year headaches multiply if you have converted your traditional IRAs to Roth in installments, as each of these partial conversions has its own five-year holding period. You don't need to memorize all of them, but the holding-period rules do underscore the value of having a reasonably long time horizon for any IRA assets that you are considering converting from traditional to Roth. If you need to tap those assets shortly after converting, you risk running afoul of the five-year rule.
Upstart,¬†a company aimed at helping college students-turned-entrepreneurs raise funds for business endeavors (and pay off lingering student debt), is barely a year old and already has wealthy entrepreneurs lining up to give young people a leg up. They must be doing something right. Since launching in November 2012, ¬†more than 200 backers have made 1,000 unique investments in Upstart projects. Of the 120 Upstarts on the site now, about half have been successfully funded.¬† L.A.-based entrepreneur Tony Safoian was an early supporter of the site. He's run his own successful cloud computing and IT consulting firm, SADA Systems, for over a decade, working closely with Upstart's founders back in their Google days. ‚ÄúIt took me a while to understand the business model, but I definitely feel like [Upstart] is potentially groundbreaking,‚Äù Safoian told Business Insider. ‚ÄúI always like being on the ground floor, not taking a massive risk but ‚Ä¶ literally being a customer or a member and getting integrated that way.‚Äù After passing a rigorous background check, would-be entrepreneurs build a fundraising page with their business proposal and credentials laid out, just like an artist might raise funds on Kickstarter. Then, the site‚Äôs cache of ‚Äúbackers‚Äù (i.e. investors) have their pick of the litter. Investments start at $100, and backers can fund however much or little they'd like. On the flip side, Upstarts can also deny investments from backers if they choose. What sets Upstart apart from other crowdfunding sites is the option backers have to also offer themselves up as a mentor. For Safoian, who has invested $10,000 in seven Upstarts since January, that was the rewarding part.  ‚ÄúI‚Äôve offered my mentorship to all of them,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI thought it was kind of the right thing to do ‚Ä¶ and if my relatively small [investment] helps move the needle for this entrepreneur or student, then that‚Äôs going to make me a bigger believer in the platform.‚Äù Among his mentees is Matthew Kulp, 23, a Boston-based furniture designer who hails from the Rhode Island School of Design. Kulp, who had worked for a start-up during college, fantasized about launching his own eco-friendly furnishing company. But with $27,000 worth of student loans to contend with, he was stuck. ‚ÄúI started to think about [launching my own company] in my junior year but I had this looming debt,‚Äù Kulp told Business Insider. ‚ÄúIt started to create this pressure and I felt like I had to apply for jobs I wasn‚Äôt particularly excited about or passionate for.‚Äù He heard about Upstart from a school administrator, and six months after graduating, he decided he had nothing to lose by trying. "By backing me, you will give me the ability to put aside my student loans and get started on my vision for a different kind of company," he said in a video plea for backers on his profile page.¬† By mid-April, about four months after beginning to fund-raise, he had attracted 19 backers, including Safoian, and raised $38,500 in seed money. Not only were his loans put to rest, but he could start pumping funds into his business. As a bonus, it pays to have insights from people who've already gone through the motions.¬† "Coming from [a design school], I have a creative background but not necessarily great understanding of some of the business components," Kulp said. "So mentorship has actually proven to be the most valuable part."¬† Already, networking with backers has led Kulp to an affordable startup workspace in Providence, R.I. and helped him kick up interest from other companies and entrepreneurs. ¬† Let's be real. Warm and fuzzy feelings only go so far. Just to qualify to be an Upstart backer, investors have to either earn more than $200,000/year or be worth more than $1 million. ¬†These aren't charity workers ‚Äì‚Äì they're business people first and foremost.¬† For their trouble, backers are guaranteed a percentage (up to 7%) of their Upstart's income for 10 years after they launch. There are some exceptions in place for students who have trouble getting off the ground or are still school, but Safoian said he's already beginning to see fruits of his investment.¬† "We're getting to the point where there's potentially such a large disruption in the higher education model that maybe we'll have people in the Upstart model who don't have student debt because they never went to school," he said. "I'm not 100% sure if using these funds strictly [to pay off student loans] is enough ... but I hope to see a model in the future where that's not even the major element of why they're [fundraising]."
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThe 30-year fixed mortgage rate hit a two-year high of 4.51%. Rising rates have been hurting mortgage refinance applications. And many experts are worried that this could derail the housing recovery. But this doesn't necessarily have to be the case, according to Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. An improving job market and rising incomes matter more to real estate than mortgage rates, he argues: "If mortgage rates were going up absent a rise in housing and loan demand, that would be a problem indeed. Say, for example the backup in yields was due principally to rising inflationary expectations. That doesn't do anybody much good, that is for sure (unless you are long TIPS, gold and collectibles). But the current rise in market rates reflects the better tone to the real economy so it makes sense that the two would increase in tandem. "And our in-house regression work shows that incomes and jobs actually matter more to the real estate market than mortgage rates ‚Äî not that rates don't matter. They do. But it's all relative. We went back to those years when mortgage rates rose but income growth accelerated and found that, in those episodes, on average, there was no perceptible impact of the rising yield environment on sales or starts." So, for those arguing that higher mortgage rates could blow the housing recovery, Rosenberg says, "give income a chance."
CNBCYesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke gave a speech on the history of the Federal Reserve at the NBER conference in Boston. Before he launched into his prepared remarks ñ much to the surprise of many observers ñ he told the audience that he would take questions on current Fed policy during the Q&amp;A that would follow the speech. In an interview with CNBC today, RBC's Chief U.S. Economist Tom Porcelli accused Bernanke of "poor form." CNBC anchor Kelly Evans asked Porcelli, "Were you caught off guard as well by the fact that Bernanke in this Q&amp;A addressed recent policy moves at all?" Porcelli replied: "Yeah. You know, I think it was poor form by the Chairman to go into that, particularly after 5 PM ñ markets were already closed. It's just not something we expected." Evans asked Porcelli to elaborate on why it was poor form. "It was a time issue. It was well after the markets were closed. It was hard for the market to digest it," said Porcelli. "At that hour, particularly in the Treasury market, as an example, there is very thin liquidity, so the market was able to get pushed around a little bit, particularly after a couple of comments that he made." Evans then pointed out that there was follow-through today ñ markets are moving in the same direction that they did after Bernanke's comments last night. Porcelli countered this by clarifying between today and last night: "At that hour, 100% I think there was an exaggerated move. Today, I think there is just a misinterpretation of what he said." What's the misinterpretation? Porcelli says Bernanke's answers in the Q&amp;A weren't as dovish as everyone makes them out to be: We completely disagree with that as an idea. I don't think he was dovish. He did say that they will remain highly accommodative, but again, I think context is key. You have to realize that he was talking about it in terms of the two policy mechanisms that they have.†One, of course, is asset purchases, and the other, of course, is the fed funds rate. And what he basically said was, "We will remain highly accommodative" ñ i.e., the fed funds rate will remain very low for an extended period of time. "That's an idea that he's been talking about for weeks now at this point," said Porcelli. "He's trying to make a distinction between applying less pressure to the gas pedal and actually hitting the brake. And I think that was key."
Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and American fund manager Bill Browder have been found guilty of tax fraud by a Moscow court, the AP reports. To understand a little bit of how ridiculous this is, take a look at this picture from the court today:  The picture shows the cage where the defendants are supposed to sit during the trial. Neither of them are there. That's because today's conviction comes despite Magnitsky dying in 2009 after serving a pre-trial detention in a Moscow jail. His death sparked an international incident, and officials involved in the case are banned from the U.S. and from holding American assets under what has become known as the Magnitsky Act. Browder has not returned to Russia since 2006 when he was denied entry to the country. Magnitksy's death is a heartbreaking story. The lawyer had been working for Hermitage Capital, a fund managed by Browder. After Hermitage's offices were raided in 2007, Magnitsky began investigating and later testified that he had uncovered a huge scam by top police officials to embezzle $230 million in taxes from money that Hermitage Fund companies had paid in 2006. In November 2008, Magnitsky himself was charged with tax evasion and taken to prison. Kept in Moscow's notorious pre-trial prisons, Magnitsky†unexpectedly died in November 2009. His death was originally attributed to an abdominal membrane rupture, before officials changed that to a heart attack. There are reports that he had been beaten and denied medical treatment by guards. Magnitsky is one of four witnesses in the case who have died in mysterious circumstances. Though there would be no punishment for the deceased lawyer, Magnitsky's relatives regard the case against him as illegal. Browder, who was sentenced to nine years in prison in absentia, called the trial "one of the most shameful moments for Russia since the days of Joseph Stalin."
WikimediaThe summer is a time for epic entertainment. From movies to music, as the world slows, there's simply more time to enjoy the things that make us feel good. And so we have high expectations. This summer¬†Jay-Z's "Magna Carta/Holy Grail"¬†and Kanye West's "Yeezus" were supposed to be full of those hot jams for warm nights. The top-down burners we play in the winter to remind us what relaxation feels like. But neither album will function for that. Luckily, there's an awesome replacement. The two kings of hip-hop were dethroned from their summer reign by a relative unknown ‚Äî J. Cole. His 2nd album, "Born Sinner"¬†is the hop-hop album of the summer. It's the answer to the boredom of "Magna Carta/Holy Grail."¬†It fills the groove-void left by Kanye's foray into the headier side of music (whether you like that or not).¬† "Magna Carta/Holy Grail"¬†lacks imagination. Period. It's the result of a fat and happy Jay-Z ‚Äî of Old King Cole sitting on his throne, counting his money, and ordering fifes and drums to his side to construct a melody he can lazily spit rhymes over. The man isn't hungry ‚Äî consensus is that song after song, all he has to talk about is how satisfied he is. NPR called Jay-Z's album "mostly enjoyable and wholly serviceable, but it's also safe and unadventurous." Flavorwire did him worse, calling it "the 'Wall Street Journal' of hip-hop.'" Right now, Jay-Z's younger, "Reasonable Doubt" self would be looking up at him, waiting for the moment to swipe his crown. But since he can't do that, J. Cole did it for him ‚Äî for us, actually. "Born Sinner" is just a sick, every-minute-of-these-21-tracks-is-quality album. The rhymes are tight, the beats are tight, the kid is hungry. It jumps off with "Villuminati"¬†(watch the video below,¬†or click here¬†to listen). A choir sings, violins and harps break in, and J. Cole's voice comes through ‚Äî "It gets darker this time," he says. And then you're in. "Villuminati"¬†is a track with a rich nod-your-head beat, where J.Cole manages to rhyme "Machiavelli" and "C-4 strapped to your belly." Even Topanga from "Boy Meets World" gets a shout out. He talks about struggling, begging big wigs like Jay-Z to listen to his songs ¬†and ignoring all the haters ‚Äî you know, the stuff hip-hop is made of. It just gets better after that. There's an insane gospel choir hook in the sixth track, "Trouble," that could make your hair stand on end. And for anyone that was waiting for the smooth bop of a classic Kanye song, check out "Chaining Day."¬†It's not exactly the same, but you won't be disappointed in it. J. Cole's not a complete unknown. For those who love hip-hop his first album packed a serious punch with dramatic, jump-down-your-throat-and-stay-in-your-head tracks like "Rise and Shine", but compared to the kings, he's barely even a duke. He's nowhere near the world-wide household name that Jay-Z is, or Kanye is.¬† He just made an album like he was. The moral of this story is that rappers have always been right. They've rhymed it a million times ‚Äî there is always someone ¬†waiting in the wings, trying to take your spot while you're focused on anything but your hunger. Jay-Z and Kanye asked us to watch the throne. So what did they expect? Listen to "Villuminati" below. 
Just years ago, top hedge funders reigned as untouchable masters of the universe. We've come a long way, according to this week's Bloomberg Businessweek¬†cover story from Sheelah Kolhatkar¬†chronicling the downfall of the hedge fund. After years of scoring almost offensively huge profits, kingpins are returning investor money, finding themselves under greater legal scrutiny, and watching as the regular old S&amp;P outperforms their once skilled market formulas. Kolhatkar provides us with the four-stage evolutionary life cycle of the hedge fund:

Goldman SachsIt's been a very interesting few weeks in the world of monetary policy and the economy. Last month, Ben Bernanke spooked markets by making it very clear that it was "taper on" meaning that barring some surprise slowdown in the pace of job creation, purchases of bonds via Quantitative Easing would begin to get wound down. Stocks dove. Interest rates jumped. In a note that came out soon after Bernanke's comments, Goldman's Jan Hatzius suggested that the Fed could still stick the landing, and exit QE smoothly. The key, he said, was making it very clear that tapering bond purchases had nothing to do with when the first interest rate hikes would come. Hatzius explained how the Fed could do this. Basically Bernanke would need to make clear that there's nothing to worry about if unemployment gets to 6.5%. The Fedís other option would be to alter the forward guidance for the federal funds rate. A return to calendar guidance is unlikely, but we were intrigued by Bernankeís comment in the Q&amp;A of the press conference that a reduction in the 6.5% threshold for the unemployment rate is ìsomething that might happen.î As we discussed in early May, our own view is that a significant part of the drop in the labor force participation rate over the past few years is a cyclical consequence of the labor demand shock during the crisis. This means that there is significantly more slack in the labor market than suggested by the gap between the actual and structural unemployment rate aloneóby our estimates about twice as much. Greater recognition of this fact would suggest that the FOMC should alter the threshold guidance for the funds rate, either by including the labor force participation rate or an employment/population ratio directly in the statement orómore likelyóby adjusting the unemployment threshold downward.Separate from this, Vice Chair Yellenís optimal control simulations suggest that the funds rate should not rise until the economy returns to the neighborhood of full employmentóa criterion that would also point to a materially lower threshold than the current 6.5% .† A reduction in the unemployment threshold also looks attractive from a more tactical perspective. In our view, it could yield outsized benefits by dissuading market participants from assuming that a tapering of QE implies earlier hikes in the funds rate. At present, the markets seem skeptical of Bernankeís repeated assertions that there has been no change in the committeeís view of the outlook for the funds rate. They seem to believe that Fed officials must have become at least somewhat more willing to consider earlier hikes if they are sufficiently comfortable with the economic outlook to preannounce QE tapering. Bernanke didn't quite change the threshold for where the first rate hike could be considered, but at a Q&amp;A yesterday he all-but moved to a more dovish stance on keeping interest rates low for a long time. He said, for example, that the current rate of unemployment was probably understanding the labor market weakness, due to the low participation rate. And he promised that after unemployment fell to 6.5%, rates would still stay low for quite some time. It seems very likely that the Fed will basically do what Hatzius suggests, move down the Evan's Rule threshold. What Hatzius correctly identified in June is that that the inclination to reduce asset purchases was not about an inclination to tighten, but about concern over asset purchases themselves, and that the Fed would feel comfortable counteracting that tightening by loosening on the keeping interest rates low side.
The national average 30-year fixed mortgage rate climbed to a two-year high 4.51% for the week ending July 11, according to Freddie Mac's Primary Mortgage Market Survey. The last time rates were this high, was in July 2011 when they hit 4.55%.  This came on speculation that the Fed would soon reduce its bond purchase program after the bullish June jobs report. "June's strong employment led to more market speculation that the Federal Reserve will reduce future bond purchases causing bond yields to rise and mortgage rates followed," Frank Nothaft chief economist at Freddie Mac said in a press release.¬† "The economy gained 195,000 jobs in June, above the market consensus forecast, while revisions to the prior two months added 70,000 on top of that. Moreover, hourly wages rose by 2.2 percent over the last 12 months and represented the largest annual increase in nearly two years. However, the minutes of the June 18th and 19th Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee meeting, released July 10th, stated that many members indicated further improvement in the outlook for the labor market would be required before it would be appropriate to slow the pace of bond purchases." Many are concerned that this will be a major headwind to the housing recovery. Freddie Mac
Reuters/Aly SongChinese economic data disappointed markets in the past few months. Here's a look at March, April, and May. In light of this, Societe Generale's Wei Yao has lowered her Q2 GDP forecast to 7.4%, down from 7.6%, in a note titled "China Q2 GDP preview: 'definite deceleration.' This could bring the growth rate below the government's annualized target of 7.5%. Here's how she arrived at that figure: 'Taking the production approach to estimate GDP, we can largely rely on industrial production data, which have the highest correlation with GDP among all activity series. Entering Q2, IP growth slowed further to 9.3% yoy in April and 9.2% yoy in May from 9.5% yoy in Q1. "We expect IP growth to slow further to 9.1% yoy in June. The major reason for such a forecast is the declines in the two manufacturing PMI series. The official PMI reading dropped to a five-month low of 50.1 in June and the HSBC equivalent slid to a nine-month low of 48.3, which points to a fairly soft mom gain for IP. If our forecast for IP growth turns out to be close, the quarterly average rate would be 9.2% yoy, 0.3ppt lower than that during Q1. Applying a simple OLS regression gives us a corresponding estimate of 7.4-7.5% yoy for Q2 GDP growth." Of course Yao also factors in the disappointing data we've seen so far. She also anticipates that the downward trend in investment will continue. She also adds that the recent export data "presents a big downside risk to our forecast." We previously showed how bearish economists are getting on Chinese growth, thanks to this great chart from Bloomberg BRIEF's Michael McDonough: Michael McDonough All eyes are on Q2 GDP data which is out July 14, 10 p.m. ET. Consensus is for Q2 GDP to rise 7.5% year-over-year (YoY) and 1.7% quarter-over-quarter (QoQ). GDP grew 7.7% in the first quarter.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstUS Federal Reserve Bank Board Chairman Ben Bernanke testifies before a joint congressional hearing on the country's economic outlook on Capitol Hill in Washington, April 2, 2008. The Federal Reserve has in recent years has changed its communications practices in order to provide financial markets more transparency into the policymaking process. Not everyone is happy about the way some of these practices have evolved. For example, the plethora of appearances by Federal Reserve governors in the weeks following FOMC meetings and other key events tend to introduce a wide range of views into the public discussion and inject unnecessary volatility into financial markets as investors try to parse every word of each new speech. Following yesterday's release of the minutes from the Fed's June FOMC meeting on monetary policy, BofA Merrill Lynch economists Michael Hanson and Ethan Harris level that same charge at the central bank. In a note to clients ñ titled "Muddled minutes" ñ they write: The Fed has taken a step backwards in terms of communication. By offering so much information in such a muddled fashion, they have made policy less transparent. Why do Fed watchers need to read deeply into what is effectively an appendix to the minutes to find out that ìabout halfî of participants want to exit QE by year end? Moreover, why have we returned to the Greenspan days of needing a decoder ring to understand Fed statements: are these ìparticipantsî who want an early exit ìmembersî or nonmembers, and what exactly do ìseveral,î ìmany,î or ìabout halfî mean? Looking through the Fed fog, we remain reasonably confident that rate hikes will come later than the markets expect. But with these minutes, the outlook for the start and end of QE3 has become much more muddled.† Hanson and Harris try to break it down like this: Figuring out how many voting members want to wrap up QE3 this year requires a process of elimination. There are 19 participants: 12 voting ìmembersî (7 governors and 5 regional Bank presidents) and 7 non-voting participants (the remaining Bank presidents). ìAll participants but oneî thought the Fed should ìcontinue purchasing bothî MBS and Treasuries according to the minutes. The ìoneî is almost surely George, who dissented at the meeting and wants to exit QE immediately.  That leaves 18 participants and ìabout halfî of them want to end QE this year. That probably means 8 participants. Three of those are almost certainly the remaining non-voting hawks (Fisher, Lacker and Plosser). Two or three others are likely non-voting presidents have given speeches that suggest hinting at an early exit (Williams, Pianalto and possibly Lockhart). So that leaves two or three voting members who want to exit QE this year if their economic forecasts are correct. The remaining majority would be the ìmany other participantsî who thought ìit likely would be appropriate to continue purchases into 2014.î Obviously, there is considerable uncertainty here and there could be as many as five ìearly exitî voters, leaving Bernanke with a very slim majority. In short, there's probably still some room for improvement on the Fed's part.
All the traders that were looking for a reprieve from Fed easing rates were heartbroken yesterday, as Ben Bernanke reminded everyone what his policies are all about ó keeping the economy going while the employment rate remains entirely too high. Yes, there will be a taper, he said. But as long as so many Americans are out of work the Fed will ensure that this low rate environment continues. You could almost hear all the traders waiting for a near-term correction do a Wall Street-wide face palm. Naturally, some will blame Bernanke and do the all-too-familiar monologue about the intrusiveness of central bankers, but others know better. Sometimes, when you trade, you're just wrong. That is the nature of the game and no matter what, you should be prepared. Enis Taner, a trader over at Risk Reversal said it best†in a blog post about his flawed position this morning: ...I was wrong. Badly wrong. Over the past couple months, I expected a fuller correction process to play out based on a variety of factors. Whatever my reasons though, the market has proved me wrong. Even if it turns lower from here right away, my timing was wrong, so the trade was wrong. Itís that simple.†What makes trading so different from other professions is that youíre wrong so often. Accepting the inevitably of being mistaken is the first mandate of risk management. The real key is keeping your losses smaller than your profits. Many of the best traders I have known have only been right 30% of the time, but were consistently profitable nonetheless... And here's where Taner gets down to it ó the ultimate no-excuses admission: Thatís where Iíve done poorly in the past 2 weeks. My losses are larger than they should be for a losing period, and I have no one to blame for that but myself. Not evil conspirators, not central bankers, and not Mr. Market. Effective risk management is so useful precisely because it allows a trader to be successful no matter the market environment, no matter the news. I might have a view on what I think could happen, but managing the position well is much, much more important than whether that view turns out to be correct or not. On Wall Street, being right can make you rich. But as Taner points out, there are unforeseen factors that can make a fool of you at any moment. Even the legendary Stan Druckenmiller admitted that he felt he may not be made for today's market, and that the new order makes him "reconsider my ability to generate superior returns." Druckenmiller continued: If the most important price in the most important economy in the world is being rigged, and everything else is priced off it, what am I supposed to read into other price movements? Doesn't matter. As Taner writes, you have to cover yourself for the world you're trading in. If you don't, that's even worse than being wrong.
REUTERS/Joerg Mitter/Australian stunt Motocrosser Robbie Maddison, 28, jumps over the 85-metre (279-feet) wide Corinth Canal at height of nearly 100 metres (328-feet) in Greece April 8, 2010.Markets are heading higher again today. The S&amp;P 500 is at 1,670, up 17 points for the day. The S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high of 1,669.1 on May 21, 2013.¬† It got as high as 1,674.9 that day. All of this comes after the dovish tone from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke yesterday afternoon.¬† During a Q&amp;A following a speech in Massachusetts yesterday, the Chairman clarified that that even though the Fed may begin tapering its quantitative easing program soon, interest rates will still be pinned at current ultra-low levels for a long time.¬† He also noted that the unemployment rate ‚Äì a key indicator that will determine the future path of Fed monetary policy ‚Äì probably understates the weakness in the U.S. labor market. Immediately after these comments, U.S. stock market futures soared and the dollar fell.
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettOther rich British people.Personal trainer Jason Thomas allegedly¬†swindled¬†¬£175,000 (approximately $264,500) from a trust fund manager after saying he loved her, a London court heard this week. Luisa Smith, the fund manager at Capita Trustees in Jersey, stripped money from two accounts and remortgaged her apartment for her beau, the Daily Mail reports. Prosecutors say Thomas told Smith he needed the money to pay a drug debt, while instead spending the cash on finer things like a boat, Mercedes Kompressor, Rolex¬†watches, and a jet-ski. Prosecutor Riel Karmy-Jones said about Thomas: "He used this woman to fund an extravagant lifestyle.¬†The Crown say Jason Thomas has delusions of grandeur and has an over-inflated feeling of self-worth which his personal training could not satisfy.¬†He targeted a woman in a good job and he told her that he needed her cash because he was in debt to drug dealers or that his own clients had not paid him.¬†And so the woman paid up, wanting to impress the man she loved." Thomas denied the charges of conspiracy and acquiring criminal property. For her part, Smith's misconduct was discovered in 2009. She was fired from her job, convicted on two counts of fraud, and sentenced to two years in prison.
REUTERS/Jim YoungU.S. Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke listens to questions as he testifies before a House Budget Committee hearing on "The Near-Term Outlook for the U.S. Economy" on Capitol Hill in Washington, January 17, 2008.Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke put a cap on Treasury yields when he suggested that the unemployment rate probably understated weakness in the labor market ‚Äì implying that interest rates would remain pinned near zero longer than expected ‚Äì and indicated that the rise in bond yields of late has represented a tightening of financial conditions, which could require addressing if it continued. Bernanke also warned that low inflation in the U.S. warranted more monetary stimulus, and that falling inflation could be bad for the economy. The Fed chairman's comments are giving stocks and bonds a lift, sending yields back down again, and the message finally seems to be getting through that tapering the pace of monthly bond purchases under quantitative easing doesn't mean tightening of monetary conditions. The problem is that just a few weeks ago, at the FOMC press conference on June 19, when asked about the sell-off in the Treasury market and the attendant rise in yields, Bernanke said that it was a good sign to the extent that it reflected confidence in a strengthening economy. He also laid out a timeline for when quantitative easing could end altogether (by mid-2014, when the Fed projects the unemployment rate will hit 7%). Some saw this as limiting the Fed's options somewhat, because if the economy took a turn for the worse again and the Fed had to increase bond purchases, it could damage the central bank's credibility with the market. The tapering timeline introduced by Bernanke in June suggests a total of $4 trillion of bond purchases under quantitative easing by the time the program comes to an end. Andrew Wilkinson, Chief Economic Strategist at Miller Tabak, suggests that Bernanke could "out think" the market by actually stepping up the pace of monthly bond purchases to get to that $4 trillion faster. In a note to clients, he writes: If Bernanke is a really a good student he might out think the market in order to counter the turbulent headwinds created by rising winds. Jim Bullard was pretty vocal according to the minutes of the June meeting by urging the committee to signal commitment to lifting inflation back to its target of 2%. But by signaling at the time that the Fed would start to reduce bond purchases, Bullard felt that this would limit the bank‚Äôs flexibility in the amount it buys. Bernanke could reach $4.0 trillion faster by stepping ‚Äìup the pace of purchases from its current $85 billion, justifying his decision on grounds of low inflation and the counter-productive rise in yields. At the same time the Fed could maintain that it is sticking to the same script claiming that the economy is doing better than prior to the announcement of QE3 and that the labor market appears to be making sustainable gains. "Buying more bonds for a shorter period of time would fit perfectly well into the framework the Federal Reserve has set forth," says Wilkinson. "At the same time it could counter the recent rise in yields and send a stronger message to bond market participants that they are acting prematurely, especially when the medium-term outlook for inflation is sending downside risks."
The Cushing Myth"Going along with 'drill, drill, drill' is now 'ship, ship, ship,' " said John Kilduff, energy analyst with Again Capital.‚Äù The bottleneck has been addressed in Cushing [Okla]. We're seeing those inventories plunge. We're seeing it from all the rail movement. It's having an impact, as are the pipeline reversals."That is the rhetoric and here are the facts from the latest EIA report: Last year Cushing had 46.8 million barrels in storage and today Cushing has 47 Million barrels in storage. Thank goodness for all the rail and pipeline movements of the last year. I guess ‚Äúplunging inventories‚Äù justifies the recent narrowing of the WTI-Brent spread from a year ago. Funny Business Going on with InventoriesThere was a 20 million withdrawal from inventories the last two weeks for the first time in 30 years. What are the odds that this is wholesalers stocking up for the rest of the summer? Expect a substantial build next week in inventories as Saudi Arabia`s upcoming increased export shipments finally hit the market, many wholesalers summer needs have been met, and product inventories are higher than this time last year.2% GDP Economy But the one thing that is apparent is that consumer demand for products didn`t all the sudden spike by a factor of 10 over the last two weeks. Furthermore, Oil inventories still stand at 374 million barrels compared to starting 2013 with 361 million in storage. This is after an unprecedented and highly unusual withdrawal occurrence that doesn`t fit with the 2% GDP growth environment that necessitates the Fed having to stimulate the economy with $85 Billion of monetary stimulus each month, and a total unemployment rate well above the 10% level. Oil is FungibleOil is fungible, and with the emerging markets including China either in a recession or on the brink of a hard landing the Oil has to go somewhere as producing countries need to generate revenue from their primary resource for capital to support budgetary commitments.The US is the strongest economy and the largest consumer of oil and petroleum products so with China cratering the global competition for oil revenue finds its way to flooding the US market with spare capacity. This brings the price of Brent down, and even if WTI is equal to Brent in terms on the spread, the abundance of Brent will pressure all grades of oil in general, and WTI in specific terms. 7.4 Million Level ReachedBecause of the large draws in supplies the fact that US domestic production reached the 7.4 million barrels per day level with the latest EIA report went largely unnoticed. Once refiners revert back to lower capacity utilization rates where is this excess domestic production going to go? You guessed it straight into inventories as unlike the Saudi`s, the US just keeps producing oil regardless of seasonal demand. Price started the year at $90, and we have 13 Million more barrels in storage Look for oil inventories to finish the year at higher levels than they started the year. Oil inventories are well above the five year range, and the remainder of 2013 will continue this historical trend of increasing levels of oil in storage facilities around the globe. The Speculators just passed an Oil &amp; Gas TaxGasoline prices have gained 30 cents in two weeks, and once futures prices are passed onto the consumer, expect the trend of the last four years to reemerge as every time prices reach the current levels, miraculously, the US economy slows down considerably. And why shouldn`t it as oil and the derivative products are the major input that makes all business and industry run. Therefore, a major increase in oil and gas prices acts as a major economic headwind for the economy. Rinse &amp; RepeatThe trend of the last four years is that speculators push the price of oil into the triple digits and gas prices to the $4 a gallon level, and the economic data and overall economy shows the impact of this new tax, causing a pullback in the economy. This cycle is followed by the speculators shorting oil back down to the low 80`s on economic concerns and building supplies with all the analysts citing a slowing China or increased domestic production as causes for the decline. What is really at work here as not much has changed in the underlying fundamentals of the oil market in the last two weeks is pure and simple speculation. They run the price up as high as they can until consumers cry uncle or the governments brings out the SPR card, and then sell oil off hard in the opposite direction for at least 20 handles. It is all about making money, and the oil market is one of the surest ways for speculators to make a fortune. They move the market up, collect their tax, then move it down, and collect the difference again. It is a nice scam, if the government lets them get away with it!And being this isn`t an election year President Obama has been quiet as a mouse compared to last year when WTI crossed the 100 threshold he threatened speculators with an SPR release. The Liquidation &amp; Volatility GameThe overriding myth is that things are different this time, that somehow the fundamentals in the oil market have changed, nothing has changed, just a couple of months ago Longs were liquidated at $86 a barrel with the same level of oil and product inventories on hand. The Downward Cycle is in the on deck circle warming up, and will be coming to bat soon in the Oil Market Speculation Game!¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
Nevertheless, there are issues: shaky TBTF banks exposed to Eastern European ‚Äúgrowth opportunities,‚Äù such as Hungary; Alpine Bau, a construction group with 15,000 employees that just went bust; Germany whose economy is stagnating; and now offshoring by the steel industry.¬† The voestalpine Group, a steelmaker based in Linz, Austria, with over 46,000 employees, saw its revenues for 2012/13 decline by 4% to $15 billion. It blamed the ‚Äúcooling down of the global economy,‚Äù and ‚Äúdwindling momentum in Asia (especially China).‚Äù It doesn‚Äôt see a scenario that‚Äôs exactly rosy [the CEO of Siemens had sketched a similar scenario: my take.... ‚ÄúDuring The Last Crisis, We Had China,‚Äù Now We Have No¬†One]. Like many titans, the company is under pressure to increase profits while revenues are declining. Hence the need to cut costs. One solution: offshoring to cheap countries! So the company announced in its annual report, right at the beginning, as one of the hope items, that it would undertake ‚Äúits largest ever foreign investment ‚Äì construction of a direct reduction plant,‚Äù not in cheap countries like China or Indonesia, but in Texas. Now the contracts have been signed. The plant, on Corpus Christi Bay, would be built by German industrial conglomerate Siemens and consortium partner, MIDREX Technologies, a US company that was acquired by Japanese steelmaker Kobe Steel three decades ago. The plant will use the MIDREX process to produce Hot Briquetted Iron (HBI), or sponge iron, an ‚Äúexcellent pre-material for the manufacture of crude steel.‚Äù And at least half of the plant‚Äôs capacity of 2 million metric tons will be shipped back to Austria, to the company‚Äôs steel production sites in Linz and Donawitz. The plant will employ 150 people. But their cost in Texas won‚Äôt differ enough from the cost of 150 people in Austria to justify the investment of $715 million ‚Äì plus the cost of shipping 1 million metric tons of HBI a year to Austria. There must be another reason. And there is: ‚ÄúIn contrast to using purely coke-based blast furnaces,‚Äù the company said, ‚Äúthe planned direct reduction plant will only use natural gas.‚Äù So there are some green aspects: natural gas is ‚Äúmuch more environmentally friendly as the reducing agent,‚Äù the company claimed. It would help the company improve its ‚Äúcarbon footprint‚Äù and achieve its ‚Äúambitious internal energy efficiency and climate protection objectives.‚Äù Sounds great, and it looks good on company PR materials. But it‚Äôs corporate blah-blah-blah: natural gas is available in Austria as well; no reason to go all the way to Texas. But there‚Äôs a real reason: survival! The price of natural gas in the US is ‚Äúabout one quarter of the price in Europe,‚Äù the company conceded. It would allow the company to produce low-cost HBI for its plants in Linz and Donawitz and ensure ‚Äútheir competitiveness in the long term.‚Äù Minus the corporate PR jargon, it would sound like this: They‚Äôd be competitive with Chinese steelmakers; they‚Äôd get to stay in business! So one Austrian steelmaker decided to construct a plan in the US based on the availability of copious and cheap natural gas. But it isn‚Äôt the only foreign company to dip its big ladle into this resource. Since natural gas prices hit rock bottom in early 2012, a number of companies, American and foreign, have announced plans to build facilities in the US to take advantage of what they consider a natural gas nirvana ‚Äì and not just those that use gas as energy, but also those that use it as feed stock for the production of chemicals and fertilizers. That sea change came out in the annual survey by the Association of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK). When asked about their overseas expansion plans, these German industrialists showed how their priorities were shifting: the only region in the world that actually moved up in importance was the US. In 2005, only 20% of the German companies wanted to invest in the US. By 2012, it had risen to 26%. In 2013, it jumped to 30%, the highest ever. They cited a variety of reasons, particularly natural gas [my take.... ‚ÄúBut the Rising Star Is the¬†USA‚Äù]. The math by these energy-starved German CEOs might get a bit twisted in the future. While the price of natural gas in the US nearly doubled since the low in April last year, it remains below the cost of production for ‚Äúdry gas‚Äù wells in many areas. The industry has been bleeding. And drilling for dry gas has been curtailed drastically. But even major price increases in the US would likely pale compared to the sky-high prices in Germany, largely determined by long-term contracts with Russia‚Äôs Gazprom. Consequences of these costs are now oozing to the surface. Germany‚Äôs recovery from the Financial Crisis was steep, and in 2011, the gloating started. They called it the German ‚Äúsuccess recipe,‚Äù a superior system that would keep the economy growing even amidst Eurozone mayhem. That optimism has endured, and stocks have hit new highs, but the economy has diverged sharply. Read.... ¬†Blinded By Optimism, German Economy Now Below Stall¬†Speed

Is mortgage debt good debt? A dangerous drug? Or both? All debt acts like a drug. Debt artificially changes your personal financial metabolism, accelerating personal consumption, and exaggerating investment losses and gains.¬† Like any pharmaceutical, debt can be life-saving.¬†¬†Without debt, you might have to wait an additional 10 years before you‚Äôve saved up enough to own your home.¬†¬†Without debt, you might not be able to eat, between now and better employment, 3 months from now.¬†¬†Without debt, your further education plans never happen.¬†¬†Without debt, you‚Äôd be stuck.¬†¬†Debt can be awesome. Like any pharmaceutical, debt can also be life-destroying. A mortgage, because it‚Äôs the largest debt most of us can qualify for, is the ultimate drug.¬†¬†Just because a mortgage can make the¬†dream of home-ownership a reality, provide investment leverage, offer tax advantages and a hedge against inflation¬†doesn‚Äôt make it any less dangerous for certain parts of the population. Mortgages are powerful drugs and in any given group of people some of us will abuse the pharmaceutical. ¬† Please see related Mortgage posts: Part I ‚Äì I refinanced my mortgage and today I‚Äôm a Golden God Part II ‚Äì Should I pay my mortgage early? Part III ‚Äì Why are 15-year mortgages cheaper than 30-year mortgages? Part IV ‚Äì What are Mortgage Points?¬†¬†Are they good, bad or indifferent? Part VI ‚Äì What happens at the Wall Street level to my mortgage?
bytemarks / FlickrThe Department of Labor will release its latest weekly report on initial unemployment claims. The figures unexpectedly jumped to 360,000, a two-month high. Economists were looking for a reading of 340,000, down from 344,000 a week ago. However, economist Jim O'Sullivan warns us that we shouldn't put too much weight into this number today. Here's O'Sullivan: ...Of course, individual weekly readings can be volatile and misleading. This is likely to be one of those weeks, due to the challenge of seasonally adjusting for annual plant shutdowns in the auto industry. The bias has generally been downward in the first week of the annual shutdowns in recent years, with the seasonal factors over-adjusting for shutdown-related filings. However, the seasonal factors look much less aggressive this year, raising the possibility that seasonally adjusted claims will be artificially high. Either way, this week‚Äôs data should probably be discounted.
Bloomberg BusinessweekThis week's Bloomberg Businessweek cover story from Sheelah Kolhatkar is about the state of hedge funds and the returns they offer. However, the cover image appears to have a double entendre. Here it is via Ezra Klein and Josh Brown:
U.S. stock market futures are surging ahead of today's trading session. Dow futures are up 148 points. S&amp;P 500 futures are up 18 points. Nasdaq futures are up 31 points. Meanwhile, the dollar is sinking and gold is rallying. All of this comes after the dovish tone from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke during a¬† Q&amp;A in Massachusetts yesterday afternoon. Here were two key takeaways from Business Insider's Matthew Boesler: Here's a look at the action in Dow Futures via FinViz: FinViz
CNBCAdam Parker, Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Equity Strategist, is on Bloomberg Surveillance with Tom Keene this morning. While discussing dividend paying stocks, Parker noted that we should consider executive compensation structures. Parker addressed this in a recent report to clients: Management teams are paying themselves more in restricted stock units (RSUs) than in options. In recent years, more CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies have received compensation in the form of restricted stock than as options (Exhibit 14). It is important that fundamental analysts understand how the senior management teams of the companies they are analyzing are variably compensated, as those with restricted stock and not options are much more likely to increase dividends. The principle? People rarely intentionally damage their own net worth. The shift toward equity-based compensation was designed to align executives' interests with shareholders. However, we have to wonder if corporate decision-makers will pass up better uses of cash to enrich themselves in the form of dividends. Regardless, this decision to pay out an increasing dividend is crucial to investors. Since 1930, dividends have accounted for 42 percent of stock market investment returns.  Morgan Stanley
Flickr / Vermin IncGood morning! Here's what you need to know:
Brett LoGiurato/Business InsiderInvestors should probably be a little bit worried about Eliot Spitzer's eagerness to become the next comptroller of New York. The comptroller's job isn't considered terribly exciting. Officially, the comptroller's primary role is to "ensure the financial health of New York City by advising the Mayor, the City Council, and the public of the City's financial condition." Many who have landed in the office have used it as a place to serve time while they wait to run for mayor (usually unsuccessfully). But Spitzer describes it as a "dream job." This isn't because the former governor dreams at night about the financial health of the city. It's because he plans on running the office in an entirely new way‚Äîas an activist investor. And activist investors aren't always‚Äîor even usually‚Äîgood news for most shareholders. The comptroller manages the assets of the five New York City pension funds, which hold a total of about $140 billion in assets. Spitzer intends to use the office to influence the way companies are governed‚Äîalthough he denies that he would attempt to engage in "political activism." "This isn't about political activism, let me just take that off the board," Spitzer told CNBC. "This is about the appropriate role shareholders as owners of entities should play. Ownership trumps regulation. ... Neither regulation nor prosecution can generate good judgment within organizations. Only ownership can generate that." But it's very hard to draw a line between political activism and shareholder activism when it comes to pension funds. Just last December, Spitzer was using his column in Slate to advocate leveraging the power of pension funds and university endowments to pressure the private-equity firm Cerebus about its ownership of gunmakers. "It is time to determine pension fund by pension fund who has invested in Cerberus and bring pressure on those investors either to get out of Cerberus or have Cerberus change the way it runs the gun industry," Spitzer wrote. (Read More: Spitzer's Encore as Scourge of Wall Street) Although we often associate shareholder activism with hedge fund managers like Bill Ackman and Dan Loeb, the principal activist investors in the United States are actually union, and state and local pension funds. One reason pension funds are more likely than other types of institutional investors to assume activist roles is that they can exploit their market power for private benefits. For most institutional investors, activism just doesn't pay off. A multibillion-dollar diversified fund would have to deploy vast resources just to determine which of its investments might be underperforming because of issues that can be addressed through activism. It then must attempt to corral other shareholders into supporting the campaign. And proxy contests cost millions. What's more, the rewards for public shareholder activism are likely to be meager. Turning around a company is difficult. And there's not much evidence that pressure from outside shareholders is very effective at that, outside the takeover context. Another deterrent is that the gains of activism must be shared, despite the costs being born only by the activist. UCLA law professor Stephen Bainbridge explained this in a recent paper on shareholder activism: Suppose that the troubled company has 110 outstanding shares, currently trading at $10 per share, of which the potential activist institution owns ten. The institution correctly believes that the firm's shares would rise in value to $20 if the firm's problems were solved. If the institution is able to effect a change in corporate policy, its ten shares will produce a $100 paper gain when the stock price rises to reflect the company's new value. All the other shareholders, however, will also automatically receive a pro rata share of the gains. As a result, the activist institution confers a gratuitous $1,000 benefit on the other shareholders. In a market where most institutional shareholders attempt to grow their assets under management based on their performance relative to fund managers, conferring a gratuitous benefit on other shareholders is no way to get ahead. But union pension funds are different. For one thing, they aren't in competition for funds like other managers. For another, they can benefit their constituents through activism not aimed at raising the price of shares. "Examples of potential benefits which would be disproportionately of interest to proposal sponsors are progress on labor rights desired by union fund managers and enhanced political reputations for public pension fund managers, as well as advancements in personal employment," the legal scholar Roberta Romano wrote in a 2001 paper that looked at pension fund activism. Some of this kind of activism might actually hurt other investors. Corporate management may accede to uneconomic demands of activist investors because the costs are actually borne by the larger body of shareholders.¬† This means that the activist path Spitzer plans to take if he wins the office of comptroller is likely only to lead to better performance of New York City's pension funds at a cost to other investors. Of course, Spitzer may have something entirely different in mind. Perhaps he'll be an activist investor who pursues pure public good, reshaping how we think of activist investors altogether. His job, after all, involves the financial health of the city, not just managing its pension funds. The need to answer to a broader constituency could influence his activism to be more public-minded. ‚ÄîBy CNBC's John Carney. Follow me on Twitter @Carney
BloombergJim O'SullivanInitially jobless claims is one of our most favorite economic indicators. It's also a favored indicator of High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan, one of the most accurate economists on Wall Street right now. "Regular readers know that we view the jobless claims series as a key momentum indicator," said O'Sullivan in his latest note to clients. "Claims have proven themselves again this year, correctly signaling continued improvement in net employment growth, not just the pace of layoffs." So we were taken aback by the title of his note: "Ignore Jobless Claims This Week."† Here's O'Sullivan: ...Of course, individual weekly readings can be volatile and misleading. This is likely to be one of those weeks, due to the challenge of seasonally adjusting for annual plant shutdowns in the auto industry. The bias has generally been downward in the first week of the annual shutdowns in recent years, with the seasonal factors over-adjusting for shutdown-related filings. However, the seasonal factors look much less aggressive this year, raising the possibility that seasonally adjusted claims will be artificially high. Either way, this weekís data should probably be discounted. So, in an otherwise quiet week for economic data, one of the few reports we were looking forward to this week will probably have to be ignored. Anyway, the Department of Labor will be publishing the latest reading at 8:30 a.m. ET today. High Frequency Economics
The Shanghai Composite index surged 3.2%. CNBC noted that this was the biggest one day gain in seven months. This comes a day after the country reported stunning declines in its monthly import and export numbers. There is now speculation that Chinese policymakers will intervene with some sort of stimulative policy move. Here's a look at the Shanghai Composite via Bloomberg: Bloomberg
‚ÄúThis paper shows the importance of correcting for sample selection when investing in illiquid assets with endogenous trading. Using a large sample of 20,538 paintings that were sold repeatedly at auction between 1972 and 2010, we find that paintings with higher price appreciation are more likely to trade. This strongly biases estimates of returns. The selection-corrected average annual index return is 7 percent, down from 11 percent for traditional uncorrected repeat-sales regressions, and Sharpe Ratios drop from 0.4 to 0.1. From a pure financial perspective, passive index investing in paintings is not a viable investment strategy, once selection bias is accounted for. Our results have important implications for other illiquid asset classes that trade endogenously.‚Äù Source: SSRN Does it Pay to Invest in Art? A Selection-Corrected Returns Perspective By Arthur G. Korteweg, Stanford Graduate School of Business Roman Kr√§ussl, Universite du Luxembourg Patrick Verwijmeren, Erasmus University Rotterdam
If they had the will, one or two of them could do somethingabout it. Maybe it‚Äôs time they did.  The issue has been highlighted in recent weeks as theFederal Reserve unsettled global markets by signaling its intentto start tightening monetary policy -- at least, that‚Äôs whatinvestors thought it said. There was a sell-off in global fixed-income markets, and many emerging economies saw the value oftheir bonds, equities and currencies drop.  Not long ago, emerging-market governments complained aboutthe Fed‚Äôs stimulus policy. They pointed to destabilizing inflowsof hot money and called it a ‚Äúcurrency war,‚Äù an attempt toexport unemployment and price emerging-economy exports out ofthe U.S. market. Now they‚Äôre alarmed because the policy isending. Such is life on the receiving end of the exorbitantprivilege.  New York Federal Reserve President Bill Dudley, a formercolleague of mine at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., once warned me,‚ÄúBe careful what you wish for.‚Äù The context wasn‚Äôt quite thesame -- we were discussing the dangers of shrinking the U.S.current-account deficit too quickly while global demand wasstill weak -- but it‚Äôs still good advice.  The Fed‚Äôs shift to ever-increasing stimulus after the crashhad wide-ranging financial effects, including a flow of newmoney into substitutes for U.S. bonds. As quantitative easingratcheted up, the effects were compounded. Many investors choseto believe they‚Äôd devised a smart investment strategy when allthey were doing was looking for yield pickup. You can tell thedifference when the process goes into reverse, especially if ittakes people by surprise. That‚Äôs when another phrase comes tomind: Escalator up, elevator down.  For emerging economies, these surges and reversals can bevery difficult to deal with. It‚Äôs hardest of all for countrieswith large and/or rising trade and current-account deficitsbecause they may have become addicted to easily availablecapital. Replacing it requires either more domestic savings orpolicies that attract stable longer-term inflows, or both.  It‚Äôs best to stop an excessive current-account deficit frombuilding up in the first place; that‚Äôs usually a sign ofoverdependence on hot capital inflows. In general, emergingeconomies should try to avoid running too large a ‚Äúbasicbalance‚Äù (the current-account deficit minus long-term capitalinflow). That rarely ends well. Strong net inflows of foreigndirect investment are relatively reliable; portfolio inflows,sensitive to interest rates, are much less so. Among the largeremerging economies, India and Turkey are now exposed in thisway. Brazil has been creeping in the same direction.  Abrupt changes in the actual or perceived direction of Fedpolicy can make life difficult for countries that don‚Äôt allowsufficient exchange-rate flexibility, even if their balance-of-payments position isn‚Äôt bad. The reason is that they are lettingFed policy override their domestic monetary policy -- a fixedexchange rate shuts down domestic monetary policy altogether --and sacrificing the ability to stabilize their economies. HongKong is an extreme case: Its currency is firmly pegged to theU.S. dollar. China‚Äôs renminbi has been allowed more flexibility,but many would say it‚Äôs in the same category.  Is it all the Fed‚Äôs fault? Not really. The central bank hasa legal obligation to keep inflation low and stable, as well asmaintain full employment -- in the U.S. The value of the dollarand the consequences for the rest of the world‚Äôs economies arenot its concern unless they have implications for the domesticeconomy.  It is probably fair, however, to ask the Fed to be carefulabout its statements -- especially when it hints at a change inthe direction of a well-established monetary policy. This islikely to be disruptive because investors all over the worldtend to be trend followers and because so many have adopted themantra ‚ÄúNever fight the Fed.‚Äù  Because the Fed is going to carry on doing what it does,emerging economies have to consider two other remedies for theexorbitant privilege. First, countries with large current-account deficits -- such as India -- should focus on attractingbigger inflows of long-term capital, maybe in addition toraising domestic savings. Second -- and this applies more toChina -- big emerging economies should favor more exchange-rateflexibility and use of their currencies in global markets.  China is too big an economy to give U.S. monetary policy asmuch power as it has over its business cycle. Beijing shouldcontinue to free up trade and liberalize the capital account ofits balance of payments -- and, consistent with that, considergreater movement of its currency.  I understand that the recently announced $270 billion, 25-year oil deal between Russia‚Äôs Rosneft OAO and China NationalPetroleum Corp. will be transacted in rubles and renminbi.That‚Äôs how you deal with the mighty dollar and the Fed‚Äôsdomestically directed monetary policy. Too much of the world‚Äôstrade and finance is conducted in dollars. The exorbitantprivilege has lasted too long.  (Jim O‚ÄôNeill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs AssetManagement, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:Jim O‚ÄôNeill at joneill62@bloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net. 
The monthly employment report is among the most popular and controversial of the government's economic reports. The latest one, released on Friday, was especially controversial. Shortly after the data was released, David Rosenberg's subscription newsletter featured Ten Reasons to Love the U.S Employment Report, which were paraphrased for the general public by Business Insider. That same morning I featured a contrarian view by Michael Lombardi, What the Worst Jobs Report of the Year Means to You. One of the reasons the monthly employment report is so controversial is that it is an incredible hodgepodge of data from bipolar sources: the Current Population Survey (CPS) of households and the Establishment Survey of businesses and government agencies. For example, the unemployment rate is calculated from household data, but the Nonfarm Employment number comes from the establishment data. Full-Time vs. Part-Time Employment Let's take a close look at some CPS numbers on Full and Part-Time Employment. Buried near the bottom of Table A-9 of the Household Data are the numbers for Full- and Part-Time Workers, with 35-or-more hours as the arbitrary divide between the two categories. The Labor Department has been collecting this since 1968, a time when only 13.5% of US employees were part-timers. Today that number has risen to 19.5%. Here is a visualization of the trend in the 21st century, with the full-time percentage on the left axis and the part-time percentage on the right. We see a conspicuous crossover during Great Recession. Here is a closer look since 2007. The reversal began in 2008, but it accelerated in the Fall of that year following the September 15th bankruptcy of Lehmann Brothers. In this seasonally adjusted data the reversal peaked in early 2010. Three-and-a-half years later the spread has narrowed a bit, but we're a long way from returning to the ratio before the Great Recession. The two charts above are seasonally adjusted and include the entire workforce, which the CPS defines as age 16 and over. A problem inherent in using this broadest of cohorts is that it includes the population that adds substantial summertime volatility to the full-time/part-time ratio, namely, high school and college students. The next chart reduces that problem by focusing on the 25-and-over cohort. Note that the government's full-time/part-time data for this cohort is only available as non-seasonally adjusted. To help us recognize the summer seasonality that remains, I've tweaked this representation by adding markers for the individual months and highlighting the summer months, which are the most subject to increases in 35-plus hours of employment. I've also included 12-month moving averages for the two series to help us identify the slope of the trend over the past three years. Like the 16-and-over version, this chart depicts a current situation that is considerably different from the era before the Financial Crisis. Despite the general smiles on Friday about the 195K Nonfarm Jobs in June and upward revisions to previous months, the latest full-time/part-time data points are a bit concerning. The spread for June 2013 is wider than the three previous Junes. It is certainly possible that the Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare) is playing a role in employer decisions about full-time versus part-time employment. The $2,000 per employee penalty for employers who do not comply with regulations has influenced some employers to begin shifting their employment policies. Earlier this month President Obama pushed the start of the penalty from January 2014 to January 2015. But the June CPS data would have preceded that extension. Moreover, the anticipation of the penalty, even though delayed a year, will probably continue to influence the interim decisions of private employers. As I mentioned at the outset, the monthly employment report is a hodgepodge of data. The full-time/part-time ratio is but a tiny piece of the whole, and the magic 35-hour threshold is arguably arbitrary. But this is, nevertheless, a metric that bears watching in the months ahead as we try to understand where the economy is headed. ¬† My data source for the charts and numbers in the commentary is the BLS's Databases &amp; Tools page -- specifically the Labor Force Statistics here.
Milos Bicanski/Getty ImagesThe improving U.S. labor market story is certainly a local one. Across the pond in Greece, the unemployment rate ticked up to a horrific 26.9% in April from 26.8% in March. This is up from 23.1% in April of last year.
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaDATE IMPORTED: June 26, 2013 A horse is tied as part of its training to be a racing horse at an area of grasslands located 70km (43 miles) from the Mongolian capital city Ulan Bator June 26, 2013. It's all green early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is up 1.0%. France's CAC 40 is up 1.0%. Germany's DAX is up 1.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.7%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.0%. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke ignited a rally a little after the U.S. market close.¬† During the Q&amp;A of a speech he gave at an NBER conference in Massachusetts, Bernanke took a decidedly dovish tone. Here were two key takeaways from Business Insider's Matthew Boesler: Futures surged on the news. Dow futures are up a solid 140 points.
