Franco Origlia / Getty BUENOS AIRES¬†(Reuters) - Pope Francis took on the issue of high youth unemployment in his first interview aired exclusively in his home country of Argentina on Wednesday, warning that today's "throwaway culture" had discarded a generation of young Europeans. A day after issuing an 84-page platform for his eight-month-old papacy that blasted unfettered capitalism as "a new tyranny," the pontiff used the interview aired on the TN TV channel to link high European unemployment to its twin problem of neglecting older people who are past their earning prime. "Today we are living in unjust international system in which 'King¬†Money' is at the center," he said in the interview. "It's a throwaway culture that discards young people as well as its older people. In some European countries, without mentioning names, there is youth unemployment of 40 percent and higher," he added. "A whole generation of young people does not have the dignity that is brought by work." European leaders pledged earlier this month to make fighting youth unemployment a priority but came up with no new ideas to tackle a problem that risks fueling social unrest. Nearly 6 million people under the age of 25 are without work in the¬†European Union, with jobless rates among the young at close to 60 percent in¬†Spain¬†and¬†Greece. Francis' skepticism of free markets and concern about the lack of ethics in finance were shared by his predecessor,¬†Benedict XVI. But Francis' unassuming style and rejection of the traditional trappings of office lend his words particular weight. "A people that cares neither for its youth nor for its older people has no future," the pope said. "Young people take society into the future, while the older generation gives society its memory, its wisdom." Previously archbishop of¬†Buenos Aires, Francis in March became the first non-European pontiff in 1,300 years. He is the first South American pope. Francis has called for a more austere Church that sides with the poor, and has promised to clean up the murky finances of the Vatican bank. (Additional reporting by Karina Grazina; Editing by Peter Cooney)
REUTERS/Chris WattieBank of Canada Governor Mark Carney waits to testify before the Commons finance committee on Parliament Hill in Ottawa in this October 30, 2012 file photograph. LONDON¬†(Reuters) - The¬†Bank of England¬†moved to head off the risk of a housing bubble in Britain on Thursday, making a surprise announcement that it would put the brakes on a scheme launched last year to help boost mortgage lending. The central bank said the Funding for Lending Scheme (FLS) would cease to offer banks incentives for mortgage lending and instead be refocused on helping small firms to borrow. The news caused shares in house-building firms to tumble. Britain's economy and its housing market have staged an unexpectedly strong turnaround since the FLS was launched by the¬†BoE¬†and finance ministry in July 2012 in an effort to spur the long-delayed recovery by unblocking credit markets. "Given the access to credit for households now ... it would no longer be appropriate or necessary for us to have our foot on the accelerator. It's better to shift into neutral,"¬†BoEGovernor¬†Mark Carney¬†said. Another - much-criticized - government program to aid the housing market, Help to Buy, remains in place. British house prices have risen by almost 7 percent over the past 12 months - their fastest growth in more than three years - sparking concern about the risk of a future bubble as well as rising living costs at a time of stagnant wages. London¬†prices have surged even more, partly on the back of foreign demand, and finance minister¬†George Osborne¬†is widely expected to introduce a capital gains tax on foreign-owned property in a half-yearly budget update next week. "We did not see an immediate threat coming from the housing market but we are concerned about the prospective evolution of the housing market," Carney said, adding that the¬†BoE¬†could take further steps to rein in house prices if needed. Osborne, who has made a revival of Britain's housing market a key part of his economic plans, endorsed the decision. STERLING RALLIES, SHARES FALL Sterling hit a 14-month high as currency traders bet the news moved the¬†BoE¬†closer to raising interest rates from a record low of 0.5 percent, where they have been since 2009. Economists disagreed, saying tighter regulation could reduce the need for the¬†BoE¬†to raise rates to tame house prices. "By taking such action it can actually limit the need for direct monetary policy tightening," said¬†James Knightley¬†at ING. House-building firms at one point lost more than 1 billion pounds ($1.63 billion) in market value as their shares - which have more than doubled in two years, helped by efforts to kick-start the property market - fell heavily on the news. Carney said he did not expect a big economic impact because market funding conditions had improved over the past year and banks were already making limited use of the FLS. "Although the changes to the FLS may be a surprise, they are not a shock," said¬†Paul Smee, who heads the Council of¬†Mortgage Lenders, an industry group. "Lenders are well equipped to meet their funding needs, as wholesale funding market conditions have improved and retail deposits are robust." Banking analysts at Bernstein Research warned that over the longer run the change could push up mortgage rates, as the FLS had boosted competition in Britain's mortgage market. HELP TO BUY The news raised questions about how the¬†BoE¬†will judge another, more controversial housing scheme. Help to Buy, which was expanded last month by the government, aids home-buyers who lack the large deposits sought by¬†mortgage lenders¬†since the financial crisis. That plan has been widely criticized by economists and the opposition¬†Labour Party¬†for doing too little to boost house-building and for risking a surge in prices. The¬†BoE¬†is due to review Help to Buy in September, and Carney said on Thursday it could make recommendations sooner if it felt the scheme threatened financial stability. Under the FLS, banks and building societies get cheap credit from the¬†BoE¬†in proportion to how much they raise their lending. Thursday's changes mean banks will be unable to claim the cheap funding for new lending to households from January 1, 2014. Fees charged to banks for business finance would be reduced to the lowest point on the existing scale, 0.25 percent. Favorable capital treatment for new home loans made under the FLS will end on December 31. Five, mainly small, lenders benefit from this at present. Carney said the¬†BoE¬†would take more action to cool housing if needed, including a possible cap on how big mortgages can be relative to property values and borrowers' salaries. The¬†BoE¬†lacks powers to force banks to follow such recommendations, but it can require banks to hold more capital against risky lending. Away from housing, the¬†BoE¬†said a stronger economic outlook meant that risks to financial stability appeared lower. Risks remained, however, as many countries, firms and individuals were highly indebted and vulnerable if a sharp rise in interest rates outpaced any increase in their incomes. ($1 = 0.6144 British pounds) (Editing by William Schomberg, Guy Faulconbridge and Catherine Evans)
Sergei Kirienko, the prime minister in charge of the Russian government‚Äôs default on its treasury bonds and other financial destruction in 1998, is no donkey. But this week, as the head of the state nuclear power monopoly Rosatom, it‚Äôs far from clear what rules Kirienko, and his South African counterparts, had in mind when they initialled their agreement on cooperation this week in Johannesburg. Russian and South African press reports, as well as officials of both countries, have described the document as an agreement between the two governments for ‚Äústrategic partnership and cooperation in the field of nuclear energy and industry‚Äù, as Vedomosti¬†called it.The special nuclear energy correspondent for Itar-Tass, Elizaveta Tsaritsyna, quoted the South African energy minister, Ben Martins, as saying that ‚Äúall legal procedures under Rosatom‚Äôs agreement with South Africa on cooperation in nuclear energy will be completed by February 15 next year. The agreement ‚Äòis initaled at the technical level and it is now necessary to complete the legal process. We will do this by completing all the necessary approvals at the beginning of next year. We have set ourselves the goal of signing by February 15.‚Äô The SA government ministries which should approve the wording of the inter-government treaty include Energy, Finance, and Industry. A press release issued on Tuesday by Rosatom subsidiaries, the wittily named NUKEM Technologies and its parent NIAEP-ASE, makes the agreement look less than it is, calling it a ‚ÄúMemorandum of Understanding‚Äù with the Nuclear Energy Corporation of South Africa (NECSA) . ‚ÄúThe companies‚Äù, claims NUKEM, not the governments, ‚Äúhave ‚Äúagreed to develop strategic cooperation in engineering, design, procurement and construction of complex capital projects and facilities.‚Äù In his remarks before the signing, Kirienko who had earlier hosted Minister Martins in Moscow and on a tour of reactors in Rostov, explained that Rosatom wants to build eight nuclear reactors of the¬†VVER type¬†for South Africa, with total capacity of 9.6 gigawatts. Kirienko has estimated the cost of a single reactor at $5 billion. Buying the full brace of eight would cost between $40 billion and $50 billion, Rosatom briefing papers claim. South African estimates are in the same range. Kirienko has offered Russian bank financing for the deal, and promised that at least a third of the contract price will be invested by Rosatom in local sub-contracting and job creation. There is nothing exceptional in the Russian bidding for this, one of the largest nuclear reactor contracts in the offing in the world. Competing against Rosatom and lobbying their company interests are the US, France, China, Japan and South Korea, in partnership with local companies. The competition is particularly intense for the decision to build the first two reactors as that may lock in a national technology making inevitable later reactor purchases from the same source. So far nine different reactor technologies have been offer to the South Africans from several different countries. The lobbying against Russia has been ferocious, and during the term of former South African President Thabo Mbeki, there were bitter recriminations in Moscow at the South African tactics. For that story, read¬†this. Jacob Zuma, who succeeded to the presidency in Pretoria in September 2008, appears to be more obliging than Mbeki; but he has yet to deliver more than undertakings in principle and agreements on intention. In parallel, Zuma is reported to be behind another large Russian transaction, a $320 million sale and purchase of the Russian-owned South African steel company, Highveld Steel &amp; Vanadium. That deal was announced by the Russian steel group Evraz in March. But the deal closure has been repeatedly postponed. The buyer, a nonentity, I mean entity, called Nemascore, created weeks before the purchase agreement, is¬†connected to Zuma. So far it has been unable to secure South African government guarantees for the loan financing to pay Evraz. In Moscow this week Evraz spokesmen refused to say what is the status of the sale to Nemascore. That story can be read in more detail¬†here. David Gleason, the leading investigative journalist in South Africa, has¬†reported: ‚ÄúI remain convinced the purchase of Highveld is part of a much bigger arrangement which I am sure will extend to the BRICS‚Äô Development Bank and through it to which specialist is selected to supply the next nuclear power station. The Russians, already building nuclear plants in Turkey, would love to give Areva and Westinghouse the finger in Africa, and South Africa‚Äôs a good place to start. There‚Äôs a you-scratch-my-back, I‚Äôll-scratch-yours somewhere in this.‚Äù Between 2006 and 2008, when Eskom, the SA power utility, confirmed it had sent requests for bid estimates to Westinghouse (US) and Areva (France), but not to Rosatom, the French attempted to bypass competitive tendering for the deal. Their tactic was to fix an inter-government agreement formalizing Areva as the preferred bidder. Then President Nicolas Sarkozy lobbied Mbeki for his agreement, but failed as Mbeki fell from power. Francois Hollande, Sarkozy‚Äôs successor, is still trying for the same preferment in Pretoria. He visited last month, and Zuma will be in Paris in December. So far the French have announced deals to supply thermal and solar energy plants and refit South Africa‚Äôs railways. The Russian and South African governments have already signed more than one inter-government agreement for nuclear energy. There was one in November 2004 which, according to Rosatom, includes ‚Äúdesign, construction, maintenance and modernization of nuclear power and research reactors; the use of nuclear energy for electricity, heating, desalination of salt water and Nuclear Research; exploration and development of uranium deposits; production of fuel for nuclear power and research reactors , including the development of the fuel and the design, construction , operation, technology and modernization of installations for the production of fuel.‚Äù Enriched uranium to power the single commercial reactor South Africa already has at Koeberg has been supplied by Rosatom‚Äôs fuel subsidiary, Tenex, for many years. The reactor itself was built in the 1980s by Areva, still one of the competitors for the new reactor contract. The Russian uranium enrichment arrangement for Koeberg was renewed in August 2010. Then in June 2012 a memorandum of understanding was signed between Rosatom and NECSA for ‚Äúelaboration of joint business projects in areas such as production and marketing of isotope production , manufacture of nuclear fuel, as well as the production of energy equipment.‚Äù A month later Rosatom opened a representative and marketing office in Johannesburg. At the end of March 2013 at the BRICS summit in Durban, and then again at a May meeting in Sochi, Zuma and President Vladimir Putin reiterated their interest in striking a deal on the nuclear reactors. The point was emphasized when their foreign ministers met in St. Petersburg¬†in July. In an advance leak of the inter-governmental agreement, Carol Paton of Business Day of Johannesburg¬†reported¬†a version of the pact was being circulated in September. ‚ÄúIts drafting follows a visit to Russia by Minister of International Relations and Co-operation Maite Nkoane-Mashabane last month‚Ä¶Department of Energy officials stressed that the draft seen by Business Day is not a final document.‚Äù According to Paton, the Russia-South Africa paper aimed to put Rosatom in pole position to supply the nuclear reactors. ‚ÄúAdviser to the minister of energy Robert Nkuna said that documents of this sort go through many iterations before they are finalised. Several other agreements were also in the process of being negotiated including one with the French government, which is expected to be signed this week during the visit of French president Francois Hollande. The Russian agreement is a revision of an earlier agreement signed in 2004.‚Äù ‚ÄúIn many aspects the draft agreement is similar to other government-to-government agreements, which commit the parties to working together in the interest of promoting nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. It is however, more detailed than other such agreements and includes in its scope co-operation in the ‚Äòdesign, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear plants‚Äô. At face value, it also appears to undermine other bilateral agreements in so far as it commits South Africa to secure agreement from Russia should it want to enter into any other agreements with third-country organisations. Among the obligations of the parties listed is ‚Äòmutual consent‚Äô over the involvement of a third country.‚Äù Rosatom was asked to provide a copy of the agreement initialled this week in Johannesburg. It declined. Rosatom does say it has built nuclear reactors in several countries on the basis of inter-government treaty; these include Turkey, Bangladesh and Belarus. According to the Paton report, the rivals and opponents of Rosatom are coming out of the woodwork. They charge the reactor deal should be based on a competitive bidding process, not on an inter-government pact. Paton quoted Eskom as claiming the government has yet to decide ‚Äúhow the procurement will be done and who will manage the process‚Äù. In Moscow Rosatom was asked to clarify whether the agreement text contains a proviso allowing for the award of the reactor construction contracts without competitive tendering or bidding. Spokesman Andrei Ivanov replied: ‚Äúthere is still no agreement yet. It will be concluded by 15 February. It is impossible to comment on the details of what doesn‚Äôt exist yet. If you talk about the tender for the construction of nuclear power plants in South Africa, this is not a question for us, but for the government of South Africa. At the same time I draw your attention [to the fact] that nuclear power plants in world are built through two procedures: tenders and intergovernmental agreements. These are two different options. The choice is always by the party who is the customer.‚Äù A bulletin issued by the South African Broadcasting Corporation on Monday was either confused on what is happening inside the government, or revealed that not even Energy Minister Martins is sure he knows. The SABC¬†claims¬†‚Äúthe government is expected to open the bidding process for a tender to build a new nuclear power station by the middle of February next year. Russia‚Äôs state owned nuclear energy company, Rosatom, is currently in meetings with local nuclear industry players in Johannesburg to study cooperation possibilities. Energy Minister Ben Martins, who‚Äôs been on a study tour of Russia‚Äôs nuclear facilities, says this doesn‚Äôt mean Russia will get the contract.‚Äù
"Deep Web: The Untold Story of Bitcoin and the Silk Road" is a documentary effort raising money on Kickstarter right now to create a film about the notorious digital currency and the anonymous online drug marketplace. The movie aims to tell the story of the Deep Web and the varied content it plays host to. If you're completely unfamiliar, here's the project creators on what the "Deep Web" is: "The Deep Web refers to all unseen, un-indexed and often intentionally hidden web content. The Deep Web accounts for at least 96% of the World Wide Web. 96%! Think about that! What you see when you surf around the web is a fraction of what's actually going on out there. And a lot of what's going on out there is scary stuff!" Intrigue and suspense! The movie seeks a total of $75,000 to meet its fundraising goal. A $30 donation gets you a digital download of the finished movie. Check out their pitch video below:  
Instagram, Jon NajarianBusiness Insider did a quick fly around Wall Street to see what hedge funders, media personalities, and more are eating this holiday ó and when all the dishes were in, we couldn't help but give CNBC's Najarian brothers their own shout out. Why? Because Jon and Pete Najarian ó options traders, CNBC Fast Money personalities, and former football stars ó have an unquestionably epic meal for Thanksgiving. In fact, some might argue that it's dangerous. Do not try this at home if you lack the equipment/experience. You'll soon see why. In a note to Business Insider Jon said: "My favorite Thanksgiving foods are in this order:†Deep Fried Cajun Turkey,†Popeye's Cajun Gravy,†Bourbon Pecan Pie,†Pumpkin Chiffon Pie, and†Sweet Potato Pie." He had us at "deep fried" and by the time he got to "Popeye's" we had to know more. "My brothers Dave and Paul own Popeye's Fried Chicken franchises," said Jon. "Thursday†morning, as is tradition, we bring two seasoned 18 lb birds to one of their restaurants. We drop for 45 minutes while we BS and talk about family and so on.†Then we bring the turkeys home where about 25 Najarian's dig in." †The cooking process sounds dangerous. What sounds even more dangerous, though, is getting between 25 Najarians and the turkey. Happy Thanksgiving guys. Okay, and now for the process (from Jon's Instagram): Two birds ready to be fried: Instagram, Jon Najarian FIRE IN THE HOLE: Instagram, Jon Najarian The Halftime report: Jon Najarian, Instagram Two Gorgeous Cajun Turkeys: Jon Najarian, Instagram The final meal product: Jon Najarian, Instagram
Image Courtesy of Jonathan Weiss, Design by Mike NudelmanClick the image above to begin your style education.We recently brought you a fraternity fashion email from the self-proclaimed "Fratshionistau"†that was making the rounds at Emory University. We spoke with the author ó Emory sophomore Jonathan Weiss ó and put together our own Fraternity Fashion Guide. Weiss helped us determine some do's and don'ts for the well-dressed frat boy. Inside, you'll find tips on how to dress for any occasion ó formals, date nights, class, or parties. You'll also find some advice directly from the†Fratshionistau, such as this gem about how to best pull off a semi-formal look: "Simplicity stands out! Busy designs on shirts or ties are†distracting. A solid white shirt with a solid colored tie, or a†basic pattern, is always the easiest way to go."
en.wikipedia.orgLONDON (Reuters) - In the 1990s, London-based investment banks rewarded top employees with gold bars, fine wine and oriental carpets to dent the impact of higher payroll taxes. Now, with public anger at banking excess near all time highs, they are looking at less flashy ways to cope with curbs on bonuses, including a new monthly allowance. European rules due to take force in January say bankers' bonuses cannot exceed annual salary, or twice that if shareholders approve, to curb the sort of excessive risk-taking blamed for the 2008-09 financial crisis. Salaries have not dropped in line with banks' revenues since the crisis, consultancy McKinskey said this month, despite a series of huge, taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. At least 10,000 bankers, most of them in London, take home more than half a million euros 500,000 euros ($678,700), according to industry sources, more than 10 times the average wage in wealthier European states. With much of pay currently in bonuses, the biggest banks in London, including Deutsche Bank, Barclays and JP Morgan, look certain to bump up salaries. Britain and the banks in what is Europe's financial capital argue the new rules play into the hands of competing financial centers such as New York, Hong Kong and Singapore. They also say it provides less scope to claw back pay if it turns out an individual had taken too much risk, and limits the ability to pay bonuses in shares awarded in the future. The cap affects all "risk taking" staff for EU banks and the European staff of those outside the trading bloc, so all major investment banks are affected, including U.S. lenders such as JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs. "There's absolutely no question that fixed pay is going to rise," said Jon Terry, partner at PwC. "But the standard response may not be by increases in salary, by far the most common response will be the introduction of allowances. "They are a bit more flexible, but it will fundamentally involve a shift of a proportion of variable pay into fixed pay." Britain's Barclays last week said it will increase fixed pay using such a structure. It plans to give bankers in specific risk-taking roles an additional monthly payment, set at the start of the year and to run for 12 months. The top-up will not be included in pension calculations and could rise or fall depending on demand for a particular role. Other banks, such as JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank and HSBC, are expected to consider similar plans, and could vary the structure with longer payment terms or by paying it quarterly. RISKIER? While raising fixed pay is likely to be the most obvious response to the bonus cap, generous housing allowances and loyalty payments could also be considered. HSBC Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver said he would "take whatever steps necessary to protect the competitiveness" of his bank, noting that three-quarters of staff affected by the rules work outside the European economic area. PwC's Terry said more than 80 percent of 40 banks surveyed by his firm last month said they planned to use allowances as their primary response to the bonus cap. The British government has launched a legal challenge to the legislation arguing that it will force up fixed salaries, making the banks riskier rather than safer. "Firms' remuneration strategies may become less flexible which could make adjustment during periods of stress more difficult, undermining financial stability," the UK's Prudential Regulation Authority said. But other countries do not think the EU is going far enough. The Dutch government on Tuesday said it will cap bonuses at banks at no more than 20 percent of total salary from 2015, although overseas staff could get higher amounts. PUBLIC DISAPPROVAL The European Banking Authority, the watchdog overseeing the rule, said any staff earning more than 500,000 euros a year are likely to be affected. It could also include any employee whose bonus is at least 75,000 euros and 75 percent of their fixed pay, or anyone paid more than the lowest member of senior management. The rules will be finalized early next year. Some 3,175 bankers earned 1 million euros or more in the EU in 2011, indicating at least 10,000 people would be caught by a rule covering any employee earning half that amount, according to published salary scales. The British Bankers' Association has said more than 35,000 people could be affected at 10 major banks it surveyed, representing 5.5 percent of their global workforce. More than three-quarters of the top EU bank earners were based in London, fuelling the city's property prices, swanky restaurants and upmarket shops. In 2011, the bonuses of London's top bankers were 3.5 times fixed pay, EBA data showed, meaning their employers would need to switch almost 400 million euros to fixed pay from bonuses to meet the new rules in aggregate. The rules come into effect in January, but will not apply to bonuses for 2013, which are typically paid in February and March. Barclays said it discussed its plan with regulators and shareholders. Investors are keen for banks to rein in pay, and George Dallas, director of corporate governance at F&amp;C Investments, said banks need to follow the spirit of the law as well as the letter to avoid "further regulatory scrutiny and public disapproval". "How banks respond to this (bonus cap) regulation will be one of the key issues in 2014," Dallas said. Bonuses for 2013 at most investment banks are expected to be flat or slightly lower than the year before, following a drop in revenues. (Editing by Carmel Crimmins and Philippa Fletcher)

Today we'll put aside the hedge fund battles, the controversial calls, and the wrangling with Washington and give thanks for what really matters ó family, football, and most crucial for our purposes right here, food. Business Insider asked some Wall Street notables what they'll be looking forward to eating today. Here's what they said: That's all everyone. Have an awesome day.†
BBC video screengrabEconomic inequality has become a hot topic recently, with Pope Francis becoming just the latest high profile individual to¬†speak out about the growing trend. Last night, however, another big name expressed a very different viewpoint ‚Äî that economic inequality can be good, and some people just aren't clever enough to succeed. Boris Johnson, the right wing Conservative party's Mayor of London, was talking at the Centre for Policy Studies in London, a neo-liberal free-market think tank. The speech was titled "What Would Maggie do Today?" but the section that caught the most attention today only dealt indirectly with Margaret Thatcher.¬†Instead, it focused on what Johnson saw as the link between IQ and economic success. Here's the entire passage [emphasis ours]: Like it or not, the free market economy is the only show in town. Britain is competing in an increasingly impatient and globalised economy, in which the competition is getting ever stiffer. No one can ignore the harshness of that competition, or the inequality that it inevitably accentuates; and I am afraid that violent economic centrifuge is operating on human beings who are already very far from equal in raw ability, if not spiritual worth. Whatever you may think of the value of IQ tests, it is surely relevant to a conversation about equality that as many as 16 per cent of our species have an IQ below 85, while about 2 per cent have an IQ above 130. [According to the Guardian, Johnson then asked whether anyone in the audience had a low IQ. To muted laughter he asked: "Over 16% anyone? Put up your hands."]¬†The harder you shake the pack, the easier it will be for some cornflakes to get to the top. And for one reason or another ‚Äì boardroom greed or, as I am assured, the natural and god-given talent of boardroom inhabitants - the income gap between the top cornflakes and the bottom cornflakes is getting wider than ever. I stress: I don‚Äôt believe that economic equality is possible; indeed, some measure of inequality is essential for the spirit of envy and keeping up with the Joneses that is, like greed, a valuable spur to economic activity. Johnson nonetheless called for a more meritocratic society that may lead to some reduction in economic inequality. He announced his support of plans for a return of selective state schools and more state-funded scholarships for academically successful students to attend private schools. Johnson's assertion that IQ was linked with success and his implication that economic inequality could act as a spur to the talented prompted the biggest response amongst the British left. The left-wing tabloid the Daily Mirror quotes a Labour Party source in an article titled "Boris Johnson: Millions of people too STUPID to get on in life": ‚ÄúThis shows how out of touch the Conservatives if they think it is acceptable to write off the life chances of millions of their fellow citizens.‚Äù In the Guardian, Dean Burnett¬†argues that IQ¬†is, by design, a relative figure, and that links between IQ and personal wealth have found little to no correlation. Even Nick Clegg, the leader of the centrist Liberal Democrats who sits in a coalition government with Johnson's Conservative party, felt forced to criticize the "careless elitism" of Johnson's comments in an interview with the BBC radio.¬† What's perhaps most interesting about Johnson's comments is that Johnson is a remarkably savvy populist politician, and one who is rumored to have big ambitions to one day be the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. If he says things like this in a public speech, chances are he believes that a large section of the voting public agree with him.
As we have been arguing for more than a year, we think 2014 is the year when the economy finally exits rehab and starts growing at a healthy 3% (4Q/4Q). In our view, the economy would have already exited rehab this year if the politicians had not hit the economy with a double dose of austerity and confidence shocks. Two keys to better growthóthe housing market and the banking sectoróhad already shown serious signs of improvement in 2012, with solid gains in home prices and construction and a modest improvement in bank lending. ... Absent the shocks out of Washington, we believe growth this year would have been 3 to 3.5%. ... Not only are structural headwinds fading, we expect Washington to be less shocking. While the sequester shock is not overóthere is about a 0.2pp hit to GDP in 2014óthe vast majority of the 2%-plus in fiscal austerity has already been absorbed into the economy. At the same time, with the election looming, we expect moderate politicians in each party to assert themselves and avoid another shutdown. ... While some of the cyclical bounce has already happened, it is important to recognize that the US is still in the early stage of the business cycle. Business cycles donít die of old age, they die from overexpansion and inflation. ... In our view, the auto recovery is fairly well-advanced, but there is a long way to go in other consumer durables, housing, and business investment. Even more important ... inflation seems a distant concern. ††† emphasis added Harris makes several key points that I agree with (see my post from a month ago: Comment: Looking for Stronger Economic Growth in 2014). As Harris notes, the auto recovery is "well-advanced", but many other sectors of the economy (like housing) have "a long way to go". With improved balance sheets, improving housing market, the end of state and local government austerity, less Federal government austerity, 2014 should be a better year for growth.
Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through October. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms ‚Äî adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July, 2007, three months before the market peak. In real (inflation-adjusted) terms, the latest margin debt is at an interim high, 3.5% below the all-time high in July 2007. ¬† The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed has periodically increased the easing. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is a few weeks old when it is published. Real margin debt at the end of September 2013, the latest available data, is now at a new interim high, surpassing the previous interim high set in April. If the accelerating trend in the two previous peaks offers a clue, margin debt may see some further growth. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts, General Partner &amp; CEO of Streettalk Advisors, analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't be immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance trough as a definitive warning for U.S. equities. But we'll want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead.
This week, Nomura's Michael Kurtz has declared that it's the "end of the end of the world." In forecasting the performance of the S&amp;P 500, Kurtz argues that we could see further expansion in the price-earnings ratio (PER), which means prices will grow faster than earnings. And this PER expansion could come as interest rates begin to rise. Here's Kurtz: Figure 46 shows a strongly positive correlation between US Treasury yield changes and changes in the S&amp;P 500 forward PER. While we would not presume to venture too scientific an analysis here, in approximate terms the conservative 50 bp increase in Treasury yields that our rates strategists look for by end-2014 appears consistent historically with an S&amp;P 500 forward PER expansion of up to 1.5 multiple points. This, then, could lift the S&amp;P 500 forward PER from roughly 15.0x currently to between 16.0x and 16.5x¬† -- or a plausible 0.5 standard deviation above its long-term mean of 15.2x. But because our end-2013 S&amp;P target of 1,780 assumes an "actual" 12-month forward PER (i.E. adjusted for our more conservative US$112.50/sr 2014 EPS estimate) of 15.8x, that would mean only a small (roughly 2-3%) actual margin expansion in 2014 (i.e. to roughly 16.3 from an 'adjusted' 15.8 currently). Allowing for a modest 2%-3% upside from such an 'actual' multiple expansion (i.e. adjusted for our rather than consensus EPS forecasts), and taking into consideration our current S&amp;P 500 EPS growth forecast of roughly 6% -- and assuming a similar growth rate in 2015 (as our US nominal GDP growth forecast for that year largely plateaus from 2014 -- we arrive at an end-2014 S&amp;P 500 index target of 1,925 (7% above current levels)... Deutsche Bank's David Bianco shares this assessment. From Bianco's Nov. 17 note to clients: The S&amp;P‚Äôs forward PE on mid-cycle EPS (or more than 2 years after recessions) has never significantly exceeded 16 other than the late 1990s, when high PEs were assigned mostly to Tech stocks for their assumed strong economic profit growth. In our view, further S&amp;P PE expansion from 15x 2014E EPS today would be justified if long-term treasury yields slowly rise as the Fed tapers, but plateau below historical norms (~4% 10yr, ~2% 10yr TIPS or less). The less the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet expands in 2014 the less the risk that yields rise above historical norms when QE ends or when the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet contracts. Rising rates are generally associated with an improving economy, which may explain why investors would be willing to pay an increasing premium to earnings. Nomura
Thanksgiving is when you often find yourself sitting in traffic, waiting for a delayed flight, or looking for a reason to get away from your extended family. It's also a day when Americans remember the things they are thankful for. So, if you're sitting in traffic, waiting for a delayed flight, or looking for a reason to get away from your extended family, here are 25 charts to make you thankful you live in the greatest country in the world.¬† It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  Wikimedia FRED Brewers Association Brewer's Association Brewer's Association Mark Perry/AEI It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  It's Getting Better All The Time / Stephen Moore & Julian Simon  Mark Perry/AEI "The Improving State of the World" (c) Cato Institute 2007. Used with permission The NPD Group EIA Mark Perry/AEI EIA EIA¬† Steven Perlberg / Business Insider (data via Bloomberg) Mark Perry/AEI Piers Happy Thanksgiving!
Wall Street's analysts have a very long and consistent track record of overestimating the future earnings of the companies they cover. Because of this well-known record, markets have gotten used to negative earnings revisions. In other words, this specific type of bad news is generally priced into the markets and is not a good reason to sell stocks. Estimates for 2014 are already tumbling. "The above-noted S&amp;P 500 2014 EPS estimate downgrades are in fact no worse than in-line with the long-term (post-1987) "average annual earnings estimate revision trend" -- i.e. estimates typically "start high" and are whittled down over time -- which itself implies roughly another 7.5% downside to 2014 EPS before the "typical" revision process will have run its course (Figure 36)," said Nomura's Michael Kurtz. "This would imply that bottom-up 2014 EPS eventually settle at roughly US$111.0/shr. -- a deeper cumulative downgrade than our own top-down modelling suggests, or indeed than we ourselves expect." Kurtz is expecting $112.50/shr. in 2014 for the S&amp;P 500. He sees the index ending next year at 1,925, up 7% from current levels. This is not to say earnings aren't important for stocks. It's just that the markets know those forecasts are coming down.
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA visitor walks past logos at the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Tokyo, June 13, 2013.TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares were in a buoyant mood, with Japanese stocks charging towards a 5-1/2 year peak on Thursday after the yen fell sharply on the back of relatively positive U.S. economic data, while two major regional currencies slumped. U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly fell last week and the November Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence improved from a preliminary reading, while the Chicago PMI held up better than expected last month after surging in October. A soft October durable goods report was the only dent to an otherwise upbeat set of figures. "The U.S. economic data were very pro-tapering, despite the weakness in the durable goods data," Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citigroup, wrote in a note. The Indonesian rupiah fell to its psychological support at 12,000 per dollar, the first time since March 2009. The currency is seen vulnerable to capital outflows once the U.S. Federal Reserve begins dialing back the massive stimulus that has fuelled asset prices in emerging markets. Investors are focusing more closely on data as they weigh the odds of when the Fed is likely to start unwinding its $85 billion-a-month bond-buying campaign. Many investors expect the Fed will begin tapering in the first quarter of next year if the economy continues to improve. "On tapering and USD, we have been struck by how much of the market continues to assign a very low probability of a December or January tapering," Englander said. "Investors are focused on next week's labor market release, but the stronger than expected data suggests that some revision of probabilities is merited even going into the numbers." The dollar hit a six-month high against of 102.28 yen, adding to a 0.8 percent gain overnight and edging closer to a 4-1/2 peak of 103.74 yen reached in May. As the yen tumbled, Tokyo's Nikkei benchmark &lt;.N225&gt; climbed 1.2 percent to 15,631.35, closing in on a 5-1/2 year peak of 15,942.60 reached in May. The Nikkei is up 50 percent this year in local currency terms, outpacing a 26.7 percent jump in the U.S. S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; and a 16 percent rise in the pan-European STOXX 600 &lt;.STOXX&gt; index. Investors have been using the yen as a funding currency for carry trades with the Bank of Japan committed to keeping ultra-loose monetary policy to shore up growth -- a contrast with the Fed which is moving towards a turn in policy. On Wednesday, BOJ board member Sayuri Shirai said the BOJ should consider expanding monetary stimulus even further if economic and price growth deviates sharply from its projections. ASIA UNDERPERFORMS The Thai baht dropped to an 11-week low of 32.20 to the dollar as October manufacturing output fell more than expected, adding to the country's economic woes as political tensions heightened. The SET index &lt;.SETI&gt; inched up 0.2 percent, however. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; advanced 0.6 percent, hitting a one-week high. Still, the Asian gauge is only up 1.7 percent so far this year, sharply underperforming U.S., European and Japanese share markets. In terms of valuations, the Asian index was cheaper than its major developed market rivals. The MSCI Asia-Pacific ex-Japan index carried a 12-month price-to-earnings of 12, versus the S&amp;P 500's 14.9, STOXX Europe 600's 13.5 and Japanese equities' 14.3, according to Thomson Reuters Datastream. On Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average &lt;.DJI&gt; and the S&amp;P 500 closed at record highs while the tech-heavy Nasdaq &lt;.IXIC&gt; finished at a 13-year peak. U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving. The euro was steady at $1.35755, having hit a four-week high in the previous session after news that Germany's two major parties had formed a grand coalition. The Australian dollar climbed 0.5 percent to $0.9125 on the day, further off a three-month low, after better than expected business investment data reinforced expectations that the Reserve Bank of Australia is unlikely to cut its base rate from the current record low of 2.5 percent. "In a year's time, we're probably looking at growth heading back to around 3 percent, which is more optimistic than what the RBA was expressing," said Shane Oliver, chief economist at AMP Capital Investors. "Ultimately, it would also be consistent with it leaving rates on hold ahead of a possible rate hike sometime around September or October next year." Among commodities, U.S. crude prices eased 0.1 percent to around $92.2 a barrel, adding to a 1.5 percent slide overnight as a higher than expected build in inventories weighed down prices. Gold stabilised at about $1,239 an ounce, having fallen 0.4 percent in the previous session and not far from a four-month low of $1,227.34 touched on Monday. (Additional reporting by Jongwoo Cheon in Singapore and Wayne Cole in Sydney; Editing by Eric Meijer)
