Wikimedia CommonsNetflix beat Q2 earnings estimates this evening and followed their numbers up with a webcast moderated by CNBC's Julia Boorstin and hosted by a smiling Reed Hastings looking confident and speaking smoothly. The stock is down 4% in after hours trading. The slide began immediately after Netflix released its earnings numbers, as investors realized that Netflix missed on estimates for streaming subscribers. It had projected something in the range of††230,000 and 880,000 additional U.S. subscribers, and didn't satisfy with 630,000. That brings the total number of streaming subscribers up to 29.81 million, very close to the witching number of 30 million at which a lot of Netflix bears say its subscriber base will dry up. Next quarter should be especially interesting for them. Meanwhile, Netflix is still spending money on growth that is slow to materialize. "We're using ....all our domestic revenue to expand internationally," Hastings said on the webcast, acknowledging that it's a risky move in one breath, and saying that it was necessary for the company in the next. The international market, however, isn't producing for Netflix. There, it saw a $66 million loss, and the company expects to take a $78 million loss in the market next quarter. In his letter to investors, Hastings seemed excited about growth in international markets, citing specifically the company's launch in the U.K. and Ireland. On the call, he declined to give specific numbers about any of that. Additionally, Hastings dodged a question from Boorstin about domestic subscriber churns saying†ìI donít even look at subscriber churn. What I really focus on is overall growth, which is really net additions.î This is all wrapped up in what Wall Street bears bring up time and time again ó Netflix's cash flow issues. Bottom line: Netflix is still figuring out how to factor in the production of its expensive original series'. So far, it's amortizing those costs.  In terms of streaming content, for example, Netflix amortized $510 million this quarter. It also spent $593 million on new streaming content. Netflix reported a non-GAAP cash flow of $13 million finally coming back in black after a series of quarters with negative cash flow. Ultimately, however, the non-GAAP calculation is done by simply subtracting acquisitions Netflix's its DVD library and purchases of equipment from net cash used in the operating the company and other assets. What it doesn't factor in is whether or not Netflix is simply wrong to amortize the costs of it's programming.† The shorts are thinking that the subscriber base won't allow the company to keep up its current spending, and that if it were healthy, the costs that the company is capitalizing would be paid off quarter after quarter in full. The bears might also harp on the fact that Hastings neglected to discuss any off balance sheet liabilities during this webcast ó they totaled $3.3 billion at the end of March. Not necessarily the kind of money that just disappears.
Douglas Croft/National Geographic Traveler Photo ContestThe market has been very slow lately. But actually this stealthiness has been deceptive. It turns out the market is on a tear. Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG on Twitter) notes that actually the market has been on a Twitter: ¬†It remains a quite rally to the upside, no doubt about that. How quiet? The S&amp;P 500 is up 5.6% in July which, if it closed here, would be the strongest month since October 2011 and the 17th best month dating back to 2000. And yet, just two days this month have seen gains/losses of more/less than 0.55%. A volatile month it has not been. On the day, financials continued their recent run and are up 7.3% this month alone. However, for all the focus on financial earnings and yield curves, it‚Äôs been a better month for biotech stocks (now they‚Äôre dealing with M&amp;A), auto and related names (JCI +8.3% the other day) and energy equipment and service names (SLB is up 17% just this month). Bigger picture, it remains impressive that markets are at new highs, while yields have surged, and so many other global markets have turned in some way or another.
AP"Life is too exciting to sleep!" says AOL CEO Tim Armstrong.If you want to be successful, you might have to roll out of bed a little earlier. Waking up early was a common trait among CEOs surveyed by Jim Citrin at Yahoo! Finance. It's also frequently cited by CEOs who relay their morning routines to Inc in one of its features, "The Way I Work."¬† Many of tech's go-getters function well on little sleep. Others are woken up by product releases, emails, and the desire to workout. Here are successful people who often wake up before the crack of dawn.
Things are pretty quiet to start the day in Japan (consistent with the fact that markets overall around the world have been very quiet this month). The Nikkei is off a bit, the USDJPY remains sub-100 in the wake of this weekend's election. Nikkei.com Elsewhere, Australia is up a little bit, and Korea is up 0.8%.
If you'll indulge me... Tiger Woods is no longer†Tiger Woods.†He's very good, probably the best golfer on the planet, but he's not Tiger F. Woods.† He comes up small on the weekends of majors, playing more like Brandt Snedeker than a golfer who is in the conversation as the greatest of all time. (That is, he plays well enough to sneak into the top ten, but not anywhere near well enough to win.) Despite Tiger's struggles, he's still the most compelling man in golf. His icy demeanor, his attempt to capture five more majors, his talent, his struggles, they all add up to something that's electric, despite the so-so play.† Now, Apple.† For years, Apple was a mind-melting company that always destroyed expectations. It was history in the making, and it was awe-inspiring. Just like the old Tiger.† Lately, Apple has become just another company. It's still (arguably) the best tech company in the world, but it's not†the. best. tech. company. in the world, period. Its earnings are missing estimates, guidance is lower than expected, and in general a bit more, meh. Just like the new Tiger. Yet, Apple remains the most compelling story in tech. Its earnings still get more page views than any other company's earnings. It's still the company that tells you where the industry is at.† And so, when it reports its least important earnings of the year Tuesday afternoon, it's still going to be a must-watch event. That said, this quarter has almost no drama for Apple. There was no iPhone update, no iPad update, no anything. The dividend and buyback are old news.† The stock, which was in free fall, pretty much stabilized. Not that that's any consolation. This time last year, it was on its way to $700. Today it's trapped at $425. (It went as high as $463, before crashing again to $425, but relatively to the drop from $700, that's a blip.) So, what are looking for from Apple? The hard numbers are below. In terms of not so hard numbers, we're looking for some sort of hint about the future from Apple. We're not likely to get much that's new. On the last earnings call, CEO Tim Cook told the world nothing new was coming until the fall and in 2014. Since then, he's spoken at the D Conference, and Apple had its Worldwide Developer Conference. At both events, Apple failed to suggest much in terms of a timeline. But, maybe its guidance will give us a clue about whether the next iPhone comes this quarter or next. Here are the numbers analysts are expecting via Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster. (Whisper is Munster's survey of 20 buy-side analysts): We'll have live coverage of Apple's earnings, complete with all the numbers as soon as is humanly possible (if not sooner), so tune in!
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. ROSENBERG: Why I Continue To Believe The Next Major Theme Is Stagflation (Gluskin Sheff)  Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg argues that stagflation is the next major theme. He argues that this is because "you cannot keep real short-term rates negative for this long in the face of even modestly positive real economic growth without generating financial excesses today and inflation pressures in the future." "We started off the great secular bull market in bonds in 1981 with 15% inflation and 15% bond yields, and the mantra led by none other than Henry Kaufman who at the time at the time spearheaded Salomon Brothers' Research Department, was calling for 30% inflation and long bond yields, and what he and the consensus back then underestimated was the resolve on the part of the Fed to slay the inflation dragon." This Might Be The Cruelest Time To Be An Asset Allocator (GMO) "This might just be the cruelest time to be an asset allocator. Normally we find ourselves in situations in which at least something is cheap; for instance when large swathes of risk assets have been expensive, safe haven assets have generally been cheap, or at least reasonable (and vice versa)," according to James Montier part of GMO's asset allocation team.¬† "However, today we see something very different. As Exhibit 2 shows, today‚Äôs opportunity set is characterized by almost everything being expensive." GMO Some Financial Advisors Say Cold Calling Is Still Alive And Well (The Wall Street Journal) While many in the financial advisor business have moved away from cold calling, some still argue that the practice helps their bottom line, according to the Wall Street Journal. Some do this the old school way by picking up the phone, other like Winnie Sun at Sun Group Wealth Partners begins by connecting on Linkedin. Others argue that¬† the practice is good when you start your practice but becomes unnecessary as you establish yourself. FINRA Bars Broker On Allegations That He Stole $4.2 Million From Two Clients (Investment News) FINRA has barred John Thornes, president of California-based Thornes &amp; Associates from the industry after allegations emerged that he stole $4.2 million from two clients, according to Investment News. One of the clients is said to suffer from Alzheimer's. The self regulator also suspended his membership.¬† "Finra alleged that from December 2010 and January 2013, Mr. Thornes converted customer assets in two trust accounts, using at least 50 transactions falsely characterized as loans, and transferred the money to two of his friends," according to Investment News. The case was settled last week.  This Bull Market Could See A Lot More All-Time Highs Before Running Out Of Steam (S&amp;P Capital IQ) Stocks keep hitting new all-time highs, and we're hearing chatter that investors should enjoy this while it lasts. But S&amp;P Capital IQ's chief equity strategist Sam Stovall says this isn't the case. He points out that "new highs are typical in a maturing bull market." Each of the 11 bull markets since 1949 has lasted an average 57 months. 7% of all trading days within these bull markets set all-time closing highs. We are 52 months into the current bull market. There have been 21 all-time highs since the first new all-time high in March, and that's just 2% of all bull-market trading days. "So history would indicate, but not guarantee, that this bull market has many more new-highs to record before finally running out of steam."
The first of Putin‚Äôs pokes at Hollande was the award in January of this year of a Russian passport and an apartment on One Democracy Street, Saransk, for Gerard Depardieu. This was followed¬†in February¬†by Hollande‚Äôs first visit to Moscow when he and Putin pretended to be businesslike, and Hollande dropped his regime-change talk, at least his earlier support for the overthrow of Putin himself. It‚Äôs quite clear that Hollande has struck the Russians as a duplicitous hypocrite. But it‚Äôs just as clear that he is so feeble domestically that it‚Äôs the French who are giving him the double-eyed poke. His approval rating (Ifop measurement) was 26% in June; last week it was 27%. No French president has proved to be so deeply and widely unpopular so quickly.According to the Valdai Club of anti-Putin academics and reporters, Putin‚Äôs Depardieu ploy lacked motive and resulted in a mistake. ‚ÄúI must say that Hollande took this badly,‚Äù¬†claimed¬†a French analyst, Arnaud Dubien, in an interview arranged by the Valdai Club just before Hollande‚Äôs arrival in Moscow. ‚ÄúI guess the Russian leaders did not fully grasp the situation. They did not mean to cause any harm and merely improvised, as often happens in Russia, especially during holidays. Nor did they fully understand in full how French society and the government would perceive this. So it‚Äôs hard to see how this move benefited anyone.‚Äù Although Valdai portentously titled the interview, ‚ÄúIs there a place for Russia in Francois Hollande‚Äôs foreign policy priorities?‚Äù it provided no answer at all. Better to ask, Is there a place for Hollande in Putin‚Äôs priorities? now that the second eye-poke has been delivered by Putin in Hollande‚Äôs face. This time the French instrument is Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Last week Rosneft arranged for Strauss-Kahn to take a seat on the board of its pocket bank, Russian Regional Development Bank (the Russian acronym is VBRR). The action was taken so quickly, there was barely time for the bank to put Strauss-Kahn‚Äôs name on the Russian version of the board. On the English ‚Äìlanguage version, the bank website continued today, more than a week later, to list the three Morgan Stanley bankers hired eight months ago by Rosneft‚Äôs chief executive, Igor Sechin. Their names are still on the English version of the board ‚Äì Rair Simonian, Elena Titova, and Walid Chammah ‚Äì Strauss-Kahn‚Äôs is not yet. The resignations of the Morgan Stanley trio, made public in Moscow on July 12, were put down in the Russian business media to a switch of the bank‚Äôs client strategy from investment to consumer banking. In the process, or in parallel, Titova reportedly clashed with Sechin. What Strauss-Khan can contribute instead of the Morgan Stanley trio hasn‚Äôt been announced, and he didn‚Äôt have time to say himself before the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) issued an¬†announcement¬†that Strauss-Khan is to take a seat on its 9-man board. That this July 19 move had been cleared with Putin in advance is certain. Sergei Ivanov, Putin‚Äôs chief of staff, is the second- ranking member of RDIF‚Äôs board. RDIF was asked to explain when the shareholders of the fund met to decide to enlarge the board by the additional seat; why Strauss-Kahn was appointed to the Supervisory Board rather than the International Advisory Board; and why there are now two Frenchmen on RDIF‚Äôs controlling committee. The other is Laurent Vigier, Director of European and International Affairs at the Caisse des D√©p√¥ts Group, a French state institution without private, individual or corporate shareholders. Vigier was a prot√©g√© and advisor of former president Nicolas Sarkozy. He has government experience, but no banking. The RDIF spokesman Maria Medvedeva refused to reply. According to the RDIF releases, Strauss-Kahn ‚Äúis an expert on the global economy and politics.‚Äù Politics, that‚Äôs the key word. When Strauss-Kahn ran into his sexual trouble in New York in May 2011, Putin was the only head of government in the entire world to publicly suggest that he had been framed by the New York Police Department, and possibly by others too. The following was¬†staged¬†by the then-prime minister as a press opportunity on May 27, 2011: ‚ÄúQuestion: Candidates for the post of the IMF managing director are now being discussed. Whom would you support? And what is your attitude towards the scandal surrounding Dominique Strauss-Kahn? Was he framed for political reasons? Vladimir Putin: I don‚Äôt know much about the possible political reasons and don‚Äôt even want to touch on this issue, but it really is hard to believe that everything is as it was initially presented. I just can‚Äôt believe that ‚Äì it is beyond me to understand it.‚Äù The dismissal of the criminal charges against Strauss-Kahn thirteen weeks after his arrest wasn‚Äôt an exoneration of Strauss-Kahn‚Äôs conduct. But it was a vindication of Putin‚Äôs position that there had been a political plot¬†against him. But why, almost two years later, has Putin given his approval for his two subordinates, Sechin and Ivanov, to reward Strauss-Kahn financially and help resurrect his public reputation? There is no obvious answer ‚Äì unless Strauss-Kahn, like Depardieu, has been assigned the Stooge role ‚Äì that‚Äôs Moe the Stooge ‚Äì with the intention of striking Hollande personally. That Hollande must have done something to Putin behind the scenes, as yet undisclosed, to warrant two two-eyed pokes in six months is likely. But if Putin were to deal out two-eyed pokes to every duplicitous hypocrite he meets in the course of running the Russian government, he‚Äôd run out of arms, fingers, and wit.
flickr/Chris RoachIn GMO's latest quarterly letter, James Montier poses the question: are we witnessing the death of bonds as an asset class? GMO forecasts very low returns for bonds over the next seven years (Montier calls it the "Purgatory of Low Returns"). As the big sell-off in the bond market in May and June has illustrated, bond investors are at the mercy of the Federal Reserve and its decisions regarding when to begin tapering back monetary stimulus. The way Montier figures it, bond investors are thus faced with three scenarios: (1) tapering, a scenario in which bonds will have negative returns in the coming years; (2) no tapering, in which case bonds will have very low returns; and (3) an outright deflationary scenario ñ say, if the U.S. economy unexpectedly slips into recession again ñ which would presumably be good for bonds. "In essence, in the†absence of a strong view on deflation, you neither want to be long, nor short, Treasuries," writes Montier. "You just donít want to own any." This leads Montier to pose the question: The Death of an Asset Class? I am well aware of the dangers of proclaiming the death of an asset class, because usually when this is announced, we witness an enormous bull market in the supposedly dead asset class. However, barring the deflation outcome, we could finally be witnessing what Keynes described as the euthanasia of the rentier: "The owner of capital can obtain interest because capital is scarce, just as the owner of land can obtain rent because land is scarce. But whilst there may be intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of land, there are no intrinsic reasons for the scarcity of capitalÖ I seeÖ the euthanasia of the rentier." Assuming you arenít expecting outright deflation, then the best that can be said for owning some treasuries is that they act as diversification/insurance in the context of an equity portfolio. However, as Exhibit 9 shows, the correlation between bonds and equities isnít exactly stable ñ it wanders all over the place, and on average is positive! Certainly it is negative during a subset of events that are probably best described as deflationary busts (e.g., 1930s, 2008). So if this is the risk you are worried about, then perhaps you should own some fixed income. However, it isnít obvious just how much of a diversifier bonds can be at very low yields. Nor do bonds act as diversifying assets to events†like the stagflation of the 1970s. Ultimately, if you own bonds as insurance you must ask yourself how much you are†paying for that insurance, because insurance is as much a valuation-driven proposition as anything else in investing. The chart below shows the rolling 5-year correlation between bond and equity returns. GMO
The New Republic's withering article on partners at Chicago law firm Mayer Brown "aggressively" competing with one another other highlights a huge problem plaguing BigLaw ó partners screwing each other to get ahead. The problem is that many huge corporate law firms compensate partners based on how many new clients they can bring in. This incentive spurs lawyers to hoard clients and try to beat out their colleagues to get to them first. (At Mayer Brown, for example, partners in the Chicago office would fly to New York to steal clients from their Manhattan colleagues, Noam Scheiber writes in the TNR piece called "the last days of BigLaw.") Lawyers hoarding their precious clients is nothing new, but it's gotten worse since the recession. Baby Boomers are putting off retirement and holding onto their clients, and there's just less work for lawyers these days. "As a consequence, many partners build client silos and guard them jealously, even from their fellow partners," legal industry expert Steven J. Harper told Business Insider. This hoarding has also gotten worse since partners tend to jump from job to job these days instead of staying at one firm for the duration of their careers. "Where's the incentive for a partner to share a client with a fellow partner who might leave and try to take that client along?" Harper said. This "eat what you kill" mentality is a "stupid way to develop business" and can be terrible for law firms, Orrick partner and legal industry expert Patricia Gillette told BI. For one thing, it just looks bad to potential clients when multiple lawyers from the same firm try to get their business without coordinating with one another. Greedy partners also take a toll on young associates, who are rarely given the chance to take the lead with a client. Many partners don't "think about the next generation" because they're intent on keeping their clients to themselves, Gillette told us. "What you have is people looking out for themselves and no one else," she said. "That is extremely damaging to the firm."
The New RepublicBeing a corporate lawyer is even more terrible than it used to be. In the¬†cover story for the current issue of the New Republic, Noam Scheiber explains that demand for expensive legal services is in permanent decline, and it's turning big law firms into Lord Of The Flies. It's one more datapoint vindicating my decision to become a banker rather than a lawyer. When I was finishing college, I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. Like a lot of directionless Harvard students, I took the LSAT and planned to go to law school, almost as a default choice. But when I was a senior, I realized I wasn't sure enough that I wanted to practice law to merit taking on north of $150,000 in debt. So I found a more cost-effective way to delay my decision about what to do with my life: I became a corporate banker. From 2005 to 2008, I worked for Wells Fargo in their commercial real estate lending division. I worked on construction financings in New York and Washington and unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts. Broadly, my job involved defending the choice to make a loan against a given piece or pool of real estate, either to loan officers inside the bank or to outside investors interested in buying Wells Fargo's debt. What I learned in this job has been hugely formative for my later work as a policy researcher and a journalist. I learned how to distill a wide variety of numerical and abstract information into a brief, easy-to-read memo for an audience of readers who are smart but busy. This was ideal training for writing policy briefs and op-eds. I learned how to make oral presentations of that information and be prepared to answer questions on the fly. This is why TV and radio interviews don't stress me out: Wells Fargo's credit officers are much tougher than any MSNBC panelist. I learned about zoning, rent control, property tax credits, brownfield cleanup, and many other land-use policy issues that I write about today‚Äîand I got to see how policy in these areas affected the choices of real estate developers. And I learned that being a lawyer sucks. As a junior banker, I had to take orders from a lot of people: my boss, internal credit reviewers, clients, regulators. The only people I got to order around were the lawyers. I worked on one deal with a complicated financial structure, and our expensive Biglaw attorney kept failing to accurately describe the structure in the loan agreement. He excused his errors by saying¬†he'd become an attorney so he wouldn't have to do math. I asked him how many hundreds of dollars an hour we'd have to pay for a lawyer who could also do math. I was 22, and I was being a dick. But I was also right. Even when the lawyers weren't screwing up, they were always having to be solicitous, stay late, and turn documents around as quickly as possible. And in 2007, as the real estate markets started to cool, they started to seem desperate. I remember one night in 2007 or 2008, two law partners visiting from San Francisco took me and another fairly recent college graduate out for dinner because free food, even of the fancy variety, wasn't that appealing to more senior bankers. That they felt the need to schmooze me was not a good sign about the state of the industry. Their firm liquidated by the end of 2008 as real estate deal volume declined. Of course, 2008 wasn't a great time for banking, either. As with corporate lawyers, bankers increasingly face skepticism about whether the services they provide are even useful.¬†But Wells Fargo was doing much better than its peers because of the bank's unusually sane attitude toward credit, and the sort of vanilla lending I was doing there remains in much better standing than more exotic products. In other words, I could easily have stayed in banking if I had wanted to. But by 2008, I wanted to get out.¬†In one key way, banking is very similar to law: getting more senior would mean spending less time doing financial analysis and more time sucking up to clients, and I didn't like sucking up to clients. Plus, I didn't wake up in the morning excited to underwrite the next loan. I wanted to do something else.¬† Since I was a banker instead of a lawyer, this was fine. I didn't have three years' worth of grad school debt tying me to the industry. I took a pay cut and went to work for the Tax Foundation, doing research on state and local finances. I didn't have an economics degree or any experience in public finance. I got the job in part on the strength of a sample policy brief I wrote about an issue I'd become interested in at Wells Fargo: how falling Mortgage Recording Tax revenues were about to cause a fiscal crisis at New York's Metropolitan Transportation Agency. It's the first policy research document I ever wrote and, five years on, I think it looks pretty good. Indeed, the MTA would go on to need a fiscal rescue from the state legislature, which imposed a new payroll tax in 2009 to prop up its budget. And its content and structure were informed mostly by my experience writing deal memos at the bank. A lot of people talk about law school as doing more than preparing you to practice law, but teaching you how to think. Some people even defend the insane idea of getting a graduate degree in journalism. For me, banking provided a way to improve my analytical and writing skills and grow up a bit while drawing a salary instead of paying tuition. I'm glad I'm not a banker anymore. But I'm also glad that I was one for a time‚Äîand that I never became a lawyer.
This weekend the New York Times wrote a story about Metro International Trade Services, a Detroit-based aluminum storage company owned by Goldman Sachs. The way the NYT tells it, Goldman is shuffling the commodity around its own warehouses in order to increase demand for the commodity, thus impacting the price of the commodity. Goldman shot back, arguing that customers control flows in and out of the warehouses since they own the actual commodity. Additionally, Goldman said the commodity is suffering from weak demand, which has been reflected in the beating its spot price has taken since February when it was at $2,100 a ton to now, when it sits below $1,775 a ton. Because of an obscure (to us laymen) trading phenomenon, they could both be right. It could be that Goldman is impacting the price of the commodity, but not because of something as simple as a warehouse shuffle. The trading phenomenon is called contango. It's what happens when the curve showing the spot price of a commodity (the price at which you can buy a commodity at a give time) is less than the futures market's price for the commodity. The spot price merely considers the value of the commodity, the futures price factors in the spot price, the theoretical minimal return on investment an investor can expect, and time to maturity of the contract (that includes storage/convenience costs). Izabella Kaminska got super technical with it in a post of FT Alphaville. She pointed out that during a contango, anyone housing the asset can make a profit by forward selling it on the futures market, then they can essentially let the owners of the asset pay rent until it has to be delivered. Regulation demands that Goldman move the aluminum around after a certain amount of time, and that's why there's all the trucking rigmarole. That isn't, however, what impacts price. The game changer is the fact that the market paying futures prices for the commodity, eventually impacts the spot price of the commodity. "They [Goldman] can influence the price heavily because they affect a price where the entire market pegs," said Jeffrey Carter, a former board member of the Chicago Mercantile exchange and writer of the blog, Points and Figures. "The key is where is the market pegged. Using the same logic, think about LIBOR, the financial crisis and the Eurodollar contract. The banks fixed the rate and under reported where it was. That allowed them to have cheaper borrowing costs when they should have seen skyrocketing borrowing costs." Goldman would argue that they don't own enough aluminum to make a difference, since Metro is just one company in a big London Mercantile Exchange system. Additionally, 95% of the world's aluminum doesn't go through the warehouse system at all. It's hard to tell, though, because this market is so murky. Trading houses can change the classification of commodities from public inventory to private "dark inventory" and vice versa when they're being pre-sold (as they are in this case), according to the FT. "The best remedy is a transparent public market, accessible by anyone (speculators included)," said Carter. "That means trading isn't secret, there isn't any way to game the system (which is what Goldman was doing). The market needs to be marked to market, cleared and settled each day by an independent, objective third party. That will bring some discipline, because of approved delivery facilities and transparent rules." We'll know more about that in September, as the Federal Reserve reconsiders the 2003 ruling that allowed banks like Goldman to step into this business (and own physical commodities) in the first place. You can bet that the banks won't take it lying down though.
Reuters/Suzanne PlunkettThe world is flipping out over the new royal baby boy, with gutsy bettors still†gambling on the future heir's name. The Irish betting site Paddy Power gave out†500:1 odds on Fergie. The risk, it seems, did not pay off for Team Fergie. But you†can also bet on†the prince's†first word, university, career, first overseas visit, and even the age at which the young royal is first photographed at a nightclub. While sports betting remains Paddy Power's bread and butter, the site offers a range of these kinds of "novelty" bets. So here are the 7 strangest non-royal baby things you can bet on right now (and their odds). 1. Will Obama close Guantanamo Bay? Yes (9/4) No (2,7) 2. The first to leave the band One Direction. Liam Payne (7/4) Harry Styles (5/2) Niall Horan (7/2) Zayn Malik (7/2) Louis Tomlinson (6/1) 3. Will the next James Bond be black? Yes (4/1) No (1/7) 4. When will alien life be proven? 2013 (25/1) 2014 (80/1) 2015 (100/1) 2016 (100/1) 2017 (100/1) 2018 (100/1) 5. How will Julian Assange leave the Ecuadorian embassy in London? UK police car (11/10) Ecuadorian state car (7/4) Helicopter (7/1) Diplomatic bag (20/1) Laundry van (100/1) Hot air balloon (150/1) Tunnel (200/1) Jet pack (500/1) 6. Who will play Edward Snowden in the film? (top 5) Jake Gyllenhaal (10/1) Ed Norton (12/1) Ryan Gosling (16/1) Sam Worthington (20/1) Jeremy Renner (20/1) 7. Will 2013 be a White Christmas? Chicago (5/6) New York (2/1) London (4/1) Paris (10/1) Madrid (12/1)
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonJournalists wait outside the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital, where Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge has been admitted to give birth, in London, July 22, 2013.You didn't miss much if you were too busy following royal baby news. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Revenue is the same as expectations and EPS is above estimates. The stock dropped about 7% in after-hours trading. The big numbers are: Netflix added 630,000 streaming subscribers in the U.S. during the second quarter totaling 29.81 million domestic and 8 million international subscribers. The reason for the dip in stock price is because of Q3 guidance. Analysts had hoped Netflix's original series, particularly Arrested Development, would bring in closer to 900,000 new streaming subscribers. Netflix's original series are a huge draw for new subscribers. The company says that it assess the success of each original by "looking at viewing-to-date and estimated future viewing, relative to cost." Netflix also noted that it has ordered second seasons of all first season projects, "which is quite unusual". Here is the full Q2 2013 investor letter:   This time around, Netflix is doing something highly unusual. It's skipping the standard analyst conference call in favor of¬†a live talk on CNBC. CEO Reed Hastings and CFO David Wells will host a video discussion about the company's financial results and outlook. The conversation will be moderated by analyst Rich Greenfield of BTIG Research and CNBC's Julia Boorstin. Viewers can submit questions via email or Twitter. Here's a live feed of the Earnings Interview (which will start at 3 p.m. Pacific and 6 p.m. Eastern):
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke consistently blames Congress, and its¬†inability to enact meaningful tax and spending reforms,¬†for the economy's ongoing sluggishness.¬† According to a new paper from the San Francisco Fed (as observed by the NYT's Catherine Rampell), this is not just talk. In "Uncertainty and the Slow Labor Market Recovery," researchers Sylvain Leduc and Zheng Liu¬†write that policy uncertainly has held back the U.S. unemployment rate by 1.1 points. In other words, if it weren't for Washington dithering, we'd now be at about 6.5%, instead of ¬†7.6% (the paper says 7.8%, which may simply reflect the rate at the time it was being wr7.6/11.8itten).¬† Here's how it all works. This is the Beveridge curve, which plots the unemployment rate against how quickly job openings are being created. ¬† San Francisco Fed Since the recession, the curve has left its expected course of more openings/less unemployment, and now reflects a sluggish improvement unemployment rate even as job openings recover. Next, the authors take a look at the "Beveridge curve shifter" rate, or how far off track the curve has gone from its expected course. They plot that against a¬†policy uncertainty index, a previously developed model that¬†incorporates "the volume of newspaper articles discussing economic policy uncertainty, the number of tax code provisions scheduled to expire, and the extent of disagreements among economic forecasters about such variables as future levels of inflation and government spending." Through the reference period, the policy uncertainty index climbed substantially, and almost uniformly with, the curve shifter rate: San Francisco Fed¬† Also of note:¬†the recruiting intensity index, which captures the pace of new hires, has fallen off since the recession. This all leads to the final chart, showing where the Beveridge curve would be without all that uncertainty: about 6.5%. San Francisco Fed They write: ...beginning in autumn 2009, policy uncertainty became an increasingly important factor behind the shift in the Beveridge curve. By the end of 2012, heightened policy uncertainty accounted for about two-thirds of the shift. Our results suggests that, in late 2012, if there had been no policy uncertainty shocks, the unemployment rate would have been close to 6.5% instead of the reported 7.8%. The current absolute number of unemployed Americans is 11.8 million. Simple algebra says that at 6.5%, that figure would instead be about 10.1 million ‚Äî meaning dithering has prevented about 1.7 million people from getting jobs. Assuming less uncertainty encourages higher labor force participation, that absolute number could be even higher. Thanks a lot, Washington.


Wikimedia Commons"Purgatory," Peter Paul RubensGMO is out with its latest quarterly letter, and it has new 7-year forecasts for a host of major asset classes. Compared with the forecasts it released at the end of the third quarter of 2012, bonds are generally looking better, while stocks are looking worse. Still, nothing stands out as particularly attractive. This is the thesis of GMO's James Montier who has written a section titled "The Purgatory of Low Returns." "This might just be the cruelest time to be an asset allocator.†Normally we find ourselves in situations in which†at least something is cheap; for instance when large swathes of risk assets have been expensive, safe haven†assets have generally been cheap, or at least reasonable (and vice versa)," wrote Montier, a member of GMO's asset allocation team. "However, today we see something very different. As Exhibit 2 shows, todayís opportunity set is characterized by†almost everything being expensive."† The chart below shows GMO's updated forecasts. GMO The next chart shows GMO's most recent forecasts, issued in November, 2012. GMO
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's most powerful banks have accelerated efforts to transform the structure and focus of their commodity trading desks to preserve their multibillion-dollar empires from tightening regulation. Scrutiny of their activities in electricity markets, metals warehousing and oil trading is reaching fever pitch ahead of a Federal Reserve decision in September that may decide how deeply banks can delve into the world of gasoline tankers, piles of copper and power plants. Mounting regulatory and political pressure has already forced Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc, and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, the three Wall Street banks known for their commodities trading prowess in the past decade, to openly consider exiting key businesses. Morgan Stanley explored selling its vaunted commodities trading desk last year; Goldman Sachs has already sold off its power plant division, and both Goldman and JPMorgan Chase are now considering a sale of their metal warehousing firms, sources said. Wall Street firms have also adopted more subtle maneuvers, reconfiguring operations to placate regulators, expanding into new markets, and trying to find ways to preserve the value of their investments if they are forced to sell or spin them off, according to a Reuters review of regulatory filings and more than a dozen interviews with top traders and bankers. The three banks declined to comment on their plans for this article. Among the maneuvers that have not been reported previously: JPMorgan reshuffled the board of its Henry Bathmetals warehousing company last year in an attempt to qualify it as a "merchant banking" investment, sources say. That designation could allow it to keep the assets for up to 10 years if it cannot find a buyer, although it is unclear whether that effort has been persuasive with regulators. Goldman Sachs has pressed, so far without success, to get the green light from regulators to move into the growing physical iron ore business, sources familiar with the talks say. Morgan Stanley, which has the biggest presence of any bank in physical commodity markets, last week tied itself even more closely to its vast logistics subsidiary, TransMontaigne, extending the majority of its oil terminal leases with the firm indefinitely, according to a filing. Brad Hintz, a Wall Street analyst at Sanford Bernstein &amp; Co in New York and a former treasurer of Morgan Stanley, said Wall Street was seeking ways to preserve its commodities business role. "The banks have essentially been told by the Federal Reserve they're allowed a certain number of sins," Hintz said. "Just not as many as there used to be." At the same time, various investigations - ranging from probes of alleged U.S. electricity price manipulation toaluminum hoarding - have led to more political scrutiny of the banks' commodities dealings than at any time since 2008. In that year, Wall Street faced accusations of helping to stoke oil prices to a record peak of almost $150 a barrel in the lead up to the financial crisis. On Tuesday, the Senate banking committee holds its first hearing on Wall Street's role in the trillion-dollar physical market for oil and other commodities. It is responding to complaints from aluminum consumers such as brewerMillerCoors that say banks are boosting prices through their control of international metals warehouses. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission last week put all the major warehouse operators on notice of a possible probe, Reuters reported on Sunday. And on Friday the Fed shocked the industry by saying it was reconsidering its decade-old decision that first allowed banks to participate in physical commodity markets, threatening an even deeper blow to Wall Street than had been anticipated. The short statement marked the Fed's first comments on an issue that had been largely hidden from public view until a Reuters report last year. (Full story: http://link.reuters.com/xer86s). "It's not clear yet how far the (Fed) review is going to go," said Saule Omarova, associate professor of law at theUniversity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Law, who will appear at the Senate banking committee hearing. "Are they going to change what they're authorized to do, or will they say the decision to let bank holding companies start trading in physical commodities 10 years ago was the correct one?" Omarovo said. The Fed declined to discuss specific companies or the likely final outcome of the review. Spokespeople for Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan declined to comment. PREPARING FOR THE WORST For much of the past five years, Goldman, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan quietly hoped to persuade the Federal Reserve to let them keep owning power plants, storage facilities and other trading assets before a five-year grace period expires in September, according to interviews with people familiar with the businesses. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs had became known as the 'Wall Street refiners' after they grew out of the New York and Chicago trading pits to become full-scale merchant commodity houses, owning fleets of oil tankers, buying up refineries, and even operating regional electricity plants. At their peak between 2007 and 2009, commodities trading accounted for as much as a fifth of their overall annual revenues, at times touching as much as $8 billion between them. But since converting to bank holding companies in 2008, to get access to emergency Fed funding, they have faced a host of new regulations that have cut into their profits. While other commercial banks have long been barred from owning such assets, Goldman and Morgan Stanley have argued that their commodities activities were "grandfathered" under a 1999 law, citing an amendment allowing non-regulated banks to carry on activities they engaged in prior to 1997. While the Federal Reserve has not made a final decision, the banks are preparing increasingly for the worst as the Fed itself comes under pressure to explain why it allows any so-called "Too Big to Fail" bank to participate in risky commercial markets. Four Democratic congressmen wrote to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke on June 27 expressing their concern about banks exposing their balance sheets to the risks of disasters such as power plant explosions or oil spills. GOLDMAN GETS LESS PHYSICAL Goldman Sachs, once the most powerful financial commodity trader on Wall Street, has said it has no plans to sell or scale back its commodities business. CEO Lloyd Blankfein and COO Gary Cohn both have close ties to the business given they started at the bank's J. Aron commodities arm. "We got into that business in 1981 and have invested a huge amount in being a market leader," Goldman CFO Harvey Schwartz said in April. "We are very committed to that business." But in the past three years Goldman's revenues from commodities have suffered, and were down 90 percent last year compared with the peak in 2009. The bank has sold its power plant development group, Cogentrix, to private equity firm Carlyle Group, sharply reducing its physical footprint in electricity markets, and has explored a possible sale of its Metro International metals warehousing business. If Metro is sold, the bank that was once a powerhouse in the physical markets will have disposed of much of its physical trading assets. In newer markets where a physical presence is critical, such as iron ore, the bank has so far been rebuffed by regulators. MORGAN STANLEY TANKS AND TERMINALS In April, Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman told investors that he believed the banks already faced more restrictions in commodities than ever before. Once a major profit engine for the bank, commodity revenue fell 77 percent in the first quarter, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. "The ability to continue to acquire real assets and trade around those real assets is restricted for us and for the industry," Gorman said in a presentation laying out the future of the bank's fixed income, currencies and commodities business. The bank's oil business continued to falter between April and June, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat told analysts last week. Despite the uncertainty hanging over its commodities unit, Morgan Stanley is pushing ahead with one of its biggest physical asset investments ever, a 42.5 percent stake in a $485 million oil terminal near Houston being built by its logistics subsidiary TransMontaigne Inc. The unit, ranked by Forbes magazine as the 17th largest private company in the United States, with revenues of more than $14 billion last year, is a cornerstone of Morgan Stanley's oil division, providing storage and transportation for millions of barrels of crude, gasoline and diesel shipped by the bank's traders. JPMORGAN TWISTS AND TWEAKS JPMorgan's position in this debate is different: As a commercial bank, it had always been subject to the Fed's rules, but in 2008 inherited power plants from the takeover of Bear Stearns, and absorbed the Henry Bathwarehouses in the 2010 purchase of Sempra Commodities. The long-term status of those assets has remained unclear, as the Fed normally gives banks three years to comply with regulations. For Henry Bath, one of the world's biggest metal storage firms, the deadline expired on July 1. But JPMorgan has argued that the operations are still allowed under rules governing merchant banking investments, which are allowed by the Fed so long as the assets are held at arm's length from the bank and are sold within 10 years. While those familiar with the business say it is operated as an asset separate from the bank's metals trading team, in keeping with the guidelines of the London Metal Exchange (LME), it is not clear who now ultimately controls the franchise. Last year, JPMorgan added commodity chief Blythe Masters and other JPMorgan executives to Henry Bath's board, according to filings with Britain's Companies House. It is unclear whether the metals warehouses are the money-spinners they once were. Profits at Henry Bath fell to $28 million 2011, a quarter of what they were in 2009, according to Companies House filings. Results for last year have not yet been filed. JPMorgan Chief Executive Jamie Dimon is under intensifying pressure over the bank's role in energy markets. JPMorgan is negotiating a potential $410 million settlement with federal regulators over allegations it used power plants in California and Michigan to manipulate markets, according to media reports last week. In May the bank sold three power marketing agreements in California. (Additional reporting by Josephine Mason and Jonathan Leff; Editing by Martin Howell and Anthony Barker)
Morgan StanleyAs China deals with a decelerating economy, U.S. investors are jittery over American companies with high exposure in the emerging market. The recent consensus has been to steer clear of China. At a Morgan Stanley investor conference, zero percent of surveyed responders thought owning U.S. stocks with high EM exposure would be a good idea for the second half the year, according to house strategist Adam Parker. But Parker is actually more bullish on China than most, dubbing himself a "Chicken China Bull": Avoid materials, energy, and machinery, but invest in "quality" U.S. companies with high exposure to still-impressive growth in China. From Parker: Ultimately, whether Chinaís economy grows 4, 5, 6, or 7%, arenít all of those levels likely better than the US, Europe, and Japan? Hence, shouldnít US companies with exposure there ultimately have faster growth, depending on the exposure? Given how low sentiment is, we think the pendulum has probably swung too far, and at some point in the next year, investors wonít be calling us asking for the list of US companies with China exposure to short the stocks, but rather to long them. Morgan Stanley's average growth estimates in China still beat out the rest of the world†ó and by a lot.
So you want to ride the rallies and sit out the corrections, repeating again and again until your drawdown-free positive returns pile up to the rafters? Be my guest, cowboy. But just know that the list of all-time great market-timers is pitifully short. †Given how many professionals and amateurs attempt to sell tops and buy bottoms each year, it's actually shocking how few have ever demonstrated the documented ability to do so. And if you think the guy selling a service for a couple of bucks a month can do it, well, you're probably a great client for him. Don't let me waste any of your time here. The simple fact is that the complexity of the modern markets is such that reading the technical or economic tea leaves is probably more helpful for risk management or volatility aversion than for anything else. Because not only is the list of great market timers short, it is also lonely; there have been no new worthy additions to it in more than thirty years. The end of the era of great market forecasters ended in 1982 when virtually every single technical advisory service and investment newsletter missed the start of the 1982 bull market. The guys running these letters were hardened veterans who'd become accustomed to trading the range of the bear market that had begun some sixteen excruciating years earlier in 1966. They were gold bugs and economic bears and had become, by necessity, hyper-tactical in their buy and sell calls. Most of them had remained adamantly neutral or bearish as stocks rampaged by some 35% between August and November of that year. Many of the famed timers were even caught short stocks that summer. Or they were still long of gold at its all-time inflation-adjusted peak (which has still not been breached to this day) and being pummeled as the commodity busted out. To the timers, was inconceivable that the Dow would be able to take out the 1,000 mark it had been imprisoned below since the LBJ administration. The idea of a new secular bull market beginning with unemployment so high and monetary policy so screwed up was simply our of the question. Stop me if any of this sounds familiar... During the ensuing 18-year bull market between '82 and 2000, the newsletter guys all but died out and faded away - their credibility in tatters and their services no long needed. And they haven't reappeared since, in any meaningful way, despite our record these past fifteen years of two separate peak-to-trough drops of 50% for the S&amp;P 500. Mark Hulbert, America's foremost authority on newsletter track records and recommendations noted something even more depressing for those who still want to believe - the ability of a market-timer to nail one match-set of top and bottom calls is in no way predictive of whether or not he or she will get the next one right. From the Wall Street Journal: Consider the 20 market-timing strategies monitored by the Hulbert Financial Digest with the best records over the market cycle encompassing both the 2000-02 bear market and the subsequent bull market. During the 2007-09 bear market, investors following their market-timing advice lost 26%. That was no better, on average, than any of the other monitored advisers. In fact, the 20 worst timers from the 2000-07 market cycle actually made money in the subsequent bear market. Their portfolios gained an average of 3.2%, while the average market timer lost 26%. Let me translate that for you: Cut the bullshit.  It's astounding how capital and retirement money has been annihilated during this cycle betting with guys who've gotten one or two of the last ones right. For the hell of it, I wanted to talk about the guys who had actually made the big calls consistently in their era. They're all dead now as are most of the people who would remember them. Very little has been written about these gentlemen except in technical analysis books from the olden days and other arcane resources you find mostly in print and not on the web. There is one paper, however, that can shed some light on the late greats - written by an all-but forgotten superstar market analyst from the 70's and 80's named James Alphier. Richard Russell would probably remember him, as would Art Cashin and maybe some of the Barron's staff who can still recall the era. Anyway, Alphier took it upon himself to great the market timers of the early 1980's and to do so, he judged them against the big names from earlier times. What James Alphier found was rather remarkable - with only a handful of exceptions, successful market had only ever been able to make consistent directional calls for an average period of three to five years. Almost none could get past that three to five year threshold with an intact record, regardless of method or market environment. After five years, failure to navigate the meaningful turn in the tape had become inevitable.†Alphier points to the records of†Karl Kaiser (1957-1961), John Denninger (1965-1968), Burns and Kirkpatrick (1972-1975) as exemplars of this phenomenon. But there were some who had made the cut throughout history and were worthy of the moniker Forecasting Giant, Alphier's nickname for them. The best of these Forecasting Giants had consistently called the markets for thirty years, the least of this exalted group had accurately predicted the tape for twelve consecutive years. From Alphier's 1981 paper, here were those Masters of the Tape from days gone by: ...there is a tendency after three to five years of near perfect forecasting for the analyst to make one or more major errors. We will not recount the many painful examples of this in our files. There have been some, however, who have been able to sustain tremendous accuracy over much longer periods. FORECASTING GIANTS OF THE PAST 1. Major L. L. B. Angas†began forecasting the New York and London stock markets after World War I. He was substantially correct in forecasting the booming markets of the 1920's, the 1929 top, the 1932 low, and other major swings in the stock market during the period ending just before World War II. He also made a series of correct economic forecasts as well during this period of time. After almost three decades of unusual foresight, his analysis became much less accurate. 2. Hamilton Bolton†started the "Bank Credit Analyst" in 1949, in part using ideas which had been developed by a now-obscure analyst named Harding. In the early 1930's Harding developed a theory of tracking the flow of money and credit in the banking system. Between 1949 and Bolton's death in 1966, his service correctly predicted all of the major bull and bear swings experienced by the stock market with but two exceptions: being bearish in 1951-52 during a basically flat, trading range market, and missing the 1962 collapse. The latter, Bolton correctly maintained, was purely psychological and would be more than completely retraced. In addition, Bolton established beyond question that money and credit flows as measured by statistics provided by the banking system itself had an important effect on the general level of stock prices. Many of his ideas are now widely accepted by stock market analysts and economists. Since 1967, the basic theory has continued to "work" non-randomly, but not nearly with the precision it had before. 3. George Lindsay†started in the early 1950's with an advisory letter, and began issuing detailed annual stock market forecasts in 1958. These were based on his unique theory of "repeating time intervals" which still stands at right angles to all other forms of analysis. These forecasts actually indicated probable dates of significant highs and lows in advance and their likely amplitude! During this time, any person who dared follow these forecasts would not have been caught substantially unaware by any worthwhile market swing. The year 1970 ended a long success streak when the dramatic March-May collapse was very much understated and given less than high probability of occurring. Mr. Lindsay is still practicing and while having made some errors has continued to compile a highly non-random record considering the type of forecasting he does. 4. Edson Gould†began writing a market letter more than three decades ago. Up until 1976, he had correctly called all major bull and bear markets, often just a few days from their exact termination. He had no misses during this time period. Since 1976 his constant bullishness has, in fact, been borne out in the broad, unweighted price indices, but not in the Dow Industrials. Nor did he correctly anticipate the steep drops of October 1978, October 1979 or February-March 1980. 5. Paul Dysart -†In our opinion, the ultimate crown for sustained accuracy and forecasting acumen must be bestowed upon the late†Paul Dysart. Between 1945 and 1967, with only three minor exceptions, Dysart called all major bull and bear markets very close to their extremes. His average error in both points and time was very close to zero. In 1958, 1963 and 1964 Dysart recorded "false" sell signals which he quickly realized were incorrect and took them back. Unlike every other analyst we have labeled as a "forecasting giant", Dysart also had an ability to select issues for long-term investment. His compact list of recommended stocks over this twenty-two year span had a grossly disproportionate number of exchange-traded issues which racked up multi-hundred percent gains and which genuinely enriched a small but loyal band of subscribers. Josh here - These five guys have done what almost no one else in market has ever been able to do - consistently call tops and bottoms over a period spanning at least a decade, without having missed any major moves and having had it all documented.†As far as I know they're all dead now and so is James Alphier, the study's author (gone before his time, in 1990). There are no market forecasters of the modern age, based on either Hulbert's research or any of the other studies I've seen, worthy of joining this group of luminaries. As to why there is no newsletter or advisory service that has racked up prescient calls in both the bull and bear markets of post-millennial America, I chalk it up to the self-fulfilling prophecy effect, increased market complexity as well as the quantum leap and democratization of trading tools and analytics. Everyone is looking at the same data and indicators and patterns. Everyone is ready to put on the same historically "high-percentage" trades at the same "key levels." And markets react to more variables from more sources around the globe than ever before - and much more quickly than they used to. Try cranking out a newsletter at the speed of nano-trading. It's not that the timers cannot get the market right...it's that they'll be right and right and right and right and then WRONG. And when they become wrong, they'll likely stay wrong, giving up all the advantages of missing a downturn by missing an equally large rally (or vice versa). You want examples? Got a few hours? On the bright side - I highly doubt that the great market timers of the 40's, 50's or 60's would fare as well as they did in this day and age, lord knows their methods surely haven't. So when I remind you how slim the odds are of your being able to stay on the buckin' bronco, don't feel so bad and don't take it personally. No one else alive can do this kind of thing either.

YoutubeThings are worse for Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista than they have ever been before. Now he has written an open letter in the journal Valor International to express his intense regret to the public. Over the last year Batista's gone from being the 7th richest man in the world, to hemorrhaging $2 million a day. His fortune comes from his holding company, EBX. Under its umbrella are six companies that all deal with Brazil's natural resources and logistics. The Brazilian resource industry has gotten crushed as part of the overall emerging market slowdown. They've lost a combined $10 billion over the last year, says Bloomberg. What Batista wants is to be the country's champion again, and to have investors believe in him. To regain their trust he wrote: More than anyone, I wonder where I went wrong. What should I have done differently? A first question might be linked to the funding model I chose for the companies. Today, if I could go back in time, I would not have resorted to the stock market. I would have a structured private-equity firm that would allow me to create from scratch and develop over at least 10 years each company. And they would all remain private until I was sure that it was time to go public. In the projects that I conceived, time proved a vital stress factor for the reversal of expectations on companies bearing broadly satisfactory results and valuable assets. He's always said that his investments are patriotic ‚Äî that he's making his fortune on one hand and exporting the riches of Brazil on the other. In the most recent disaster for EBX, its oil and gas company, OGX, is getting absolutely hammered. Its stock is down 86%, and the company's bonds maturing in 2018 have fallen as much as 20%. Fields have gone untapped, Batista isn't making production targets, and investors are suing Batista to stop him from selling OGX assets. The lawyer who filed the lawsuit against Batista, Jorge Lobo, is saying that bankruptcy is imminent for OGX at least. He's restructured a risky $2 billion loan he took from Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, the Mubadala Investment Corporation. In his letter, Batista explains what went wrong with OGX: What has happened since it became clear that OGX would not be able to deliver the results that once seemed possible to achieve? Have I suddenly become a reckless adventurer who marshals resources for his own benefit and does not care if I will deliver what I had advertised? Today it is hard to remember, but OGX was built by some of the crowned heads by decades of services to reputed companies. I did not invest in the oil industry without surrounding myself of those I and the market understood to be among the most skilled professionals one could find. When winning the fields it got, expectations around OGX were sky high. I had offers to sell big stakes or even the control of OGX from a valuation of $30 billion. Two years ago, I put more than $1 billion out of my pocket in the company. I lost and have been losing billions of dollars with OGX. Does someone who wishes to mislead the other do so at a cost of billions of dollars? If I wanted, I could have performed a scheduled sale of $100 million every six months over 5 years. I would have pocketed $5 billion and still remain in control of OGX. But I did not. Who lost the most with the collapse in the value of OGX was one shareholder: Eike Batista. No one has lost as much as I did, and it is fitting that it be so. The nastiest whispers about Batista are that he's a swindler ‚Äî the best PowerPoint-maker in the world, able to convince investors to give him money the same way a magician can pull a rabbit out of a hat. To those criticisms, Batista asks that observers remember his record. He didn't come out of nowhere. I became an entrepreneur still in the early 1980s, when I ventured in gold mining in the Amazon. I learned a lot in border regions, environments hostile to productive activity, with enormous difficulties of all sorts to transport equipment, outbreaks of malaria that forced me to replace entire teams overnight, the challenge of extracting ore in places almost inaccessible and my own questioning about the possibilities of success in the face of adversities that appeared. I ended up becoming mine owner in several countries and decided to settle down in Brazil and ultimately get rid of the stakes I held in the mining business... In recent months, my business obituary has occupied the pages of blogs, newspapers and magazines. I can only say that I find myself far from this retired Eike. I am 57 years old and have a lot of energy to roll up my sleeves and take new projects off the drawing board. I am a Brazilian entrepreneur, I believe in what I do, love my country. Every day, my head is buzzing with new ideas that spring from nothing and slowly take shape. I feed myself from this ability to dream and achieve. Undertaking is in my blood, in my DNA. It is my inexhaustible source of energy and life.
REUTERS/Steve Marcus(Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators were united in their decision to file civil charges against billionaire hedge fund owner Steven A. Cohen last week, in a high-stakes case that could result in Cohen being barred from the industry, people familiar with the case told Reuters. The charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission against Cohen still fall short of what the SEC had hoped for. The agency has been struggling to uncover evidence implicating Cohen with insider-trading, one of those people said. In a last-minute 9 a.m. meeting on Friday, with a five-year statute of limitations deadline approaching, enforcement lawyers presented SEC commissioners with a lengthy memo urging them to vote to charge Cohen with failing to supervise former SAC Capital Advisors portfolio manager Mathew Martoma and SAC executive Michael Steinberg, sources said. Both Martoma and Steinberg are facing criminal and civil insider trading charges. SEC Chair Mary Jo White, an independent, and Democratic SEC Commissioners Elisse Walter and Luis Aguilar attended the meeting and subsequently voted in favor of filing charges, these people said. SEC Republican Commissioner Troy Paredes was on a plane en route to Texas at the time, but he cast a yes vote after he landed, according to one of the sources. The SEC's other Republican commissioner, Daniel Gallagher, was out of town last week and did not participate in any of the SEC's closed door enforcement meetings. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, declined to comment beyond his statement on Friday, in which he said the SEC's case was without merit and that Cohen intended to fight the charges. Some people are seeing the SEC's case against Cohen as an example of White's pledge to get tough and flex the SEC's enforcement muscles. She has already established a new policy in which the SEC will occasionally try to extract admissions of wrongdoing in settlements, or else force the case to trial. Others internally, however, see the Cohen case as an effort to save face after several long, hard years of investigating him for insider-trading. In all of that time, there has not been enough evidence to suggest he engaged in insider-trading. In addition, despite the fact that several of his employees have been charged criminally with insider-trading, no one has stepped forward to testify against him as a government witness. Nevertheless, the filing of the Cohen case last week was one of several high-profile actions by the SEC in what appears to be pattern of cracking down on alleged law-breakers. On Thursday, the SEC also voted behind closed doors in a 3-1 vote to reject a deal between the enforcement division and hedge fund manager Philip Falcone and his hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners. That settlement was rejected amid concerns it was too lax, a person told Reuters last week. In addition, the SEC also charged the city of Miami and its former budget director with fraud on Friday in a rare case in which the SEC accused the city of being a repeat offender by violating a prior cease-and-desist order for similar misconduct in 2003. Cohen represents one of the most high-profile defendants to face SEC charges this year. In March, SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million penalty to settle a separate SEC lawsuit arising from an investigation of trading on illegal information. In this latest case, the charges are not fraud-based and do not carry stiff penalties. But in a move that could greatly curtail Cohen's income, the SEC is seeking to bar him from managing other people's money. It is still unclear whether the SEC will seek a lifetime bar, or a bar for a shorter duration. But even a temporary industry bar could pose a major hassle. That's because the process to apply for re-admission after the bar expires is tougher for investment advisers and broker-dealers than some other professions, such as lawyers. In order to be re-admitted, the person must demonstrate how he or she will be supervised so that investors will not be harmed before the SEC will agree to sign off. For someone like Cohen, it might be difficult to demonstrate how he would be supervised. Assuming the case eventually does go before an SEC administrative law judge, the SEC could try to call him to testify. Unlike a federal court system, however, the SEC's administrative court is less transparent - a fact that could make it more difficult for Cohen's investors and the general public to follow the trial. In federal court cases, the filings by all the parties and the accompanying exhibits are often available online in a database that can be accessed by the public for a fee. At the SEC, only the civil charges, orders and decisions are routinely posted online. The other documents filed often must be obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request - a lengthy process that can take months or even years. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Theodore d'Afflisio)
Ed Yardeni
YouTubeWhen it was revealed last week that the person¬†who wrongly confirmed racist names for the pilots of the crashed Asiana flight to a TV station¬†was a National Transportation Safety Board¬†intern, the unnamed summer hire was fired, raising the genuinely plausible question: Was he the worst intern ever? The short answer is "maybe ... but he's got some pretty good competition." From interns who embarrassed their boss to interns who just embarrassed themselves, there have been many entry-level workers who were quickly shown the door. We've rounded up some of the best ‚Äî or worst? ‚Äî examples of bad interns for entertainment and education. Enjoy.
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauTraders on the floor of the Paris stock exchange make merry during their annual end of the year party December 31. Activity was extremely thin as many markets closed for New Year's Eve.Concerns about interest rates, China, housing, and a host of other issues dogged some investors in the first half of 2013. So in a new 21-page note to clients, Morgan Stanley strategist Adam Parker breaks out the 10 biggest investment questions going forward for the rest of year¬†‚Äî and attempts to answer them. We paraphrase and pull some key quotes here: 1. Will Price-Earnings multiples expand or contract? "Our best guess is that there will be modest further multiple expansion," writes Parker. "Given there has not been a large capital spending surge, a large hiring boom, or inventory build-up, outside of say China-infrastructure-exposed names, it‚Äôs hard to see why we would have a huge reduction in corporate earnings. Therefore, if the probability of a bear case isn‚Äôt that high, and the severity of a bear case isn‚Äôt that acute should one surface, modest multiple expansion is likely." 2.¬†Will interest rates keep rising, and what are the implications?¬† Morgan Stanley believes bond yields will hover around today's level for the next few months. "We are not so concerned about rates backing up to the point of slowing the housing or even the economic recovery," Parker says. "Moreover, we think the Fed will remain accommodative for another year. There is just no reason to not believe Bernanke." 3. Will the US corporate sector contribute to growth?¬† In short, not really. From Parker: "There will not be a large capital spending surge ‚Äì because one isn‚Äôt necessary or required and because demand doesn‚Äôt appear good enough to cause management teams to build more capacity in advance of it being evident." 4. Do we want to own Cyclical stocks or Defensive stocks? A little bit of both, argues Parker. When yields were really backing up, however, the anti-defensive sentiment grew too quickly. "We do maintain positive biases on autos and media," Parker writes. "On the other hand, we would continue to avoid energy and materials exposure, or any stocks ‚Äì like select machinery ‚Äì with high exposure to a strong acceleration in China infrastructure." 5. What are the remaining opportunities related to housing? Be careful when timing housing-related stocks as the "normalization" of the housing market rolls on. "When new starts recovered from 450,000 to 900,000 the stocks were great," Parker writes. "As starts recover and normalize to the long-term trend of 1.2 to 1.3 million, and the second derivative of nearly every fundamental metric is negative, the stocks may perform more poorly." 6. WTI and Brent crude prices have converged: What are the key energy issues? "It does seem that energy could continue to languish on a relative basis," Parker says, but Morgan Stanley gives the sector a market-perform rating thanks to the "attractive relative valuation¬†as representative of lower oil prices in the future." 7. Do we want US stocks with China exposure? Everyone has been wary of high exposure to emerging markets, but Morgan Stanley is relatively bullish on China. "Ultimately, whether China‚Äôs economy grows 4, 5, 6, or 7%, aren‚Äôt all of those levels likely better than the US, Europe, and Japan?" asks Parker. Morgan Stanley thinks the anti-China pendulum has swung too far, and by the end of the year, investors will be looking to go long instead of short on US stocks with high China exposure. ¬† 8. Should US investors care about Europe? Every European mini scare over the last 2 years has been like the Y2K "crisis," Parker says. Not that Europe is somehow "solved," but pops in Europe won't spark as much fear in US stocks going forward. Will Europe matter in the second half of 2013? "Probably not," concludes Parker. 9. Low Cost of Capital: What are the implications for capital spending, M&amp;A, etc? The two prominent uses of cash this year will be for dividend growth and (eventually) M&amp;A, according to Morgan Stanley. As companies' balance sheets improve, few are likely to go bankrupt, argues Parker. But this also means that a "relief rally" where stressed companies get capital and outperform is also unlikely. "At some point, this could be a huge problem for companies if bond yields materially back up in 2016 or 2017 when they look to refinance, but few US equity investors will be that anticipatory," Parker writes. Overweights: Health Care, Industrials, Technology Market-Weights: Financials, Materials, Telecoms, Utilities, Energy Underweights: Staples, Discretionary
photoshop by Business InsiderOlivier Sarkozy, a managing director at the Carlyle Group who dates 27-year-old actress Mary-Kate Olsen, is selling his East Village "love nest" townhouse, Curbed reports. The 147-year-old home is being listed by Douglas Elliman for $6,995,000. The 44-year-old private equity exec, who is also the half brother of former French president Nicolas Sarkozy, bought the historic home last August for $6.25 million. Now let's check out their digs.¬† ¬†
Ken Lerer is a modest guy with a huge taste for disruption. That‚Äôs why we‚Äôre delighted that he‚Äôll be sitting down for a wide-ranging conversation with Business Insider's Henry Blodget at IGNITION: Future of Digital. Join them and take a deep dive into the explosive future of digital business at Business Insider's flagship conference, atop New York‚Äôs Time Warner Center November 11-13. For the fourth year running, we‚Äôre gathering 700 senior executives from the converging worlds of technology, media, marketing, entertainment, investing and finance.¬†Together we'll explore the emerging business models being driven by disruptive technology. Join us to hear from: For a taste of what you can expect in November, check out the latest IGNITION 2013 line-up, or the full agendas from our previous events. And reserve your spot now because extra early-bird rates expire soon.  P.S. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact¬†events@businessinsider.com. Follow¬†@BI_Events¬†on Twitter for IGNITION updates.
APWhile German Chancellor Angela Merkel called revelations that the NSA spied on Germans "extremely serious," recent documents seen by Der Spiegel indicate Merkel may have been extremely serious about cooperating with the NSA. Staffers at the Hamburg newspaper†wrote today that the German government and associated intelligence agencies were actually "eager" to embrace NSA surveillance, and the NSA "was pleased" with that eagerness. From Spiegel: At a very early juncture, Merkel insisted that her government had been completely unaware of the NSA's activities. It is a†position she reiterated before starting her summer vacation last Friday. The repeated assertions by the government and intelligence agencies in recent weeks that they were not fully aware of what US surveillance specialists were doing appear disingenuous in the extreme in light of the documents SPIEGEL has seen from the collection secured by Snowden. The Spiegel documents and the revelations therein should come as no surprise: espionage on enemies, rivals, and even allies is a wide practice for most nation-states. There is one simple rule: don't get caught. Which may be part of Merkel's outrage, even Der Spiegel noted that she had little choice but to take up a position against NSA spying, politically speaking. It's just a shame that exposure of the NSA comes hand-in-hand with the Spiegel's revelation that "The German government [modified] its interpretation of the G-10 privacy law" to allow for surveillance of its citizens. Certainly this puts Merkel ó who's gearing up for re-election ó in a tight spot.
REUTERS/Fred ProuserActor Charlton Heston (L) waits beside his black Corvette sports car, as a gas station attendant services his car April 23 in Hollywood.Gas prices have surged about $0.20 since July 4, and currently stand at a national average of $3.67 a gallon. This has been a headache to the American driver, and economists are worried about what it could do to spending. Unfortunately, it could be a little while before we see some relief at the pump. In a new note today, fuel markets guru Stephen Schork warns not to expect any relief until September. First off, the Quebec crude freight train disaster has complicated ongoing east coast refinery outages: ...two Friday‚Äôs ago the rumor-mill was churning out the notion that the recent spike in mogas was the result of Irving Oil securing delivery commitments after the catastrophe at Lac-MeÃÅgantic cut off crude shipments to the company‚Äôs 299 Mb/d St. John (Canada) refinery.  To this effect, on Friday Irving reportedly shut down units at this refinery. This news compounded the recent unplanned outages at Phillips 66 Bayway, NJ facility and Philadelphia Energy Solutions South Girard refinery. Schork also believes the rising cost to refiners of the renewable fuel standard ‚Äî a topic we also discussed ‚Äî has filtered into prices: Add to this the 1,800% spike in RINs and the attendant incentive to export mogas rather than pay the EPA‚Äôs vigorish, and all of a sudden, gasoline supplies around the NYMEX NYH terminal complex look challenged.¬† Result: more pain ‚Äî Of course this is going to translate (should these prices prevail) into higher gasoline prices for consumers. For example, over the previous three summers a $0.01 per gallon increase on the NYMEX has translated one month later to a $0.009 gallon increase in pump prices. NYMEX RBOB for August delivery has rallied by around 46 cents this month.  Given that AAA gasoline was at $3.474 over the 04th of July holiday, pump prices could be pushing up against $3.900 by the Labor Day holiday.¬† Yuck.
www.amazon.comYes, Bud, but tell me something I don't know.Some startling news from Yahoo this morning... The company is buying $1.1 billion worth of its stock from its largest investor, Third Point, and three of the company's most important directors--including Third Point's Dan Loeb--are quitting†the board. This is big news for Yahoo! from a fundamental perspective. The three board members who are resigning, activist investor Dan Loeb, media consultant Michael Wolf, and turnaround expert Harry Wilson, have made a major contribution to Yahoo's turnaround and stock price resurrection over the past two years. This also seems like big news from another perspective: It seems like the very definition of insider trading. How? Well, sometime prior to the open of the stock market this morning, three of Yahoo's most important board members decided to resign. And, sometime prior to the open of the stock this morning--before the board-member resignations were made public--Yahoo's largest shareholder, which knew about the resignations, dumped $1.1 billion of stock. The information that three important board members are quitting is highly material information--information that almost any reasonable investor would want to know when considering a Yahoo trade. Trading while in possession of material non-public information, meanwhile, is insider trading. Given that Yahoo's three most important board members just quit, it's not surprising to see Yahoo's stock down 5% this morning. It's actually surprising to me that it's not down more than that. Third Point and Yahoo obviously knew that three of Yahoo's board members were about to quit when they agreed to the terms of the deal in which Yahoo will buy 40 million shares of its stock from Third Point. Third Point and Yahoo, however, did not wait to agree on a price for this trade until after the news about the board member resignations had been made public.† Third Point and Yahoo did not, for example, wait until the close of trading today, when Yahoo's stock price will presumably reflect the market's assessment of the news that Yahoo's three most important board members have just quit. Instead, Yahoo and Third Point priced their transaction based on Yahoo's closing price on Friday--before the news about the directors quitting was made public. So Third Point is getting the pre-resignation price for its stock, while knowing about the upcoming board member resignations. And the rest of us Joe Schmo Yahoo shareholders, who didn't know about the resignations, are now getting the post-resignation price. Again, the definition of "insider trading" is trading while in possession of material non-public information. It would be extremely hard to argue that the sudden and unexpected resignation of three of Yahoo's most important directors is not material non-public information. And it would be impossible to argue that Third Point and Yahoo did not trade while in possession of this information. So, how is this not insider trading? I don't mean to be dense or rude here. †And I'm also not a lawyer. So maybe there's some exception to insider trading laws that allows insider deals like this to happen. To be clear, I'm also not objecting to big private block trades. Those happen all the time. (In most cases, though, they happen at a discount to the prevailing market price, to account for the likely impact of that amount of stock changing hands on the market price. This one, I note, did not happen at a discount.) And, very importantly, these big private block trades also do not happen when both parties--and no one else--are in possession of†highly material non-public information, such as the resignation of three key directors. I am sure that this deal was lawyered out the wazoo. So I'm sure there's some innocent explanation. But until I hear that explanation, I will be scratching my head. A source familiar with Third Point's view of this trade says that it was legal because the stock was sold to Yahoo, not the public. Yahoo was in possession of the same information as Third Point, the source says, so there was no information on one side that was not known to the other side. And I certainly see that. As a Yahoo shareholder, I'm a bit annoyed that Yahoo didn't insist on getting a modest discount to the trading price in exchange for buying such a big block of stock, as I would have expected in this scenario. But I'm not arguing that Yahoo got shafted by being sold stock while not being in possession of the information on the other side of the trade. The folks I'm frustrated on behalf of are Yahoo's other shareholders, who didn't sell, and who didn't know about this material non-public information that both Yahoo and Third Point knew about when they traded at that juicy $29+ price on Friday. A a Yahoo shareholder who was/is thinking of selling his stock, for example, I can tell you that I sure would have liked to have known on Friday afternoon that Yahoo's three most important board members were about to announce that they were quitting. That information might have made a difference to me when I was considering selling my stock (which, as it happened, I actually was doing on Friday afternoon. I didn't sell.) And I certainly feel like a bit of a sucker this morning, now that I have learned that Yahoo's smartest shareholder, Dan Loeb, unloaded $1.1 billion of his stock on Friday, while knowing what I was I blissfully clueless about all weekend. UPDATE: Bloomberg's Jonathan Weil offers one explanation about why this trade technically is not insider trading: It does not involve the theft or misappropriation of inside information. (Personally, I don't understand how Third Point would be legally entitled to trade while in possession of information acquired by a board member just because they happened to employ the board member. Dan Loeb obviously did not misappropriate the information that he and two other board members were quitting. But Third Point is not Dan Loeb. And it is Third Point that sold the stock...while knowing something that other investors did not--that Loeb and the other board members were quitting.) DISCLAIMER: I am absurdly conflicted here. First, I'm a Yahoo shareholder. For better and worse, I've owned the stock since 1998. (I have been thinking of selling it recently, in part because I'm sick of having to explain that I'm a Yahoo shareholder when I write or talk about the company. It looks like Friday might have been a good time to sell.) Second, I work for Yahoo: I'm a host of a Yahoo Finance video show called Daily Ticker. Third, I have friends and acquaintances at several companies involved in this transaction and many more companies that might have been involved. Basically, I have so many conflicts and potential conflicts with respect to this story that I could spend the rest of the day describing them....
REUTERS/Ilya NaymushinThe "American Dream," that you can succeed regardless of the circumstances of your birth, is a fundamental part of the United States' national identity. But other countries are way better at it than we are. A new paper from Miles Corak featured in The New York Times finds a disturbing trend in America: that increasing inequality plays an increasing role in determining where people end up, and that hard work means less. People at the bottom of the income ladder are more likely to stay there in the United States than in many other countries around the world, and those at the top often remain rich.¬† Here's Corak's chart, a version of the "Great Gatsby Curve," which shows relative levels of inequality and intergenerational mobility in countries around the world. The U.S. has the highest level of inequality, and one of the lowest earnings elasticities (how much a father's income affects their offspring's): Miles Corak¬† We're not just being beaten by countries with strong social safety nets, strong public education, and relatively little inequality. Even Canada has more equality of opportunity and mobility than the United States, despite having higher inequality than places like Denmark. When there's greater inequality, people at the top have more resources available to making sure their kids stay at the top, and have more incentive to make that investment given the potential gains.¬† A quarter of the sons born to fathers in the top 10% stay there in the United States. Significantly fewer do in Canada: Miles Corak Far more sons born in the bottom decile end up clustered at the bottom in the United States: Miles Corak There are lots of reasons for this trend. One in particular is education. The top colleges in America disproportionately serve the already wealthy, and non-graduates are disproportionately poor. Lower income students tend to end up at for-profit and lower-quality institutions. That tends to concentrate income at the top.¬† The higher the earnings premium (the difference in income between college graduates and those with just a high school diploma), Corak finds, the less earnings mobility. Higher education is supposed to be the great equalizer, but doesn't work that way in the United States: Miles Corak Wealthy families also have more to spend on "enrichment": books, computers, good child care, summer camp, private school, tutoring, and so on. When the state provides less of that, when public options aren't as good, inequality rises and mobility falls. Hard work and talent still pay off. But for all of America's lauded entrepreneurial spirit, the playing field is not particularly level, and is getting less so. We're seeing the effects. Read the full paper here.
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithToday's existing home sales report missed expectations, but there was a positive number hidden there. The median time that homes spent on the market was down to 37 days in June, from 41 days in May. This is 47% faster than a year ago. The housing market has clearly been moving fast. "The market for existing properties is clearly still tight. Despite the drop in sales, months supply only inched up to a still-low 5.2 months And the number of days on the market for sale plunged to 37 from 70 a year ago," Bank of America's Michelle Meyer told Business Insider. "This is indicative of healthy demand in an environment of low supply, which will underpin home prices." Redfin's Fastest Markets Report showed that 32% of homes went under contract within two weeks, and 20% in one week or less. While this was less that 33.2% in May, this was still one of the fastest markets in years, according to Redfin. Earlier this year we reported on flash sales in parts of the country, where homes sold with 24 hours of hitting the market as supply remained tight. "The spike in mortgage rates led buyers that were already in the market for a new home to rush to lock in low rates while they could," according to Ellen Haberle, economist at Redfin. But the amount of time spent on the market shouldn't be considered alone, warns Paul Diggle at Capital Economics.¬† He notes that the months' of unsold stock ‚Äî a measure of housing inventory ‚Äî is moving in the opposite direction. "That makes me a little cautious about taking them at face value," Diggle told Business Insider.
It was few days before Christmas and Sahm Adrangi (from Kerrisdale Capital) pinged me (on Google Voice) asking if I had an opinion on Herbalife.I responded: "why bother? Crowded short."I knew a little about Herbalife. It was a multi-level-marketing scheme (MLM) selling mostly weight loss products. This was a scheme where instead of buying weight loss products from a grocer or a specialist shop I purchased them from a friend. And the friend could make money two ways - either by selling product to me or recruiting me to sell product to other people.I have long held a distaste for MLMs seeing how Amway used to behave in Western Sydney. Amway sold overpriced crap to distributors who were a collection of no-hopers and recovering drug dealers. (Contra: I also knew a very successful Avon lady... and she convinced me that MLMs sometimes sold useful products well.)That said, Sahm just told me to listen to the Bill Ackman presentation. Sahm is crazy-smart so if he tells me to listen to something I listen.Anyway, I unfurled myself on the couch at work for three hours of (Bill's) self indulgence.Bill Ackman's thesis about Herbalife is that it is a pyramid scheme, hence(a) illegal,(b) unsustainable, or(c) both illegal and unsustainable. He has several key slides to support this thesis...First he makes out that people don't really know what Herbalife is. He uses comparable companies being Church &amp; Dwight, Energizer and Clorox. Pershing Square I confess to knowing few Herbalife products - so this was modestly convincing.He then - using that piece of rhetoric asserts that†Formula 1†is the only $2 billion brand that "nobody has ever heard of". Pershing Square So far, so good. He does not assert the sales are not real though (because they are). Indeed he acknowledges the company is real and that the gross margins are superior.Through a process of elimination he shows that the gross margins are not a result of superior product (its a commodity), superior technology (they do not have any), superior R&amp;D (they don't do any) or any of half a dozen other reasons you might have superior margins.After that he asserts (and then tries to prove) that the gross margin and indeed the whole business comes about because it is a†pyramid scheme.He uses an old Federal Trade Commission (FTC) definition of a pyramid scheme - and it is the definition which we will go with because this determines whether Herbalife is illegal (in the US anyway) and the FTC definition overlaps with what would commonly collapse as a pyramid anyway.Here is the slide†defining a pyramid scheme. Pershing Square This legal definition is the core to the whole Herbalife story - so I will write it out: In summary: real sales to consumers is kosher. Sales to distributors (and not to end consumers) are not kosher. A little of the latter is OK (the distributors do need to have some stock). A lot of the latter is not.The critical question is how much are sales to consumers.And here the question arises: what is a sale to a consumer versus a sale to a distributor. After all if a distributor buys the product for their own use they are considered a consumer. If the distributor buys it to sell it (and they are stuck with it) then they are a failed distributor.†End consumption is what matters here.Slide 119 asks this question fairly directly: Pershing Square To quote: The next slide repeats the now infamous David Einhorn question on a conference call (the one that caused the stock to drop 20 percent). It is a question that Herbalife answered†very†badly... Pershing Square Again I will quote because it is critical: The full text of the Einhorn question and answer session is at the end of this post...Bill Ackman does not state it - but the question was asked on 2 May 2012.Anyway this is a terrible answer and left Herbalife open to the Ackman attack because a surprisingly large proportion of the sales are not to externals but to people who are signed up as distributors.†Self consumption by distributors is a critical issue and the company said they did not track it.Three weeks later Herbalife was in damage repair mode - trying to distance themselves from this answer. Ackman puts up several slides dealing with this - a typical one is repeated below... Pershing Square Again - for completeness I will put up the Ackman highlighted sections... Essentially the company†eventually†answered David Einhorn by asserting that the single level distributors are basically self-consumers - and hence part of the consumption set rather than part of the distributor set.And this is the critical question.†If the single level distributors are distributors without end sales then this is a pyramid. If the single level distributors are really consumers then this is not a pyramid, is legal and probably sustainable.The company clearly has some explaining to do. What they are asserting is that millions of people sign a 48 thousand word distribution agreement, pay a $55 fee to become a distributor and buy product then just consume it themselves anyway. Bill Ackman clearly thinks this is BS.The company asserts they do this because if they sign up as a distributor they get a 25 percent discount. It makes their personal consumption cheaper.Bill Ackman then asks the following (possibly rhetorical) question: Pershing Square Again to quote: Ackman answers this question with the following slide: Pershing Square Bluntly - and this is†the critical step in his argument†that "We Believe the Majority of Herbalife's So-Called "Discount Buyers" are, in Fact, Failed Distributors" [punctuation in Ackman original].About this time Sahm Adrangi pinged me again. It was one of those classic Sahm Adrangi observations - super-smart but I don't think how smart he realized it was.He said that Ackman's assertion is really funny. He was imagining billions of dollars worth of Formula 1 diet supplements sitting on people's shelves or in their garages unsold. They sell almost two billion dollars worth of Formula 1 per year - on my count roughly 120 thousand metric tonnes per year. Most of that is sold to "distributors" who may or may not be "discount buyers". If they are - as Bill Ackman asserts - "failed distributors" then maybe 50 thousand tonnes of this stuff are building up on shelves and in garages every year.If that 50 thousand tonne per annum build up is real then Bill Ackman is right.And if that 50 thousand tonne per annum build up is not real then Bill Ackman is wrong. He is falsified. The whole Bill Ackman thesis falls apart.We at Bronte are†really into our epistemology. We seek things that can falsify our thesis - and if our thesis does not conform to reality then it does not matter who we are (Bill Ackman or Richard Feynman) and it does not matter how smart we are, we are wrong. Indeed here is Richard Feynman explaining process...   † Indeed this video (and you really should watch it - visitors by email should go to the blog) lays it out.You make a guess. You calculate the implications of the guess. If those implications do not square with observation then the guess is wrong.Ackman made a guess - the guess is that the "so called discount buyers are in fact failed distributors".The guess implies that there is a 50 thousand tonne per annum build up of Formula 1 on shelves and in garages of failed distributors.If that calculation does not conform to reality then Bill Ackman is wrong (and it does not matter who he is, how smart he is or how beautiful the thesis)...Our attempts to observe the 50 thousand tonnes per annum build up...At Bronte our version of investing nirvana is when we can find theses on which you can make or lose a lot of money. And then peculiarly we can design simple falsifiable tests. Sahm Adrangi (bless his brilliant soul) provided us our test...Go find (or fail to find) that 50 thousand tonnes per annum build up...To start I asked some Herbalife distributors (found via the internet) what their stockpile was.The answers were so small that they could not possibly account for the necessary build up.But I guess those are the successful distributors as they can be found via the internet.So I tried to think like a failed distributor.If I was a failed distributor I might have $2000 worth of this getting old on my shelf. I might (reasonably) want to recover some money. So I would sell it.Where? Craigs List or Ebay.If I found lots of desperate distributors - failed ones - selling it on Ebay then Bill Ackman is probably right. If there are no such people then Bill Ackman is wrong. Simple test. And I can do it for†any city or country in the world from my desk at home. For example I could use a proxy server and log into Ebay in France and test there. Which is what I did.Anyway here is an example - Craigs List, Chicago, complete Herbalife listing... Craigslist via Bronte Capital It is a grand total of six people, five of whom present as small time failed customer/distributors and one of whom is trolling for business as a continuing distributor. The small-time distributors have some opened product (as in I started this diet and it was not for me).I have done this test for many cities - and I simply have not found the level of distress. However if you go to a city with a large Hispanic population you find a lot of adverts. Los Angeles has many but†almost all of them are continuing distributors wanting to sell products. This is a typical advert: Craigslist via Bronte Capital This person has been advertising on Craigs List for some time.There are also adverts pitching that if you "sign up with me" you can have a permanent 25 percent off your Herbalife products... Craigslist via Bronte Capital In other words they are pitching precisely the offer that Bill Ackman (rhetorically) thinks is implausible.So far I have found nothing like the level of distress that would be implied if Bill Ackman's thesis is correct.So I looked at Ebay.†Linked†is a typical seller... the seller has sold well over 2000 Herbalife items, all with a minimum price (typically a 35 percent discount to retail) and over a multi-year period. They often detail their use-by dates - and those use-by dates change over time (suggesting that the product was purchased at dates that also changed over time).When you try to communicate with one of these sellers you work out the truth. They are higher-level distributors. They buy the stuff effectively at a 50 percent discount (or 42 percent discount) and sell it at a 35 percent discount and thus make a profit.†They are not failed distributors. Instead they are discounters gaming the system by trying to capture the bulk of the profits of the chain.I looked and looked. Honestly I did. And†I could find no evidence of large sales at distress - the sort of sales that would happen if there were 50 thousand tonnes per year build up of unsold inventory in the hands of "failed distributors".And so we have it. Bill Ackman had a thesis. I calculated the implications of that thesis (distress selling on Ebay and Craigs List). This observation did not accord with reality.Therefore Bill Ackman is wrong. And it does not matter how beautiful Bill Ackman is, how smart he is, how rich he is, or whatever. He is still wrong. And there isn't any room for argument about it.JohnPS. Bill Ackman being wrong does not make the stock a great buy. Indeed Bill Ackman being wrong does not tell me the truth. I can't find the truth with any certainty. I can only falsify ... I have a series of theses about the truth but they are subject of other posts...There could be one of hundreds of other things wrong with the company (and hopefully those are testable things).But we can be certain of one thing: Herbalife is not a pyramid scheme in the sense promoted by Bill Ackman. We can take the 300 page Bill Ackman presentation and throw it out. Falsified...And any journalist (Michelle Celarier) who continues to take Bill Ackman seriously on this issue has disconnected from reality.JAppendix - the full text of the Einhorn question and answer session                
When a company announces its quarterly financial results, the first headlines that cross often reveal whether the company beat or missed analysts' expectations for earnings. But does this really matter for investors are traders? Not really, argues Peter Garnry, Saxo Bank's Head of Equity Strategy. "Contrary to the prevailing myth, also reinforced by the media, that earnings surprises are everything, our findings crush this myth," writes Garnry who tested the first 103 earnings announcement of the current earnings season. "There exists indeed a positive relationship meaning that a higher earnings surprise leads to higher excess return and vice versa. The problem is just that the R-squared is only 0.09. In other words, the earnings surprise only explains nine percent of the variation in the excess return. So even if you were the best earnings forecaster in the world you would not be able to make consistent trading profits." R-squared is a statistical measure that shows how well a data point fits a line.† At 0.09, the R-squared suggests almost no relationship between an earnings surprise and returns. So what actually moves a stock after an earnings announcement? "The missing piece is likely a mix of factors with the forward guidance and management statements likely explaining a lot of the variation in the excess return," says Garnry. Business Insider, Saxo Bank
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales fell 1.2% month-over-month to an annualized rate of 5.08 million units. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a 1.5% month-over-month rise to an annualized rate of 5.26 million units.¬† May's number was revised down to reflect a 3.4% rise to 5.14 million units. This is down from a previous reading of 4.2% rise to 5.18 million in May. Housing inventory ticked higher rose 1.9% to 2.19 million, which represents a 5.2-month supply. This is up from 5 months' supply. Tight supply of housing had previously weighed on existing home sales. The median time on market for all homes was 37 days in June. This is down from 41 days in May, and is 47% faster a year ago. The national median existing-home price was up for the sixteenth straight month, rising 13.5% year-over-year to $214,200. Decline in sales &amp; rise in inventory shows supply of existing homes is the loosest they've been this year, in keeping with slowdown in home price gains, according to Paul Diggle at Capital Economics. Here's a look at the regional breakdown: Economists have worried about the impact of rising mortgage rates on home sales. But Bank of America's Michelle Meyer points out that that existing home sales track closed contracts and "are indicative of market conditions one to two months prior, which was before the spike in interest rates." Meanwhile, Lawrence Yun, chief economist at NAR said affordability continues to be¬† favorable. "However, higher mortgage interest rates will bite into high-cost regions of California, Hawaii and the New York City metro area market." Existing home sales account for a larger share of the market than new homes.
REUTERS/Mario ArmasStock indices keep hitting new all-time highs. Beginning of the end? Not in the slightest, according to S&amp;P Capital IQ Chief Equity Strategist Sam Stovall. The king of historical stock market movements, Stovall looks back at the past 11 bull markets, and finds there's no reason to panic:† During the past few weeks, the financial media has constantly reminded investors that the S&amp;P 500 has recorded successive all-time closing highs. They also make it sound as if we should enjoy these days while they last, for this bull market is therefore likely to end in the very near future. I donít know why they say that, other than to instill fear and thereby ensure that investors stay tuned. History, on the other hand, shows that new highs are typical in a maturing bull market.† According to Stovall: each of the 11 bull markets since 1949†lasted an average 57 months. Plus, 7% of all trading days within these bull markets set all-time closing highs. It's not yet clear whether this bull market is secular (extended, upward- sloping advances) or cyclical (shorter periods of undulating, sideways patterns of advances and declines). Here's what Stovall tells us about both: Secular: Cyclical: Where does that mean for the current bull market? Well, we are 52 months through this bull market. The first all-time high came on March 28, 2013, so if the bull ended last Friday, this first all- time high would have occurred 93% of the way through†its bull run. Meanwhile, there've been 21 additional all-time highs since then. That represents†just 2% of all bull-market trading days.† Based on the historical data, this bull market ranks 9th out of 11 based on this measure. "So history would indicate, but not guarantee, that this bull market has many more new-highs to record before finally running out of steam," Stovall writes. However,†he goes on to say that a temporary pullback is probably imminent: After advancing in price a bit further once getting back to breakeven [the March 28 tick ó ed.], the S&amp;P 500 has historically followed a fairly consistent four-step dance routine of: 1) finally succumbing to a pullback from the exhaustion of climbing back above the prior high, 2) recovering from that pullback, 3) advancing an additional 4% to 8% after recovering from that pullback, before 4) ultimately slipping into a new and deeper decline of between 10% and 20%. We already did steps 1 &amp; 2, and are in the midst of step 3. It's step 4 that has me a bit concerned... Transposing past movements to today's bull market, Stovall predicts, the S&amp;P 500 could rise to between 1738 and 1804 before slipping into a correction that could take then take it down to between 1450 and 1567. In conclusion, "buy-and-hold investors should prepare to hold on tight and donít let your emotions get in the way of maintaining an appropriate asset allocation," says Stovall. "However, for those willing to trade short-term swings in equity prices, another opportunity may just be around the corner."
via LinkedInA 47-year-old¬†president and managing partner of a private equity firm survived a plunge from his seventh floor Fifth Avenue apartment yesterday morning, the New York Post reports.¬† Adam Silberman sustained several broken bones and multiple trauma injuries after jumping from the 68th Street building, his wife Monique Ender Silberman¬†told the paper. A second floor awning helped break his fall, the report said. The financier's father-in-law told the Post that Silberman has been depressed over a fight with the co-op involving the family's three French poodles. ¬†Apparently neighbors had complained about the dogs barking and one of them had to be sent away, the report said.¬† Police sources told the Post that they found "crack paraphernalia" in the home. A friend of Silberman's told the paper that he doesn't abuse drugs or alcohol.¬† Silberman runs Solas Investments, a private equity fund, holding company and investment banking consultant group that specializes in luxury, fashion, lifestyle brands and the consumer sector, according to his LinkedIn. His interests include boating, shooting, food, luxury sector, retailing and real estate, his profile states. He also lists swanky private clubs‚Äîthe Core Club and the Metropolitan Club‚Äîas organizations he's affiliated with.¬† Here's an image of the 860 Fifth Avenue building where Silberman jumped:¬† via StreetEasy
The reason Apple's stock has been crushed in the past year is that the company's massive profit margin is collapsing. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Apple's operating margin peaked at an astounding 39%. This year in the first quarter, the margin had fallen all the way to 30%. Despite the hopes of some Apple faithful, this margin decline may be only the beginning. The reason Apple's profit margin is collapsing is that the market for high-end smartphones--Apple's most profitable and important product--has matured. The growth in the global smartphone industry now is coming from emerging markets like China, India, and Brazil. In these markets, the $600 price tag for a high end smartphone like the iPhone is a non-starter for most buyers, especially because these countries have few carrier subsidies to help reduce the upfront cash outlay for consumers. The companies that are winning huge market share in these markets are those that can sell full-featured smartphones for only $100-$200, versus the current $400-$600 price points for high-end smartphones. Apple has made clear that it does not want to chase low-price smartphone sales simply to maintain its market share. Apple's latest ad campaign, for example, says that the company's goal is not to make "the most" products but to make "the best." This is exactly the market position Apple has always occupied--the "premium" segment--and it is one that Apple's fans are proud of. (Point out to any diehard Apple fan that Apple is losing market share, and he or she will say that that's just fine: If the hoi polloi really want their Kia and Chevy smartphones, the Apple fan will say, they can have them: The Apple buyers will continue to pay up for and enjoy their BMWs.) There is little doubt that there will always be a "premium" segment in consumer electronics. And Apple is positioned well to continue to dominate it. But just because Apple has a strong position in this market segment doesn't mean that the company will be able to maintain its profit margin, let alone increase it. Why not? Because in consumer electronics markets, as opposed to car markets, prices inexorably drop.¬† When a consumer electronics company introduces a new gadget that is truly revolutionary and exciting, the company may be able to generate very large profit margins for a while. But, eventually, as the gadget becomes commoditized, and each new generation offers less improvement over the prior generation and cheap knockoffs offer most of the same functionality, this high profit margin usually gets competed away. That's what's happening right now in the global smartphone market. As Peter Burrows of Bloomberg notes, the average price of a smartphone worldwide has dropped from $450 at the beginning of last year to $375 now, according to IDC. And a new generation of smartphone manufacturers, who don't have fat per-unit profit margins to protect, are selling smartphones for much less than that. Chinese manufacturers Huawei and Lenovo are gaining huge market share in China, Burrows reports. And they're selling smartphones profitably for as little as $100.¬† In the United States, where carrier subsidies are well-entrenched, the $400-$600 price points where Apple, Samsung, and other high-end manufacturers sell their phones, are likely sustainable, at least for a while. The gadget price to the consumer in this market is $0-$200, so there's little or nothing to be gained by opting for a cheaper phone. But the premium segment of the U.S. market isn't growing much anymore. And with ever-smaller advantages to owning the latest, greatest version of a gadget (are iPhone 5 owners really going to rush to shell out for the 5S?), upgrade cycles are lengthening. At some point, moreover, even in the U.S., a carrier or manufacturer (Amazon? A Chinese company?) will likely offer a full-featured smartphone that is not just cheap to buy but also has a cheap monthly data plan. And although this phone won't likely appeal to the aesthetes who will pay anything for "the best," it will appeal to a lot of buyers who would otherwise have shelled out for an iPhone. As a result, it will help drive smartphone prices down across the board. (At $200 for the phone and, say, $150 a month in voice and data charges, a smartphone upgraded every 2 years costs $3,800. That's a lot of money. And it creates a lot of profit for both the smartphone manufacturer and the carrier. And one company's profit is another company's opportunity.) Apple's only defense against this inexorable price erosion is to keep rolling out magical new products that people want so desperately that they're willing to pay a big premium to get them. As Apple has shown in recent years, however, this is extraordinarily hard to do. Apple's profit margin on the iPad and iPad Mini is much lower than it is on the iPhone. (Without the carrier subsidy, the company can't sell these products at anywhere near the same markup than it can sell the iPhone). As a result, Apple's overall profit margin is dropping even though these products are mega-hits. In fact, as Business Insider's Jay Yarow pointed out earlier this year, Apple's profit margin on its iPhone was likely a historical anomaly--a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that is now running its course. And as smartphone become more and more commoditized, Apple's profit margin could fall a lot more than it already has. As this chart from Wikinvest shows, over the last four quarters, Apple's operating profit margin has fallen from 39% to 32%. When one limits one's historical perspective to this chart, the situation doesn't look too alarming: Apple's profit margin has just fallen back to where it was at the end of 2010. WikinvestApple's operating margin for the past 10 quarters. A longer-term view, however, is more worrisome. Thanks to the iPhone, Apple's profit margin is still vastly higher than it has been historically. It is also vastly higher than the profit margin of any other device manufacturer (possibly in history). Here's a chart showing Apple's profit margin going back to 2004. See how low it was back then? See how low it was even in 2009, when the iPhone was already gaining significant traction? WikinvestApple's operating margin from 2004 to the first quarter of 2013. Apple's operating profit margin in 2009 was 22%, a full 10 points below where it is right now. Apple's profit margin back in 2004, moreover, when it was still primarily an iPod and Mac company, was a pathetic 5%. And now look how high Apple's current profit margin is compared to the margins of some other hardware manufacturers, including Dell, Nokia, Sony, and BlackBerry. The highest profit margin at any of these companies is Sony's 11%. The margins at Dell, Nokia, and BlackBerry are under 3%. WikinvestApple's operating margin (right) compared to Microsoft (left), Sony (SNE), Dell, BlackBerry, and other companies. Yes, all of these companies are troubled. But only a few years ago, like Apple, they had profit margins and product lines that were the envy of the industry. And they illustrate what can happen in consumer electronics manufacturing when a company ceases to maintain a clear product edge. Will Apple's profit margin collapse to the level of BlackBerry, Sony, Nokia, or Dell? As a shareholder, I certainly hope not. But to avoid that fate, Apple is going to have to do what it has largely failed to do since the launch of the original iPad: Roll out new product categories that are so dazzling, revolutionary, and popular that, for a few years, at least, they have vast and wildly profitable markets to themselves. That is the only thing that will allow Apple to maintain its profit margin at the current level while competing in an industry as competitive as this one. In the meantime, the margins for Apple's current products are likely to continue to compress.¬† SEE ALSO: The Bull Case For Apple
Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, is also selling 40 million shares of Yahoo back to Yahoo. Third Point will hang onto another 20 million shares, a stake representing less than 2% of Yahoo stock. The resignations mark the end of an incredibly triumphant story for Loeb. Loeb, Wolf, and Wilson joined the Yahoo board in May 2012 after Third Point settled a long proxy fight against Yahoo's previous board of directors. That battle began when¬†Loeb first acquired a ~5% stake in Yahoo during the fall of 2011. Starting in October 2011, Loeb began filing letters with the SEC arguing that Yahoo needed new leadership ‚Äî a new board and a product-focused, visionary-style CEO.¬†He also argued that Yahoo needed to unlock the value of its stakes in its Asian assets, Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba. In January 2012, Yahoo's board at the time attempted to placate Loeb by making Scott Thompson, the president of eBay's PayPal division, Yahoo's new CEO. It didn't work. Loeb pushed for Thompson's ouster almost immediately. Eventually, Loeb discovered a discrepancy between Thompson's official biography and his actual academic record. At eBay and Yahoo, Thompson's biography listed a computer science degree, which Thompson did not actually have. Loeb made a huge stink and¬†Thompson eventually resigned, citing health concerns. Yahoo's board settled with Loeb. Part of the settlement brought Michael Wolf and Harry Wilson onto the board. Loeb tasked Wolf with finding a new CEO.¬†Wolf found high-profile Google executive Marissa Mayer. After Loeb's board takeover, Yahoo soon announced a deal to sell some of its stake in Alibaba to Alibaba. This netted Yahoo ~$7 billion in cash at the time, and will bring another ~$7 billion later, when Alibaba goes public. Yahoo used the money to buy Yahoo stock. Yahoo's stock price soared. Loeb bought his 5% stake at ~$13-$15 per share. Yahoo is now trading at ~$28. Third Point made about $1 billion on the whole deal. Here's the release: Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) today announced that it has entered into an agreement to repurchase 40 million shares of Yahoo! common stock beneficially owned by Third Point LLC ("Third Point"), at a purchase price of $29.11 per share. The purchase price equals the closing price of Yahoo! common stock on July 19, 2013. ¬†Following the repurchase, Third Point will beneficially own approximately 20 million shares, representing less than 2 percent of Yahoo!'s outstanding¬†common stock. In accordance with the Board‚Äôs settlement agreement announced on May 13, 2012, each of the directors originally nominated by Third Point --¬†Daniel S. Loeb, Harry J. Wilson, and Michael J. Wolf -- have submitted their resignations from Yahoo!'s board of directors, effective July 31, 2013. The Board will then comprise seven members. Max Levchin, who was appointed as a director upon mutual agreement between Third Point and the Board, will remain on the Board. The remaining directors are committed to revisiting the Board‚Äôs size and composition.¬† ¬†‚ÄúDaniel Loeb had the vision to see¬†Yahoo¬†for its immense potential - the potential to return to greatness as a company and the potential to deliver significant shareholder value,‚Äù said Yahoo! CEO¬†Marissa Mayer. ‚ÄúOn behalf of the Board and our entire team, I‚Äôd like to take this opportunity to personally thank Dan, Michael, and Harry for the tremendous opportunities they created here at Yahoo!. They have been incredibly supportive as we have built our executive staff and developed our strategy, and they have helped position Yahoo! for future success. While there's still a lot of work ahead, they‚Äôve given us a great foundation.‚Äù¬† "Harry, Michael and I are pleased to have played key roles in Yahoo's resurgence since we joined the Board last spring," said Third Point CEO Daniel S. Loeb. "Since our Board's rigorous search led us to hire Marissa Mayer as CEO, Yahoo!'s stock price has nearly doubled, delivering significant value for shareholders. I'm confident that with Marissa at the helm and her team's focus on innovation and engaging users, Yahoo! has a bright future." Yahoo! previously announced a plan to purchase an additional $1.9 billion of Yahoo! common stock; the new repurchase agreement becomes part of that plan. Upon completion of this repurchase, approximately $700 million will remain under the $5 billion buyback authorization announced last year, on which the Company plans to continue to execute. Yahoo! expects to fund the transaction primarily with cash, and the transaction is accretive to earnings per share (EPS). About Yahoo! Yahoo! is focused on making the world's daily habits inspiring and entertaining. By creating highly personalized experiences for our users, we keep people connected to what matters most to them, across devices and around the world. In turn, we create value for advertisers by connecting them with the audiences that build their businesses. Yahoo! is headquartered in Sunnyvale, Calif., and has offices located throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC) and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions. For more information, visit the pressroom (pressroom.yahoo.net) or the company's blog (yahoo.tumblr.com).
The Royal Baby hasn't even been born yet (Kate Middleton is in labor) but it already seems to be accomplishing great things. Within minutes after the announcement that Kate had gone into labor (at around 2:30 AM ET this morning) the British pound began to rally, and is now up strongly (0.4% against the U.S. dollar) on the day. Royal Baby mania is expected to boost the UK economy, so it's plausible that the connection between the rise of the pound and the baby news is something more than total coincidence. ThinkorswimGBP/USD exchange rate bottoms out 10 minutes after news breaks that the Duchess of Cambridge is in early stages of labor at St. Mary's Hospital, July 22, 2013.
REUTERS/Paul HackettBritain's Prince Andrew (L), Prince Harry (2nd L), Prince William (R) and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge stand on the balcony of Buckingham Palace after the Trooping the Colour ceremony in central London June 15, 2013. Trooping the Colour is a ceremony to honour the sovereign's official birthday.The royal baby is coming. As Kate Middleton goes into labor, the British royal family has¬†joined retailers in offering baby products to celebrate the spawn of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, the future heir to the throne. And it will net big profits for the UK economy. Though democratically irrelevant since World War II, the royals seem to be priming Britain for a binge in consumer spending. Reuters reports: Analysts estimate the baby fever could boost the¬†economy¬†by 240 million pounds ($380 million). Babynomics will join the Queen's Jubilee and the London Games as one-off tourniquets to an otherwise struggling British economy. From Reuters: Bamfield forecast 4.8 million people would splash out 62 million pounds on alcohol to wet the future monarch's head and spend 25 million pounds on food for baby parties. He expected 156 million pounds to be spent on commemorative¬†china¬†and other collectibles,toys, books, DVDs and media. Merchandise at palace shops includes Union Jack booties and "Born to Rule" pajamas.

It has begun. Kate Middleton has gone into labor to give birth to the highly anticipated "Royal Baby," who will be third in line for the throne, regardless of the baby's gender. The entire world is watching, or at least grumbling about watching. Very little is known about the baby, including its gender. But that hasn't stopped the folks at Irish betting site Paddy Power from putting odds on baby names. The top candidates: Alexandra, George, and Victoria. Here are the full odds. Paddy Power
AP ImagesCNBC's "Money Honey" Maria Bartiromo, whose five year contract with CNBC expires later this year, is looking at other networks, the New York Post's Claire Atkinson reports. Unnamed sources told the Post that Bartiromo has had discussions with CNN and Fox Business Network. Bartiromo, who currently co-anchors CNBC's "Closing Bell," told the paper that she has no comment. † Bartiromo joined CNBC in 1993. †A couple of years later, she made history as the first person to report live†from the New York Stock Exchange floor.† According to the Post, she makes between $2 and $3 million per year.
Credit SuisseThe recovery of the U.S. housing market has been one of the most encouraging economic stories in the world in recent years. But the recent jump in mortgage rates ó as home prices rise ó have some concerned that we'll lose buyers as affordability falls. Unfortunately, the recent data does not support those worries. From Credit Suisse's Neal Soss: Rising mortgage rates have done nothing to slow down momentum in home buying, in our view. If anything, this may be propelling those sitting on the fence. June existing home sales should hit the highest non-homebuyer tax credit level in six years. June new home sales should rise to a five-year high. Measures of home buying and home selling conditions from the University of Michiganís consumer survey have been signaling for some time a run-up in existing home sales. We could see another 4% plus bounce in June. Pending home sales, which lead existing sales by a month or two, were up over 6% in May. The downside risks to this forecast continue to be tight lending conditions and inventory constraints. New home sales should be up a tad in June. Single-family building permits, source data for new home sales, rose 0.6% in June, to the highest level since May 2008. Similar to existing home sales, inventory constraints continue to limit the upside for new sales. But higher traffic of prospective home buyers suggests pent-up demand and a further recovery in coming months. Of course, it's too early to make conclusions in either direction. But for now, it looks like the demand side of the housing market will remain healthy as buyers waiting for the best deals suddenly come off of the sidelines.
Q2 earnings came in at $1.38 per share, missing analysts' estimates for $1.40. Revenue came in at $7.08 billion, which was a hair lower than the $7.09 billion expected. The stock is down by around 2% in pre-market trading. Global comparable store sales climbed 1.0%, which was right in line with expectations. However, U.S. comparable store sales climbed by just 1.0%.† Analysts were looking for 1.5% growth. "During the quarter, new product introductions across the four key growth categories of chicken, beef, breakfast and beverages, ongoing support for the Dollar Menu and greater accessibility to McDonald's classic core favorites supported the segment's sales performance," said management about U.S. sales. "While the U.S. grew comparable sales and continued to outpace the competition, sales results were impacted by the comparison against prior year promotional activity." "While the informal eating out market remains challenging and economic uncertainty is pressuring consumer spending, we're continuing to differentiate the McDonald's experience by uniting consumer insights, innovation and execution," said CEO Don Thompson. "While our consolidated results this quarter were positive, global comparable sales for July are expected to be relatively flat," Thompson continued. "Based on recent sales trends, our results for the remainder of the year are expected to remain challenged."
High Frequency EconomicsDespite big drops in some big tech stocks, the S&amp;P 500 managed to end last week at a fresh all-time high. This week, we'll get a moderate mix of economic data and earnings announcements. "Three key themes in week ahead data: housing, capex, and jobs," said Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna. Indeed, the housing market is showing cracks as mortgage rates rise, GDP growth is beginning to lag, and¬†job creation has picked up. We have new and existing home sales stats, durable goods orders, and jobless claims coming up this week. Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary For weeks, months, and even years, investors have wondered if the stock market was ready to turn.¬† The answer to that question has repeatedly proven to be a resounding "No." But strategists like Raymond James' Jeff Saut warn that we're due for a decent sell-off. ‚ÄúFor the past two and a half months I have targeted tomorrow, July 19th, as the intermediate-top on both my quantitative timing and technical models," said Saut. "I have been raising cash for the past few weeks and I think this correction in the stock market will be roughly 10% to 12%. It‚Äôs just a question of, is this thing going to end with a whimper, or is it going to end with a bang?" Jonathan Corpina, a senior managing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, Inc., gave us a preview of this week's events from the New York Stock Exchange trader's perspective. Watch our brief interview here:
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesThis weekend The New York Times published a big story on†Metro International Trade Services, a Detroit-based aluminum storage company owned by Goldman Sachs. The NYT reported that Goldman shuffles the commodity around between storage units to skirt regulations meant to keep the commodity moving through the market and increase demand (and thus price) for the product. The paper calculated that this could have cost American consumers $5 billion over the last few years. Goldman denies any wrongdoing.† And in fact, a source close to the situation told Business Insider that, as a rule, Goldman doesn't control the flow from its warehouses; the aluminum is owned by customers and they decide when it moves. Then there's the aluminum that isn't governed by the London Mercantile Exchange, Metro's regulator. "Roughly 95 percent of metal sold every year doesn't pass through the warehouse system, and Metro is just one company in the LME system," said the source. Aluminum, like other commodities across the board, has seen its price drop dramatically since the financial crisis. Goldman points out that that is because of a lack of demand for the product.  Still, that isn't stopping banks from taking advantage of a 2003 regulation that allows them to jump into the commodities business.†According to the NYT, JP Morgan and BlackRock are looking into purchasing 80% of the world's copper. Goldman has said it will not enter into that deal.
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachA few weeks ago bond king and fellow Angeleno Jeff Gundlach mentioned that he thought bonds were near a bottom. ¬†From Reuters: ‚ÄúThe momentum of higher interest rates is slowing,‚Äù Gundlach said. ‚ÄúNow is the time to be thinking about taking advantage of the price discounts that exist in some of the risk areas of the bond market,‚Äù he added. Now I don‚Äôt know why his econometric analysis had led him to this conclusion, but history is certainly on his side, and we agree with him. ¬†We used to do a lot of posts on asset classes, drawdowns, and really bad months. ¬†Here are two charts on¬†bond drawdowns from a post in 2010: In general it shows that 10 year bonds usually don‚Äôt decline much more than 8%, and if they hit mid teens that is a great buying opportunity.¬† Mebane Faber Longer duration 30 year bonds obviously have higher drawdowns, and 15% is rare, with 25% being even more so. Mebane Faber A post we did in 2011 titled ‚ÄúWhen things go on sale, people run out of the store‚Äù examined what happens when you buy bonds in these drawdowns. ¬†10 year bonds are down around 7% and 30 year around 12%. ¬†That is usually time for a nice intermediate term trade. ¬†Please visit the¬†2011 post¬†for many more tables and charts. Note: ¬†This long term drawdown system usually couples well with short term really bad months. ¬†We examined what happens after really bad months in asset classes¬†(usually around -8% for equity like and -4% for bonds) and no surprise, that is usually a good time for a short term trade.
REUTERS/Olivia HarrisA member of the U.S. media decides which baby clothes to show to the camera outside the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital, where Britain's Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge is due to give birth, in London.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
flickr / Doug Wertman As the market sails to new highs, the floodgates have broken open. Money is pouring like crazy into stocks, which is of course classic investor psychology. Nobody buys low. People like to buy high. In Goldman Sachs' latest "Weekly Kickstart" note, strategist David Kostin relays the discussion the firm is having with clients. The discussions are all about retail fund flows, and the rush of money into stocks. The 5% S&amp;P 500 pullback in June did not derail strong flows into equities although the recent focus on Fed policy and potential for QE tapering has overshadowed an important shift in flows that appears to favor retail sponsorship of equities. Retail equity sponsorship is inflecting higher. This week the Goldman Sachs Rotation Index reached its highest point since late 2008, indicating that retail mutual fund flows have a higher risk appetite and bias towards equity funds. The drivers of that shift have been $50 bn of outflows from taxable bond mutual funds and ETFs and $30 bn of flows into domestic equity funds since the start of June. During 2Q $28 bn of assets flowed into domestic equity funds vs. $27 bn into taxable bond funds. Those flows reflect strong relative outperformance of stocks versus bonds as the 10-year US Treasury bond posted its third straight quarter of negative total returns in 2Q. The Treasury has lagged the S&amp;P 500 by 20% in 2013, and through June the S&amp;P 500 information ratio is on pace for a 78th percentile performance since 1962. Retail equity allocation is now overweight vs. its 20-year average of 68.4%. The mix of retail flows continues to rebalance the mutual fund asset allocation. We estimate retail investors have 69% of assets in equity funds, which is 70 bp above average since 1992 and up from 65% in 2012. Within that equity allocation a structural shift in favor of international funds is clear while bond holdings show an overweight in investment grade corporate vs. underweight in municipal bond funds. This chart from the note is Goldman's own "Rotation Index" which looks at relative stock-vs-fixed income fund flows. As you can see, the rotation into stocks is surging like mad in recent weeks. Goldman Sachs Meanwhile, the topic of retail money rushing into equity ETFs was also on the mind of Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading, who wrote about this in his "Closing Print" note, which was sent out last night. O'Rourke did some number crunching to see which sector ETFs were garnering the most interest from investors: There are some trends that we thought were interesting, such as the XLF.† Although the Financials are only up 26% year to date, the ETF market cap is up by 85%.† Of all sector ETFís, Financials has the largest market cap, which is 50% greater than Technologyís XLK.† It is likely many investors opt for their technology exposure in the lager QQQ.† Despite the uninspiring performance of Tech, the market cap of the XLK has grown nearly 40% this year.† The XLY has seen its market cap grow 77% since the start of the year versus 25% gain for the Consumer Discretionary Sector.† Similarly, the XLI has experienced 50% market cap growth versus the 20% year to date gain for the Industrial sector.† The IWM has experienced strong flow activity with the market cap being up 65% year to date versus the 25% gain for the Russell 2000.† Likewise the SPY has experienced a 28% growth in market cap versus 18% performance for the S&amp;P 500.† While it is hard to know how much flows of this size influence the broad market, the one thing this clear is there are investors making a big exposure grab.† The activity is more about buying the market and sectors and less about individual stocks.
REUTERS/Gary HershornHere's the thing. People keep talking about the Fed Exit, and the economy achieving escape velocity, and the jobs market returning to normal. But a lot of the data just isn't that impressive. For the second quarter, for example, a lot of the estimates are for growth under 1%. This morning, Ben Casselman at WSJ takes a look at some of the weak US growth numbers: There also are signs that consumers‚Äîwhose spending has helped prop up the economy for much of the past year‚Äîare beginning to tighten their belts. Retail sales grew a paltry 0.4% in June, Commerce Department figures showed, and would have been even worse if higher gasoline prices hadn't forced drivers to spend more at the pump.¬† "This year is proving to be more challenging than we had originally planned," Howard Levine, chairman and chief executive of discount retailer Family Dollar Stores Inc., told investors earlier this month. "The consumer is just more challenged than we had anticipated." Sales at restaurants‚Äîa key source of recent job growth, adding more than 150,000 positions over the past three months‚Äîtumbled last month, suggesting consumers could be pulling back on discretionary spending. In a note, SocGen examines what this means from an interest rate perspective: The soft patch and ongoing dovish talk from Bernanke may support further Treasury consolidation ahead, though not necessarily in a sleepy mode like Friday. We‚Äôll be watching very closely the 2.39-2.41% support ‚Äì if broken that would open the door for a quick rally towards 2.20%. That would be a surprise to us: we expect that support to hold. As explained in our last 18 July FIW, the muted US Treasury price recovery, despite dovish talk and soft data, suggests there aren‚Äôt many shorts around. Meanwhile, keep an eye on the housing data. Much of it remains strong, but some numbers, like housing starts have begun to fade lately. FRED
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva has voiced support for the country's centre-right coalition government and rejected calls for snap elections to resolve a political crisis shaking the bailed-out nation. "I think in the current context of national emergency, calling elections is not a solution for the problems Portugal is facing," Cavaco Silva said Sunday. "I think the best solution is to keep the current government in power." His remarks came after crisis talks between Portugal's three main parties failed Friday to reach a pact on pursuing radical reforms to avoid a second international bailout, as Cavaco Silva had called for. The president urged the two parties in the ruling coalition -- Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho's centre-right PSD and the conservative CDS-PP -- to work together to see through the reforms agreed under Portugal's 2011 bailout deal and enable the country to return to the international financial markets. "It is important to show our European partners that Portugal is a governable country," Cavaco Silva said. "The government has an undeniable majority." The coalition between the two ruling parties gives the government a comfortable majority in parliament, but the alliance is at risk after the resignation early this month of finance minister Vitor Gaspar, the architect of the budget cuts, and foreign minister Paulo Portas, the CDS-PP leader and an increasingly sharp critic of austerity. Their resignations plunged Portugal's politics into turmoil, casting doubt on the fate of the reforms agreed under the country's 78-billion-euro ($103-billion) rescue from the European Union and International Monetary Fund. After the two key ministers' resignations, worries that Portugal would veer into a new crisis shook world markets fearful of a new wave of instability in the eurozone's debt-laden periphery. Facing pressure from European partners and the financial markets, the prime minister's PSD party and Portas' Christian Democrats agreed to work to save their coalition majority. They decided Portas should remain in the government, promoted to deputy prime minister in charge of economic policy. The prime minister added that new Finance Minister Maria Luis Albuquerque would remain in place. Portugal's austerity measures are widely blamed for exacerbating a three-year recession, and the resulting hardship has sparked growing street protests. The country forecasts a 2.3-percent economic contraction this year, and has record unemployment of more than 18 percent. Portugal's "troika" of international creditors -- the IMF, European Commission and European Central Bank -- have postponed their next review of the country's reform programme from mid-July to late August because of the ongoing political standoff. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
REUTERS/Marcos Brindicci Argentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner gestures to supporters during a rally outside Casa Rosada Presidential Palace in Buenos Aires May 25, 2013. Argentina's official economic growth surprised analysts with a 7.8% year over year jump in May. MercoPress: - Argentina's economic activity jumped 7.8% in May from a year earlier, according to the country‚Äôs questioned stats office, Indec. President Cristina Fernandez had anticipated the news earlier in the week in a televised speech. ...The monthly EMAE economic activity index is a close proxy for GDP, which is reported quarterly. Cristina Fernandez should be congratulated for this incredible achievement in the face of numerous adversities faced by the nation. But can the growth numbers be trusted? MercoPress: - Argentina is widely accused of manipulating inflation data and, to a lesser extent, growth data. It faces potential sanctions by the IMF, which has issued a ‚Äúdeclaration of censure‚Äù against Argentina over the quality of its statistics. Even though the inflation number is heavily "understated", the growth numbers reported by the offficials should be more reliable? But this 7.8% number is meant to approximate the "real" instead of the "nominal" measure of the GDP growth. Which means that inflation numbers are key to this determination. The official inflation rate reported by the same government agency is¬†10.5%, while the actual number is more than double that amount. Computed using a more accurate inflation measure, the real GDP is likely to be negative. GS: - The official Indec figures (0.8% mom, 10.5% yoy in June) are reporting less than half the inflation in the economy as measured by non-official entities.  Inflation is likely to remain entrenched above 20% during 2013-2014, given inertial pressures, the continuation of very accommodative monetary conditions, a deteriorating fiscal stance, and accelerating ARS [Argentina¬†peso] depreciation. The monetary stance remains very lax (negative real interest rates), and the central bank continued to accommodate inflation at a very high level. In all, we expect the authorities to continue to subordinate low and stable inflation to fiscal and growth imperatives (severe fiscal dominance). This strategy is likely to lead to further pressure on the ARS to depreciate. And pressure on the ARS continues. Earlier this year when Argentina was expected to default on its dollar debt (see post), the dollar hoarding in the black market forced greenbacks to spike to over 10 pesos. Since then the peso stabilized at around 8, but recently the black market activity has picked up again. SoberLook With inflation numbers understated (and unlikely to improve), the real GDP growth is made to look far better than it really is. And given that the economy will be a major determinant of the October 2013 mid-term elections outcome, the Cristina Fernandez government continues to cook the country's key economic indicators.
REUTERS/Mike Blake    We're looking at a very quiet start to the week in markets. Following a weekend which saw Japanese elections result in pretty much exactly what everyone was expecting (a strong win for Shinzo Abe's party) markets are doing nothing. Japan ended the day with small gain and other markets in Asia didn't move much. European markets are basically flat. US futures are down a hair. The big winner of the week so far is gold, which has spiked to above $1300.
