Charles Williams / FlickrEconomics professor Mark Perry points us to a fascinating story. A Chinese man reportedly hired virtual assassins to kill his son's World of Warcraft avatar after becoming frustrated with the amount of time his son spent playing the game. From TGDaily.com: According to reports, a man in China became so exasperated by the amount of time that his unemployed son was spending playing World of Warcraft that he decided to do something about it. It seems that the lad had quit a software development job after just three months, and was doing nothing to find another one. Showing, perhaps, a rather limited understanding of how these things work, Mr Feng hoped that killing the 23-year-old's character off repeatedly would put him off playing altogether - and hired virtual assassins to do just that. According to the Sanqing Daily, he managed to find killers who were at a much higher level than his son - despite all his hours of game play. "Markets in everything," writes Professor Perry. Read more at TGDaily.com.
Charles Williams / FlickrEconomics professor Mark Perry points us to a fascinating story. A Chinese man reportedly hired virtual assassins to kill his son's World of Warcraft avatar after becoming frustrated with the amount of time his son spent playing the game. From TGDaily.com: According to reports, a man in China became so exasperated by the amount of time that his unemployed son was spending playing World of Warcraft that he decided to do something about it. It seems that the lad had quit a software development job after just three months, and was doing nothing to find another one. Showing, perhaps, a rather limited understanding of how these things work, Mr Feng hoped that killing the 23-year-old's character off repeatedly would put him off playing altogether - and hired virtual assassins to do just that. According to the Sanqing Daily, he managed to find killers who were at a much higher level than his son - despite all his hours of game play. "Markets in everything," writes Professor Perry. Read more at TGDaily.com.

In a slide titled "The After Math Of The Housing Bubble," JP Morgan Funds's David Kelly offers a chart of monthly rent versus monthly mortgage payments to capture an imbalance in the housing market. Americans continue to be unable or unwilling to buy a house.¬† Many still remember what happened in the housing bubble not just a few years ago. Meanwhile, this the demand for rentals have exploded, so much so that average rents are much higher than average mortgage payments. Here's the chart illustrating the evolving trends: JP Morgan FundsCensus Bureau, J.P. Morgan Asset Management. Monthly mortgage payment assumes a 20% down payment at prevailing 30-year fixed-rate mortgage rates; analysis based on median asking rent and median mortgage payment based on asking price.
Investors are stampeding to lend to the worldís riskiest companies and countries.† Quartz†spotted this trend back in October, and it has just got stronger since. Usually a conservative bunch, bond fund managers now cannot get enough of debt issued by Chinese property developers or risky governments such as Vietnam. Blame the Fed and other central banks.†Investment yields on Treasury bonds and debt sold by blue chip companies have collapsed. As the Wall Street Journal comments, investors are ìchasing yield in far-flung placesî. Western governments, pumping money into their economies, will likely keep interest rates at rock bottom for years, while†risky companies from developing markets pay high interest to borrow cash. But the rewards can blind one to the perils. Country Garden and Kaisa Group, two Chinese residential-property developers, drew a massive $28 billion of orders for a combined $1.25 billion of high yield bondsóthe bankerís polite term for junk debtósold in the last few days, according to credit publication IFR. Country Gardenís bond pays 7.5% interest and Kaisaís pays 10.25%. They are rated junk for good reason. The oversupply in Chinaís bubbly housing market†is well documented. Standard &amp; Poorís just downgraded Country Garden†because of ìchallenging conditionsî in Chinese real estate, and says archly that†Kaisa has ìlimited consistency in financial management.î Similarly, though Vietnamís economy is slowing and it could be facing a banking crisis,†demand for government bonds is rising rapidly. The countryís debt is rated below investment grade by Moodyís and Standard &amp; Poorís. Moodyís downgraded Vietnam last September†because of the likelihood the Hanoi government will have to bail out failing banks. It is not just junk bonds investors are rushing into. Anything moderately exotic will do. This chart from HSBC shows how foreign ownership of Mexican, Peruvian and Indonesian government debt has hit record highs. The pace is accelerating. In the first eight months of this year, 25 companies from the BRIC countries sold junk bonds, raising a combined $10.3 billion, according to Dealogic. In the last four months, there have been 30 BRIC junk deals worth $13 billion. Emerging-market companies and governments will welcome the financing. But hidden risks are piling up. The first is that these countries are lax about protecting investors when bond issuers default. In Indonesia, for example, courts are generally unsympathetic to the wishes of foreign creditors. Chinese bankruptcy laws are new and untested, and in China,†foreign creditors often find†the local courts will not help them grab a failed firmís assets.†In Mexico, legal loopholes related to inter-company loans allow bankrupt companies to be treated by the courts as their own biggest creditors. The other major risk is to the debt issuers themselves. Fund managers are buying this junk debt mainly because it offers higher interest rates, not because the issuers are fundamentally sound, so their loyalty is†fickle. Cash will probably rush out of emerging markets again as soon as the numbers stop making sense. ìThe window of opportunity for Latin American [bond] issuers can close quickly,î says Joe Bormann, a managing director at credit ratings agency Fitch Ratings who tracks Latin American corporates. So too for Asian companies: The Asian high-yield debt market shut down completely for 106 days between July and December 2011, according to a Quartz analysis of Thomson Reuters data. That means emerging-market firms could face cash crunches. A fast-growing company typically gobbles up capital to fund its expansion and repays its debts with new borrowings, since sales arenít yet big enough to cover them. Country Garden, for example, will be using some proceeds of its recent $750 million bond sale to pay off old bonds that are about to come due (pdf p.1). This business model is common across developing countries. This ìrefinancing riskî is something that anyone holding emerging-market junk bonds should examine closely. Like those countriesí arak, baijiu, tequila or other local liquors, their junk debt feels good and strong at first, but the resulting hangover can be awful.
Feng Li/Getty ImagesMany policies previously approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) came into effect in the new year. These reforms should help increase investor confidence, according to China Securities Journal. Last month Societe Generale's Wei Yao wrote that despite reports that reforms were unlikely after the handover of power, it looked increasingly likely that Xi Jinping would reform China.  The new policies include: While changes to the capital controls are very welcome, investors should probably heed Yao's warning that the path of rebalancing will be bumpy and while the impact of good reforms is positive for business, consumers and investors, it is "not entirely positive for short- term growth."
Flickr/HryckThe stakes surrounding the plan to mint a platinum coin to circumvent the debt ceiling continue to rise. Now Wall Street is clearly getting interested. Ethan Harris at Bank of America is out with a new note titled The Trillion Dollar Tooth Fairy, which blasts the idea: If this trillion dollar idea sounds a bit too good to be true, it is.†† First and foremost, it may not be legal. The idea effectively rests on a loophole in a law that allows platinum coins to be issued by the Treasury - but for commemorative, not fiscal, purposes. Opponents suggest that the courts would strike down this plan since it is not the intent of the original bill. Others have questioned its constitutionality: they argue that Congress cannot (and did not intend to) delegate fiscal decisions to the Treasury. That is, the Treasury must implement the spending and tax - and debt limit -decisions of the Congress, not override them. However, opinions are mixed as to whether these criticisms would be enough to invalidate the trillion dollar coin idea in a court of law.†† Whether legal or not, it would almost certainly provoke a bitter court battle. And at least one Republican representative, Greg Walden of Oregon, has said he would propose legislation to preclude the trillion dollar coin plan. While the Obama administration so far has not commented on the idea, in 2011 it rejected on legal grounds the idea of invoking the 14th amendment to avoid a debt limit battle. However, in early January House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said she would be willing to invoke the amendment"in a second."† The note goes on to say that such an action would probably worsen the crisis. SEE ALSO: Why the platinum coin debate is so incredibly important &gt;
The global monetary system rests on a fragile foundation of trust. Thanks to the actions of central banks, pressure on the system will keep growing. Paper U.S. dollars sit at the heart of the global monetary system. Dollars are liabilities of the Federal Reserve. Just as houses are collateral for mortgages, Treasuries and mortgage bonds are collateral for U.S. dollars. A central bank‚Äôs balance sheet is essentially a self-reinforcing feedback loop: Government bonds are the collateral for dollar liabilities, and bonds are streams of future dollar payments. So the dollar is backed by the promise of more dollars‚Ä¶ As more dollars are printed, their value inevitably falls. As the dollar falls, the Fed responds with more printing. The Fed uses weak excuses to explain higher prices; it blames anything but itself. Weather, geopolitics, and emerging market growth are classic scapegoats for higher prices. Few bother asking how those events would impact consumer prices without the influence of a swelling money supply. Now introduce permanent zero interest rates into this system and the system becomes even more fragile‚Ä¶ Central banks are gambling with the trust of savers. They‚Äôre printing and buying bonds at the fastest pace in history. Zero interest rates also undermine confidence in the monetary system. Central banks‚Äô most powerful tool to keep savers in the system is imposing positive real interest rates. Interest rates incentivize you to save. With zero interest rates ‚Äî and little chance of positive rates for years into the future ‚Äî there is no incentive. Central banks have been bailing out bankrupt governments. Zero rates allow governments to fund budgets very cheaply. Of all governments in the world, Japan is the most bankrupt, with a debt many times the size of its GDP. A tiny rise in its government borrowing costs would usher in the same conditions we see in Greece. How might the so-called ‚Äúsolutions‚Äù to slow global growth evolve when the current bout of printing fails? A ‚Äúreset‚Äù button could strengthen the fragile global monetary system. It involves reintroducing gold. Holders of gold own the crucial ingredient for a reset. And holders of gold mining stocks own in-ground gold supplies that could form the foundation of a future monetary system. Since the end of the gold standard, debt has skyrocketed. Public- and private-sector debts amount to tens of trillions of dollars. Debt weighs down the economy. Pushing interest rates down to zero for years and years is no real solution. Look at Japan! Its economy has been half-alive for 20 years. Writing off debt is the only way to restore solvency. The economy would be unshackled from its burden of servicing debts. There is a way to slash debt without resorting to a deflationary collapse. It involves restoring the gold standard at prices of $10,000 or above. This high price is crucial, because returning to the gold standard at today‚Äôs gold prices would result in a devastating deflation. In a recent investor letter, QB Asset Management explains how an inflationary reset button could slash the real value of the rapidly growing U.S. national debt: ‚ÄúUsing the U.S. as an example, the Fed would purchase Treasury‚Äôs gold at a large and specified premium to its current spot valuation. The higher the price, the more base money would be created and the more public debt would be extinguished. An eight-tenfold increase in the gold price via this mechanism would fully reserve all existing U.S. dollar-denominated bank deposits (a full deleveraging of the banking system).‚Äù QB maintains a chart of the shadow gold price (SGP). The SGP uses the Bretton Woods calculation for determining the exchange rate linking gold to the U.S. dollar. The calculation is base money divided by U.S. official gold holdings. Here is QB‚Äôs latest chart. It includes projections of the base money supply through June 2015, assuming the Fed prints $85 billion per month. The SGP soars to $20,000 per ounce: ¬†Angry Bear Blog If the ratio between the SGP and actual gold prices stays constant, gold could be $3,400 per ounce by 2015! If gold rallies anywhere close to $3,400 by 2015 (QB Asset Management‚Äôs scenario), quality gold mining stocks could rally by several hundred percent. Of the bunch, I urge you to consider midsized gold miners. Capital costs for new mines have skyrocketed at large gold mining companies. For example, the doubling of development costs for a project high in the Andes Mountains sent investors fleeing from Barrick Gold (ABX). Investors will pay a premium for gold miners with consistent execution and low, stable cash costs. That‚Äôs why I suggest you consider the midsized players. One company I‚Äôve suggested to my readers is Agnico-Eagle Mines (AEM) but there are plenty others in the midsize field (including, Yamana Gold, Eldorado Gold, New Gold, Randgold Resources, IAMGOLD Corp and more.) Let‚Äôs assume QB Asset Management‚Äôs scenario: a steady doubling in gold prices over the next three years. Many midsized miners would produce vast amounts of free cash flow in 2014. Any rise in gold prices above cash costs flows straight to the bottom line. The most shareholder-friendly companies, will return this cash to shareholders, rather than reinvest in the ground when project costs are too high. Such a scenario would grab the attention of mainstream investors. Investors who now ignore gold stocks would fall in love with them. High-quality gold stocks remain very cheap and will one day become expensive. Meanwhile, dividend yields pay you to wait. Best regards, Dan Amoss, CFA Original article posted on Daily Resource Hunter¬† The Path to $20,000 Gold appeared in the Daily Reckoning. Subscribe to The Daily Reckoning by visiting signup for an Agora Financial newsletter. ¬† Read more posts on The Daily Reckoning ¬ª

Improving Chinese economic data have many experts saying that the economy has bottomed out, and that the possibility of a hard economic landing is off the table. Societe Generale analysts* expect Chinese GDP to increase 7.4 percent this year but think there still is a "non-negligible risk" of a hard landing in which GDP growth falls to less than six percent. Remember a hard landing refers to four consecutive quarters of below six percent growth - which is the minimum needed for a stable job market and to avoid "systemic financial risk".¬† In a new report titled "What If China Lands Hard?" SocGen's China economist Wei Yao writes that clients they surveyed expect growth of between 5.5 - 7.0 percent in the worst reasonable case.¬† Yao thinks it could drop much lower to about 4 percent.¬† So what would could cause a hard landing? According to Yao, a major trade shock, inadequate government investment from Beijing, or a sharp property market correction prompted by tight policies could all send China's economy spiralling. And how would this scenario play out? From Yao: "Whatever the catalyst, the excess capacity in the manufacturing sector ‚Äì estimated at 40% in 2011 by the IMF ‚Äì would be exacerbated by a sharp growth slowdown. This would cut corporate margins sharply, making profits plunge, and triggering a downward spiral in domestic demand. Bankruptcies and unemployment would occur on a large scale, endangering financial and social stability. One factor that could accelerate the downward spiral is the high leverage of China‚Äôs corporate sector, which exceeded 120% of GDP at end-2011 and has kept rising throughout 2012. As the crisis progressed, non-performing loans would undoubtedly rise beyond the capacity of local governments to contain them, as their fiscal resources dwindled. Even in China‚Äôs (semi-) controlled system, banks could choose to freeze lending as a knee-jerk reaction, while the authorities rushed to draft a decisive response. The rapid development of the non-bank credit market in the last few years, especially shadow banking activities, has created a new vector through which a systemic liquidity crunch could take place. Capital outflow would likely ensue, stretching domestic liquidity conditions further." Here's Yao's chart: Societe Generale *Note: Attribution changed to reflect house call.
Dividend stocks are the lease sexy stocks in the market.¬† Companies that pay dividends generally have limited growth prospects, which is why they pay out that cash to shareholders.¬† Growth stocks on the other hand tend to offer more robust return opportunities as they shovel that cash back into their operations. However, according to research published by BlackRock, dividend paying stocks have a long history of beating non-dividend paying stocks in both bull and bear markets. From BlackRock: Conventional wisdom holds that more information is better. However, investors are so distracted by daily headlines, they may not be focused on the longer term risk/reward of their portfolios. Fortunately, while dividend payers may lag the broader markets for short bursts, we've seen them outperform over the long term‚Äîacross bull and bear markets‚Äîas the market acknowledges companies' underlying fundamentals. There is no guarantee that stocks will continue to pay dividends. BlackRock
Ever since word got out that hedge fund BlueMountain Capital Management was helping JP Morgan exit its ugly $6 billion trading loss last year everyone has been wondering exactly what the firm does. Well Bloomberg Markets Magazine has a deep dive into the hedge fund, helmed by Harvard Law graduate Andrew Feldstein, and to put it gently, they're basically one of Wall Street's trash compactors. And, by the way, when Bloomberg Markets last checked on the fund in October it was up 13.6% for 2012, so that strategy is working. From Bloomberg Markets: Feldstein is betting that BlueMountain can make money on assets that banks no longer want to own and on loans that banks no longer want to make, according to an October marketing document for the new fund obtained by Bloomberg Markets. As banks shed risky assets, Feldstein is making money picking through these flea markets of finance. ‚ÄúThis market will continue to grow,‚Äù says Paul Rowady, a senior analyst at research firm Tabb Group LLC in Westborough, Massachusetts. ‚ÄúTheir intuition to be a leader is spot on.‚Äù One man's trash is another man's treasure. But here's the thing: Feldstein was on the JPMorgan team that helped create the credit derivatives market in the early 1990s. He knows that market like he knows the back of his hand. As Bloomberg Markets put it, having him unwind your complex credit trade "is like having a tall green monster on the loose and calling in Dr. Frankenstein to deal with it." Makes sense.
Take one look at Best Buy scrambling to hang on to market share and it's easy to see how eCommerce has been crushing brick-and-mortar retail's business for a while now, especially in developed markets. According to a new report from Morgan Stanley's internet and retail team: "Fulfillment execution is key to realizing eCommerce‚Äôs disruptive potential. By 2016, our AlphaWise survey and global eCommerce model suggest a nearly 50% increase in penetration of retail sales, to 9.3% (from 6.5% today), surpassing $1 trillion." And the market is far from saturated. Morgan Stanley Fulfillment execution will remain the key factor driving growth, said the report, followed by price, selection, convenience, distribution and cost structure. More specific to the U.S. market, the extent to which eCommerce will give brick-and-mortar a run for its money will depend on: 1. How well eRetailers innovate when it comes to fulfillment 2. Investments that will give eRetailers the ability to lower their price points, which will lead to higher sales but at lower margins Click Here For Morgan Stanley's Full Presentation &gt;
According to new numbers, youth unemployment rates across Europe just hit new highs. Unfortunately, the young and unemployed are not likely to see their situation improve anytime soon. According to a report by the International Labour Organization, the global youth unemployment rate will continue to edge higher beyond 2014, and will hit 12.9% by 2017, 0.2 percentage points up from 2012. From the ILO: "As the euro area crisis continues in its second year, the impacts are spreading further, slowing down economies from East Asia to Latin America. Other regions such as Sub-Saharan Africa that had expected faster improvements in their youth Labour markets will now take longer to revert to levels seen prior to the global financial crisis. In developed economies, youth unemployment rates are expected to fall over the coming years, after having suffered from the largest increase among all regions at the beginning of the crisis, but principally because discouraged young people are withdrawing from the Labour market and not because of stronger hiring activity among youngsters." Here's a chart of the ILO's projections: International Labour Organization  Here's an interactive map of the youth unemployment rate in Eurozone and neighboring countries. (Source: latest available data from Eurostat.) 
Global aluminum giant Alcoa just reported Q4 2012 earnings right in line with estimates, but sales were better than expected. As part of its investor presentation, the company always includes the two slides found below. The reason we love these slides: they pack in a lot of information about the global economy. The first slide looks at demand growth from industrial end markets. The second slide looks at demand growth based on regional end markets. Of note is a big decline in demand from the North American trucking industry. Gains in demand from Chinese trucking almost offset the drop in North America, though. In terms of the regional outlook, North America is the clear laggard, although this probably owes significantly to the decline in demand from the trucking industry. Alcoa Alcoa
Sotheby's InternationalBunny Mellon, the 102-year-old widow of banking legend and philanthropist Paul Mellon, put her gorgeous, 26-acre Cape Cod compound on the market last January for $28.7 million. Now, it appears that billionaire Bill Koch, sibling of Tea Party darlings David and Charles, has purchased the home for $19.5 million through an LLC, according to celebrity real estate blogger The Real Estalker. It's on secluded Oyster Island, with a main residence, guest house, tennis court, lawns, gardens, and orchards.
DoubleLine FundsDoubleLine Funds' Jeff Gundlach just wrapped up another one of his extremely popular webcasts for clients. The presentation, titled "Year Of The Snake," covered Gundlach's outlook for the global economy and financial markets. His closing remarks say it all: "Don't expect the stability of 2012 to endure in 2013." The stock markets, the European bond markets, the high-yield credit markets, the elevated fiscal deficits... Gundlach believes all of them are effectively coiled like snakes and are ready to bite us. "Meant for steady progress and attention to detail." The 2013 snake is the water snake, which is "lucky with finances." Color is black: space, deep waters, abyss, instability. "I really don't think Treasury bonds are that overvalued relativistically."  One of the failed trades of 2012 was France.&nbsp; France is probably a good short. The big loser was natural gas, but did great in the April-May period. The place to be was agriculture and equity markets.   And the "safe ones" yield nothing. "Investor complacecy is the only word you can use."&nbsp; Snake is coiled, ready to strike. Greece is in a full-blown depression. Portugal getting close. Unemployment trends continue to be unfavorable. One reason for the deficit problem is the collapse in capital gains income.&nbsp; The stock market has been flat for 12 to 13 years. The big issue now is the debt ceiling.&nbsp; We also face sequestration. "This problem never seems to want to be seriously addressed." "The half life is down to weeks." "40% of taxes will be paid by 0.7% of population." "They had the right order of magnitude, but they had the sign wrong."  Appreciated significantly against the Japanese yen and Brazilian real. However, following the huge surge "It's hard to be in love with the Japanese stock market today."&nbsp; We'll probably see some corrective action. "I love the Japanese stock market as a long-term investment." Emerging markets have broadly outperformed the S&amp;P 500. Gundlach continues to like long Shanghai Composite, short the S&amp;P 500. Not a lot of value in high-yield. 25% of farmers are 55-65. "Farming has got some future to it." Demand for food is growing. "Housing is bumblinge along." "People are overly bullish on housing." "Flabbergasted" by housing equity PEs. Would stay away from that. Also, huge rally in ABX (ie subprime) index.&nbsp; Speculators made off well. Higher in three years. US can print money. Agrees with Warren Buffett that the US should get an AAAA credit rating if possible. "It shows how human nature, fear and greed never really changes."
Hedge fund billionaire†Eddie Lampert is taking over as CEO of Sears Holdings, starting on February 2.†CEO Louis D'Ambrosio is stepping down, citing "family health matters."† Lampert is the chairman of Sears, and the founder, chairman, and CEO of†ESL Investments. So, what exactly does all of this mean for Sears, and the company's other big brand, Kmart? Analysts and pundits have been weighing in on the situation today and they seem worried. Sears was in bad shape to begin with, and this transition presents additional concerns. Lampert isn't a retail guy. "While we acknowledge Mr. Lampert's insight and expertise when it comes to 'financial engineering,' we are concerned about his lack of merchandising experience at time when the retailer is struggling to turn around its core Sears and Kmart chains," Gimme Credit senior high yield analyst Evan Mann told Reuters. "Does Sears now have even more problems attracting top talent in key departments for as long as Lampert remains at the helm?" asked Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions.†"I am unsure if a creative retail mind would feel confident in jumping ship for fear of being boxed in from an initiative perspective." But, after all, Lampert has been heavily involved in the inner workings of Sears since he became chairman. So, with D'Ambrosio gone, perhaps nothing will change. There are concerns that he simply doesn't have any new ideas. "Maybe heíll install new carpet at headquarters. Or change the logo," wrote YCharts editor Jeff Bailey. "But it seems doubtful at this late date that the man who has controlled Sears for nearly a decade ñ and presided over this†stock chart†ñ has any new tricks up his sleeve." "At the end of the day, there is only one person who makes the big decisions ... and that person is Mr. Lampert," wrote Gary Balter, an analyst at Credit Suisse, in a note. "Giving him an additional title does not change that reality, and in our opinion, does not change the direction of the company." Lampert personally owns 22 percent of Sears Holdings, and his fund, ESL, controls around 40 percent of the company.
CNBCHarry Dent is not one to shy away from predictions. Just take a quick look at some of the man's bibliography: he wrote†The Great Boom Ahead†in 1993 and followed it up with†The Great Jobs Ahead†in 1995. In 2009, he authored†The Great Depression Ahead, and in 2011,†The Great Crash Ahead. Now, Dent, the economic forecaster perhaps best known for the use of demographics in his analysis, is predicting a big market crash this summer. Dent told CNBC this afternoon: We think markets are going to go up for a while. I think Maria [Bartiromo] is right ñ the market wants to go up. We'll see one more correction into this second fiscal cliff. I think we'll see another rally into March, April, May, or something. By the summer, we get another crash. I think it's going to be a choppy rally ñ†up, down, up, down, with an upward bias. It's the second half that we think a crash starts ñ that, just like the last crash, lasts about a year and a half or so, goes into late 2014, early 2015. We get a slight new high in the Dow this year, and then we get a slight new low in the next crash. That's been the pattern. Higher highs in each bubble, slightly lower lows in each crash. Again, this should not be something that people go, "Oh my gosh, how could this happen?" It's been happening since 1995. Bubble, crash, bubble, crash, bubble, crash. Here is what Dent told CNBC regarding†why he expects this crash in the second half of 2013: How many crashes have we seen in the last ten years or so? 2000, 2002 ñ bubble, crash. 2007 ñ†bubble, crash. We're getting a bubble and crash every four or five years. This is what we have when you go over a demographic cliff. Remember Japan ñ Japan went over the demographic cliff. Peak in baby boom spending, peak real estate boom. They had a bust. Guess what? 22 years later, real estate is still down over 60 percent, still drifting down. Stocks are down nearly 80 percent, not that far off their lows. They keep bubbling up and then going down to new lows. This is the new normal, given that baby boomers are aging and the next generation is not only not in the workforce yet, largely, but they're not as large when they do [enter]. So, we're never going to see real estate prices at these levels again, and we're not going to see stocks at the level we saw in 2007 for a long time. So, to me, this is not unusual at all. Dent told CNBC regarding the United States, "We call this the economy in a coma." CITI'S MATT KING PRESENTS: 'The Most Depressing Slide I've Ever Created' &gt;
DoubleLine FundsBond god Jeff Gundlach is out with his first conference call/presentation of the year titled Year Of The Snake. The presentation represents his markets outlook for 2013. Gundlach used the snake imagery because everything is "coiled" and ready to strike. The economy, European debt markets etc. are all ready for a bang. Our full notes from his call are here. His key calls: We have his full presentation which is really just a gorgeous chart bonanza that all investors will enjoy clicking through to see what's going on in markets in recent and long-term history.

Twitter / @acampadabcn_intEveryone thought 2012 was the year the euro crisis subsided. The ECB finally stepped up to the plate, bringing government borrowing costs in Spain and Italy down from unsustainable levels. Meanwhile, Greece avoided an exit from the euro. However, the latest Eurostat unemployment figures released today remind of a far bigger problem that the eurozone now must face ‚Äì staggering levels of youth unemployment across the region. Governments on the euro periphery ‚Äì which desperately need to institute difficult economic reforms to put budgets on sustainable paths ‚Äì receive little support from a younger generation that feels like its opportunities and its future have been crushed already by the very same actors. Societe Generale cross-asset strategists highlighted youth unemployment and the danger it poses to the eurozone in a note yesterday, writing, "Economic crisis in developed countries have reinforced unemployment, especially with the youth...With lower population support, large upheavals could threaten government stability."
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesAlcoa's earnings report is out, and earnings season has unofficially begun. The State Of The Global Economy In Two Huge Slides From Alcoa's Earnings Report &gt; The company recorded $0.06 EPS in Q4 2012, as expected. However, the global aluminum giant reported sales of $5.9 billion in Q4, above analysts' estimates of a drop to $5.6 billion. The stock is moving a bit higher in post-market trading. Alcoa says that China demand is "coming back," and that the North American building industry is showing potential, but demand from the trucking industry is sluggish. The company also has an "optimistic" outlook for 2013, but that the debt ceiling debate may slow economic growth, per Bloomberg. Below are details from the press release: 4Q 2012 Highlights Full-Year 2012 Highlights NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Alcoa (NYSE:AA) today reported income from continuing operations of $242 million, or $0.21 per share, in fourth quarter 2012. Excluding the net positive impact of special items, income from continuing operations was $64 million, or $0.06 per share. ìWe overcame volatile metal prices and global economic instability to deliver on our targets for the fourth year in a row. We enter 2013 in a strong position to maximize profitable growth.îFourth quarter 2012 income compares to a loss from continuing operations of $143 million in third quarter 2012, and a loss of $193 million in fourth quarter 2011. For the full-year 2012, Alcoa reported income from continuing operations of $191 million, or $0.18 per share, compared with $614 million, or $0.55 per share, in 2011. Year-on-year the realized aluminum price fell 12 percent, equating to roughly $1 billion in market impact. Despite low aluminum prices, Alcoa generated full-year income and met all of its cash sustainability targets for the fourth consecutive year, ending 2012 in a strong cash position. The Company delivered $1.3 billion in productivity and overhead improvements, reduced days working capital by three days, and ended the year in a strong liquidity position with net debt at its lowest level since 2006 and $1.9 billion cash on hand. ìAlcoa hit record profitability in our mid and downstream businesses, and continued to drive efficiency in our upstream businesses in the fourth quarter, all while cutting debt and maintaining our cash position,î said Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ìWe overcame volatile metal prices and global economic instability to deliver on our targets for the fourth year in a row. We enter 2013 in a strong position to maximize profitable growth.î In 2013, Alcoa sees global aluminum demand growth of 7 percent, up from 6 percent in 2012 and ahead of the 6.5 percent rate required to meet the Companyís forecast of a doubling in global aluminum demand between 2010 and 2020. Aluminum demand grew 10 percent in 2011 on top of 13 percent growth in 2010. In 2013, Alcoa projects global growth in the aerospace (9-10 percent), automotive (1-4 percent), commercial transportation (2-7 percent), packaging (2-3 percent), building and construction (4-5 percent), and industrial gas turbine (3-5 percent) markets. Fourth Quarter 2012 Alcoa reported fourth quarter 2012 net income of $242 million, or $0.21 per share, compared to a net loss of $143 million, or $0.13 per share, in third quarter 2012 and $191 million, or $0.18 per share, in fourth quarter 2011. Adjusted EBITDA in fourth quarter 2012 was $597 million, an increase of $315 million over third quarter 2012 and an increase of $152 million over fourth quarter 2011. Special items in fourth quarter 2012 delivered a net gain of $178 million, primarily associated with the closing of the Tapoco Hydroelectric Project asset sale, which resulted in a $161 million after-tax gain. Another $78 million in gains, including those associated with discrete income tax items and the positive impact of mark-to-market changes on certain energy contracts, were mostly offset by the negative impact of restructuring, primarily related to plant curtailments and asset impairments, and the Massena, New York site fire. Revenue for fourth quarter 2012 was $5.9 billion, up 1 percent compared with third quarter 2012, but down 2 percent compared with fourth quarter 2011 revenue of $6 billion. Sequentially, the higher fourth quarter revenues were primarily due to improved realized pricing for aluminum (up 5 percent). Alcoa delivered outstanding results across all businesses in the fourth quarter. Alcoaís Primary Metals business delivered After-Tax Operating Income (ATOI) of $316 million in the fourth quarter, up $348 million over fourth quarter 2011 despite a 2 percent drop in realized metal prices. Fourth quarter 2012 ATOI was favorably impacted by the closing of the Tapoco asset sale. At the end of fourth quarter 2012, Global Primary Products had moved down the smelting cost curve by 4 percentage points. The Companyís midstream and downstream businesses continued to turn in record performance, hitting new profitability highs. Global Rolled Products achieved record fourth quarter ATOI of $69 million, up $43 million year-on-year, and record fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA per metric ton of $344. Engineered Products and Solutions delivered record fourth quarter ATOI of $137 million, up 12 percent year-on-year, and achieved record fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.7 percent, the fourth consecutive quarter a year-over-year record was established. Alcoa ended the quarter with strong cash results. The Company generated $535 million in free cash flow in the quarter, with cash from operations of $933 million, up $670 million sequentially. Alcoa also maintained its strong liquidity position, ending the quarter with cash on hand of $1.9 billion. Following the record low in days working capital achieved in each quarter throughout 2012, the Company also achieved an all-time low for the fourth quarter at 24 days, three days lower than the previous fourth quarter record set in 2011, and 19 days lower than fourth quarter 2008. This is the 13th successive quarter the Company has demonstrated year-over-year improvement. In fourth quarter 2012, the debt-to-capital ratio stood at 34.8 percent, 130 basis points lower than the sequential quarter, while net debt-to-capital stood at 29.7 percent. 2012 Full-Year For the year 2012, revenue was $23.7 billion, compared to $25 billion in 2011. Income from continuing operations was $191 million, or $0.18 per share, in 2012 compared with $614 million, or $0.55 per share, in 2011. Excluding the impact of special items, income from continuing operations was $262 million, or $0.24 per share, for 2012, compared to $812 million, or $0.72 per share, for 2011. Full-year 2012 net income was $191 million, or $0.18 per share, compared to $611 million, or $0.55 per share, in 2011. Alcoaís midstream and downstream businesses achieved record performance in 2012 with ATOI of $358 million and $612 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton for Global Rolled Products was a full-year record at $390, 66 percent higher than the 10-year average and 19 percent higher than 2011. Engineered Products and Solutions ended the year with a record annual adjusted EBITDA margin of 19.2 percent, more than double where it was 10 years ago. Alcoa turned in strong performance against its financial targets in 2012, delivering strong cash results in a challenging market. Despite a drop in both realized alumina prices and realized aluminum prices year-on-year, and $561 million in cash contributions to the pension plan, the Company generated $1.5 billion in cash from operations and $236 million of free cash flow in 2012. At the same time, Alcoa reduced net debt by over $450 million to its lowest level since 2006 ($7 billion), while maintaining a strong cash position of $1.9 billion. Alcoa ended 2012 with a debt-to-capital ratio of 34.8 percent, within its 30 to 35 percent target range. Alcoa exceeded its productivity and overhead target for 2012, delivering $1.3 billion in productivity and overhead improvements, 52 percent more than target. Capital spending for 2012 was $1.26 billion, $89 million below the annual target. For the year, capital expenditures and cash investment in the Saudi Arabia joint venture were approximately $1.4 billion, more than $270 million below the 2012 target. Sustainable improvements in days working capital reached an all-time low of 24 days. This reflects a year-over-year improvement of 3 days, twice Alcoaís target of 1.5 days. Alcoa has taken significant action in the past four years to protect its investment grade rating and is in a stronger financial position today than 2008. Through a disciplined approach to capital spending and focus on liquidity in the past four years, the Company has generated $5 billion in productivity gains, reduced working capital by 19 days, contributed stock to the pension plan two of the last four years, and successfully monetized assets. In addition, Alcoa has taken action to manage its debt maturity schedule. Excluding 2014 convertible debt, bond maturities have been minimized to $422 million over the next four years. Alcoa has now completed its planned closure or curtailment of 531,000 metric tons, or 12 percent, of its highest-cost system smelting capacity, further improving the Companyís competitive position. Segment Information Alumina ATOI in the fourth quarter was $41 million, up $50 million sequentially and down $84 million from fourth quarter 2011. The sequential increase was driven by continued productivity gains and positive London Metal Exchange (LME)-based pricing, somewhat offset by a slower rise in Alumina Price Index-pricing. Primary Metals ATOI in the fourth quarter was $316 million, up sequentially from negative $14 million, and up from negative $32 million in fourth quarter 2011. The $330 million sequential improvement was driven primarily by the closing of the Tapoco Hydroelectric Project asset sale, productivity gains within the segment, and positive LME-based pricing. Third-party realized price in the fourth quarter was $2,325 per metric ton, up 5 percent sequentially, but down 2 percent year-on-year. Global Rolled Products ATOI in the fourth quarter was $69 million, down from $98 million in the third quarter of 2012, but up from $26 million in fourth quarter 2011, a 165 percent year-on-year improvement. Sequentially, seasonal volume declines in packaging were somewhat offset by productivity improvements. The $43 million year-on-year improvement was driven by volume, productivity gains, and better price and mix, somewhat offset by cost increases. Global Rolled Products had record fourth quarter ATOI and adjusted EBITDA per metric ton. Days working capital was a record at 30 days, an improvement of 8 days compared with fourth quarter 2011. Engineered Products and Solutions ATOI in the fourth quarter was $137 million, down $23 million sequentially and up $15 million, or 12 percent, year-on-year. Sequentially, cost increases and unfavorable volume and price/mix were somewhat offset by continued productivity improvements. The year-on-year improvement was driven primarily by productivity gains, partially offset by cost increases. Alba Update Alcoa is actively negotiating with the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to reach a resolution of their investigations of the Alba matter; however, we have not reached any agreement with either agency. Given the uncertainty regarding whether a settlement can be reached and, if reached, on what terms, we are not able to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss with regard to any such settlement. If a settlement of the government investigations is reached, we believe that the settlement amount would be material to Alcoaís results of operations for the relevant fiscal period. If a settlement cannot be reached, Alcoa will proceed to trial with the DOJ and the SEC and under those circumstances is unable to predict an outcome or to estimate its reasonably possible loss. There can be no assurance that the final outcome of the governmentís investigations will not have a material adverse effect on Alcoa. Alcoa will hold its quarterly conference call at 5:00 PM Eastern Time on January 8, 2013 to present the quarter and full-year results. The meeting will be webcast via alcoa.com. Call information and related details are available at www.alcoa.com under ìInvest.î ----------------- ORIGINAL:†Minutes away from Alcoa's earnings report after the closing bell, and hence, the unofficial kickoff of Q4 2012 earnings season. Analysts expect Alcoa to report a profit of $0.06 per share, up from the $0.03 EPS recorded in Q3 2012. Sales are expected to fall to $5.598 billion. "With a global footprint and being the first cyclical name to report, investors will be keenly watching managementís guidance for forward aluminium demand as a gauge of global economic conditions,"†wrote Deutsche Bank Head of Fundamental Strategy Jim Reid in his daily client briefing this morning. We will have the release LIVE after the closing bell. Click here for updates &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Seeking Dividend Opportunities Need To Look Beyond Dividend Yield (BMO Capital Markets) Brian Belski has a S&amp;P 500 2013 price target of 1,575 that projects a 10 percent return for the year. And for investors looking for tap dividend opportunities, Belski recommends incorporating other factors in addition to dividend yield, for instance cash levels and earnings growth. "Trends in these factors make dividend yields more believable." In using their dividend growth theme screen, Belski says his team screens the S&amp;P 500 for six key things. 1) Dividend increases in each year in the last decade 2) Dividend yield greater than the S&amp;P 500 3) Free cash flow yield that exceeds the dividend yield, ex-utilities 4) Modest EPS growth in each of the prior two completed years 5) Modest expected EPS growth in each of the next two years 6) Forward P/E multiple less than 20x. Some of the 26 Dividend Growth Theme Screen Stocks include Abbott Laboratories, Caterpillar, McDonald's, Lockheed Marting and Norfolk Southern Corp. FINRA To Monitor Dark Pool Trading More Closely (The Wall Street Journal) The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is broadening its oversight of dark pool trading i.e. an electronic platform where institutional investors can trade hidden from the market.¬†¬† "Richard Ketchum, chief executive of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said in an interview Tuesday that the regulator is expanding its oversight of the dark-trading venues, with an eye on whether orders placed in public exchanges are 'trying to move prices or encourage sellers that may advance their trading in the dark market'. The regulator is also boosting its surveillance of high-speed trading and is increasingly looking at rapid-fire trading across exchanges, he said. 'You're going to see more [enforcement] in those areas in 2013,' Mr. Ketchum said." The Stock Market Has Tracked The Population Of 35-39 Year-Olds For 112 Years (Business Insider) Citi's Tobias Levkovich thinks the 'echo boom' i.e. the expectation that baby boomer's will have more children than the boomers, is a bullish trend for stocks.¬† "The baby boom echo or children of the baby boomers are beginning to enter their savings years based on Bureau of Census data and are thus likely to buy stocks as a means to do so in order to build retirement nest eggs and saving for their children‚Äôs education. ‚Ä¶This group of savers would mirror their parents buying stocks approach of the 1980s after a paltry prior decade for equity markets. Thus, a poor previous 10-year record is not an argument for not buying shares since those losses were borne by an earlier generation and behavioral economics suggests that one who does not experience personal loss cannot internalize the feeling that would prevent action. Indeed, the past 112 years of market history implies that after a lousy decade for stocks, the future looks far brighter." Citi Research  Protection Strategies That Advisors Can Use To Calm Antsy Investors (The Wall Street Journal) Jeff Volmer of Hyde Park Wealth Management says as investors continue to reel from the financial crisis and have lost faith in advisors, there are some protection strategies that could help calm their nerves.¬† First, he recommends individual equity positions and actively traded index funds that "allow you to set a sell stop, a predetermined price at which you will automatically sell an investment. The benefit of sell stops is that they can limit your losses in the event of a precipitous market selloff." Second, they can use put options which act as a great insurance policy and because they "rise in value when the underlying holding goes down". The 23 Best Stocks For Fat Dividends And Big Buyback Plans (Goldman Sachs) Goldman Sachs's top 2013 income idea is to "recommend self-help stories that offer a 'social contract' to their shareholders; i.e., returns outside of capital appreciation, via a combination of dividend yields and accretive, share-reducing buybacks".In that light they pick 23 stocks that should offer returns of 5 percent in 2013 through the social contract. The stock picks include Pfizer, JP Morgan, Lowe's Companies, Marathon Petroleum Corp, and Comcast. Marc Faber Says Gold Will Fall Another 10% (CNBC) Marc Faber publisher of The Gloom Boom &amp; Doom Report said he expects gold to correct about 10 percent before rising. But he continues to own gold because he expects governments to continue to print money and wants gold as a hedge.¬† In terms of currencies he likes the U.S. dollar and Singapore dollar. In the beauty contest over the ugliest currency, the U.S. dollar is not winning. [but] I'd rather be in dollars at the present time than say, euros."
ESPNA down day before the beginning of earnings season. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,328, -55.4, -0.4 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,457, -4.7, -0.3 percentNASDAQ: 3,091, -7.0, -0.2 percent And now the top stories:
Congressional Democrats Frank Capuano (MA) and Peter Welch (VT) have sent the loudest message to AIG's board yet, The Hill reports. The insurance company just paid back $182 billion worth of taxpayer bailout money it received throughout the financial crisis. AIG was bailed out in 2008 because it was on the hook for billions of dollars worth of bad mortgage bonds that threatened to drive it into bankruptcy until the government stepped in. Now tomorrow, AIG's board will consider joining its former CEO Hank Greenberg in a lawsuit that alleges the government overstepped its bounds and hurt AIG shareholders during the bailout process. Capuano and Welch had some choice words for the board about that (from The Hill): "Don't do it. Don't even think about it," Reps. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and Michael Capuano (D-Mass.) wrote in their letter to AIG Chairman Robert Miller."AIG became the poster company for Wall Street greed, fiscal mismanagement, and executive bonuses ‚Äî the taxpayer and economy be damned. Now, AIG apparently seeks to become the poster company for corporate ingratitude and chutzpah," they wrote. "Taxpayers are still furious that they rescued a company whose own conduct brought it down. Don't rub salt in the wounds with yet another reckless decision that is on par with the reckless decisions that led to the bailout in the first place." Tomorrow should be fun, then. ¬†
Muffet via Flickr At the end of 2012, the U.S. national unemployment rate was¬†7.8 percent and the country added 155,000 jobs in December, but these numbers still reflect a troubling economy with a long way to go.¬† "This shows the depth of the recent employment recession ‚Äî worse than any other post-war recession ‚Äî and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis," writes¬†Bill McBride of Calculated Risk. According to a brand new BLS employment report, unemployment rates were lower in 322 out of 372 metropolitan areas, higher in 36 areas and unchanged in 14 areas¬†compared to the same time last year. Yuma, Ariz. and El Centro, Calif.¬†recorded the highest unemployment rates at¬†27.5¬†and 26.6 percent¬†‚Äî both cities have a large immigrant and migrant farm worker population.¬† The largest unemployment rate drop (-3.2 percent) took place in Pascagoula, Miss., and¬†Bismarck, N.D. registered the lowest unemployment rate at 2.6 percent. In the new year, President Obama is planning on creating 1.1 million jobs from the American Job Acts, according to the¬†Economic Policy Institute. The BLS' data isn't adjusted for seasonal factors, such as hiring during the holidays.
Screenhot via AnyClipIn a recent Portfolio Manager Action Alert note, Goldman Sachs'¬†Robert Boroujerdi makes his case for income stocks. He calls his specific strategy the "social contract" i.e. companies that should offer returns of at least 5 percent in 2013 through dividends and accretive buybacks. Boroujerdi like these stocks because companies have the capacity to pay, investors demand them, and they look more attractive than bonds. Goldman identified 23 buy-rated stocks from various sectors. NOTE: Earnings per share accretion occurs because buybacks lower share counts and therefore boost EPS. All EPS accretion due to share share count change represents a 2013 estimate.
APConservative radio host Rush Limbaugh has caught on to the chimes from, among others, Pulitzer Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman to mint a $1 trillion coin to work around the debt ceiling. Limbaugh devoted a segment of his show today to slam Krugman and others that have begun to advocate the coin as a serious†proposal to circumvent the debt ceiling if Congressional Republicans refuse to raise it by the "X date" that could come as soon as Feb. 15.† Limbaugh compared it to something a "banana republic" would do: And Krugman said, "Yep, absolutely," and people are serious about this. People on the left think that this is a brilliant idea, including Paul Krugman. So, because of this, the Republicans have introduced a bill that would ban the creation of a trillion-dollar platinum coin. Now, folks, you have to admit that this is the kind of stuff that banana republics do.† I mean, this is absurd. But it has the support of leading leftist Democrat journalists and economists, such as Paul Krugman. A $1 trillion coin! A platinum coin that's worth probably 85¢ would just be said to be worth a trillion-dollars, and the government could spend it. It would be a trillion dollars we'd found, and we would have to print any additional money. It's a miracle.† Republican Rep. Greg Walden plans to introduce legislation that would ban the Treasury from minting high-value platinum coins. You can listen to the full segment below, courtesy of The Daily Rushbo: 
This just came in over the Bloomberg: Wesley Wang, a former analyst for SAC Capital Advisors' Sigma Capital unit, has told federal agents the names of 20 more people who he claims traded on insider information. Some had not been charged in the ongoing investigation. This could be a problem for Steve Cohen's firm SAC Capital. That's because Wang first came into the spotlight in July when he admitted to passing inside information about Cisco and other companies to Dipak Patel, a portfolio manager at SAC subsidiary Sigma Capital. The SEC is already investigating SAC Capital's activities. Wang pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy to committ securities fraud and testified against hedge fund manager Doug Whitman (of Whitman Capital LLC), who was also found guilty of two counts of conspiracy for trading on illegal tips in August, according to Bloomberg. Wang's information has already led to 10 convictions.
statigr.am/agnes_preauGetting into Harvard University is a huge accomplishment by itself; the school had a record-low 5.9 percent admission rate last year. But standing out among the thousands of stellar students is an even bigger achievement. We've found the 22 most remarkable students at Harvard this semester. These kids have made breakthroughs in scientific research, fought for social justice, and created a better community at Harvard. John Harvard himself couldn't have chosen better.
Mike Rothenberg has always been interested in entrepreneurship. Now, the 28-year-old is running a one-man venture capital shop, Rothenberg Ventures, with $5 million to invest in startups. It's similar to what Joshua Kushner did a few years ago when he started Thrive Capital. Then, Kushner was 25 and he put his money in 15 startups. He's since raised a few larger funds and invested in startups like Instagram. TechCrunch's Josh Constine interviewed Rothenberg about how he hustled his way to the $5 million fund. Rothenberg was a couch surfer who had to network from coast to coast to create his dream job. Here's how he did it.At Stanford, Rothenberg ran a program called Entrepreneurial Thought Leaders. He wrangled tech leaders like Marissa Mayer and Mark Zuckerberg and asked them to speak with students about startups. Rothenberg often asked them how they became successful. The usual reply was, "You might fail at whatever you do, so you might as well dream big, because then if you succeed, you succeed big." Rothenberg took that advice to heart. He founded a 25-person tutoring company in college, started a real estate fund, then went on to Harvard Business School. In May he decided to go for his dream of starting Rothenberg Ventures. Like any strapped-for-cash entrepreneur, Rothenberg tried to live as efficiently as possible while seeing the fund through. "I rented out my apartment, wasn‚Äôt paying a lease anywhere, and traveled to six different cities to meet 50 investors, 50 potential LPs, and 50 entrepreneurs," he tells Constine. "I slept on couches so I didn‚Äôt have to get a hotel room the entire summer.‚Äù After months of meetings, 14 limited partners committed $5 million to Rothenberg Ventures. The LPs range from investors, such as DFJ's Brandon Farwell, to wealthy individuals. The LPs are from Massachusetts to California on down to Texas. Rothenberg thinks his young age actually helped him win over LPs. He tells Constine, ‚ÄúAlmost all my deal flow comes from entrepreneurs, people at Stanford with me, people at Harvard with me. I know a lot of people our age. The average age of my LPs is significantly older than me, and they don‚Äôt necessarily have access to these deals.‚Äù Rothenberg is still working hard now that he's raised his fund, and he's already backed seven startups. His portfolio includes a sports media company, Chat Sports, and a clothing startup called Chubbies. When asked why he didn't get experience at another firm before taking a leap of faith, Rothenberg replied, "I think it‚Äôs wrong to think you‚Äôre necessarily going to learn the most by paying your dues. People who work at a big company aren‚Äôt engaged. That‚Äôs a slower trajectory. But if you‚Äôre young and jump in, sure you‚Äôre going to make a bunch of mistakes but you‚Äôre going to learn quickly.‚Äù
Total outstanding consumer credit jumped 7% to $1.910 trillion in November. This is a gain of $16.04 billion. Economists estimated that consumer credit would climb by $12.75 billion. Revolving debt (e.g. credit cards) climbed by 1.1 percent, while non-revolving debt (e.g. car loans) jumped 9.6 percent. Here's a historical look at the numbers. Federal Reserve
After hedge fund manager Paul Singer impounded an Argentine naval vessel in Ghana, you can't really call this paranoia. Argentina's president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, is about to embark on a four country tour, visiting Cuba, the United Arab Emirates, Indonesia and Vietnam. Instead of taking her own jet, though, she's renting one from British charter firm Chapman Freeborn for $880,000, the AFP reports (h/t Zero hedge). Chapman's jet is 20% more expensive, but at least it means Singer won't get a Court order to impound Fernandez de Kirchner's transportation in whatever country she happens to be in. Argentina has been in a battle with one of Singer's subsidiary hedge funds over a $1.3 billion worth of unpaid sovereign debt for years now. Last October, Singer got an order to hold Argentina's naval vessel, the ARA Libertad in a Ghanaian port, and it was stuck there for 2 months. Last month, the hedge fund tried to seize Argentina's assets in Belgium, but Belgium refused to allow that. From AFP: Oscar Parrilli, the presidency's secretary general, said in a statement that it was "highly probable" that funds would try to detain Kirchner's official Tango 01 (T-01) aircraft on her upcoming trip... Kirchner, who rented a Chapman Freeborn charter for previous trips in 2010 and 2011, has traded barbs with British Prime Minister David Cameron over the Falklands, which Britain retained after a bloody war on the islands in 1982. The trip starts Thursday. Could be interesting to see what happens.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina, said in a series of tweets today that he will not vote to raise the debt ceiling "until we have a plan to get out of debt." Many Republican members of Congress have demanded cuts to entitlements from President Barack Obama before Congress raises the debt ceiling. The Bipartisan Policy Center projects that it needs to be raised as soon as Feb. 15 in order for the U.S. to avoid defaulting on its debt. Graham is the most high-profile member of the Republican Congress to threaten holding out and voting "no" without some kind of concessions from Obama. The President has said that he will not negotiate with Congress over raising the debt ceiling, because it is Congress' responsibility to pay for the bills it has racked up. Here's Graham's stream of tweets: President Obama will NOT get a blank check to raise the debt ceiling. Without major change we are on the road to becoming Greece. I will not vote to raise the debt ceiling until we have a plan to get out of debt.
At the Democratic National Convention, Bill Clinton famously opined that 'arithmetic' was the magic trick that enabled him to be the last President to provide a budget surplus. In 2001, the CBO projected that the total Clinton surplus of about $280 billion would balloon to $5.9 trillion worth of cumulative surpluses through 2011, when in reality the accumulated deficits reached $6 trillion at the end of that time period. That's pretty bad arithmetic. So what happened? The U.S. Treasury Department recently tweeted this chart, which breaks down the major drivers that turned a small surplus into a massive deficit: Treasury Department This chart paints a pretty poor picture of the CBO's forecasting abilities, which account for well over half of the missing surplus. While the 'other annual appropriations' category could use a little clarity, this chart also hits the nail on the head when it comes to identifying the major deficit drivers: An extremely large tax cut that failed to pay for itself, two wars on the nation's credit card, an unfunded expansion of an entitlement program, and general overspending turned what could've been a cushy surplus into a huge deficit.
Richard Miller Nevens/Library Of CongressHailed as the pioneers of modern finance, the Rothschilds have amassed an incredible fortune that has lasted for centuries. The family's vast wealth and secrecy have also made it a target of countless conspiracy theories. If you believe everything you read, the Rothschilds have facilitated the assassination of multiple U.S. Presidents, control the world's money supply, and have a network of clandestine agents that served as puppet business associates during the family's rise to power. While most of these theories fail to present a shred of evidence, we thought we'd investigate one of the more famous stories regarding the family that has ever been told: that Nathan Rothschild was the driving force behind the War of 1812. Conspiracy theorists allege that: Lines between truth and inaccuracies may have blurred as time passed, but it's clear as day that this war wasn't a one-man show.
One trend that often gets overlooked is the "echo boom," the expectation that the number of baby boomers' children will be bigger than that of the boomers themselves. Citi's Tobias Levkovich thinks this is a very bullish trend for stocks.¬† He argues that as the echo boomers enter the age range of 35-39, they'll start saving aggressively in the stock market.¬† This is one of the elements of Citi's "Raging Bull Thesis." In a new note to clients, Citi's Tobias Levkovich includes a chart overlaying the size of that demographic with the S&amp;P 500. From his note: The intriguing story though is that the 35-39 year old cohort of Americans is about to start growing again in 2013 after peaking in 2000 and declining since alongside equity market trends (see Figure 5). The baby boom echo or children of the baby boomers are beginning to enter their savings years based on Bureau of Census data and are thus likely to buy stocks as a means to do so in order to build retirement nest eggs and saving for their children‚Äôs education. Leaving cash in the bank earning a negative real yield or trying to consider retirement by simply buying 10-year US Treasuries generating less than 2% yields seems like a Sisyphean task. This group of savers would mirror their parents buying stocks approach of the 1980s after a paltry prior decade for equity markets. Thus, a poor previous 10-year record is not an argument for not buying shares since those losses were borne by an earlier generation and behavioral economics suggests that one who does not experience personal loss cannot internalize the feeling that would prevent action. Indeed, the past 112 years of market history implies that after a lousy decade for stocks, the future looks far brighter (see Figure 6). Note the dips. Citi Research 
The wild thing about it, though, is that it was under Greenberg's tenure that AIG started investing in the financial instruments that almost brought it down in the first place. To understand that, you have to understand that his history with the insurance giant goes back decades. In 1960,†after serving in†World War II and the Korean War,††Greenberg joined C.V. Starr &amp; Co. Inc. (a†diversified financial services†named after AIG's founder, Cornelius Vander Starr) as vice president.†He currently holds the title of chairman and CEO of the firm.  Greenberg took over as president and CEO of AIG in 1967.† However, AIG and Greenberg have had a tumultuous relationship since Greenberg stepped down as CEO in 2005. He was forced out when an investigation by former New York attorney general Eliot Spitzer alleged that†he "used off-balance sheet transactions to improperly boost profits."  According to Reuters, Greenberg did not even cooperate during AIG's internal probe. The financial crisis in 2008 worsened his image within the company and in the public eye, despite overseeing 38 years of steady profit growth. Under Greenberg's tenure, AIG created the financial products unit that oversaw its credit default swaps (CDS). These CDS were what brought AIG near bankruptcy when mortgage bonds that the company insured went under during the housing crisis. That left AIG stuck footing the bill. Some argue that because Greenberg led the company when initial programs that engaged in credit default swaps were created, he indirectly precipitated the crisis. "Hank Greenberg wandered out of the very safe, well-capitalized world of insurance into the surreal world of credit default swaps where you can create endless amount of risk," Christopher Whalen, co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics, told Reuters. Now he's suing the U.S. government for bailing AIG out after it almost collapsed under the weight of that risk. Wild.
JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson spoke at the†Women's Wear Daily CEO Summit this week. In his talk, he addressed all the negative press and criticism of his turnaround project at the retailer. "I thought I could be under the radar," said Johnson. After all, when he left Apple to take the helm of JCPenney in 2011, the retailer wasn't getting much media attention. He had to see some of it coming though. Johnson is the mastermind behind the Apple Store ó a big-name exec coming from a company that's more intensely covered than most. And, once he arrived, started to change things and the stock faltered, he was bound to take some flak. Johnson doesn't pay attention to all those pundits though.† ìI donít spend too much time on it," he said. "I try to not read too much about what we are doing. I focus on doing the work thatís important.î What about Wall Street? Well, there's some pressure on that end, said Johnson, noting that a company's stock price was bound to shift during a time of such large change.†ìYou have to spend a lot of time managing stakeholders, as well as with employees, to reinforce the vision and keep people focused," he said.
Indian businessman Datta Phuge sure is bullish on gold. So bullish that he's put a third of what he's worth, $230,888, into his most recent "investment." Phuge had 15 goldsmiths working for 15 days to construct him a shirt made out of solid gold. "After extensive research on the design and the look of the piece, I decided to give it an Armour-like appearance," designer Tejpal Ranka told the Pune Mirror. The shirt is made of 14,000 gold flowerings that have been interwoven with 100,000 spangles sewn into a base of white velvet and features six Swarvoski buttons. Phuge, who owns over 22 pounds of gold in the form of 10 gold chains, six bracelets and 25 rings, plans to add a phone case to his collection. "I know I am not the best looking man in the world," he is quoted as saying, "but surely no woman could fail to be dazzled by this shirt?"  Sorry ladies, but he's married. His wife, Seema Phuge, works for the ruling National Congress Party (NCP), and her employers not too thrilled about his new shirt. "Datta Phuge is not an active worker of the NCP. Yes. His wife Seema Phuge is an NCP corporator. Our party does not approve of the vulgar display of wealth as being done by Datta Phuge. It is his personal matter. The NCP has nothing to do with it," NCP‚Äôs Pune-based spokesperson Ankush Kakade told the Daily Sun. ¬†
America's government is full of oddities, and here's one: it is possible for the government to pass spending and tax bills which lead to an illegal amount of accumulated debt. The government's borrowing results from all the tax and spending choices made by past and present elected officials and leads to annual deficits that add to a stock of public debt. Once the tax and spending choices are made, the resulting debt load is a fait accompli, a residual. Yet said elected officials have also seen fit to pass a law declaring that debt must fall below a specific limit. From time to time, then, Congress has to pass a law raising the limitóessentially, declaring its past choices legalóor face dire fiscal consequences. If the limit is reached and not raised government outlays must be cut immediately and dramatically†or the government must default on some of its debt-interest payments. Those are both terrible options, and so until recently the government has simply raised the limit when necessary. But in 2011 congressional Republicans decided to use the threat of major economic disruption to extract policy concessions, generating a nasty debt-limit stand-off that sent markets into a tailspin and consumer confidence tumbling (while also setting off the process that gave us the fiscal cliff). After that fiasco, President Obama vowed never to negotiate over a debt-limit increase again, but Republicans, having used the tool effectively once, may be prepared to call his bluff. That has led to a wave of innovative thinking on how the debt-limit process might be circumvented. And from that wave has emerged the Platinum Coin Solution. Briefly: Treasury produces dollar bills and coins, but the Federal Reserve has control over their use and distribution into the economy. But an obscure law crafted to allow the Treasury to mint commemorative coins seems to suggest that it could legally produce as much of certain kinds of money as it wants, then deposit that money at the Fed and use it pay bills as necessary. Here's the language, by the way: The Secretary may mint and issue platinum bullion coins and proof platinum coins in accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretaryís discretion, may prescribe from time to time. So there you go. Treasury could mint a $1 trillion platinum coin, take it to the Fed, and the problem would be solved. The idea has been enjoying increased prominence lately and has sparked a corresponding amount of commentary. Steve Waldman rounds up some of that here and also makes an effort to rebrand the idea so as to make it seem less like part of James Bond plot. The most compelling argument for the solution is that while it seems both risky and bonkers it is less risky and bonkers than a continued series of showdowns over the debt limit, any one of which might send America into recession or worse. The most compelling argument against it is that deployment of the solution would so obviously signal a breakdown in Washington policy-making that really bad things could result. It would represent a large and important change in the nature of monetary policy-making, since an administration that had once opted to take it upon itself to expand the money supply and enjoy the benefits (and eventual inflationary costs) of seignorage might do it again, for any number of reasons. Executive power, once seized, is rarely surrendered.†There is a small chance that global markets would grow scared of America, and would dump exposure to the American economy in chaotic fashion. My gut reaction to the proposal is to worry that a small risk of an outcome with really nasty results isn't worth courting unless the alternative is truly horrible. I'd opt for the coin solution before default, but I'm not sure I'd prefer it to forced, rapid austerity. (My assumption is that public outrage in this case would quickly force Republicans to relent.) On the other hand, debt-limit showdowns are also corrosive of social and governmental norms and will eventually be punished by markets. If it really seems as though Republicans won't relent in their use of the bargaining chip, and if it looks as though voters won't strip them of majorities as a result, then perhaps the alternative really is bad enough to justify use of the coin solution, even if a default never is a real threat. But one thing that's worth considering in the debate is that there is a proud history of presidents doing monetarily "crazy" things with generally salutary effects. The best examples are the decisions by Presidents Roosevelt and Nixon to suspend gold payments: highly unorthodox choices that struck many observers at the time as terrifically dangerous. Yet in both cases the outcome was hardly dangerous; Roosevelt's decision to leave gold helped America's economy to finally escape the Great Contraction of the early 1930s. Ideally, Republicans would back down and pass a bill to scrap the debt limit through the good, old-fashioned legislative process. If they won't the Obama administration should study the coin proposal closely. One never wants to find oneself in the position of endorsing the use of an obscure, untried, quasi-legal executive power grab to get around what ought to be routine legislative business. On the other hand, the history of the American presidency is a virtually uninterrupted string of quasi-legal power grabs deployed (most of the time) to address or avert serious crisis. In a pinch, the coin should be wielded as a bargaining chip or outright solution. But America needs to face up to its institutional weaknesses and get serious about legislative reform or expect much more of this stumbling concentration of power in the White House to result. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
By the end of 2012, once it was clear that the fiscal cliff would be avoided, the consensus was that the U.S. economy wrapped up the year in "some sort of accelerating trend", according to Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg. But Rosenberg says there are telling signs everywhere that this isn't actually the case. "Mortgage applications have fallen off a cliff of their own of late... What I am asking is that calendar quirks aside why on earth would railway car loadings, coal production, auto assemblies, raw steel output and port activity be contracting on a year-over-year basis if the economy is humming along as the consensus would have you believe?" Here are the charts: Gluskin Sheff & Associates † Gluskin Sheff & Associates † Gluskin Sheff & Associates † Gluskin Sheff & Associates † Gluskin Sheff & Associates † Gluskin Sheff & Associates
A very big name in the world of economics has joined the Trillion Dollar Coin debate. It's PIMCO's Bill Gross: Gross: 1 Trillion dollar coin unlikely but 100 ten Billion dollar coins could be done. In other words, rather than creating one gigantic clown coin, the solution would be more feasible if done in smaller denomination. This is the idea put forth by Interfluidity, in a superb blog post. The argument is basically that you can achieve the same debt ceiling work around by small denomination platinum coins until the debt ceiling is hiked. The Treasury wonít and shouldnít mint a single, one-trillion-dollar platinum coin and deposit it with the Federal Reserve. Thatís fun to talk about but dumb to do. It just sounds too crazy. But the Treasury might still plan for coin seigniorage. The Treasury Secretary would announce that he is obliged by law to make certain payments, but that the debt ceiling prevents him from borrowing to meet those obligations. Although current institutional practice makes the Federal Reserve the nationís primary issuer of currency, Congress in its foresight gave this power to the US Treasury as well. Following a review of the matter, the Secretary would tell us, Treasury lawyers have determined that once the capacity to make expenditures by conventional means has been exhausted, issuing currency will be the only way Treasury can reconcile its legal obligation simultaneously to make payments and respect the debt ceiling. Therefore, Treasury will reluctantly issue currency in large denominations (as it has in the past) in order to pay its bills. In practice, that would mean million-, not trillion-, dollar coins, which would be produced on an ìas-neededî basis to meet the governmentís expenses until borrowing authority has been restored. On the same day, the Federal Reserve would announce that it is aware of the exigencies facing the Treasury, and that, in order to fulfill its legal mandate to promote stable prices, it will ìsterilizeî any issue of currency by the Treasury, selling assets from its own balance sheet one-for-one. The Chairman of the Federal Reserve would hold a press conference and reassure the public that he foresees no difficulty whatsoever in preventing inflation, that the Federal Reserve has the capacity to ìhoover upî nearly three trillion dollars of currency and reserves at will. That would be it. There would be no farcical march by the Secretary to the central bank. The coins would actually circulate (collectorsí items for billionaires!), but most of them would find their way back to the Fed via the private banking system. The net effect of the operation would be equivalent to borrowing by the Treasury: instead of paying interest directly to creditors, Treasury would forgo revenue that it otherwise would have received from the Fed, revenue the Fed would have earned on the assets it would sell to the public to sterilize the new currency. The whole thing would be a big nothingburger, except to the people who had hoped to use debt-ceiling chicken as leverage to achieve political goals. SEE ALSO: Why the trillion dollar coin debate is the most important fiscal policy debate you'll ever see &gt;
Elizabeth Warren, one of the newest members of the Senate Banking Committee, is sending around a statement about the news that AIG's board will consider whether or not to sue the U.S. government tomorrow. Warren is known (and maybe feared) for being a major critic of financial institutions during the financial crisis. In 2008, AIG took a bailout from the federal government to save it from bankruptcy as it was on the hook for insuring billions of dollars worth of bad mortgage bonds. Former AIG CEO Hank Greenberg sued the government in 2011 for alleged violations against shareholders during the bailout process. Now he's trying to get the AIG's board of directors to join the suit. Warren, on the other hand, has been vocal about her opposition to the continued taxpayer bailout of AIG even before winning her Senate seat this fall. You can imagine how she feels about AIG to turning around and suing the government for saving it from bankruptcy. From Warren: ‚ÄúBeginning in 2008, the federal government poured billions of dollars into AIG to save it from bankruptcy. AIG‚Äôs reckless bets nearly crashed our entire economy. Taxpayers across this country saved AIG from ruin, and it would be outrageous for this company to turn around and sue the federal government because they think the deal wasn‚Äôt generous enough. Even today, the government provides an ongoing, stealth bailout, propping up AIG with special tax breaks‚Äîtax breaks that Congress should stop. AIG should thank American taxpayers for their help, not bite the hand that fed them for helping them out in a crisis.‚Äú For his own sake, Greenberg may want to stay away from the Senate for a bit.
In 2008 AIG almost went bankrupt as it was responsible for insuring billions of dollars worth of the mortgage bonds that failed during the housing crisis. The Federal government was forced to step in and AIG finally paid back their loan at the end of last year. AIG's former CEO Hank Greenberg has been trying to sue the government ó both the Feds in D.C. and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) ó over this bailout since 2011. To do that he filed two cases, one in New York City and one in Washington. In August of 2012 he told the Court that he would approach AIG's board to get them to join him this month. In Washington D.C. the case is still open, and that's the case that AIG's shareholders could join. In NYC, however, Judge Paul Engelmayer wrote a scathing dismissal of the case (in which Greenberg is represented by his company, Starr International), saying that it did not base the case on enough facts. From the dismissal (via New York Law Journal): In resolving a motion to dismiss, the Court must "construe the Complaint liberally, accepting all factual allegations in the Complaint as true, and drawing all reasonable inferences in plaintiff['s] favor."... Nevertheless, the "[f]actual allegations must be enough to raise a right of relief above the speculative level," and the complaint must plead "enough fact[s] to raise a reasonable expectation that discovery will reveal evidence of [plaintiff's claim]."... Put differently, "[t]o survive a motion to dismiss, a complaint must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted as true, to 'state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.'" Now here, specifically, is what Starr claimed. First, Starr alleges, FRBNY breached the fiduciary duty it allegedly owed to AIG and its shareholders, by virtue of "its control of AIG and its power to act on behalf of AIG."... Starr alleges that, while controlling AIG, FRBNY took actions involving self-dealing "that were deliberately contrary to the interests of the company."... Starr alleges that there were three specific circumstances where the FRBNY screwed over AIG shareholders ó the Credit Agreement, the "Maiden Lane transaction", and in stock transactions in which the AIG created more shares.The "September 2008 Credit Agreement" is the bailout itself. AIG asked for help in July of 2008, and the FRBNY said no. After Lehman collapsed on September 15th, however, and Moody's, S&amp;P, and Fitch all downgraded AIG, it was clear that the company was going to have to get some help. On September 16th, the FBRNY sent AIG a three page agreement for an $85 billion bailout fully secured by AIG assets with a 14.5% interest rate giving the FBRNY 80% voting rights. According to Greenberg's allegations, though, AIG didn't have a choice in this matter. Judge Engelmayer thought that was laughable: Merely because the AIG Board felt it had "no choice" but to accept bitter terms from its sole available rescuer does not mean that that rescuer actually controlled the company. By Starr's logic, a loan shark whose usurious interest rate is agreed to by a small business so that it may stay afloat could equally be said to have had actual control over that business so as to compel its agreement to a loan. To be sure, AIG's directors faced wrenching circumstances. But Starr has not pled facts sufficient, under Delaware law, to shift responsibility from the Board to FRBNY for the Board's decision to agree to the term sheet and Credit Agreement. Then there's the Maiden Lane III (ML III) transaction issue. Maiden Lane III is one of three LLCs the FRBNY created to handle bad assets from Bear Stearns and AIG. Maiden Lane III dealt specifically with AIG credit default swaps (CDS) on failing mortgage bonds. Starr argued that the FRBNY forced AIG to pay out CDS in full because it didn't give the company enough time to negotiate with CDS counterparties who may have accepted less than full value on those contracts. He said it was because the FBRNY wanted to enrich counterparties and that it was a "backdoor bailout" of those counterparties. On top of that, Starr argued that the FRBNY "effectively confiscated profits due to AIG under the CDS contracts: Under ML III's terms, the money generated by the CDO securities held by the ML III vehicle was to be used, first, to pay back FRBNY's $24.3 billion loan." Starr also brought up a June 2009 reverse stock split of AIG's shares that increased the amount of AIG common stock. It alleged that the move circumvented shareholders and that the company was powerless to do anything about it. The problem with all of this, according to the Court, is that Starr can't prove that the FBRNY controlled AIG through Maiden Lane III, or that it had any fiduciary duty to AIG's shareholders as a creditor. Under these circumstances, Starr faces an uphill battle in arguing that it has plausibly pled that FRBNY was a "controlling lender" of AIG. It is well-settled that, because a creditor-debtor relationship does not, in the ordinary course, entail a creditor's control of a debtor's board, "as a general rule, there is no fiduciary relationship between a debtor and a creditorÖand, therefore, there can be no breach of fiduciary duty." That logic settles quite a bit of Starr's claims, according to the Judge. However one remains: ....Starr alleges, FRBNY violated the Equal Protection, Due Process, and Takings Clauses of the United States Constitution by expropriating AIG's assets, in a discriminatory manner, and without due process or just compensation. In arguing against this claim, the Judge gets particularly colorful. ...To be sure, Starr's Amended Complaint paints a portrait of government treachery worthy of an Oliver Stone movie. Starr claims that, as the global financial system teetered on the brink of collapse, FRBNY seized control of AIG. Then, Starr claims, FRBNY, in an act of Napoleonic plunder, stole AIG's assets, re-distributing some to shore up other flagging financial institutions while keeping much of the residue for itself. It is, however, one thing to make a sweeping and dramatic claim of government misconduct. It is quite another to plead plausibly ó under the established standards of Delaware law, and based on concrete factual allegations...ó that FRBNY exercised control over AIG. Moreover, the Judge wrote, because of the dramatic and unprecedented circumstances surrounding AIG's bailout, the FRBNY was totally within its right to do what it did. Each FRBNY action that Starr challenges was either (1) premised on FRBNY's ß13(3) power to lend in unusual and exigent circumstances, (2) incidental to that power, and/or (3) part of the process of implementing the September 22, 2008 Credit Agreement, which had been explicitly authorized under that power. In his conclusion, the Judge went so far as to dismiss Starr's claims "with prejudice". That indicates misconduct on Starr's part and prohibits it from refiling the case in New York. We'll see if a D.C. Judge takes this massive legal burn into consideration in the coming months.
Wikimedia CommonsThe campaign to circumvent the debt ceiling by having the Treasury mint a trillion dollar platinum coin continues to infiltrate the minds of elite thinkers in Washington. Paul Krugman has come out in favor of it. Congressman Jerry Nadler is in favor of it. Pretty much every major news organization is discussing it. Even Stephen Colbert talked about it last night. As Jonathan Chait at NYMag observes, what's interesting is that there are very few good arguments, legal or economic, against minting the coin. Most of the critics' arguments basically boil down to: It's just not serious, and it would make the US monetary and political system look like a farce. Here are some representative examples: Here's Reuters' Felix Salmon: "If you believe that the country is best run by grown-ups, you canít believe in #mintthecoin, because it simply isnít a grown-up strategy." And here's The Guardian's Heidi Moore: "A small but relentless group of impish bloggers and columnists ñ including Joe Weisenthal of Business Insider and Josh Barro of Bloomberg, as well as hapless Congressman Jerry Nadler ñ have created a large-scale trolling project that is meant to pressure the US Treasury into creating a trillion-dollar platinum coin to solve this problem." And here's CNBC's Eamon Javers on Twitter: "...reason not to do the coin is it makes mockery of US financial system and risks shaking confidence in it." But contrary to all these people who say that this is a childish, non-adult proposal put forth by impish trolls, it's actually quite the opposite. It may be the most important fiscal policy debate you'll ever seen in your lifetime, because it gets right to the nature of what is money. This question is central to any discussion about a country's monetary and fiscal policy, and yet it's almost never discussed, and virtually nobody understands it. Almost everyone talking about fiscal policy imagines money to be a commodity of sorts that we can "run out" of if we don't spend it carefully. In this sense, although we've long gotten rid of the gold standard, we're still shackled with a gold standard mentality, where we think of money as a scarce natural resource that we need to husband carefully, lest one day the bond vigilantes show up at our door, causing us to go broke. The critics of #MintTheCoin are very forthright in attacking the proposal from this view. When GOP Congressman Greg Walden introduced his bill proposing a ban on minting a trillion dollar coin, he specifically likened a government to a small business: " ìMy wife and I have owned and operated a small business since 1986. When it came time to pay the bills, we couldnít just mint a coin to create more money out of thin air. We sat down and figured out how to balance the books. Thatís what Washington needs to do as well. My bill will take the coin scheme off the table by disallowing the Treasury to mint platinum coins as a way to pay down the debt. We must reduce spending and get our fiscal house in order." Judson Berger at Fox News uses a similar analogy to describe why minting the coin would be "absurd": "Imagine sitting around the kitchen table, trying to figure out how you're going to pay off that next-generation HDTV you just bought.† Then someone has an idea. Brush off one of the old checker pieces in the attic, assign it a value of, say, $2,000 -- and use that newly minted "coin" to pay the credit card. Such an absurd idea is, pun intended, gaining currency as a technically legal way for Washington to avert a looming fight over the debt ceiling." But these complaints actually get at the crux of the matter. Creating money is exactly what government does. What's absurd for a private business is not absurd for the government. As John Maynard Keynes simply put it a long time ago: "Money is the creation of the state." That the state creates the money we use is actually known to just about everyone, but people have a hard time making the key leap, which is that once the state is in the business of creating money, then the old gold standard notions of monetary scarcity don't apply in the same way. You can see this flawed thinking all the time. It's because people think that money is scarce that they think that gigantic government debts and deficits will lead to surging interest rates, because our lenders worry that we might not be good for it. And yet, as this chart shows, as the national debt has surged (red line) the interest that the government pays on the debt (blue line) has gone down.  And it's because people think that money is a finite good (the gold standard mentality) that many people assumed that the Fed "creating money" (by expanding the money supply through quantitative easing) would cause hyperinflation to happen. In fact, as the chart shows, the explosion of the money supply (red line) has coincided with muted inflation (blue line).  †Clearly, economic predictions that were predicted on money being finite have proven to be wrong. This is why the coin debate is so crucial. Whereas most fiscal policy debates talk about what we're going to do with our money, or why we need to be careful not to run out, the coin gets right to the heart of the matter. Stephanie Kelton, an economics professor at the University of Missouri Kansas City and one of the earliest defenders of the coin, explained via email: Until the idea of minting a $1 trillion coin became a reality, most people probably never gave much thought to the governmentís financial operations.† We understood that the government spent money, and we knew the money had to come from ìsomewhereî, but we assumed there were limits to how much the government could afford to spend.†† Like a household, we were told that the government could spend more than it takes in, but only as long as private lenders remained willing to extend credit.† Borrow too much, and your credit rating will suffer.† From there, itís a hop, skip and a jump to ìshared sacrificeî and ìtough choicesî to avoid becoming the next Greece.††† Enter the coin.† An idea so simple the mind recoils.† The Treasury has the power to end-run the process by cutting out the middlemen ñ taxpayers and bond markets ñsimply directing the Federal Reserve to add some numbers to its balance sheet.† Saints preserve us!†† People are freaking out because the coin appears to remove the constraints on government finance by allowing the government to just ìprintî money.† The truth is, the government is already the issuer of the currency.† It is already not revenue constrained.† The coin doesnít change anything fundamental, but most people donít realize this because†† they donít know anything about the mechanics of the way the government currently gets numbers into its account at the Fed. Cullen Roche, who blogs at Pragmatic Capitalist, and whose blog it was where we first came across the Trillion Dollar Coin idea put it similarly: ...the big lesson from all of this is that the coin proves an autonomous govt has no solvency constraint if it so chooses. †A prolonged and permanent financing of govt expenditure literally changes the way our system works though. †So it's important to understand the distinction between our current design (which privatizes money to the banking system) and a permanent coin solution which gives the power to the govt. †But it still highlights the power of an autonomous govt in its ability to fund its spending.† In addition to exploding the myth about government being artificially constrained by an "amount" of money, the debate re-kindles the notion of seigniorage, the process by which governments make money via the creation of money. Philip Diehl, the former head of the US Mint that helped draft the law enabling the platinum coin explained to us via email how funding the government via the creation of money is a history going back thousands of years. What is seigniorage?† Seigniorage is the difference between the face value of a coin and its cost of production. Say a quarter costs 11 cents to produce; banks pay 25 cents for the coin and the government books 14 cents in seigniorage. When (more often, if) the coin is returned to the Mint damaged or worn out, the seigniorage is reversed on the books and the coin melted.† In this way seigniorage is like an interest-free loan for the life of the coin, and if the coin is never returned to the Mint, it is an interest-free loan in perpetuity.†† The history of seigniorage dates back more than 2000 years, to the earliest days when governments issued coinage. When precious metals were used, the intrinsic value of the coin was slightly less than the face value, providing a means of financing the government. If the precious metal content were reduced, the currency was said to have been "debased". If this were done by the Crown, so be it. If it were done by the Mint director, he was hanged.† The history of American coinage is more interesting than one might expect. Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, otherwise bitter political antagonists, cooperated in creating the nation's coinage and founding the U.S. Mint. Jefferson had been thinking about an American system of coinage since the days he was writing the Declaration of Independence. He was intent on avoiding the non-decimal systems of Europe in order to simply commercial transactions and democratize the nation's economy, especially for the illiterate and innumerate. The first Mint was located in Philadelphia in a converted brewery, down the street from the home of the new president. Martha Washington is said to have donated some of the family silverware for the minting of the nation's first coins.† The institution of an American coinage system was a remarkable achievement. At the time, coinage from multiple countries was used in commerce. These competing means of exchange had to be gradually crowded out by the new American coinage and finally demonetized. We might think of this as an early 19th century American version of the introduction of the Euro. In order to have a "serious" debate about fiscal policy, as so many pundits claim to want, we must first understand what money is, and how governments get it. The answer is that they have always created it, and any notion of the government "running out" are illogical. Remember, money is a fiction. Real wealth is capital assets, our infrastructure, our cars, our houses, and most importantly the potential human ingenuity and cooperation. Money is just something that the government creates to facilitate the trade in all of those things. The #MintTheCoin debate, more than any other fiscal debate we can remember, gets right to this matter. Find out everything you need to know about the trillion dollar coin below: SEE ALSO: 3 myths about the mint the coin debate &gt;
JPMorgan's James "Jes" Staley, who was chair of the investment bank, has been hired by BlueMountain Capital, CNBC's Kate Kelly reported. BlueMountain is a $12 billion hedge fund founded by JPMorgan alum Andrew Feldstein. But get this... BlueMountain Capital is the hedge fund that was on the other side of disastrous so-called "London Whale" trade that lost JPMorgan $5.6 billion last year. BlueMountain's flagship fund was up more than 10% last year, according to CNBC.†
The Shiller PE ratio, or the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio, may be the most respected measure of stock market value. In short, the Shiller PE is the price of the stock market divided by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the ratio is above the long-term average, the stock market is considered expensive. Credit Suisse's Andrew Garthwaite compiled the annualized trailing 5-year returns based on certain levels of the Shiller PE.¬† As expected, the lower the ratio, the better the returns.¬† But the relationship isn't exactly linear. Here's Garthwaite's chart.¬† At current elevated levels, the Shiller PE is signaling a period of low returns. Credit Suisse
flickr/gmacklinSome of the industries that Americans depend on most are plagued by bad customer service. Utilities, airlines, and cable companies are among the worst lead,¬†according to the¬†latest results from the American Consumer Satisfaction Index. Limited competition and the fact that many customer interactions occur after problems like service interruptions help push those industry's ratings down.¬† By far the biggest ratings drop was for Northeast Utilities, which left customers fuming due to long storm power outages. The bottom tier also includes LinkedIn, Twitter, and Facebook, which were only recently included in the survey.
Sageworks, the financial information company is out with its list of fast growing industries in America. "With manufacturing having played a pivotal role in the economic recovery, itís no surprise that several manufacturing industries are among the strongest growing over the last 12 months, based on current estimates," they write. ìItís possible that those are tied together as businesses have started to use some of their cash to invest in needed equipment and upgrades,î said Sageworks analyst Brad Schaefer. ìAll of those took really big hits in 2009 because companies werenít investing in a lot of equipment.î Of the top 11 industries, employment services stands out as the one requiring the least amount of manual labor. ìI see the employment services industry doing fairly well again, just because a lot of people are still uncertain about the economy and the political atmosphere, which contributes to businesses hiring temporary or contract workers instead of full-time employees,î said Schaefer. ìI donít think thatís something thatíll go away for the next year.î Here's a table of the jobs: Sageworks
APThe Republican image has taken a big hit from the fiscal cliff negotiations as both parties prepare for the next several rounds of fiscal talks in the coming months. Two polls released in the past day show that even Republicans do not approve of the way the party handled the fiscal cliff negotiations. An ABC/Washington Post poll¬†found that just 31 percent approved of Boehner's handling of the fiscal cliff, compared with 52 percent that disapproved. Among his own party, Boehner's approval-to-disapproval split stood at a dreadful 38-49. The findings were similar in a Pew Research Center survey. The poll found that voters gave abysmal marks to Republican leaders for their part in the talks. Only 19 percent of respondents approved of the way Republicans handled the negotiations, compared with 66 percent who disapproved. And the split among Republicans was 40-45. President Barack Obama, meanwhile, and his public image came out from the fight relatively unscathed. In the ABC poll, Obama's approval-to-disapproval split on the talks was 52-37. In the Pew poll, it was 48-40. Here's a look at the split in the Pew poll: Pew Research Center Overall, voters weren't very enthusiastic about the deal. In the ABC poll, respondents narrowly approved of the overall result. In the Pew poll, slightly more voters disapproved than approved. And an astounding 52 percent said the deal will "hurt people like you." Obviously, the debate to come on the debt ceiling and sequester will differ from the cliff, but Obama and Democrats will go into them with what appears to be a significant advantage in public opinion.¬†
Bloomberg TV"Dr. Doom" Marc Faber told CNBC on Tuesday that he owns gold even though the precious metal may be heading south. "I don't think [gold] will go up right away, and we maybe have a correction of 10 percent or so on the downside," the publisher of The Gloom Boom &amp; Doom Report said in a "Squawk Box" interview. "But I see that governments will print money ‚Ä¶ so I want to have gold as an insurance policy." In his January Market Commentary, Faber puts a price range on his gold call: "... perhaps down to between $1550 and $1600 ‚Ä¶ I intend to increase my gold position on any further weakness although I am concerned that U.S. dollar strength could be a headwind for a strong gold rally." As for the dollar, Faber said on CNBC, "In the beauty contest over the ugliest currency, the U.S. dollar is not winning." Still, he added, "I'd rather be in dollars at the present time than say, euros." Faber also predicted a rather gloomy 2013 for stocks around the globe, pointing out what he sees as a "deterioration in the technicals of the [U.S.] market" and last year's huge increases from multi-year lows. On Friday, the S&amp;P 500 Index closed at a five-year high. "Money will shift from some of the relatively high-valued markets into markets that had a horrible performance," he said. "So as an investor, if you need to own stocks, then I'd be in Vietnam, in China and in Japan." In his commentary, Faber wrote that he's leaning toward the bearish camp but with this caveat: "I am also mindful that corporations and wealthy individuals are cash rich and since there are very few promising investment opportunities aside from equities, they might one day shift their considerable liquid assets into stocks." Faber, living up to his "Dr. Doom" nickname, told CNBC that he doesn't like any particular asset class, though he said he has a diversified portfolio. "I'm not liquidating everything, but I have a lot of cash."
Getty Images Entertainment/ Stephen Lovekin/StaffActivist investor Bill Ackman, who runs $11 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, told CNN Money's Maureen Farrell that he will go "to the end of the earth" for his a massive short position on Herbalife to play out. Ackman, who is known for being a long only investor that tries to transform businesses, believes Herbalife is a pyramid scheme. "If the government comes out and determines that this is a legal business then I will lobby congress for them to change the law," Ackman told CNN Money. Pershing has been shorting Herbalife for about eight months. †The hedge fund is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero, Ackman has said.† Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short position, shares of Herbalife are off about 13%. †At one point there were down more than 38%. SEE ALSO: Bill Ackman's complete presentation taking down Herbalife &gt;
Flickr / Nordiska museetAmerica can expect lower gas prices in 2013 thanks to increased oil production and lower demand, AAA says. "Cheaper gas prices are good news for the millions of Americans that depend on their car to travel where they need to go,‚Äù said AAA's Robert Darbelnet. ‚ÄúLower gasoline prices should translate into billions of dollars in tangible household savings given that the vast majority of Americans rely on automobiles to live their lives.‚Äù Prices are already down from the record high average of $3.60 in 2012.  That was partly the result of production disruptions from refinery fires, pipeline closures and major hurricanes, the agency noted. Barring those things don't happen again,¬†prices should drop during the first half of the summer to as low as $3.20-$3.40, following a late-spring peak. They'll rise again in advance of the Gulf Coast hurricane season and the switchover to winter-blend gasoline, but¬†should end the year by falling to low or near-low averages for 2013, the agency says. The national average for current prices is $3.30.¬† SEE ALSO: The 11 Factors That Determine Gas Prices &gt;
After a bounce on the relief from the fiscal cliff deal that took place on New Year‚Äôs Day, the stock market has been in a sideways holding pattern. Investors are waiting to see if there was some collateral damage from the battle over the fiscal cliff. This week, we will begin to see if any damage was done to corporate profits in the fourth quarter of 2012. Macroeconomic factors have been the key driver of the market lately, but microeconomics will begin to garner investors‚Äô attention in the coming weeks as companies begin to release their fourth quarter earnings reports. Four times a year, investors focus on the most fundamental driver of investment performance: earnings. While only a handful of S&amp;P 500 companies report fourth quarter 2012 results this week, earnings reports will be issued from big U.S. companies including Alcoa, Constellation Brands, Monsanto, and Wells Fargo, among others as the fourth quarter earnings season kicks off. While the fiscal cliff battle ultimately ended in a modest deal to avert‚Ä®some of the worst consequences to the economy, the related caution, contingency planning, special dividend distributions, and other distractions may have restrained business results. There is some reason to believe the fiscal cliff issues may have had some impact. While Friday‚Äôs (January 4, 2013) employment report for December 2012 reflected another month of modest job growth and broad economic indicators show little measurable effect of the concern over the fiscal cliff, we saw weak business investment act as a drag on growth in the third quarter of 2012. This generally ‚Ä®extended into the fourth quarter as corporate leaders were more likely to‚Ä® sit on cash, or return it to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks, rather than make longer term commitments by increasing capital expenditures or ramping up hiring. For example, new orders for business investment were only up 0.5% year-over-year in November 2012, according to the latest U.S. Commerce Department data. Excluding transportation equipment, orders for business spending were flat. Expectations for profit growth among S&amp;P 500 companies in the fourth quarter of 2012 are down to about 3% year-over-year, sharply lower than the 10% growth expected at the start of the quarter. While the estimates are now in line with our long-held outlook*, two sectors are expected to provide double-digit gains and may still present some risk of disappointment [Figure 1]. LPL Financial On the other hand, the industrials sector‚Äîexpected to post the biggest year-over-year earnings decline (-5.6%) among S&amp;P 500 sectors, may offer the potential for an upside surprise. Industrial production has been solid and exceeded economists‚Äô estimates in the latest data reported for November 2012. Also, in the jobs report for December 2012 released on Friday, January 4, 2013, manufacturing job growth turned much more positive after weak numbers in the prior four months. Renewed hiring among industrial companies may be a sign of confidence by management in the recently improving trend. Wall Street analysts‚Äò consensus forecast of S&amp;P 500 earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2012 is $25.56. If accurate, this will be the lowest quarterly total for earnings per share in 2012. This is unusual; fourth quarter profits during a year of growth are typically the highest of the year. While this week‚Äîthe week that Alcoa reports its earnings‚Äîis most often referred to as the start of the reporting season, some companies have already provided their fourth quarter numbers and confirmed a soft environment for profits. For example, FedEx Corporation reported in mid- December 2012 and missed expectations, posting a 12% decline from a year ago, reflecting a weak global economic backdrop and the impact of Superstorm Sandy. While the results reported for the fourth quarter are important in measuring the impact of the fiscal cliff battle, so will the profit guidance for the coming quarters provided by corporate leaders. Earnings per share for 2012 are expected to end up 3.7% above the total for 2011. We expect another year of lackluster profit growth again in 2013. However, the consensus of Wall Street analysts‚Äô expectations is for 10% growth. The coming weeks may provide insight on the trajectory of profits in 2013. The focus on microeconomic data in the coming weeks leads us to expect a relatively range-bound market in the near term. However, when the earnings season winds down in February 2013, the fiscal cliff battle part II may emerge as we approach the limit on U.S. borrowing authority, known as the debt ceiling, along with the end of the delay to the spending sequester on February 28 and funding of the U.S. government on March 27. These factors may weigh on the confidence of business leaders to employ capital in the first quarter and extend the sluggish profit environment.
In May, he spent $52.5 million on a duplex co-op at 740 Park Ave., and two months later he listed his apartment at the Ritz Carlton for a cool $50 million. Now, Marks has sold his 9.5-acre estate in Malibu to an unnamed Russian billionaire couple for roughly $75 million, The Wall Street Journal's Lauren Schuker Blum reports. The estate, which has 300 feet of beach frontage, had been quietly shopped around for $125 million. In addition to the main house, it has two guest houses and a gym. Brokers told the WSJ it was the second most expensive residential real estate sale in Southern California, behind the $85 million sale of the Spelling Manor to Formula One heiress Petra Ecclestone last year. It's the most expensive property ever sold in Malibu. Marks and his wife Nancy bought the estate in 2002 from the estate of late Herbalife founder Mark Hughes for $31 million.
ApplePresident Barack Obama will be inaugurated for his second term†on Jan. 21, an expensive event run and funded by the Presidential Inaugural Committee. For his second inauguration, Obama has authorized the group preparing for inauguration to accept contributions from corporate sponsors.† Though documents filed with the FEC will eventually reveal the full list of donors and the exact amounts contributed, the 2013 Presidential Inaugural Committee has released a partial list of donors.† Major corporate donors include Microsoft and AT&amp;T. The only other listed companies are health care company the†Centene Corporation, marketer†Financial Innovations, Inc, genetic research firm†Genentech Inc,†Stream Line Circle LLC and investment firm Whittier Trust Company. Obama's previous inauguration was the largest event to ever take place in the District of Columbia.†It was also a lavish affair, costing†$170 million that was raised entirely and strictly from individual donors. Obama also banned corporate donations at the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte last September. See the list of corporate and individual donors here†&gt;
Google FinanceIt's another quiet day for news.¬† However, activity should pick up after the closing bell when aluminum giant kicks off Q4 earnings season. Meanwhile, stocks are selling off today. It's worth noting, however, that they continue to be near their five-year highs. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Felix Zulauf is one of the best macro thinkers around today. ¬†He‚Äôs not totally in paradigm with MR (he‚Äôs¬†a bit¬†too hyperbolic for my taste at times), but he has a very good feel for the general macro landscape and the markets in particular. Fusion IQ, Barry‚Äôs firm,¬†has a very good exclusive interview¬†with him. ¬†Some snippets: Fusion:¬†Looking at China, Felix, you were bearish at the start of 2012, and then very presciently called a bottom in September. Both the Shanghai Composite and Hang Sang have rallied very strongly since that call. What is your current outlook on China? Zulauf:¬†The new government in China wants to maintain 7-8% growth, and wants to take steps to ensure this. They may increase public spending and relax monetary policy. This won‚Äôt come anywhere close¬†to the stimulus of 2008, as China is still suffering the negative side effects. You might see a temporary improvement in¬†economic indicators, but that‚Äôs it. The real level of growth in China is probably only 3-4%. That said, there is still perhaps 20-30% upside in Chinese equities, particularly in the first half, although you won‚Äôt see the sort of sustained move we saw off the 2008 low there. ‚Ä¶ Fusion:¬†How does Europe look now? Zulauf:¬†In Europe, the prevailing policy goal is to keep the Eurozone together. Draghi has told us as much. The austerity policies may not be sustainable in the peripheral countries as people begin to revolt due to the painful and long lasting recession. Mario Monti lost support because the highly fragmented Italian parliaments withdrew its support. Angela Merkel faces an election in September, and may agree on diluting austerity programs as she doesn‚Äôt want any trouble. I see no growth at all in the peripheral countries. Germany may be forced into some debt¬†mutualization on a small scale. It will be the ECB that has to carry Europe through by financing rotten financial institutions and rotten governments. The euro could see 1.40 into the second quarter before going to 1.00 next year, when the markets see more trouble and yields rise again on the sovereign debt of the peripheral countries. Read the full piece¬†here.
Today's Morning Briefing: Snakes, Squids, &amp; Squiggles. (1) Seeing patterns. (2) Let the earnings season begin. (3) Cobra formation in estimated and actual earnings. (4) Earnings surprises for the sectors tend to be surprising. (5) The guidance myth. (6) Squid formation: Biggest downward revisions for Materials, IT, Financials, and Industrials. (7) Market often goes up even when Earnings Squiggles go down. (8) Another record high for forward earnings. (9) Record highs for MidCap and SmallCap stocks too. (10) A good year for auto dealers and retailers. (More for subscribers.)
Last year, hedge fund titan David Tepper famously bought a $43.5 million oceanfront mansion in Sagaponack ó and promptly tore it down so he could build one twice the size. It looks like construction on the property is moving along nicely. At this rate, it could be completed in time for the summer season. Aerial photographer Jeff Cully at EEFAS shot these photos of Tepper's beachfront estate in late December and shared them with us. Looks like Tepper's new home will have two hot tubs, a large cabana, and tennis court. Jeff Cully/EEFAS Check out the size of the swimming pool: Jeff Cully/EEFAS As a reminder, here's what the construction pit looked like in March: Cully/EEFAS And the home he tore down: ">www.sothebyshomes.com
Last night the NYT reported that AIG's board would hear a presentation from Greenberg on Wednesday and decide whether or not to sue the government over the $182 billion 2008 bailout by the end of the month. Of course, the company has caught flack for even considering the decision, but it's important to point out that the board is also caught between a rock and a hard place. If they decide not to join the suit, and Greenberg wins, things could get ugly. From NYT: If the board does not give careful consideration to the case, Mr. Greenberg could challenge its decision to abstain. Should Mr. Greenberg snare a major settlement without A.I.G., the company could face additional lawsuits from other shareholders... And it's not Greenberg's case has been totally laughed out of Court. Yes, a Judge dismissed it in NYC, but a Washington D.C.is letting it be heard. This isn't the first time Greenberg's been in a sticky legal situation with the government and A.I.G. From CNN: Greenberg, 83, relinquished his post as AIG's chief executive in 2005 amid a probe by then-New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer for accounting fraud. The following year, the SEC charged AIG with securities fraud and improper accounting. The company settled the charges by repaying $700 million plus a fine of $100 million. Greenberg ultimately agreed to pay $15 million to settle charges.
Some of the best technicians on StockTwits have offered up charts they will be watching most closely in the year ahead. Take a look... 1.¬†Bikini¬†Analytics¬†(@BikiniAnalytics):¬†JPM¬†‚Äì Is the 11th Attempt a Charm?¬†JPM¬†is a bellweather money center bank that has bumped up against this 45 area 11 times over the last 6 years. If it finally manages to break out through this level, hold and run higher it will have bullish implications for the financial sector and for the broader market as well.¬† StockTwits 2.¬†JC Parets¬†(@allstarcharts) The Chart of the Decade: Developed Markets ex N. America Relative to Latin America The MSCI EAFE Index measures the performance of developed markets outside of US and Canada (EFA). On the other side, we are looking at the S&amp;P Latin American 40 (ILF). ¬†We‚Äôre seeing a 4-5 year bottoming process that is typical of what is necessary to turn such a strong trend around. Momentum turned up a long time ago (RSI). Also notice the 40-week moving average now turning higher in favor of EAFE over Latin America.¬†¬†Here is a 10+ year weekly chart looking at what I consider to be a huge base and potential bottom: StockTwits 3.¬†Peter L Brandt¬†(@peterlbrandt) ‚Äì¬†$USDJPY¬†Set to Explode in 2013 The¬†USDJPY¬†has completed a massive 28-month head and shoulders bottom. This bottom projects prices, likely in 2013, to 100.24. StockTwits 4.¬†Chris Kimble¬†(@KimbleCharting): The Rising Wedge on the Dow Jones Industrial Average It‚Äôs a good time to step back for perspective with a very long-term chart of the Dow Jones Industrial Average going back 70 years. ¬†The chart shows the blue-chip index has been battling resistance at the top of its long-term rising channel in recent years after the subprime meltdown.¬†Zooming in a bit closer, the action of late reflects the Dow completing a rising wedge pattern. About two-thirds of the time, this technical formation resolves itself to the downside, so some caution is warranted here. In any case, once this pattern resolves itself, I doubt the markets will remain boring.¬†The manner and direction in which this rising wedge ends should have important implications for portfolio positioning in 2013. StockTwits 5.¬†High Chart Patterns¬†(@HCPG):¬†Russell 2000 Leadership The Russell (RUT) has quietly taken the lead from the¬†AAPL¬†beleaguered Nasdaq and is currently leading the market.¬†¬† Patterns on indices often don‚Äôt work as cleanly as they do on stocks but we like this¬†ascending triangle¬†on the Russell 2000 weekly chart. ¬†The break-out through the top horizontal line represents an¬†all-time high.¬†¬† Bottom line:¬† as long as the lower trend-line holds¬† (currently at 775) we are in a bullish formation in the current leading index of the market. StockTwits 6.¬†Ryan Detrick¬†(@RyanDetrick) ‚Äì All Time Highs in the Mid Caps Are a Hidden Tell The 1,000 level on the S&amp;P 400 Mid Cap Index is critical.¬† Going back to 2011, this area has been resistance. ¬†That its beginning to breakout above this area could be a very good sign for the overall market. Keep watch. ¬†StockTwits 7.¬†Erik Swarts¬†(@mktanthropology): US Dollar Analog ‚Äì 1994-1997 I approach the markets from a comparative cycle perspective. The following chart is of the US dollar index ‚Äì contrasted with the last time the dollar made a secular low in the mid 1990‚Ä≤s. I find it interesting and compelling that despite the historic monetary influences, both here and abroad ‚Äì the US dollar index continues to closely follow the arc of its last secular low. A surging US dollar would have broad implications to the commodity, currency and equity markets next year. StockTwits 8.¬†Ed Matts¬†(@EdMatts): Pandora‚Äôs Box Analog: Is The¬†EURUSD¬†About to Collapse? Markets often repeat different periods in history because traders essentially do not change the way they trade. Today, trading robots have algorithms that ensure they do the same thing. :) The current price¬†behavior¬†of the¬†EURUSD¬†mirrors the¬†Deutsche¬†Mark of the mid 90‚Ä≤s, a synthetic Euro. If the analog continues then the¬†EURUSD¬†will soon fall precipitously. StockTwits 9.¬†Brian Lund¬†(@bclund): Schwab and the Return of the Retail Investor Reports of the retail investor‚Äôs death have been greatly exaggerated. They‚Äôre not dead, but instead have just been driven into a zombie-like stupor from the carnage of 2008 and the Bernie Madoff‚Äôs of this world, and they are getting ready to ‚Äúwake up‚Äù and get back in the game.¬†Charles Schwab (SCHW) has been making higher lows since late 2011 has broken out from descending resistance.¬† StockTwits 10.¬†Brian Shannon¬†(@alphatrends):¬†Bearish Whole Foods Market Below 95.5 Whole Foods (WFM) has been in a tremendous uptrend since early 2009, seeing more than a tenfold gain off its lows to the highs in 2012 and now the stock is looking vulnerable.¬† Looking at the longer term chart, the stock is not a stranger to a large sell off, suffering a 90% drop off its 2006 highs to the 2008 low. ¬†The inset chart shows that while¬†WFM¬†was up on the year, the stock appears to be under distribution over the last three months.¬† With the 50 day moving average (green) declining and the 200 DMA (black) now turning sideways, it looks as though WFM could be at the beginning of a decline which could see the stock completely erase the gains of 2012. I have a short bias on the stock and only getting the price back above 95.50 would change my mind that the stock remains risky to own.¬† I am not questioning the fundamentals of the company, as far as I know the business of selling overpriced groceries is still strong.¬† What does come into question is the chart pattern. StockTwits¬† 11.¬†Scott Redler¬†(@reddogt3live): We Will Finally Take Out the Double Top in the SP500 (SPX) If we close above 1474, we will see the old highs between 1540-1575.¬†Then whether it‚Äôs this year or next i feel we take out the decade long double top on the the road to 1700 this year or 2014. The question for me is¬†when. StockTwits¬† 12.¬†Keith Shepard¬†(@jackdamn): How You Will Know The Bond Bull Has Ended Much talk these days about the end of the great bull market in US Treasuries. Simply, you will know the bull has ened when the 10 Year Yield breaks the upper channel in this unprecedented 27 year trend.¬† StockTwits 13.¬†TraderStewie¬†(@traderstewie): A Closer Look at the Bonds ‚Äì Dandruff on the¬†$TLT Zooming the lens in a bit on a bond chart, the¬†TLT¬†is sporting a potential head and shoulders top on the weekly. A break down below the¬†neckline¬†at 117 would be bearish bonds and bullish yields.¬† StockTwits¬† 14. ¬†Joe Donohue¬†(@upsidetrader): Coal Makes a Come Back ‚Äì Walter Energy I think the worst is over for the Coal names and this may finally be the turnaround for¬†WLT. ¬†StockTwits 15.¬†Carson Dahlberg¬†CMT (@CarsonDahlberg): Tracking The JCJ Index The JCJ Index is the CBOE‚Äôs S&amp;P500 Implied Correlation Index, using options data to determine correlation; both a measure of risk and a measure of risk appetite. When there is growing fear in the market, correlations head towards 1 (100%), and when this happens, diversification benefits erode as there is nowhere to hide from fire sales. This is why correlation is a great sentiment tool for gauging risk appetite. Just as you would a stock or index, look for up trends (anxiety), down trends (positive sentiment), and ranges (the wait and see). StockTwits¬†¬† 16.¬†David Patrick¬†(@fitzstock2004): Bull In The Financials! 2000 Analog David uses 2000 as an analog for what we might see from the financials (XLF) in 2013. Click through on the chart for extensive notes. A good one to follow over the course of the year to see if and how this correlation might unfold. StockTwits¬† 17.¬†Greg Harmon¬†(@harmongreg): Prospects for the NASDAQ 100 in 2013 ‚Äì Levels and Devils The Median Line of the Bullish Andrew‚Äôs Pitchfork has been driving this up to the¬† the 23.6% Fibonacci retracement level of from the 2000 crash.¬† Above that there is a lot of room higher to resistance (83ish) and the next Fibonacci level (101)¬† StockTwits 18. ¬†@Fibline: The Homebuilders Have Not¬†Finished¬†Their Run Often, investors sell too soon. If you are holding¬†XHB, don‚Äôt be so quick to take full profits. The trend is strong and outlook for the year ahead is solid. Plenty of support below, nice volume ‚Äúfootprint‚Äù and a hig probability that Price will reach Upper Median¬†Line¬†Parallel. StockTwits 19.¬†Derald Muniz¬†(@1nvestor): 16.61 is key on the¬†$XLF¬†Breakout on the Weekly In the first week of 2013,¬†XLF¬†broke out above 16.61 after climbing from the October 2011 low of 10.68. This 16.61 level has held so far and it is the critical level to watch. The measured move off the most recent rally (6/4/12 to 10/15/12) would be $3.19 putting the financial sector ETF near 20 dollars.¬† StockTwits
Yesterday, we pointed out a new analysis from the Bipartisan Policy Center¬†that provides a good, in-depth look at what would happen if the U.S. hits the debt ceiling. The report also suggests that the U.S. could default on its debt as early as Feb. 15, which is about half a month sooner than was widely expected. The Bipartisan Policy Center says that the "X date" will come sometime between Feb. 15 and March 1.¬† "Our numbers show that we have less time to solve this problem than many realize," said Steve Bell, the senior director of the Economic Policy Project at BPC. "We estimate that Treasury will exhaust its borrowing authority and no longer have sufficient funds to meet its obligations in full and on time at some point between Feb. 15 and March 1. It will be difficult for Treasury to get beyond the March 1 date in our judgment.‚Äù Here is a chart that shows the BPC's range of when the "X date" could hit: Bipartisan Policy Center And here's a look at what the government would be unable to keep paying on Feb. 15, if that turns out to be the "X date": Bipartisan Policy Center
This is a nice move after being dropped from the highly coveted Goldman Sachs partner list... Former Goldman partner Jason Glen Cahilly is joining the NBA as chief financial officer and VP of strategy, Bloomberg News reported.¬† He will begin his new role at the NBA on January 14. Cahilly, who was the global co-head of media and telecommunications, was a partner at Goldman from 2008 until 2012. The media banker, who spent 12 years at the firm,¬†was one of the 31 dropped from the partner list last year. ¬†Being named a Goldman partner is a huge deal on the Street. Cahilly received his undergrad degree in economics and international relations from Bucknell University, according to his LinkedIn profile. He also graduated from Harvard Law. SEE ALSO: The 31 Most Impressive Athletes On Wall Street &gt;
MonsantoMonsanto (MON) shares are surging in pre-market trading this morning after the company reported earnings and revenues that exceeded analysts' estimates and boosted its forecasts for 2013. Right now, the stock is trading up 3.9 percent. The global agriculture giant reported earnings of $0.62 per share versus estimates of $0.36 per share, and revenues of $2.94 billion versus the $2.64 billion estimated. For 2013 full-year earnings, the company now estimates it will make $4.30 to $4.40 per share, up from its previous estimate of $4.18 to $4.32. Monsanto's big boost in the fourth quarter came from a 27 percent rise year-over-year in corn seed sales and was also aided by gains in its agricultural productivity business. Below are more details on how these segments did in Q4¬†from the press release: The¬†Seeds and Genomics segment¬†consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business. Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment increased 14 percent in the first quarter to¬†$1.8 billion, with corn seed and traits performance driving the first quarter strength. Corn seed and traits net sales increased 27 percent over last year's first quarter to¬†$1.1 billion, driven in part by the business strength in¬†Brazil,¬†Argentina¬†and¬†Mexico. The trait upgrade and expansion is on track in both¬†Brazil¬†and¬†Argentina¬†where the company is achieving strong demand for its corn products. In¬†Brazil, farmers continue to upgrade from single trait corn products to the first double stack, VT PRO‚Ñ¢¬†2. In its second year of commercial sales, VT PRO‚Ñ¢¬†2 is the second-highest volume trait in the company's¬†Brazil¬†corn portfolio this year. Likewise, in¬†Argentina, the company has also seen strong adoption of its Genuity¬Æ¬†VT Triple PRO¬Æ¬†product. The triple-stack corn product is on track to be 40 percent of the company's Argentine corn portfolio in just its second year on the market. Complementing the corn performance in¬†Latin America¬†is the early momentum in the U.S. seeds and traits business. Backed by strong cash flow and customer prepayments, the company noted a positive U.S. order book, with the order pace ahead of the same point in time last year. With two years of strong performance, company executives said the U.S. business is in position to grow again in 2013. This includes another increase in acres for both its Genuity¬Æ¬†Roundup Ready 2 Yield¬Æ¬†platform in soybeans and the Genuity¬Æ¬†reduced refuge family in corn. The¬†Agricultural Productivity segment¬†consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.¬† Net sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment increased $279¬†million, reflecting the benefit of a favorable marketplace environment lifting the business in the near-term. The company indicated it remains focused on its established strategy for Roundup¬Æ¬†following the reset of that business in 2010. Monsanto also released its annual R&amp;D outlook in a colorful presentation.
The parents of two children allegedly killed by their nanny in New York City last year are using their loss as an avenue for change through a new Facebook fund. In a horrific tragedy that rocked the city, the two children, Lulu and Leo Krim, were found fatally stabbed in October in their family's Upper West Side apartment. And now parents Marina and Kevin Krim have created the Lulu &amp; Leo Fund, which "seeks to raise money for children's education and enrichment programs" in memory of their children, according to the fund's Facebook page. The Krims go into more detail about their new initiative on the fund's website.¬† "As the parents of Lulu and Leo, we want to honor our children through carrying on their love of arts and sciences education," the parents say. "Unfortunately, there are many children who do not have access to these programs. We created the Lulu &amp; Leo Fund to help more children benefit from these education experiences in art and science." The Krims have also used the page to chronicle their lives as they cope with their childrens' deaths. In a post titled Daughter, Kevin Krim explained why he chose the song "Daughter" by Loudon Wainwright to open Lulu and Leo's memorial service: I love this line in particular: "Everything she wants, I see she gets." When I first held Lulu, swaddled up like a little burrito, in the delivery room and her huge eyes looked into mine, I fell so deeply in love with her. It was like nothing I'd ever felt. I joked out loud that she'd already got me to agree to a new car on her 16th birthday. Silently, I had promised her I'd do anything for her. I believe the Lulu &amp; Leo Fund is something she wants. I believe Lulu and Leo are very happy to be inspiring and teaching people. The Krims also use the memorial page to celebrate their surviving daughter Nessie. Nessie, who turned 4 on Dec. 28, has "grown so much over the past two months," Kevin Krim wrote on the Facebook page. "She saves us every day." The children's nanny Yoselyn Ortega was charged with first-degree murder in November in connection to the deaths. DON'T MISS: Gruesome Details About Colorado Theater Shooting Victims' Last Moments Emerged In Court Monday &gt;
CNBCWith no major economic, earnings, or political news, yesterday turned into one of the most boring trading days in a very long time. According to UBS's Art Cashin, this gave the New York Stock Exchange floor traders time to chat about various things. One of those things: the gigantic asteroid heading toward earth. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: And You Thought The Debt Ceiling Was All You Had To Worry About ñ Trading was slow enough yesterday that traders had more than the usual allotment of time for chitchat.† Quickly exhausting sports, politics and the rest of the usual roster, thinking and thoughts turned skyward. They talked of the weekend news reports that an asteroid would be passing very, very near earth.† How close was the key?† Apparently, in mid-February, asteroid 2012 DA14 will pass within 21,000 miles of earth. To put that in some perspective, the moon is 240,000 miles away and several GPS satellites orbit at 26,000 miles.† So, the asteroid will come within orbits of satellites.† No need to worry though, NASA assures us that their calculations show that it will not strike the earth.† We're from the government and we're here to help you. Let's hope NASA double-checked their math.
The Platinum Solution has gone Colbert. Last night, Stephen Colbert took on the idea of minting a trillion dollar platinum coin as a way to get around the debt ceiling. Best line: "We should have known that a coin was Obama's solution to everything. It was right there in his slogan... CHANGE." Enjoy. The Colbert Report Get More: Colbert Report Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,Video Archive
Bullion Vault / FlickrA long-term chart of the S&amp;P 500 would show a stock market that's going up and sitting near all-time highs. But this isn't the case when you price the S&amp;P 500 in gold. Citi's Tobias Levkovich includes this chart of stock priced in gold.¬† Levkovich actually uses the chart to make the point that stocks are attractive relative to gold. From his latest note to clients: Conversely, not tackling the fiscal problems would ensure a growth calamity down the line and thus must be addressed. In aggregate, the energy sector developments, the needed growth in mobile technology infrastructure investing, manufacturing competitiveness and normalization in housing activity dramatically more than offset the health care drag in our opinion. Add in some fiscal baby steps and more money coming into equities and the secular bull rally is entering its infancy. In March 2014, five-year returns from US stocks will look even better as the October 2007-March 2009 declines are calendared away. At that point, we suspect that retirement benefit consultants and actuaries will start recommending investors buy the equity asset class for performance. Figure 16 illustrates the potential for shifting assets back towards equities and stocks look very much poised to gain relative to gold, reversing the trend since 2000 (see Figure 17). Hence, the trend may very well be the stock market investor‚Äôs best friend in the years ahead. Here's the chart: Citi Research
Wikimedia CommonsAIG headquartersThe word chutzpah comes to mind... Insurance giant AIG is considering suing the government in a $25 billion shareholder lawsuit over bailout terms, the New York Times' Ben Protess and Michael de la Merced report. AIG's board will meet tomorrow to decide whether or not it will join the shareholder suit. Here's the basic premise of the lawsuit, according to the NYTimes: ...The lawsuit does not argue that government help was not needed. It contends that the onerous nature of the rescue ‚Äî the taking of what became a 92 percent stake in the company, the deal‚Äôs high interest rates and the funneling of billions to the insurer‚Äôs Wall Street clients ‚Äî deprived shareholders of tens of billions of dollars and violated the Fifth Amendment, which prohibits the taking of private property for ‚Äúpublic use, without just compensation.‚Äù The lawsuit was filed by former CEO Maurice Greenberg on behalf of shareholders in 2011. ¬†Greenberg is still a big shareholder in AIG.¬† Read the NYTimes full piece here &gt;
Wikimedia CommonsBob Dylan with Joan Baez in 1963.Bob Dylan's label has made only 100 copies of his latest box set. The singer's new demos compilation, The 50th Anniversary Collection, is apparently designed to exploit a European copyright loophole. The compilation's official subtitle says it all: The Copyright Extension Collection, Vol 1. Delivered to a handful of "random" record shops in the UK, Germany, France and Sweden, according to Rolling Stone, the four-CD set comprises 86 songs recorded in 1962 and 1963, around the time of Dylan's debut album. The packaging is plain, the liner notes almost non-existent. But fans are treating them as the rarities they are; bidding on eBay has topped £650. According to sources at Sony Music, this compilation isn't really meant for mass consumption. It's essentially an attempt to keep these tracks from entering the public domain. Although the European Union has extended copyright terms from 50 years to 70 years, the extension only applies to recordings that have been released during the 50 years after they were made. Sony was therefore forced to release these songs ñ albeit in limited form ñ before the end of 2012, when their half-century was up. "This isn't a scheme to make money," a source explained to Rolling Stone. "The whole point of copyrighting [this material] is that we intend to do something with it at some point in the future. But it wasn't the right time to do it right after [Dylan] released Tempest." Perhaps Sony will eventually reissue Dylan's 1962 debut with a series of outtakes, or collect decades of demos in another box set. Perhaps they just want to thwart the opportunist labels who can now legally sell any unreleased material from before 1963. The only thing that's certain is that some British, German, French and Swedish Dylan fans got very, very lucky.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Jan. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Oplinger, co-head of U.S. high- yield sales for Credit Suisse Group AG, left Switzerlandís second-biggest bank amid a disagreement over his groupís compensation, two people briefed on the matter said. Oplinger departed today following a dispute with top management over his teamís alloted bonus pool, according to the people, who asked not to be identified because the departure wasnít made public. Jason Safriet, his co-head, will run the group, according to another person. Oplinger declined to comment when reached by phone. Drew Benson, a spokesman for the Zurich- based bank, declined to comment on Oplingerís departure. Credit Suisse has shrunk the amount of capital put toward credit trading as it seeks to improve returns. Risk-weighted assets in that business were $18 billion as of Sept. 30, down 22 percent from a year earlier. Still, the firm produced $1.27 billion in revenue from credit trading in the first nine months of 2012, almost double that of a year earlier. Credit Suisse hasnít publicly announced the size or composition of its 2012 bonus pool. The lender cut its 2011 pool by 41 percent and awarded a portion of pay for more than 6,000 senior bankers in bonds backed by derivatives that will pay out over several years. Oplinger, a managing director at Credit Suisse, earlier worked at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., according to records with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That firm was acquired by Credit Suisse in 2000. Oplinger graduated from Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania, where he played football, according to the schoolís athletics website.  --Editors: Steven Crabill, Dan Reichl † To contact the reporters on this story: Michael J. Moore in New York at mmoore55@bloomberg.net; Stephanie Ruhle in New York at sruhle2@bloomberg.net; Lisa Abramowicz in New York at labramowicz@bloomberg.net † To contact the editor responsible for this story: David Scheer at dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Flickr user thebittenword.comBabi bok choiA cold snap in China hasn't gotten much attention here, but it might start to get more, as it's causing massive food inflation. The Daily Dim Sum translates a Xinhua article: Monitoring results of the Ministry of Agriculture show that prices of 27 vegetables in the first week of 2013 increased 4.5 percent week-on-week for an average price of CNY 4.17/kg. In the past ten weeks, average price of vegetables has jumped 55 percent. Weather.com reports on the exact weather numbers: China is experiencing unusual chills this winter with its national average temperature hitting the lowest in 28 years, and snow and ice have closed highways, canceled flights, stranded tourists and knocked out power in several provinces. China Meteorological Administration on Friday said the national average was 25 degrees Fahrenheit since late November, the coldest in nearly three decades. The average temperature in northeast China dipped to -4.5 degrees F, the coldest in 43 years, and dropped to a 42-year low of -18.7 degrees F in northern China.
YouTubeGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Quick reminder that they're are three huge fiscal battles that are coming up soon. They are: The debt ceiling, the sequester (the automatic spending cuts), and the new budget. Goldman's Alec Phillips puts them into timing and context: ¬† Q: How does the debt limit relate to other upcoming fiscal debates?¬† A: The debt limit is the most important of three separate fiscal issues Congress must address in Q1. Beyond the debt limit, congressional leaders and the President must work out two other issues: further delay in spending cuts under "sequestration" and an extension of government spending authority. While these are separate issues, it is clearly possible that all three could be wrapped up into one agreement.¬† Spending cuts under sequestration are scheduled to take effect from March 1, 2013. Those cuts had been scheduled to take effect January 1, but were delayed two months as part of the fiscal compromise reached last week. In the upcoming debate lawmakers will aim to delay those cuts once again, offsetting the increased spending that would result with savings (spread over ten years) from other areas of the budget.¬† A month later, on March 27, the temporary extension of spending authority (known as a "continuing resolution") that Congress enacted last year expires. Congress is likely to extend spending authority to September 30, the end of the current fiscal year, but lawmakers must first agree on a spending level. If no agreement is reached by March 27, all non-essential government operations funded by congressional appropriations would cease. However, while this sounds severe, it is far less of a risk to the economy or the market than a failure to raise the debt limit, since the lapse would be temporary and the payments that would cease are clearly categorized, would have no effect on Treasury financing nor on most payments to individuals, and are of a smaller overall size. It really does appear as though the combination of these issues will make the January 1 fight over taxes seem like a walk in the park. SEE ALSO: Terrifying presentation shows what happens if we don't hit the debt ceiling &gt;
Eurostat is out with November unemployment numbers for the EU and the Eurozone. Unemployment has hit a new record: The euro area1 (EA17) seasonally-adjusted2 unemployment rate3 was 11.8% in November 2012, up from 11.7% in October4. The EU271 unemployment rate was 10.7% in November 2012, stable compared with October4. In both zones, rates have risen markedly compared with November 2011, when they were 10.6% and 10.0% respectively. These figures are published by Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. What's really scary are these heart-stopping youth unemployment numbers. youth unemployment in europe
Jan. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is set to record the strongest annual earnings growth in three years as the price of the commodity rebounds and after the company closed its most inefficient smelters. Alcoa will today report fourth-quarter profit after one- time items of 6 cents a share, according to the average of 19 analystsí estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with a year- earlier loss of 3 cents. Earnings in 2013 will more than double to 65 cents a share while the aluminum price will rise 6.4 percent, the estimates show. ìTheyíre moving in the right direction,î said Paul Massoud, a Washington-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co. Inc. who recommends buying the shares. ìWhen you look at the operational side of things, theyíve done very well.î Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld closed 12 percent of Alcoaís aluminum production capacity and sold a hydropower plant in Tennessee in 2012. Those cost-cutting efforts combined with higher commodity prices may help the company avoid a downgrade to junk by Moodyís Investors Services Inc., which said Dec. 18 it was reviewing its rating on Alcoaís $8.3 billion of debt. Typically the first company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to report earnings, New York-based Alcoa is scheduled to announce results after the close of trading. The shares were little changed in 2012 while the index rose 7.3 percent. Libby Archell, a spokeswoman for Alcoa, declined to comment on the results ahead of the announcement. † † Alcoa completed the shutdown of its Portovesme smelter in Italy in the fourth quarter while its $10.8 billion joint venture in Saudi Arabia produced its first metal. The Saudi plant combines all the stages of aluminum production, from bauxite mining through to sheet rolling, and will be Alcoaís lowest-cost factory, according to the company. The closing and startup marks ìthe end of one era and the beginning of a new one,î said Lloyd OíCarroll, an analyst at Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport &amp; Co. who recommends buying the shares. Portovesme was among the 531,000 tons of smelting capacity Alcoa closed last year. The company achieved $838 million in productivity gains in the first nine months of 2012, compared with a full-year target of $800 million, Chief Financial Officer Chuck McLane said Nov. 7. Alcoa announced in 2010 a $4.1 billion target for growing revenue from its global rolled products and engineered solutions segments by 2013. It also plans to increase margins on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at those units, whose customers include Boeing Co. and Bombardier Inc. In July, Alcoa broke ground on a $90 million plant in Lafayette, Indiana, to make aluminum alloys used in aircraft. † † ìTheyíve been going through a process where theyíve been expanding revenue from both mid- and downstream,î Stifelís Massoud said, referring to Alcoaís divisions that make rolled aluminum and engineered products. ìThey should get to their goals by the end of this year.î Bets that Alcoa shares will fall have dropped to a nine- month low. The short interest slid to 3.5 percent of shares outstanding on Jan. 3, near the least since April and down from a high of 9.1 percent in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Markit, a London-based research firm Aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal Exchange averaged $2,021 in 2012. The metal will average $2,150 this year according to the median of 20 analystsí estimates. The price is seen rising to $2,292 in 2014 and $2,400 in 2015, the estimates show, which would help Alcoaís bottom line. † † ìIf they ever get the wind at their back from rising LME prices, the Street could have a very nice upside surprise on their hands,î Davenportís OíCarroll said. ìThe question is when and to what degree.î Aluminum is still some way off its previous highs. The LME price for delivery in three months -- the most commonly traded contract on the bourse -- peaked at $3,317 a ton in 2008, the highest in at least 21 years, before plunging during the financial crisis. Global demand will rise 6.3 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc. Aluminum production kept climbing last year, led by a 9 percent gain in China, according to 2011 data from the U.S. Geological Survey, the most recent year available. † † ìAluminum is probably one of the strongest in terms of demand growth; the problem is the production growth,î said David Lipschitz, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. in New York who recommends selling the shares. ìIn 2013, youíre probably talking another 9 or 10 percent growth, which offsets the demand growth.î Global inventories of aluminum held in warehouses monitored by the LME reached a record 5.2 million metric tons in December. Global stockpiles will expand to a record of 8.67 million tons in 2013 as production exceeds demand by 1.66 million tons, Barclays analysts led by London-based Gayle Berry wrote in a report Dec. 14. That supply-demand picture continues to hang over the aluminum market and Alcoa. Moodyís placed Alcoaís Baa3 senior unsecured rating, the lowest investment-grade level, under review for downgrade last month, citing the ìchallenging headwindsî faced by the company. The recovery in the aluminum industry is ìslow and unevenî and the price of the metal will stay at 85 to 95 cents a pound, or $1,874 to $2,094 at ton, for the next several quarters, Moodyís said. † † Still, the LME three-month price averaged 3.5 percent higher in the fourth quarter compared with July through September. ìIn the last three months weíve had a nice recovery in the aluminum price,î said Jorge Beristain, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Greenwich, Connecticut, who recommends holding Alcoa shares. The improvement should boost Alcoaís Ebitda, he said. ìThe price change should generate $80 to $90 million of positive sequential momentum,î Beristain said.  --With assistance from Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam. Editors: Simon Casey, Jasmina Kelemen † To contact the reporter on this story: Sonja Elmquist in New York at selmquist1@bloomberg.net † To contact the editor responsible for this story: Simon Casey at scasey4@bloomberg.net 
Wikimedia CommonsThe hot trade of the last couple of months has been betting against the yen, and going long Japanese equities. The reason? Japan's new Prime Minister has come in on a big mandate for aggressive monetary easing. That trade has cooled off the last couple of days, but the chatter continues. In addition to expectations that the Bank of Japan will be much more aggressive about easing, PM Shinzo Abe also continues to make noises about what the government itself can do. For the latest, Kit Juckes of SocGen has the score: Japan's Finance Minister Aso helped put more colour on the plans for accommodation. It looks as though a total of a Y20trn package will be announced on Jan 11, and spice was added to the mix with a promise to use FX reserves to buy ESM bonds. Short-term, not enough to prevent a further yen correction. Longer-term, Aso and Abe are now painted so deep into a corner on the currency that they have no choice but to deliver on promises to act aggressively. So† I think USD/JPY will get much closer to 100 this year, and the correction that could be unleashed if we break below 87 is the chance to get on board.†††† So big stimulus coming up, and even the US of currency reserves to buy European bailout bonds. Clever.
CNBC screenshotDan Greenhaus at BTIG has a great paragraph in his latest nightly note that almost perfectly describes the mentality of a lot of investors right now: ¬†In a recent conversation with one of our hedge fund manager clients, we were pressed on our views (which we will expand on tomorrow). As we said then and repeat here, we think the outlook for equities is somewhat good but we remain laser focused on the debt ceiling. As such, a hedged position is probably warranted, something BTIG‚Äôs option team notes can be achieved simply through cheap March put spreads on the SPY. However, such a view -- favoring hedges -- is probably part of the reason Goldman Sachs noted 88% of hedge funds underperformed the S&amp;P 500 in 2012. But with the President set to nominate Jack Lew to Treasury Secretary (Republicans really don‚Äôt want him) and with the looming debt ceiling standoff, we just wouldn‚Äôt feel comfortable with another position, even as the argument for market participants getting more comfortable with Washington dysfunction grows with each successive standoff. Bingo. Everyone wants to be bullish, but there's just this one problem...
Science ChannelThe #MintTheCoin movement rolls on! Remember, there are a lot of people arguing that an alternative to the debt ceiling crisis is for the Treasury to create a $1 trillion dollar coin made out of platinum, and then ship it to the Treasury's bank account at the Fed. Yesterday Paul Krugman came out in favor of this, while on the other hand, a US Congressman came out in opposition to it. Last night we got an email from Phillip Diehl, a former Mint director, who also helped craft the legislation allowing coin minting (he also sent it to Cullen Roche). Here's his full email, in which he notes that A) Yes it's legal, and B) it would have no adverse economic effects. ---------------------------------------------------------------- I'm the former Mint director and Treasury chief of staff who, with Rep. Mike Castle, wrote the platinum coin law and produced the coin authorized by the law. Therefore, I'm in a unique position to address some confusion I've seen in the media about the $1 trillion platinum coin proposal.¬† * In minting the platinum coin, the Treasury Secretary would be exercising authority which Congress has granted routinely for more than 220 years. The Secretary's authority is derived from an Act of Congress (in fact, a GOP Congress) under power expressly granted to Congress in the Constitution (Article 1, Section 8).¬†¬† * What is unusual about the law (Sec. 5112 of title 31, United States Code) is that it gives the Secretary complete discretion regarding all specifications of the coin, including denominations.¬†¬† * Moreover, the accounting treatment of the coin is identical to the treatment of all other coins. The Mint strikes the coin, ships it to the Fed, books $1 trillion, and transfers $1 trillion to the treasury's general fund where it is available to finance government operations just like with proceeds of bond sales or additional tax revenues. The same applies for a quarter dollar.¬† * Once the debt limit is raised, the Fed ships the coin back to the Mint, the accounting treatment is reversed, and the coin is melted. The coin would never be "issued" or circulated and bonds would not be needed to back the coin.¬†¬† * There are no negative macroeconomic effects. This works just like additional tax revenue or borrowing under a higher debt limit. In fact, when the debt limit is raised, Treasury would sell more bonds, the $1 trillion dollars would be taken off the books, and the coin would be melted.¬†¬†¬† * This does not raise the debt limit so it can't be characterized as circumventing congressional authority over the debt limit.¬† Rather, it delays when the debt limit is reached.¬†¬† * This preserves congressional authority over the debt limit in a way that reliance on the 14th Amendment would not. It also avoids the protracted court battles the 14th Amendment option would entail and avoids another confrontation with the Roberts Court.¬†¬† * Any court challenge is likely to be quickly dismissed since (1) authority to mint the coin is firmly rooted in law that itself is grounded in the expressed constitutional powers of Congress, (2) Treasury has routinely exercised this authority since the birth of the republic, and (3) the accounting treatment of the coin is entirely routine.¬† * Yes, this is an unintended consequence of the platinum coin bill, but how many other pieces of legislation have had unintended consequences? Most, I'd guess.¬†¬† Philip N. Diehl 35th Director United States Mint en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_N._Diehl ---------------------------- SEE ALSO: Why Paul Krugman supports #MintTheCoin &gt;
U. of Georgia Alexander Campbell King Law Library at U. of GeorgiaAnother very quiet start to the day. Just like yesterday, there's very little market movement of note. US futures are down modestly. Germany and Spain are both down¬† on the order of 0.1%. China fell 0.4% last night. Japan lost 0.8%. In the US, the debt ceiling fight is heating up, and earnings season kicks of with Alcoa.
