Swiss hedge fund manager Felix Zulauf participated in Barron's annual Roundtable, and he came with a couple of trades. Three of those trades involved Japan. "The moment has arrived where the Bank of Japan needs to bridge the gap and buy more JGBs with newly printed yen," he said. "In other words, the supply of yen will increase dramatically. Japanese inflation will be pushed from slightly below zero to 2%, and the yen will be weakened. This is a major change for Japan, because the yen has been one of the world's strongest currencies for a long time, right behind the Swiss franc." Here are his trades: "The last time I discussed Japanese stocks was at the 1990 Roundtable, when Paul Tudor Jones and I recommended selling the Nikkei at 40,000," he said.† "We said it would be cut in half. The Nikkei hit a low of 7,000 in 2009 and since then has traded in a range of 7,000 to 11,000." Maybe he'll be right again. For Zulauf's commentary on each of his trades, read the transcript at Barrons.com. SEE ALSO: The True Story Of The 1980s, When Everyone Was Convinced Japan Would Buy America &gt;
There are two very big issues on America‚Äôs plate in 2013; A) what to do with Social Security (SS) , and B) immigration. For the most part, these two topics are uniquely different. There is one important area where they over lap ‚Äì money. SS maintains an account called the Earnings Suspense File (ESF). This is an account used for booking money that comes into SS from improper SS ID# (SSNs). Credits to ESF can arise from administrative errors. It‚Äôs easy to imagine how someone transposes a few digits on the SSN, and the computers at SS recognizes the mistake. Until the error is fixed, the money from payroll taxes on that SSN is suspended in the ESF. The ESF is not just an account where errors are trapped and later reconciled. It is a doghouse account that has collected well over a hundred billion dollars over the past decade. The vast majority of the money in the ESF comes from workers who are using an illegal SSN. This site produced the following report on the Earnings Suspense File (ESF) at SS: Bruce Krasting There is no data after 2010 on the ESF account. I made some conservative assumption for 2011/12, and adjusted it for interest earned starting from 2001. The P&amp;I totals over the past eleven years come to $138 billion for SS and $33B for Medicare. That ain‚Äôt hay; for SS it means that 5.3% of the entire SS Trust Fund is ill gotten gains, for Medicare the contribution from illegal workers is equal to 8+% of its Trust Fund. From 2001 through 2012 the total amount of wages paid to undocumented workers comes to just shy of $900 Billion. Wow! The annual average is $75B. Today, the average documented worker earns $53K a year, this means that 1,400,000 jobs (100+K a month!) might otherwise go to documented workers. Unemployment is 7.8%. A more desirable level would be 5.5%. To achieve this, approximately 4mm jobs are needed. There are 7+m jobs being filled by undocumented workers today. It‚Äôs tempting to look at these comparisons and reach a conclusion that America could move the needle on unemployment by eliminating undocumented workers. As a practical matter I don‚Äôt think that is possible, nor would it be desirable. This a perplexing problem, and I don‚Äôt know what to do about it. However, ‚ÄúFixing‚Äù the problem that exists is something that has to be done. Consider the ESF data: Bruce Krasting The obvious conclusion from the chart is that when the US economy is strong, illegal workers come. When the economy weakens, the undocumented workers leave. There are signs that the long recession in housing is over. If that is to be the case, then the country can expect a new wave of undocumented workers to come with the recovery. Given the split that exists between conservatives and liberals on all issues today, it would seem unlikely that anything can be done to make this ‚Äúright‚Äù. That would be a stupid result, there is a hell of a lot riding on the outcome. ¬† Note: If an illegal worker obtains a forged SSN, and uses it to obtain work in the US, then that illegal worker will be entitled to receive SS benefits on exactly the same terms as a legal worker. The only difference is that the illegal worker must receive their SS payments in a bank account outside of the country. What a system!
Last month, while wasting a few moments on Facebook, my pal Brendan O'Malley was surprised to see that his old friend Alex Gomez had "liked" Discover. This was surprising not only because Alex hated mega-corporations but even more so because Alex had passed away six months earlier. The Facebook "like" is dated Nov. 1, which is strange since Alex "passed [away] around March 26 or March 27," O'Malley told me. Worse, O'Malley says the like was "quite offensive" since his friend "hated corporate bull****." That doesn't just make Facebook look bad, it makes Discover look bad, too. Users quickly figure out that "sponsored stories" have no credibility, and once credibility is lost, it's difficult to regain it. Questionable Advertising Results In an earlier commentary, I noted that one advertiser's own research showed that Facebook was charging it for bot clicks. It wasn't accusing Facebook of being the source of the fake clicks--anyone, including Facebook might have created the bot clicks--but the allegation is that Facebook charged the advertiser for the fakes, and it should have screened them out. Other advertisers are spending less because results are disappointing. The L.A. Times reported that just as General Motors, the third largest U.S. advertiser, pulled all of its $10 million in advertising for lack of results; the entertainment business is souring on Facebook, too. Film executives are considering cutting their ad spending and are miffed that Facebook is asking them to pay for exposure it previously got for free.  Facebook is an ad supported web business, and its costs to find and keep users are going up while its per-user revenue is declining.Inflated Traffic Figures In an earlier commentary, I wrote that it seems to me that Facebook inflated its genuine user numbers (wildly underreported fakes) at its IPO, and that the problem is ongoing. Since writing my earlier commentary citing my unscientific survey: "Facebook's Fake Numbers: 'One Billion' Users May Be Less Than 500 Million" (Huffington Post - December 12, 2012), and after a Facebook spokesman responded to it (see update within the commentary in which the Facebook spokesman responds...but not to the numbers), I was amused to see that the Facebook "like" icon number in the upper right corner on Huffington Post dropped from 363 to 127. Perhaps Facebook is weeding out fake profiles and responding to my numbers after all. (Let's see, if I apply that ratio to "one billion" users, that would leave around 35% or 350 million genuine users. Well, it seems Facebook and I are in agreement!) Facebook has a big problem with fakes, impostors, and double/triple/quadruple counting of multi-platform fakes and users. If Facebook wants to claim it has one billion genuine active users, then it must defend that seemingly wildly inflated figure. To me it appears to be mostly baloney. My point is that as an advertiser, you cannot be assured that you are targeting real people, that the "likes" reported are real, and advertisers should independently verify that charges aren't from bot clicks. There's also no reason for you to take Facebook's assertions of advertising effectiveness as genuine. It seems to be very generous in claiming cause and effect for advertising revenues, but it's interesting to note that an experienced advertiser like GM doesn't spend on Facebook, but it spends advertising dollars on Twitter. Facebook Is Less Popular than Tumblr with the under 25's Never trust anyone over 25 may be the model of the 13-25 year old demographic, and Facebook is showing Zuckerberg's age (29). (I'm under 25, since I use base-30 when I calculate it, but for everyone else I use base-10. If that doesn't seem fair, then consider that it seems to me that Facebook has been reporting genuine users using base-9, if not base-8, and the SEC expects it to use base-10.)  A survey by Y Combinator start-up Survata found that 61% of teens aged 13-18 use Tumblr on a regular basis. Only 55% of them reported using Facebook on a regular basis (there's overlap). Minors are showing a clear preference for Tumblr. In the 18-25 age group, 57% use Tumblr on a regular basis, and only 52% use Facebook on a regular basis. There's some usage overlap, but young people prefer Tumblr.  According to SocialBakers, around 1.4 million Americans stopped using Facebook in December. It still reportedly has 167 million users, but how many of those are fakes, imposters, or multiple counts due to multi-platform users?  Adblock Plus Blocks All Facebook Ads for Android If all of the above weren't bad enough for Facebook, its already problematic mobile ad strategy had been dealt a blow by Eyeo's Adblock Plus for Android, since it can block all of your Facebook ads in all of the apps.Investors' Bottom Line Facebook brings in money but so far not enough offset accounting losses, but its business model doesn't seem to justify its high valuation, since it hasn't demonstrated a viable revenue growth strategy. After tax expenses, it has reported losses on a GAAP accounting basis since its IPO, the standard for financial reporting. Now the worst seems to be happening. It is losing users to competition and technology is ahead of it to block its so-called strategies for bringing in new revenue. Disclosure: I've bought and monetized puts on Facebook since they became exchange-traded shortly after the IPO. ("Investors Bet on Facebook Fall," Kaitlyn Kiernan and Jonathan Cheng, Wall Street Journal, May 19, 2012.) I'm currently long other puts on Facebook. Read more posts on Tavakoli Structured Finance ª
The CME raising margins for Silver Futures to such a degree that relative to market price, futures multiplier, and physical demand by consumers is just too high has basically killed the silver market. Throw in the fact that many brokerages have even higher margins than the exchange margins, and outside of a fed announcement, the silver market has all but dried up, when compared to the much more active physical market for silver.  The Silver contract which closed Friday at $31.93 an ounce has an initial margin of $16,940 with an overnight margin of $11,000 at a typical brokerage.¬† Now I know this market went through a very volatile trading phase, and with all the turmoil regarding Europe and central bank decisions around the world, it was probably a good idea to raise margins beyond normal percent driven formulaic metrics, until things settled down given the number and magnitude of the trading losses experienced at many brokerages. As in, when brokerages institute higher margins than exchanges this tells you how many accounts were blown out with the crazy gyrations in the silver market when it was having 20% swings in a week.  I know margins have come down from the $21,000 to $26,000 level as the precious metals markets have settled into the new monetary landscape, but silver margins are still too high relative to the volatility and price in the contract. How do I know this? The reason is that the silver futures market is not reflective of the actual demand in the physical silver market where at times the silver physical market is priced higher than the futures market. Furthermore, consumers just cannot get enough of those American Eagle silver coins. I reference the fact that the mint has sold out of silver coins again.  In addition, with Platinum surging, at a higher price than Gold for a brief period this week due to mining concerns and stronger economic data of which is important due to the industrial use for the metal. Well, silver plays the happy medium ground in being a store of value more than Platinum, but more of an industrial metal than Gold. I believe the Silver market is mispriced relative to the price of Gold, Platinum, and the market dynamics in the physical space regarding Silver demand by the consumer. Therefore, what is a fair price for Silver? What price do you think it should be trading at if margins were the right amount? First of all, I think the correct margins for the silver futures contract should be $9000 per contract with the overnight maintenance amount of $7200. And given this margin level, and a healthier participation level, I envision silver trading around $42 to $45 dollars an ounce.¬† Moreover, the brokerages need to have the same margin levels as the exchanges. There are other ways to manage risk for the clients and the brokerages through comprehensive liquidation procedures and account monitoring. As it is always bad when electronic markets are so constrained that they don`t adequately reflect the demand in the physical market.¬† ¬© EconMatters All Rights Reserved | Facebook | Twitter | Post Alert | Kindle     Read more posts on EconMatters ¬ª
Well, I'm headed off to Europe again for the 18-hour-a-day annual schmoozefest known as "Davos" (with a prior stop in Munich for DLD). The folks who run Davos, the World Economic Forum, have been kind enough to stick me on a couple of panels this year--so I can bloviate to world leaders. I would prefer not to make an ass of myself in front of world leaders, so I would be grateful for a little help. One of the topics I've been asked to bloviate about this year is "What Are The Big Stories Of 2013?" In other words, what will we in the news media be obsessed with over the next 12 months? Well, I'm in the news media, and I can tell you that I haven't the faintest idea what we're going to be obsessed with, and I won't know until we get obsessed with it. But I can't say that to the world leaders. (The world leaders are paying good money to sit there and listen to me bloviate, so I need to do better than that.) So please help me think of some good candidates for the "big stories of 2013." I'll start off with a couple of ideas. Please add some more in the comments below. THE BIG STORIES OF 2013: * INEQUALITY: THE WORLD'S MIDDLE CLASS GETS MAD AS HELL AND REFUSES TO TAKE IT ANYMORE.† The world's richer are getting richer and the world's middle class and poor are getting the shaft. This story has been going on for years now, ever since the labor-vs.-capital pendulum swung too far in favor of "capital" and all fo the good middle class jobs got shipped off to China, India, and other countries where people are eager to work much harder than Americans for much less money. You can't blame companies for taking advantage of this massive labor pool, and the folks in China, India, et al, have as much right to work as anyone else does. But the upshot is that all the income gains in America and some other developed countries are going to the top ~5% of wage-earners and everyone else is losing ground. That's not a trend that will lead to peace, harmony, and prosperity. * APPLE BECOMES AVERAGE: Over the past decade, Apple has risen from the ashes to become the world's most beloved and valuable companies. Now, however, with the loss of Steve Jobs, Apple is losing its product edge, and the stock is starting to sell off. This year will usher in what will truly be the "post-Steve Jobs era" for Apple. And depending on how this year goes, Apple will demonstrate that it is capable of continue to be transcendent in Steve's absence...or it will gradually slip into just becoming another good company. Other ideas?† Thank you in advance.
Alex Barth via flickr1.4 million borrowers moved to positive equity (where homeowners owe less on their mortgage than their home is worth) in the year through the end of Q3.¬† This is according to CoreLogic's latest negative equity report. But a whopping 10.7 million or 22 percent of all residential properties with mortgages were underwater by the end of Q3. "The substantive gain in house prices made in 2012, partly due to tight inventory caused by negative equity‚Äôs lock-out effect, has paradoxically alleviated some of the pain," Mark Fleming, chief economist for CoreLogic said in a press release. We drew on CoreLogic's report to highlight the 12 states that are deepest in negative equity. We ordered them based on the number of underwater mortgages as a share of total mortgages (i.e. negative equity share). Note: Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio is a measure used by financial institutions to gauge risk before approving a mortgage. The higher the LTV ratio, the higher the risk and the more expensive the loan.
Shortly after Tom Albanese (pictured) took the top job at Rio Tinto in 2007, the mining giant emerged victorious in the bidding war for Alcan, a Canadian aluminium company. No one doubted that it was a top performer, albeit in a difficult business. But the $38 billion handed over by Rio, at the top of the market, monstrously overvalued Alcan. The deal hung over Mr Albanese‚Äôs tenure and finally ended it for him. On January 17th Rio surprisingly announced that Mr Albanese would leave the company immediately. The trigger for Mr Albanese‚Äôs departure was a write-down of $14 billion, much of it related to the Alcan purchase. Total write-downs in connection with the deal now add up to around $20 billion. And the takeover, financed with debt, came close to sinking Rio when the financial crisis hit. But there is also a sense that an era has passed in mining and new blood is required to face the next set of challenges for huge diversified mining firms. Cynthia Carroll, Anglo American‚Äôs boss, recently announced her departure after investors finally lost patience with the firm‚Äôs lacklustre performance. HP Billiton has said that it is actively seeking a successor to Marius Kloppers (observers reckon that he may only remain at the helm for another year or so). And Xstrata‚Äôs Mick Davis is seeking new employment after the merger between his firm and Glencore. Their reigns were marked by what are likely to be peaks in commodity prices and a slew of attempted mega-mergers, none of which was successful before Glencore got its hands on Xstrata. The next set of bosses will have to deal with a cooling Chinese economy and determine what mix of commodities will best suit the country‚Äôs switch from investment to consumption. That won‚Äôt be an easy task. Rio has been criticised for relying too heavily on iron ore, which now generates the bulk of its profits. This seems unlikely to change. Its new boss, Sam Walsh, is currently the head of Rio‚Äôs iron ore division. The new chief executives will also have to keep an eye on spiralling costs while moving into new territories to find new ore bodies, particularly in Africa. The rise of resource nationalism and the trouble and expense of breaking ground in unfamiliar places makes that a tricky. Rio is writing down the value of its new coal assets in Mozambique by $3 billion, partly as a result of difficulties putting in place vital infrastructure to get the coal out. The past decade looks like an aberration in the mining industry, which previously was a dull and conservative backwater. If the future sounds a bit less exciting than the rollercoaster years presided over by Mr Albanese and his peers it is because it probably will be. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
FlickrHaving a billion dollars would be pretty cool. ¬† Everyone knows that. But why exactly?¬† The mansions, exotic vacations and luxury cars are obvious, but there are TONS of other awesome perks that come with earning ten-figures. We've included 13 reasons why should become a billionaire. ¬†
AP Photo/Herlbert ProepperPBS correspondent Rick Karr reports on Germany‚Äôs plan to generate nearly all of its electricity from renewable sources and virtually eliminate its use of fossil fuels by 2050. Support for this idea is widespread, and crosses party lines. Over two-thirds of Germans approve of the plan, which is also backed by the German Green Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Free Democratic Party, and Angela Merkel‚Äôs Christian Democratic Union. This plan is known as the Energiewende; wende, which means turn, refers to the peaceful revolution that culminated with the end of the Cold War. Germany‚Äôs green revolution was characterized by private development of renewables. The government did not attempt to finance green energy, rather, it incentivized these alternative power sources by way of a feed-in-tariff. This means the government pays producers of renewable energy and allows them to purchase their electricity at a discount. Rainer Baake, director of Agora Energiewende, believes Germany is unique in that ‚Äúabout 50 percent of the installed capacity of renewables is in the hands of normal citizens and farmers.‚Äù However, Germany‚Äôs development of green energy led to rising costs for consumers. The overall price of electricity has surged by over 66 percent after the passage of the German Renewable Energy Act in 2000.¬† In addition, Germany faces the same problem that plagues California: how to provide energy during windless or sunless days. The unreliability is the reason why a study by Deutsche Energie-Agentur GmbH indicates that coal and gas power plants will still have to provide 60 percent of the stable energy sources for days when the weather doesn‚Äôt cooperate with the production of renewables. In order to integrate renewable energy sources onto the power grid, Germany‚Äôs best bet would be to invest in a $25+ billion smart grid. As Reuters reports, ‚ÄúThe crucial solution that smart grids provide is the means to control the fluctuating voltage supplied due to daily and seasonal weather variability.‚Äù SEE ALSO: IT'S OVER: Why Everyone Is Losing Hope For Green Energy &gt;
Stephen L. WeissìThe trading room fell quiet as Vernon Albright stormed across the <U+FB02>oor, the thick carpet doing little to mute the anger evident in each step. The traders had seen him this way before and feared the worstÖî So begins UNHEDGED, the newest book by renowned hedge fund manager Stephen Weiss. Weiss has a storied career on Wall Street, and has been an executive at Salomon Brothers, SAC Capital, and Lehman Brothers while also contributing to CNBCís Fast Money. Heís written two books before ñ The Billion Dollar Mistake and The Big Win ñ but while those were investment books, his latest work is a financial thriller. UNHEDGED chronicles the tale of billionaire hedge fund manager Vernon Albright, who has struck a deal with the devil ñ shady oilman Buck Hendricks ñ to enhance his riches and avoid jail time. Weíve got a sneak peek of the first two chapters, published below. You can find copies of UNHEDGED available at Amazon. The trading room fell quiet as Vernon Albright stormedacross the <U+FB02>oor, the thick carpet doing little to mute theanger evident in each step. The traders had seen him thisway before and feared the worst. They tried hard to fadeinto the background, averting their eyes and punchingphantom stock symbols into their keyboards. As Albrightpassed each desk, the dread of being his next victim gaveway to barely contained sighs of relief.Albright stopped at the desk of Parthenonís newest em-ployee, towering over his target. His booming voice echoedo<U+FB00> the walls. ìSell the fucking stock.îìBut the shares are only down a quarter. I know theyíllgo higher.îThe portfolio managerís <U+FB01>rst mistake was putting on thetwo-hundred-million-dollar position but that was, after all,what he was hired to do. His second misstep, perhaps themore egregious error in judgment, was talking back to Ver-non Albright. Freedom of speech was an unknown conceptat Parthenon Capital, where only one opinion mattered.That and bottom line results. He had been at Parthenon forall of three weeks, but it was not the <U+FB01>rst time he regrettedleaving his highly paid position at Morgan Stanley.ìWhat donít you understand? This isnít open to a vote. Isaid to sell the fucking position. And by the way, you moron,on twenty million shares, that quarter is costing me <U+FB01>vemillion.îThe man was dazed; he felt like he had just beensmacked across the back of his head with a two by four.He knew Albrightís reputation for churning employees and had aired it as a concern during the recruiting process. Al-brightís response now echoed in his mind. ìI never shouldhave hired those people; they didnít have your experience.Youíre di<U+FB00>erent, much more accomplished, someone I cantrust and give complete autonomy.î He took the job. Whatísmy downside? Even if I get <U+FB01>red after a year, Iíll have mademore money than I earned the last <U+FB01>ve. Against the advice ofmany, he rejected a substantial counter bid from Morganand accepted Albrightís more generous o<U+FB00>er.ìThis isnít what we agreed upon. You said I could tradewithout your supervision.îìTell you what, genius,î Albright responded in his mostcondescending tone, ìgoing forward you can trade all youlike without my supervision because weíre done. Actually,youíre done. Down <U+FB01>ve million in less than one month is arecord. I have no intention of letting you pad your legacy.îHe knew it wasnít unusual for tempers to <U+FB02>are whenthe market got hit although he had never witnessed, norbeen the victim of, such a public <U+FB02>ogging. He also realizedthat o<U+FB00>ering further rebuttal was senseless. Composurebarely intact, the best defense at this point was to grab acup of co<U+FB00>ee and hope the incident would die down untilit could be discussed in more private surroundings. Hepushed his chair away from the desk, gaining distance fromAlbrightís menacing glare. As beaten down as a chastisedpuppy, he rose from his seat and started toward the pantry.From Master of the Universe to poor bastard in less than aminute.ìYouíre going in the wrong direction, just like the stocksyou buy,î Albright bellowed as a wry smile spread acrosshis lips. ìThe elevators are that way.î He extended his armand pointed toward the reception area.Joseph, Albrightís personal bodyguard and head ofParthenonís small security detail stepped in. ìItís probablybest to do as Mr. Albright suggests,î he advised in a voicethat was slightly above a whisper. ìHe doesnít usuallychange his mind. Your personal items will be sent to your home.îHis humiliation was pushed aside by anger, rage evidentin his eyes and the clenching of his <U+FB01>sts. He took a steptoward Albright but Josephís vise-like grip caught his arm,holding him in place.ìTime to go,î Joseph said while placing his other handon the manís back, directing him toward the exit.ìParthenon isnít for the weak or the stupid,î Albrightremarked for all to hear as the latest casualty exited throughthe glass doors.And so ended another ìcareerî at Parthenon. It wasnítthe shortest tenure on record. That distinction belongedto a portfolio manager who lasted all of three days. Hismistake? He went out to lunch and returned an hour later.The markets didnít take time o<U+FB00> during the trading dayand neither did Parthenon. He didnít even make it past thelobby when he returned. His electronic building pass hadalready been voided.Albright was still incensed as he returned to his o<U+FB03>ce.He was tired of these high priced hires squandering theopportunity he had given them and damn tired of havingto go through the inconvenience of bringing in someonenew. He sat at his desk and mentally ran through a listof ten potential replacements, portfolio managers at other<U+FB01>rms he had met with in the event the inevitable occurred.Almost out of re<U+FB02>ex, the process of compiling a list ofcandidates began immediately upon the <U+FB01>rst misstep of thelatest hire. After a few minutes of deliberation, he settledupon a name.ìGet me Jeremy Cranford.î Albright barked to his secre-tary.Incredibly, and in de<U+FB01>ance of all precedent, that wasthree years ago; Cranford had survived the odds but hewould soon have to outlive more severe threats than thoseto his career.
Barron's recently held its annual Roundtable with some of the luminaries of finance.† Participants included Scott Black of Delphi Management; Fred Hickey of The High-Tech Strategist; Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman Sachs, Brian Rogers of T. Rowe Price, Meryl Witmer of Eagle Capital Partners, Mario Gabelli of GAMCO Investors, Oscar Schafer of O.S.S. Capital Management, Bill Gross of PIMCO, and Felix Zulauf of Zulauf Asset Management. And the battle between the bulls and the bears has never been more heated. Here's an exchange between Goldman Sachs' Abby Joseph Cohen and PIMCO's Bill Gross over profit growth expectations.† From Barron's: What is your S&amp;P 500 earnings estimate for 2013? Cohen: Consensus estimates for earnings growth are on the order of 12% to 13% this year and next. Corporate performance has diverged from the economy's performance for many years, and that could continue. Companies in the S&amp;P 500 are increasing their exposure to other parts of the world, not just for production purposes, but more important, in terms of end demand....Gross: Time out, people. Let's try to analyze why earnings have done so well in recent years. Corporate profits have come at the expense of labor. Wages as a percentage of GDP have declined to 54% from 59% in the past 10 years. That trend would have to continue for earnings to keep going up. Also, 30% to 35% of earnings growth in the past five years has come from lower interest expense. Most of you probably would agree that is coming to an end, as well. Corporations have to sell their products to somebody. They can't benefit when that somebody has depressed wages and high leverage. At some point the game begins to change. A forecast of 12%-to-13% earnings growth under such circumstances is not only extreme but almost farcical. Cohen: I gave you bottom-up estimates [industry analysts' estimates]. Our top-down number [market strategists' estimates] is lower, but still in the mid- to high single digits. That is much better than many people, Goldman Sachs included, felt 12 months ago. Indeed, that data shows that stock pickers (i.e. bottom-up analysts) tend to be more bullish than strategists (i.e. top-down analysts). It's worth noting that Gross, the bond king, wasn't safe from jabs either. Here's Brian Rogers: Rogers: ...One thing we haven't talked about is the great rotation: money coming out of Bill Gross's portfolio and going into the equity market. Gross: Sorry, that hasn't happened. Rogers: It hasn't happened, yet. It will be a factor in boosting equity returns this year, unless investor sentiment turns very negative, which could be a risk next month as the debt-ceiling fight gets under way. That is going to be a mess, and February probably will be the worst month for stocks. But a combination of decent economic performance, reasonable valuations, and decent dividend activity suggests stocks could do well this year. Dividend growth substantially outpaced earnings growth last year, and there were a number of special dividends toward year end before tax rates were slated to rise... Barron's Roundtable is always a must read. Read it at Barrons.com.
Convicted Ponzi schemer Allen Stanford(Reuters) - The Supreme Court on Friday accepted appeals by law firms that once represented convicted swindler Allen Stanford and were trying to avoid lawsuits by victims seeking to recoup losses from his $7 billion Ponzi scheme. Former Stanford clients had sued the New York-based firms Chadbourne &amp; Parke and Proskauer Rose, as well as Thomas Sjoblom, a lawyer who worked at both. These lawsuits, brought under state laws, accused Sjoblom of obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission probe into Stanford, and sought to hold Chadbourne and Proskauer responsible as well. The insurance brokerage Willis Group Holdings Plc was also sued over its alleged role in Stanford's fraud. The defendants countered that the federal Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act, or SLUSA, precluded state-law class actions involving alleged misrepresentations made "in connection with" the purchase or sale of covered securities. Stanford's fraud had been centered on the sale of certificates of deposit by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank, and much of the litigation centered on whether these qualified as securities under the applicable laws. In October 2011, Dallas federal judge David Godbey ruled that SLUSA preempted the state law class-action litigation, noting that many investors sold securities to invest in the CDs, but the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals revived the cases. Chadbourne, Proskauer and Willis appealed that decision to the Supreme Court, saying that lower courts are split on the issue, and that similar lawsuits over Bernard Madoff's Ponzi scheme have also been barred by SLUSA. Stanford is serving a 110-year prison sentence following his sentencing last June. On January 11, a court-appointed receiver proposed that 18,000 of his defrauded investors would receive an initial $55 million payment on their claims, an average of roughly $3,000 per person. The court could hear the appeal in April, and if it does would likely issue a decision by the end of June. The cases are Chadbourne &amp; Parke LLP v. Troice et al, U.S. Supreme Court. No. 12-79; Willis of Colorado Inc et al v. Troice et al, U.S. Supreme Court, No. 12-86; and Proskauer Rose LLP v. Troice et al, U.S. Supreme Court, No. 12-88. (Reporting by Terry Baynes and Jonathan Stempel in New York. Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Cynthia Osterman) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The†Weekly Leading Index†(WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) rose in the latest public data. It is now at 130.4 versus the previous week's 128.1 (which is an downward revision from 128.3). See the†WLI chart†in the Appendix below. Likewise the WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 6.1, up from last week's 5.0 (a downward revision from 5.1). WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 17th, although it is off its 6.3 interim high on October 12th. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the†Big Four Economic Indicators†I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29thBloomberg video†that ECRI continues to feature on their website. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the seventh month of a recession. Here is a chart that clearly illustrates why ECRI's weekly indicators are of little value: The smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. First a flashback for those of us who have followed ECRI's media appearances: we know that the company adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance:† Early last week [September 21, 2012], ECRI notified clients that the U.S. economy is indeed tipping into a new recession. And thereís nothing that policy makers can do to head it off....† Hereís what ECRI's recession call really says: if you think this is a bad economy, you havenít seen anything yet. And that has profound implications for both Main Street and Wall Street.††(source) For a few months, ECRI's indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case in the second half of 2012 -- hence, I surmise, their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article,†The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four.† The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track includes real retail sales based on the same formula as the Federal Reserve economists (see this†PDF file†for details). By this metric, sales continued to increase until October, the data for which was significantly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but then bounced back in November and December. In contrast, ECRI uses Manufacturing and Trade Sales data, which is updated monthly along with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release. However, the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. The series is available on the†BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Table 2BU. Here is a side-by-side comparison of the two measures of sales showing the percent off the all-time high. Here is a closer look at the pair since 2010. I've used markers to clarify the monthly changes. Note that the latest Manufacturing data is through October. We won't have the November numbers until the last day of January. My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us, although Debt Ceiling clash is drawing closer. However, the Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion with the exception of the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. The next big indicator to watch (aside from Real Mfg &amp; Trade) is December's Real Personal Incomes Less Transfer Payments, out January 31. We saw a sharp increase in the income metric for November, and I think we may see another jump for December. The reason I say this is the expectation that a statistically significant amount of January income was no doubt moved to December to avoid expected tax increases. If so, then the January Real Personal Income (published a the end of February) will drop. For an illustration of this strategy in the past, see this†YoY Personal Income chart†and note the two pairs of tax-planning callouts in the 1990s. Here is a snapshot of the version of the Big Four Economic Indicators with Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. As I pointed out last week, ECRI can take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which won't include November data until the end of January. But the December strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly do not support their recession call. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. If I were on the ECRI staff and determined to find some indicators that suggested the possibility of a near-term recession, I'd probably point to the latest†Philly Fed Business Outlook Survey, posted yesterday. And I'd keep a close look at the broader†Chicago Fed's National Activity Index, due out this coming Tuesday. Meanwhile, ECRI's public indicators continue to undermine their insistence that we're in a recession. I think an ECRI retraction is way overdue. Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. ECRI, however, has "walked the plank" with the company's recession call. And at this point there's no "Peter Pan" recession to save them from a sea of crocodiles. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions.† The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement.† Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary,†Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.6%, up from 5.3% the adjusted previous weekly data. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of†RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in†this article. Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI:†The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula: † †
Business Insider There has been a lot of recent discussion on these forums as well as in the media regarding the value of an MBA. As a longtime member of the community and someone who recently made the decision to pursue an MBA, I thought I‚Äôd share some thoughts. You can see my full background story here: http://www.wallstreetoasis.com/forums/how-i-got-in... In summary, I went to a relatively unknown undergrad in New England where I received a degree in MIS. I went on to do two years of investment banking at an MM doing sell-side M&amp;A. I then did two years of MM leveraged buyouts in a pre-MBA role before switching to a competitive MM leveraged buyouts shop in a partner track role (post-MBA role with no MBA). Despite the fact that I am on a partner track without having an MBA, I made the choice to pursue b-school. I‚Äôll have six years of experience when I matriculate this fall. I am very happy in my current job and will likely pursue very similar opportunities upon graduating. I won‚Äôt be receiving any employer sponsorship nor have I been guaranteed a position when I graduate. I‚Äôll be attending one of the M7 schools (not H/S/W ‚Äì they all rejected me). First of all, I don‚Äôt think an MBA makes sense for everyone. It ultimately comes down to a combination of career path, adversity to risk, financial situation, geography, etc. There is no one-size fits all formula; you‚Äôll need to decide for yourself if it is a good fit for you. There is also no hard and fast line for which MBA programs are worth it and which ones are not. For some people, only Harvard/Stanford/Wharton are worth it. For others, a top 50 program could be the boost they need to get on the right track. Ignore any discussion where people try to value an individual school without regard to the applicant‚Äôs individual circumstances. Many people cite the cost of an MBA, combined with the opportunity cost, as the single biggest reason that it is ‚Äúnot worth it.‚Äù For me, the cost was never a consideration, though the total cost of attending will likely exceed seven figures (opportunity cost included). I like to believe that I have very modest expenses in life relative to my income. I don‚Äôt enjoy expensive dinners, don‚Äôt drink more than a few drinks when I go out, and I have no interest in a fancy car/boat/yacht. I‚Äôve saved all of my annual bonuses without ever having to pass up an opportunity due to money. For me, the biggest inhibitor of maximizing my happiness has always been a lack of time, not money. Wealth alone doesn‚Äôt bring happiness; it just enables us to afford experiences and things that make us happy. While the cost of an MBA is very high, I view it as an opportunity to have unforgettable experiences while I‚Äôm young without negatively impacting my career. Without including the five vacations (week+ long) that I‚Äôve taken in the nearly six years I‚Äôve been working, I haven‚Äôt had more than two straight weeks off since high school! This summer I will take advantage of my nearly three months off before school to build my language skills in Latin America, explore cities in Europe I‚Äôve never been to, and visit friends and family in the U.S. that I haven‚Äôt spent time with in years since I live in a different city. And the best part is that employers won‚Äôt view it as a ‚Äúhole in my employment history‚Äù as it is generally accepted to take time off before starting an MBA program. I don‚Äôt think I will have another opportunity like this for the rest of my career unless I lose my job or retire. Money aside, I also place a lot of value the learning aspect of business school. Given I have an MIS degree, everything I know about finance has been learned on the job. While I am rapidly reaching the point where intricate accounting / finance knowledge is not required to be successful in my job, I do encounter situations where I have no idea what my CFO is trying to explain to me. Things such as utilizing standard costing come intuitively to my peers who studied accounting, but require extra effort for me to understand. There is also a whole world of finance that I have never been exposed to (derivatives, hedging, heck the entire stock market) that I feel will improve my ability to perform my job. This is an often overlooked part of business school that I think people should take into consideration when thinking about applying. Even if you completely negate the learning aspect of an MBA, the intangibles alone are reason enough for me to get an MBA. These intangibles come in many forms: (1) credibility, (2) network, (3) executive presence, (4) risk mitigation, and (5) option value. Credibility. The combination of attending undergrad at a university few on Wall Street have heard of and working at small institutions, there is nothing in my bio that gives me credibility. Sure, I can eventually earn respect through performance and results, but often times a lack of credibility can prevent my ever being given that shot. I‚Äôm constantly meeting with people that judge my credibility. Current and prospective executives of investments, bankers, lenders, and down the line when I am more senior, limited partners. For me and many others, attending a top tier MBA will enable me to gain this credibility. Network. This is the one intangible benefit of an MBA program that people latch onto, and rightfully so. I can‚Äôt begin to count how many times I‚Äôve seen senior professionals tap into their alumni network to learn more about a particularly industry, transaction, or opportunity. Furthermore, if you‚Äôre looking to change jobs, having a network of people that are willing to take your call and assist you is invaluable. For the rest of this post, head to Wall Street Oasis&gt;
Trulia's stock has been underperforming since the company's IPO. CEO Pete Flint stopped by Business Insider to talk about how going public has impacted the company. He also tells us that mobile usage growth is up 130% year-over-year and how he's monetizing mobile audience at a faster pace than his web audience.† Produced by Business Insider Video
Goldman Sachs via ZeroHedgeThe world is changing, and nowhere can that be seen better than in a good series of charts. Luckily, we've seen no shortage of excellent charts this week that amply illustrate the changes underway. The best charts we found this week touch on topics ranging from VIP revenues in Macau to the rise of singles in America ‚Äì and everything in between. Let's go to the charts.
Henry MunterIn Uganda, a beer brewer is paying communities to protect wetlands in a bid to secure a steady supply of water for its businesses. In neighbouring Kenya, flower companies, ranchers and hotels are giving farmers vouchers for seeds and tools in exchange for efforts to reduce farm runoff, which can damage irrigation systems and spoil landscapes. In China, a government-backed scheme is giving tens of thousands of people health insurance benefits in exchange for land management practices that could improve the quality of drinking water. The number of projects that pay communities ñ either cash or in-kind compensation, such as training or even land rights ñ to protect or revive water supplies has doubled over the past four years, according to analysts at Ecosystem Marketplace, an online portal that tracks and promotes the development of markets for "ecosystem services" ñ natural processes that benefit humans and ecosystems, such as water purification by pristine watersheds or carbon sequestration by forests and oceans. This market-based approach to sustainable development is expanding at rapid pace ñ but so are concerns about exactly who stands to benefit. In a report published this week, analysts identified at least 205 projects in 2011 ñ up from 103 in 2008 ñ where governments, NGOs and private companies in almost 30 countries "bought" more than $8bn of "watershed services" ñ up almost $2bn (£1.2bn) from 2008. "We are witnessing the early stages of a global response that could transform the way we value and manage the world's watersheds," said Michael Jenkins, president and chief executive of Forest Trends, a US non-profit organisation that oversees the Ecosystem Marketplace. "The level of activity is far more intense than it was just a few years ago when we began tracking these types of investments." Most projects involve deals between downstream cities or businesses that "buy" improvements in water quality by paying property owners or cities upstream for changes in land management or pollution control. In places where water resources are more highly commodified, special water funds and water quality trading schemes have been set up. Analysts say they expect more experimentation in future, including cross-investment between ecosystem markets ñ for example, linking water funds to international carbon trading schemes. More than 30% of the projects identified were in China ñ accounting for 91% of the total billions spent in 2011 ñ where funding for government "eco-compensation" schemes has soared under the country's five-year development plan. Analysts found 73 programmes under development in countries worldwide, including Ghana, Malawi, and Romania. Supporters argue that payments for ecosystem services projects and other market-based schemes will help pave the way to a "green economy", where the value of water and other natural resources is captured by economic systems, environmental efforts and impacts are easier to quantify and manage, and new "green" income opportunities are created for the poor. However, not everyone is excited about market-based approaches to the world's water woes. The global water justice movement ñ emboldened by a decade of struggles against the commodification and privatisation of water ñ warns that setting up markets for the benefits provided by ecosystems could pave the way for a wholesale commodification of nature while doing little to address imbalances of money, power and resources. Commentators have lashed out at payments for ecosystems services for heralding the greatest privatisation since the enclosure of common lands, and sounded the alarm over prospects for a future financialised global water market and the impact that could have on food security. Alarmingly, this week's report notes that social goals ñ from poverty reduction to gender inequality ñ are not measured or monitored in most projects, even when mentioned as priorities. In many cases, it seems, it's assumed that project intentions will simply come true. "Worryingly, little socio-economic monitoring appears to be taking place," says the report, noting that of the more than 200 projects identified, just over 50 explicitly included social goals among stated objectives and evidence could be found in just 16 cases that these impacts were being tracked. "There's definitely anecdotal evidence that there are some social and ecological benefits. But these things are very difficult and expensive to track," said Nathaniel Carroll, one of the report's authors, adding that he's sure there are examples of projects where no such benefits have been generated for either the ecosystems or people involved. The uncertainty around what such schemes could mean for human development is a serious failing, one that needs urgent attention if market analysts are right and ecological service payments are indeed primed for growth in coming years. With governments bankrolling the bulk of these projects, we need some evidence that these efforts are doing good. Are resources really better managed when people are paid to look after them? Who decides which natural processes are worth protection? What's the impact of these schemes on human welfare, poverty, inequality ñ and on the people "selling" such "services"? It's time to take a closer look.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
