kevin dooley / FlickrThis week, Japan approved a  •10.3 trillion fiscal stimulus package.† That translates to around $116 billion dollars. And that's definitely going to have a material impact on growth. Here's Societe Generale economist Kiyoko Katahira: Abeís stimulus package to push up GDP by 2% and create 600 thousand new jobsThe Japanese Cabinet office on Friday approved emergency economic stimulus measures amounting to 10.3 trillion yen, equivalent to some 2.2% of GDP. The total package is worth some 20 trillion yen, including projects by local governments and private companies. The government also expects the package to push up GDP by 2%, and to boost employment by 600,000. The official announcement of the package was largely in line with what was revealed in the press over the past few days. That's a lot of jobs.
As we face another brutal fight over the federal debt ceiling at a time when the economy still remains fragile, the stock market is oddly complacent.¬† Even if the debt ceiling crisis is resolved, the result would be some combination of spending cuts and tax increases that would weaken the economy in 2013.¬† A settlement, however, is far from a done deal as both sides remain far apart and determined to defend their positions.¬† Far worse, if the debt limit is not raised or eliminated, the effect on the economy and markets could be disastrous. Republicans are insisting on major spending cuts in exchange for raising the debt limit while President Obama is adamant in saying that he will not negotiate on that basis.¬† A number of Republicans have voiced the opinion that government shut-downs have occurred in the past without any great consequences, and that we can do it again.¬† However, a failure to reach agreement this time would involve not only a shut-down, but a failure to pay many billions of dollars of U.S. government obligations, something that has never happened before in the U.S.¬† On the other hand, it is not clear how Obama can avoid negotiations over the debt limit, as other proposals floating around appear to be unfeasible or unconstitutional.¬† This week the Bipartisan Policy Center issued a 41-page report detailing the disastrous consequences of not raising the debt limit.¬† We outline the report as follows.¬† The full report can be found at www.bipartisanpolicy.org.¬† The U.S. government hit its debt limit on January 1st. The Treasury secretary then tapped into the $201 billion emergency borrowing authority to allow for an additional period of fully-funded government operations.¬† It is estimated that the emergency funds will run out sometime between February 15th and March 1st.¬† After that, the government can pay out only what it receives in revenues, which covers only about 60% of the obligations due between February 15th and March 15th.¬† The Treasury then has two choices as to how to make the payments.¬† It can make all of each day's payments once enough cash is available.¬† In this case all payments would be late, and they would get later and later with the passage of time.¬† An exception could be made for interest payments on the debt so that no default actually occurs. The second choice would be to pay some bills on time while others would not be paid.¬† It is unclear whether this method is legal or even feasible, given the design of the Treasury's computer system.¬† The department makes about 100 million individual¬†payments monthly, and would be forced to pick and choose which ones to make and which to skip. The problem is that the monthly cash inflow would be roughly $277 billion and the obligations at $452 billion, leaving $175 billion unpaid.¬† Let's suppose that Treasury chooses to pay interest on Treasury securities, IRS tax refunds, Medicare and Medicaid, Social Security benefits, military pay and retirement, and unemployment insurance benefits.¬† That would eat up all of the cash flow leaving the following items unfunded:¬† defense vendor payments, veterans' benefits, federal salaries and benefits, Pell grants and special ed. programs, food and nutrition services, civil service retirement payments, health and human services grants, supplemental social security income, the Department of Justice, the FBI, the federal courts,¬† the Department of Energy, the Federal Highway Administration, the FAA (air traffic control), the Environmental Protection Agency, FEMA and the National Flood Insurance Program.¬† These payments and non-payments can be calculated in other combinations, but the point is that about $175 billion of obligations can't be funded. The disastrous consequences of not increasing the debt limit are easy to see.¬† It amounts to a sudden 39% decrease in government spending, resulting in severe recession, plunging global markets, rating agency downgrades, widespread uncertainty and public unrest.¬† Moreover, the damage to the credit rating of the U.S. would lead to far higher interest payments for years to come. In our view the stock market is not discounting either the disastrous consequences of not raising the debt limit or the still negative growth impact of additional spending cuts and tax increases. The S&amp;P 500 is near a 5-year high while the VIX volatility index is at its lowest point since May 2007. All in all, it is similar to the conditions in early 2000, when the market ignored the vulnerability of the dot.com boom and late 2007, when the "experts" ignored the importance of falling home prices and record household debt.¬† In both cases the S&amp;P 500 plunged about 50%.
Robert Libetti/ Business InsiderThe global investment environment continues to be dominated by deleveraging, according to famous economist Gary Shilling. He thinks we have at least another five years of deleveraging ahead of us, and until this era is done he expects average real GDP growth to be about 2 percent. At the same time investors are fixated on easy monetary policy. But this only has a temporary impact on stocks. "This Grand Disconnect between robust security markets and subdued at best economic reality, combined with central bank-set low interest rates, has spawned many distortions and a zeal for yield that almost completely ignores financial risks," according to Shilling. Considering this, Shilling believes it is 'risk on' in 2013, but he cautions that his investment themes could "change dramatically" as the year progresses. We drew on A. Gary Shilling's Insights to walk through Shilling's investment themes for the years. We also added a bonus slide in which he points out the success and failures of his 2012 investment themes. *Note: We corrected the time period for deleveraging.
After a Fed-induced rally into October 2012, precious metals lost their luster, trending lower for much of the past 3 months. This price action has been particularly frustrating for Gold¬†bulls, as many thought the previous move higher was set for continuation based on gold technical analysis. It‚Äôs amazing to see how sentiment has changed in just a month or two. Now some pundits are wondering if Gold will need to take out the 2012 price lows before embarking upon a new leg higher.¬†The metals are clearly soaked with uncertainty here, so an uptick in volatility is likely. Gold followers and investors would be wise to block out the noise and focus on the price action and inter-market corollary indicators (i.e. the¬†US Dollar). Of course this is easier said than done, especially with another round of debt ceiling talks and political posturing lurking around the corner. My thoughts: January will likely tell the tale. And Gold technical analysis and recent cycle analysis seems to confirm this‚Ä¶ at least from a trading perspective. With this in mind, here are three factors that Gold investors should be aware of over the coming days/weeks: 1. Gold Technical Analysis and Levels (in terms of GLD): So, what levels should investors be watching now and how will investors know when the sparkle is about to return to¬†Gold (GLD)? Well the answer to that question may largely depend on GLD‚Äôs ability to hang in and around the 61.8 Fibonacci retrace level (let‚Äôs call it $158). Note that this level was briefly touched in December. As well, a similar setup occurred at the same Fibonacci retrace level in April 2012‚Ä¶ and resulted in a breakdown. With volatility sure to rise, investors may want to give GLD some intraday leash, or possibly apply a closing rule for exiting positions (note that this rule can be applied for re-entry as well). Gold technical analysis highlights lower supports at $155, followed by the 2012 lows. Should Gold pivot higher, upside levels to watch include $164 (December breakdown and early January pivot), the upper channel downtrend line ($167 and falling), followed by $170 and $174. Either way, volatility is likely to pick up, so investors (long and short) would be wise to create a plan and manage risk accordingly. See It Market See It Market 2. The January Barometer: Each of the past 3 years have seen significant trading bottoms in or around January. And this year appears to be headed in that direction again. The Gold Bugs Index is extremely oversold and trying to stabilize. The index is also near it‚Äôs 61.8 Fibonacci retracement of the summer-fall 2012 rally. See It Market 3. The US Dollar: The Dollar is the wild card here. And as one of the best corollary indicators for the direction of gold, it bears watching. After rallying out of a nice rounded bottom in 2011 (which correlated with a topping pattern in Gold), the Dollar spent much of 2012 forming a Head and Shoulders pattern. A sustained break above 81 would foil the pattern and likely start a move higher for the dollar (bearish for Gold). However, a break below the 78-79 neckline level, and Gold will be in rally mode. See It Market Other recent articles/notes of interest include Pragmatic Capitalism‚Äôs ‚ÄúTwo Reasons to be Bullish on Gold,‚Äù wherein Cullen Roche highlights David Rosenberg‚Äôs 2013 bullish forecast. He points out that monetary expansion and stagnant gold mining production are at the heart of the bullish argument. Also see Minyanville‚Äôs ‚ÄúGold Should Be Nearing a Major Bottom,‚Äù wherein David Bannister points to a late December/early January trading bottom. Trade safe, trade disciplined.
BloombergDavid KostinSurely, the escalating drama surrounding the debt ceiling and the sequestration will lead to panic and cause the stock market to plummet.† Right? Wrong, says Goldman Sachs' David Kostin. "A key investment lesson of the last five years is that politicians eventually reach a compromise although markets may suffer in the interim," wrote Kostin in a note to clients this week. "Investors have become accustomed to midnight negotiations in order to avoid one dire fate after another. Accordingly, downside may be limited this time." Washington scared us with their fiscal "brinksmanship" twice in the last two years.† First, there was the debt ceiling crisis of 2011.† And just recently, there was the fiscal cliff crisis of 2012. The cliff had less of a negative impact on stocks than the first debt ceiling crisis.† And Kostin, who expects the S&amp;P 500 to end 2013 at 1,575, thinks the this next "crisis" will have an even lesser effect. Here's more of his commentary: The US political process is cumbersome, infuriating to observe, and impossible to forecast. Stocks discount expected future events but Capitol Hill outcomes are always uncertain. However, like Aesopís Fable of the boy who cried wolf, financial markets are becoming inured to the recurring midnight deals that eventually are negotiated to avoid one dire fate after another. Uncertainty will remain high as the spending and debt ceiling negotiations intensify. But at some point, just like in late December, the market will perceive a potential compromise in the works and stocks should rally. But that event is more likely to occur in March than in January. Goldman Sachs
quinn.anya / Flickr(Reuters) - Flowers Foods Inc &lt;FLO.N&gt; on Friday said it has agreed to buy Wonder and other well-known bread brands from Hostess Brands Inc for $390 million, as part of the latter company's bankruptcy reorganization. The Thomasville, Georgia-based company said it entered one contract to pay $360 million for the Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and Nature's Pride brands, as well as 20 bakeries and 38 depots. It also agreed to pay $30 million for the Beefsteak brand. Flowers already owns brands such as Cobblestone Mill, Nature's Own and Tastykake. It said it expects the purchases to add to earnings in 2013, and that it would finance them with cash on hand plus debt. The purchase is subject to a court-supervised auction, and is subject to higher bids. Court approval of the winning bid is required. Hostess, which also made Twinkies and Drake's cakes, shut down its baking business late last year and abandoned efforts to reorganize under Chapter 11 after a crippling strike by its baker's union. The case is In re: Hostess Brands Inc et al, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York, No. 12-22052. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Corn and wheat prices surged today.¬† The immediate reason appeared to be the year-end USDA report, that showed supplies were lower than projected. But concurrent with that report was the release of the Commerce Department's¬†National Climate Assessment Development Advisory Committee National Climate Assessment survey. One of the findings: we can expect up to a century of drought. Here's a chart from the report projecting percent of the country in drought conditions in the coming years. Commerce/NOAA The red line is based on observed temperature and precipitation. The blue line is from the average of 19 different climate models. The gray lines in the background are individual results from over 70 different simulations from these models.¬† The projections are derived from the Palmer Drought Severity Index, one of¬†the most widely used measure of drought, the report says. "These results suggest an increasing probability of drought over this century throughout most of the U.S.," the committee says. "Droughts have become more frequent and intense in some regions, and confidence is that these trends are projected to continue."
After a decade of soaring gold prices, eBay thinks now is a great time for the rest of America to jump into the market. They've partnered with precious metals dealer APMEX to build an online†gold emporium consumers can browse from home. From a mega e-tailer's perspective, it makes sense. People are asking for something, so why not give them what they want?† "In todayís uncertain economy, people are looking to gold and silver as more reliable ways to invest, but some lack trust in those who sell gold and silver," the company says in a statement. "Many do not even know where to buy. The†APMEX Bullion Center†on eBay offers everyone a convenient way to buy gold and silver from a source they already know and trust, and people are taking notice."† From an investing standpoint, however, this kind of mainstream treatment should be a pretty big red flag. "The allure of gold ... reminds me of market darlings of yesteryear," says†certified financial planner Adam Bold. "Remember when everyone piled into dot-com stocks and drove them into bubble territory in the late 1990s? Most of those speculative Internet stocks crashed a few years later. Soon after that, people were jumping into real estate and home prices went through the roof. We all know how that turned out." And while eBay markets its new store as a doorway into the "New American Gold Rush," a recent report shows that it might be a decade too late.† A commodity analyst at Goldman Sachs†all but called the†end of the bull market for gold†in December, chocking up its soaring value to rising interest rates and a rocky economy that is now getting back on its feet.† "The gold outlook is caught between the opposing forces of more Fed easing and a gradual increase in US real rates on better US economic growth," the firms says. "Our expanded modeling suggests that the improving US growth outlook will outweigh further Fed balance sheet expansion and that the cycle in gold prices will likely turn in 2013."† The bottom line: While gold can be a smart way for investors to diversify their assets, we'd be a little cautious before buying into a sales pitch that leads with the "New American Gold Rush." We've†been there, done that. Here are a few slides from the presentation eBay used to make its case for its new gold emporium:† eBay
Flickr/Gage SkidmoreSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell slammed Senate Democratic leaders late Friday for a letter they wrote earlier in the day to President Barack Obama on the debt ceiling. In the letter, Democrats urged Obama†"take any lawful steps" to work around the debt ceiling if Congressional Republicans refuse to raise the nation's borrowing limit. Two of those options being discussed are the 14th amendment and the possibility of minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin. Here's McConnell's response to that letter: ìThe Democrat leadership hiding under their desks and hoping the President will find a way around the law on the nationís maxed-out credit card is not only the height of irresponsibility, but also a guarantee that our national debt crisis will only get worse. ìWith†the President asking Congress to raise the debt ceiling, Democrats in Washington are falling all over themselves in an effort to do anything they can to get around the lawóand to avoid taking any responsibility for Washingtonís out-of-control spending.†Rather than offering any plan to break the spending habit thatís causing the problem, Democrats are looking at everything from the ridiculous (printing a trillion-dollar coin) to outright abdication of Congressional responsibility. But avoiding this problem will only make it worse, which is why many of us view the upcoming debt limit debate as a perfect opportunity to face up to Washingtonís spending.î Read Democrats' full letter here &gt;
NOTE: This post was originally published by Zero Hedge on January 2, 2013. Wondering why rail traffic has been somewhat surprisingly consistent despite uncertainty? Concerned at government's tenticular reach into each and every aspect of our lives? This somewhat stunning anecdotal report from OilPrice.com might shed some light:  A cargo train filled with biofuels crossed the border between the US and Canada 24 times between the 15th of June and the 28th of June 2010; not once did it unload its cargo, yet it still earned millions of dollars... The companies ‚Äúmade several million dollars importing and exporting the fuel to exploit a loophole in a U.S. green energy program.‚Äù Each time the loaded train crossed the border the cargo earned its owner a certain amount of Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs), which were awarded by the US EPA to ‚Äúpromote and track production and importation of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel.‚Äù We suggest this is merely yet another unintended consequence (just as we noted here) and perverted incentive of central planning and an all encroaching government.  Via James Burgess of OilPrice.com, A cargo train filled with biofuels crossed the border between the US and Canada 24 times between the 15th of June and the 28th of June 2010; not once did it unload its cargo, yet it still earned millions of dollars. CBC News of Canada was the first to pick up on this story on the 3rd of December 2012, and began their own investigation into the possible explanations behind this odd behaviour. CN Rail, the operator of the train, stated their innocence in the matter as they had only ‚Äúreceived shipping directions from the customer, which, under law, it has an obligation to meet. CN discharged its obligations with respect to those movements in strict compliance with its obligations as a common carrier, and was compensated accordingly.‚Äù Even so, they still managed to earn C$2.6 million in shipping fees. During their investigation CBC managed to obtain an internal email which stated that the cars of the train were all reconfigured between each trip but that the cargo was never actually unloaded, because ‚Äúeach move per car across the border is revenue generated‚Äù, the sale of the cargo itself was inconsequential. The cargo of the train was owned by Bioversal Trading Inc., or its US partner Verdero, depending on what stage of the trip it was at. The companies ‚Äúmade several million dollars importing and exporting the fuel to exploit a loophole in a U.S. green energy program.‚Äù Each time the loaded train crossed the border the cargo earned its owner a certain amount of Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs), which were awarded by the US EPA to ‚Äúpromote and track production and importation of renewable fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel.‚Äù The RINs were supposed to be retired each time the shipment passed the border, but due to a glitch not all of them were. This enabled Bioversal to accumulate over 12 million RINs from the 24 trips, worth between 50 cents and $1 each, which they can then sell on to oil companies that haven‚Äôt met the EPA‚Äôs renewable fuel requirements. Both the Canada Border Services Agency and the US EPA have launched investigations into the possibility of fraud, although the companies claim that the practice was totally legal.
NYT reporter Jonathan Weisman boils down Democratic leaders request to The White House: #MintTheCoin v 14th amendment. 1 way or other, Dem leaders want Obama to use "any lawful steps" available to defuse the debt ceiling bomb So, which to choose? Here's how folks think about it. From a political standpoint, invoking the 14th Amendment and ignoring the debt ceiling is more palatable. Greg Sargent of WaPo explains: ...top Senate Democrats see the 14th amendment option as far preferable politically to the coin. ìOf the available options, the coin, on its face, is politically much worse than the others,î he said. ìWhatever the legal arguments for and against it, the imagery will be difficult to combat. What better symbol of out-of-control government spending could you have than a trillion dollar coin?î However, from a legal standpoint, White House spokesman Jay Carney has said that they don't believe the 14th Amendment gives them that possibility. When asked about the coin, he said nothing. So basically it goes like this. From a political standpoint, Amendment beats Coin. From a legal standpoint, Coin beats Amendment.
Within the next few weeks, the Congressional Budget Office ‚Äî which provides the hard data and projections regarding the debt and deficit ‚Äî will release updated numbers, potentially upending the current debate about the size of the deficit.¬† CBPPYesterday, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities' Richard Kogan unveiled a new chart that New York Times Columnist Paul Krugman interpreted to mean that the deficit problem is almost entirely solved. His conclusion is related to the ideas that the most effective and painless solution to the deficit is additional growth¬†and that spending is not fundamentally the problem. However, Kogan also reminded us of a major potential shift coming up in the discussion of the deficit in his article.¬† Every so often, the Congressional Budget Office updates their estimates and projections given new economic ¬†data and new budgetary baselines.¬† It could go either way.¬†As Kogan says in his initial CBPP report: By themselves, new CBO estimates could make the challenge hundreds of billions of dollars easier or harder, and at this point we don‚Äôt know which. The last time that the CBO updated their stats ‚Äî statistics that form the foundation of the entire discussion of debt and deficits ‚Äî was August 2012, essentially ages ago economically and fiscally. FREDSince then, the fiscal cliff was averted. Even more, the new policies that fueled Kogan's chart ¬†‚Äî a chart that Krugman said convinced him that the deficit was basically fixed ‚Äî have gone into effect. Even more, the civilian unemployment took a sincere and somewhat unexpected dive, heralding new, positive economic fundamentals. What this could mean is that updated data from the CBO in a few weeks could paint a much rosier picture of the future of the debt and deficit. In that case, the calls for additional cuts to government services on top of the sequester could be rebuked with these new projections.¬† On the other hand, the projections could mean that the severity of the deficit has in fact grown, and that the situation has become more dire in the eyes of budget hawks.¬† Still, though, the point is that the fundamental values that form the crux of the debate are bound to change very soon, and the difference could be in the hundreds of billions.¬†¬†
The National Republican Senatorial Committee is asking every Senate Democrat up for re-election in 2014 where he or she stands on the option of minting a trillion-dollar coin as a means of working around the debt ceiling. The NRSC's statement comes in lieu of the letter four Senate Democrats sent to President Barack Obama earlier today, urging him to consider†"any lawful steps" to work around the debt ceiling if Congressional Republicans refuse to raise the nation's borrowing limit.† Now the NRSC wants every Democrat up for re-election to state where he or she stands. The committee's list includes Senators from†South Dakota (Tim Johnson), Montana (Max Baucus), Arkansas (Mark Pryor), New Hampshire (Jeanne Shaheen), Alaska (Mark Begich), North Carolina (Kay Hagan), Colorado (Mark Udall), Iowa (Tom Harkin), Minnesota (Al Franken) and Virginia (Mark Warner). The NRSC's statement comes a couple of days after the National Republican Congressional Committee slammed the option of minting a coin and joked that it would sink the Titanic. Here's an example of the letter the NRSC sent to media and state grassroots lists in each of the state: NRSC
Wikimedia CommonsNot much news today. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,488, +17.2, +0.1 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,472, -0.0, -0.0 percentNASDAQ: 3,125, +3.8, +0.1 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.

Click for sound. ¬† For Porter House New York chef and managing partner Michael Lomonaco, preparing steak is a blend of art and science.¬† State-of-the-art cooking facilities at the restaurant's prime Manhattan location in the Time Warner Center include a broiler that can reach 1,800¬∫ F (most consumer grills max out around 500-600¬∞ F) and a high-quality dry-aging locker for the meat. The sophisticated setup allows Chef Lomonaco and his team to keep and cook their meat with exacting accuracy, but that's only one half of the equation. The art of proper steak preparation isn't just about the grill. It involves choosing the right cut for the right kind of meal, prepping the steak properly, and carefully attending to it as it cooks. Getting a steak to medium-rare or your preferred doneness isn't always an exact science (particularly if you aren't planning to use a meat thermometer) but there are some tricks to help you get it right. Watch Chef Lomonaco explain the properties of different cuts of meat and how to choose them, the best way to get your meat ready, and some tips on how to grill them to perfection. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Kamelia Angelova
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The 'First Five Days Of January' Indicator Does Not Work (Barron's) Despite the performance of the Dow and S&amp;P 500 in the first week of trading, Mark Hulbert writes that "hope is not a strategy". In fact, looking back to 1896, when the Dow was up the first five days of January, it was up 70 percent of the time the rest of the year and the average gain was 6.93 percent. Whereas, when it was down in the first five days of the year, it was up 58 percent for the rest of the year with an average gain of 6.2 percent.† The January Barometer which argues that if the stock market is up in January, it will stay up the rest of the year and vice-versa. "Unlike the first five days indicator, the differences associated with the January Barometer turn out to be statistically significant. Yet even here there may be less than meets the eye. Notwithstanding the Barometer's overall record, it was a big disappointment prior to 1940. Over the first four decades of the last century, in fact, your odds of making money in a given year were actually greater when January was a losing month than when it produced a gain." ECRI's Imaginary Recession Is In Its Seventh Month (Advisor Perspectives)  ECRI's weekly leading index (WLI) has been controversial ever since ECRI said the U.S. was falling into a recession back in 2011 and then saying the recession has begun last year. ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan also said the business cycle peaked in July 2012. But the WLI is now at 128.3, from 126.6 last week and the WLI annualized growth indicator is up 5.1 percent.† In a new piece Doug Short of Advisor Perspectives writes: "The Fiscal Cliff is behind us, although Debt Ceiling brawl is drawing closer. However, the Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion with the exception of the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. But the more immediate indicator to watch is December Industrial Production, out next Wednesday, the 16th. The November data was a strong rebound after zigzagging lower from August to September. A reasonably good December number will further undermine ECRI's claim that the US has been in a recession since July. "ECRI can take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which won't include November data until the end of January. But the November strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly undermines their recession call. My take is that "recession" that ECRI says began in July has about as much substance as my imaginary friend, Bill Harris, when I was a three-year-old." Doug Short Advisor Perspectives Mohamed El-Erian Gets Behind The Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin (CNN)  PIMCO's Mohamed El-Erian says the trillion dollar coin could work if it helped avoid "political brinkmanship" and forced Congress to "deal once and for all with the oddity of having to consider both annual budgets and disconnected debt limits". But he warned that this also stands the chance of exacerbating Congressional discontent and could make the rest of the world think the U.S. had "lost its way", thereby hitting stock, bonds and the U.S. dollar. Gary Shilling's Most Profitable Investment To Date (A. Gary Shilling)  Treasury bonds have been Gary Shilling's best investment and he continues to favor them because a) economic growth is likely to be slow in coming years; b) the fed is determined to lower long term interest rates; c) deflation is likely; d) attractive to pension funds that are looking to match their long-term liabilities with similar assets; e) they are a safe haven; f) China's efforts to the cool the economy will probably cause a hard landing; and g) central banks continue to purchase treasuries. "Once again, we're deliberately listing this theme first, not because of nostalgia, although it has worked for us for 31 years on balance, and has been our most profitable investment over those three decades. Instead, it's because we expect further appreciation with 30- year Treasury bonds, and because so few other investors believe our forecast has any chance of being realized." A. Gary Shilling  The Historic Surge Into Stock Mutual Funds That Has Everyone Talking About The 'Great Rotation' (Business Insider)  Long only equity mutual funds saw inflows of $8.9 billion this week, the biggest weekly inflow seen since March 2000. Many analysts now expect a "great rotation" out of bonds and into equities in 2013.But this week also saw strong inflows into bond funds.† Citi's Tobias Levkovich expects such a great rotation.† Bank of America's Michael Hartnett writes that massive inflows and the bullish sentiment are contrary indicators, but don't guarantee a correction. A correction would require a catalyst, but there needs to be a dip in January, without one he says "risk of a much larger correction later in the quarter grows". 
Writer Rich Cohen had the pleasure and the frustration of being late billionaire investor Teddy Fortmann's shadow during his last days. In 2010 Cohen was contracted to ghostwrite Forstmann's biography, but Forstmann died of brain cancer before he could finish. Before then, though, Cohen ate, traveled and riffed with the legend. He wrote about the experience in the February issue of Vanity Fair. The article is a melancholy look at a man who seems almost subconsciously aware of his own end ‚Äî and he's lonely. From Vanity Fair: In the fall of 2010 I started to write Teddy's book. This meant a change in our relationship. Instead of being me and Teddy in the world, it was going to be me and Teddy in my mind, and he didn't not like it. It increasingly seemed to me that, for Teddy, the purpose of the book was fun, and the fun was having a friend to pal around with, tell stories to, a friend who would listen and be impressed and make you believe that it had all been worth it after al. Teddy or his office would call several times a week. He wanted me to travel with him to India, New Orleans, Brazil. when I said no, it was time to write, he got pissed. "What kind of ghostwriter are you?" he asked. It was this frustration on Forstmann's part that lead to his one and only argument with Cohen. Forstmann wanted Cohen to have dinner with him on the first night of Rosh Hashanah and wouldn't take no for an answer. For the first time, I got mad at Teddy. I stopped being a ghost. I put my body on and started to shout. I mean, here i was on Rosh Hashanah, with my wife and my children, my little thing, my on lt little thing in this too big world, and a billionaire who had everything else was demanding I give him this too. I said something like, "First of all Teddy...Rosh Hashanah is two days and two nights@ Second, you call yourself a dodger fan? I though Sandy Koufax settled this about 40 years ago. If Koufax didn't pitch in the World Series on Hom Kippur, I'm sure as hell not coming into the city to have dinner at Marea on Rosh Hashanah. It stunned Teddy. He was not used to people talking to him this way. He behaved like a bear that had been slapped in the nose. "I'm not mad at you," he said finally. "When I get mad believe you will know it." Cohen writes that he only saw Forstmann one more time after this argument before he died.
The†Weekly Leading Index†(WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) rose in the latest public data. It is now at 128.3 versus the previous week's 126.6 (which is an upward revision from 126.4). See the†WLI chart†in the Appendix below. Likewise the WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 5.1, up from last week's 5.0. WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 24th, although it is off its 6.0 interim high on October 12th. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the†Big Four Economic Indicators†I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29thBloomberg video†that ECRI continues to feature on their website. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the seventh month of a recession. Here is a chart that clearly illustrates why ECRI's weekly indicators are of little value: The smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. Doug Short† The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track includes real retail sales based on the same formula as the Federal Reserve economists (see this†PDF file†for details). By this metric, sales continued to increase until October, the data for which was significantly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but then bounced back in November. We will have the December Retail Sales on the 15th and will be able to inflation-adjust with precision the following day when the December CPI update. In contrast, ECRI uses Manufacturing and Trade Sales data, which is updated monthly along with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release. However, the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. The series is available on the†BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Table 2BU. Here is a side-by-side comparison of the two measures of sales showing the percent off the all-time high. Doug Short† Here is a closer look at the pair since 2010. I've used markers to clarify the monthly changes. Note that the latest Manufacturing data is through October. We won't have the November numbers until the last day of January. ECRI My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us, although Debt Ceiling brawl is drawing closer. However, the Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion with the exception of the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. But the more immediate indicator to watch is December Industrial Production, out next Wednesday, the 16th. The November data was a strong rebound after zigzagging lower from August to September. A reasonably good December number will further undermine ECRI's claim that the US has been in a recession since July. Here is a snapshot of the version of the Big Four Economic Indicators with Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. Doug Short† ECRI can take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which won't include November data until the end of January. But the November strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly undermines their recession call. My take is that "recession" that ECRI says began in July has about as much substance as my imaginary friend, Bill Harris, when I was a three-year-old. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. † Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. Doug Short† For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. Doug Short As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. ECRI, however, has "walked the plank" with the company's recession call. And at this point there's no "Peter Pan" recession to save them from a sea of crocodiles. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. Doug Short† Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions.† The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary,†Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. Doug Short† As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.5%, up from 5.2% the previous week. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of†RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in†this article. Doug Short† † Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI:†The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
APThe top four Senate Democrats are urging President Barack Obama to "take any lawful steps" to work around the debt ceiling if Congressional Republicans refuse to raise the nation's borrowing limit. In a letter to Obama, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Sens. Dick Durbin, Patty Murray and Chuck Schumer tell Obama to consider unilaterally raising the debt ceiling even in the case of "an unbalanced or unreasonable legislation." "We believe that you must make clear that you will never allow our nation's economy and reputation to be held hostage," the four Senators write in the letter, which was first reported by The Washington Post's Greg Sargent and provided by a Democratic source.  "In the event that Republicans make good on their threat by failing to act, or by moving unilaterally to pass a debt limit extension as part of an unbalanced or unreasonable legislation, we believe you must be willing to take any lawful steps to ensure that America does not break its promise and trigger a global economic crisis ó without Congressional approval, if necessary." The two options being thrown around most commonly for Obama to work around the debt ceiling are the 14th amendment and the option of minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin. The 14th amendment states that†"the validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law...shall not be questioned." Supporters of that route argue that since the debt cannot be questioned, the debt ceiling itself is unconstitutional. But the White House has said that it does not view it as a work-around solution. The idea of minting a trillion-dollar coin, meanwhile, has gained traction in the past week. That option†would allow the Treasury to temporarily print money to pay the country's bills and work around the debt ceiling. It has turned into a†Twitter†campaign (#MintTheCoin),†and supporters have created a petition urging the White House to mint it. The White House did not completely brush aside that possibility on Wednesday.In Washington, Sargent writes that Democrats view the 14th amendment as a more politically feasible option, the same thing we're hearing. One Democratic Senate aide recently said that minting the coin would look silly politically, and that the 14th amendment is a much more practical option. Here's the full letter:  Senate Democrats letter to Obama by  
This article is probably the most exhaustive and challenging piece I have written.¬† It was worth the effort because understanding the business cycle is crucial to making great investment decisions.¬† To get the full benefit, I urge readers to spend some time reading the background links and watching the videos. I am going to follow up with another piece describing how I use this information for investment decisions.¬† For now, let us all focus on the method, understanding how and why it has worked so well throughout history. Background In May of 2011 I embarked on a search for the best recession forecasting methods.¬† I had been a long-time fan of the ECRI approach.¬† They were still very positive on the economy at the time, and my quest was not driven by their conclusions.¬† I was uncomfortable with the methodology and the lack of transparency.¬† I had many reader suggestions, and I reviewed them all.¬† The criteria were stringent -- "Jeff's Acid Test."¬† The easy winner of this competition was¬†Robert F. Dieli's¬†"Mr. Model."¬† (This article¬†described the competition and the results). The main conclusion from Bob's work was that there was no imminent recession.¬† This ran counter to some other well-publicized and popular forecasts.¬† Some readers complained in the comments that the history of the forecast included some imperfections.¬† Others disagreed with the methods.¬† The subject was too difficult for simple responses to these questions.¬† I promised to follow up in more detail, but I wanted to do so in a convincing fashion. A Year Later A year later, some key elements of my rationale should be even more convincing: Most recession forecasting models fail¬†because they emphasize weakness.¬† This is backwards.¬† A recession begins at a business cycle peak, something that I explain more carefully¬†here.¬† A recession starts with excessive strength.¬† Seen any of that lately? Dr. Dieli explains this quite clearly in this chart. Jeff Miller Your intuition about the business cycle would be better if you completely forgot the "R" word and took Bob's lead:¬† Substitute "business cycle peak."¬† The key driver of Bob's forecast is what he calls the "Aggregate Spread."¬† By reviewing results over decades we can see that this method actually provides a warning of about nine months.¬† The image below describes the composition of the spread, using example data from August. Jeff MillerThe most recent aggregate spread is shown below. Just as it did last year, it provides strong evidence that the US economy is not nearing a recession. Jeff Miller And Now -- The Show Get some popcorn and your favorite beverage and settle back to watch the show.¬† I recently met with Bob Dieli to discuss economic forecasting and to create some videos.¬† The result is an eight-part series in which we discuss each of the recessions of the latter 20th Century.¬† [Thanks to Derek Miller for helping in the production of the videos and producing the key summaries.] In this first video, Bob and I¬†discuss National Bureau of Economic Research and why their definitions of a recession are important. The nonpartisan NBER looks at both the peaks and troughs of the business cycle to conclude when past recessions have happened, effectively making "autopsies, rather than forecasts" - as Bob says. Therefore, it is important for the Mr. Model to use the same criteria when it forecasts for recessions, providing a clearer picture than other models.  In part two,¬†Bob and I¬†take a close look at the recession of 1957. In doing so, they describe exactly how Mr. Model works. The model signals 9 months ahead that the business cycle will be heading towards a peak or trough when it crosses the 200 basis points (shown as a red line on the chart).¬†  Bob and I illustrate the ways in which policymakers can and do impact the business cycle and how this interacts with Mr. Model. In the run up to 1960, tightening by the Federal Reserve as well as fiscal cuts by the Eisenhower Administration led to an economic downturn. In 1967, when the Fed again tightened the yield curve, the model signalled a recession. Shortly thereafter the Fed eased up, thereby avoiding a recession. At the end of the day, the NBER never called a recession in '67.  Mr. Model had nearly spotless performance in predicting the recessions of the 1970's. Contrary to popular belief, the 1973 recession had less to do with OPEC and more to do with other government policies that laid the foundation for an economic downturn.¬†  Mr. Model shows the result of Fed Chairman Volker's monetary policy, which inverted the yield curve and brought the Fed funds rate to 20%. The result was a short 6-month recession, then a short recovery which was stifled by other policies. Interestingly enough, the recovery never took Mr. Model past 200 basis points - meaning a new peak could not have been established for the "second" recession.  After the "double dip" recession of the 80's, the recovery brought the business cycle to record highs. This led to the third-longest period of economic expansion into the summer of 1990. A combination of tightening monetary policy and changing policies regarding the first war in Iraq were both responsible in part for the downturn.¬†In 2000, Mr. Model signaled a recession in an election year - something that was sure to happen regardless of who was elected. However, in both instances the model predicted short and shallow recessions unlike the seriousness of the early 80s.¬†  In the most recent recession, Mr. Model's results were decidedly different than they had been for any previous recession. The model alerted that the 200 basis point line had been crossed in 2007 but did not decline sharply. This is in part because tightening by the Fed did not effect the yield curve as they had in past events. Quick reactions by the Bush and Obama administrations also helped to prevent a dramatic decline in Mr. Model's basis points.  In this final video, Bob and I focus heavily on the 2007-2009 recession. The model appears to show a false positive as it crosses the 200 basis point line in 2006, but continues sideways for some time before the recession was officially called. In a sense, this suggests severe instability rather than the dramatic declines of the past. In any case, we had ample warning that a recession was coming. It did not take us by surprise.  Conclusion If you have studied the evidence, you will see that recessions usually involve the Fed! You might also have noticed that business cycle peaks do not typically come from a problem of "stall speed" but one of excess stimulation. Market observers are completely mistaken: These will be the subjects of the next installment.
L Marie via FlickrEarnings season started Tuesday, when Alcoa announced its quarterly results after the closing bell. The aluminum giant had revenues that beat expectations while earnings came right in line. How about the other 499 of the S&amp;P 500 companies? Bank of America's equity strategy team, led by Savita Subramanian, identified 12 stocks that they believe will most likely miss consensus forecasts this quarter. Among other things, these are all sell-rated stocks that missed consensus estimates for either earnings or revenue in the previous quarter.
AP/Steven SenneA truck driver watches as a freight container, right, is lowered onto a tractor trailer by a container crane at the Port of Boston in Boston.Dockworkers at East Coast and Gulf Coast ports are threatening to go on strike again, which is making retailers very, very nervous. So much so that they've started stocking up on inventory. The strike could cause 14 ports between Maine and Texas to shut down, which is where 15,000 dockworkers handle 40% of America's ocean cargo. ‚ÄúWe have seen a rise in the level of the retail inventory-to-sales ratio,‚Äù Hackett Associates Founder Ben Hackett said. ‚ÄúThis may be a reflection of importers stocking up ahead of the East Coast/Gulf coast port strike that was expected, though the run-up came well ahead of that.‚Äù This could cause imports to spike by 2.3% in January, said J. Craig Sherman in a report for the National Retail Federation. Before talks between the International Longshoremen‚Äôs Association (ILA) and the management got really heated, imports were actually down. Dockworkers handled 2.8% less merchandise in November 2012 than they had in the previous, according to the report. But in December, when it started to look like the union might actually go on strike, that number went up, and December imports were up 6.5% from the previous year. The union and management are scheduled to meet next week under the supervision of federal mediators, but the ILA walked away from local talks affecting the Ports of New York and New Jersey earlier this week. This is a burden that America's economy just can't afford, said Jonathan Gold, NRF's Vice President for Supply Chain and Customs Policy.
AP Images Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman addresses the debt-ceiling standoff and "trillion-dollar coin" squarely in his New York Times column today. Krugman makes a number of key points that are often ignored as both sides try to shout each other down: It's worth adding one point... Some more reasonable-sounding Republicans, like Senator Rand Paul, are now advocating an approach that won't cause the country to default...on its bonds. Paul wants to introduce legislation that would force the government to pay bondholders, the military, and Social Security checks--but immediately cut spending on everything else. This, Paul says, would balance the budget overnight. This approach sounds more reasonable. But as I explained here, by suddenly cutting $1.1 trillion of spending, it would immediately shrink the economy by 7%. Hundreds of thousands of government workers and contractors would be thrown out of work. Businesses that benefit from government spending and the spending of these government employees would get whacked. These businesses would have to lay off people. And so on. And, importantly, because so many people would lose their jobs, the government's tax revenue would quickly drop, thus forcing additional cuts. This is the "austerity" trap that has buried Greece and other countries in Europe. So, although it sounds more reasonable, this approach would be devastating to the economy and country. The bottom line is this. The Republican Party of my parents--the party of fiscal prudence and conservatism--appears to be an ancient memory. The current Republican Party is neither fiscally prudent nor economically literate. Rather, it is a party controlled by extremists who either don't understand how the economy works or, worse, don't care. It's no wonder, therefore, that so many reasonable Americans are coming to realize that Obama may have no choice but to "mint the coin." SEE ALSO: The Trillion-Dollar Coin Is No More Absurd And Outrageous Than Forcing The Country To Default
BGRMorgan Stanley interest rate strategist Anton Heese's latest note to clients comes with an ominous warning in its title: "There's a Storm Coming." Heese is referring to the market for Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS.†This class of government bonds ñ inflation-linked securities ñ was a clear outperformer in 2012.†Heese points out that the†Barclays World Government Inflation Bond index gained about 7 percent in returns last year, while Treasuries only returned 2.1 percent, Bunds rose 4.5 percent, and Gilts gained 2.8 percent. Now, inflation-linked bonds ñ like Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) in the United States ñ are looking pretty expensive too, and that has Heese convinced that there is a storm coming in the TIPS market. Heese warns: Of the major inflation markets, we think TIPS are most at risk if absolute returns deteriorate. This is because a large portion of the market is held in mutual funds, for which a strong investment performance is important for attracting and retaining assets. By contrast, the majority of European linkers, especially in the UK, are owned by pension funds, as hedging assets against inflation-linked liabilities. In fact, a substantial back-up in yields may generate a significant increase in investor interest in UKTis and euro linkers, as schemes that were previously reluctant to de-risk their portfolios because their solvency ratios were too low, may find themselves able to afford inflation bonds. The TIPS market, by contrast, may find itself in a vicious spiral if poor returns result in outflows, forcing fund managers to liquidate positions to generate cash, leading to more selling pressure and further poor returns. At present, it is not clear who the alternative investor in TIPS is likely to be, unless yields rise substantially. The warning stems from Heese's trading call on TIPS. He says that yields on TIPS are an excellent predictor of future returns ñ when investors buy them up, like they did in 2012, and drive yields down, the space usually languishes thereafter. So, given how low yields on TIPS are now, based on model projections, Heese expects the TIPS market to average only 1 percent in returns per year for the next three years. And that is actually worse than it sounds, according to Heese, who writes, "This forecast looks more dreary than dreadful, but the risk is that the low 3-year average may be due to significantly negative returns in at least one of the next 3 years rather than very modest returns throughout." Hence, the storm. DON'T MISS:†The most amazing thing about this week's historic shift into equities &gt;
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) rose in the latest public data. It is now at 128.3 versus the previous week's 126.6 (which is an upward revision from 126.4). See the WLI chart in the Appendix below. Likewise the WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 5.1, up from last week's 5.0. WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 24th, although it is off its 6.0 interim high on October 12th. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29th Bloomberg video that ECRI continues to feature on their website. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the seventh month of a recession. Here is a chart that clearly illustrates why ECRI's weekly indicators are of little value: The smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession. † † First a flashback for those of us who have followed ECRI's media appearances: we know that the company adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call. For a few months, ECRI's indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case in the second half of 2012 -- hence, I surmise, their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article, The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four. The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track includes real retail sales based on the same formula as the Federal Reserve economists (see this PDF file for details). By this metric, sales continued to increase until October, the data for which was significantly impacted by Hurricane Sandy, but then bounced back in November. We will have the December Retail Sales on the 15th and will be able to inflation-adjust with precision the following day when the December CPI update. In contrast, ECRI uses Manufacturing and Trade Sales data, which is updated monthly along with the BEA's Personal Consumption and Expenditures release. However, the numbers lag by one month from the other PCE data. The series is available on the BEA website. See Section 0 - Real Inventories and Sales and look for Table 2BU. Here is a side-by-side comparison of the two measures of sales showing the percent off the all-time high. Here is a closer look at the pair since 2010. I've used markers to clarify the monthly changes. Note that the latest Manufacturing data is through October. We won't have the November numbers until the last day of January. My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us, although Debt Ceiling brawl is drawing closer. However, the Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion with the exception of the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. But the more immediate indicator to watch is December Industrial Production, out next Wednesday, the 16th. The November data was a strong rebound after zigzagging lower from August to September. A reasonably good December number will further undermine ECRI's claim that the US has been in a recession since July. Here is a snapshot of the version of the Big Four Economic Indicators with Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. ECRI can take some temporary solace in their use of the lagging Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which won't include November data until the end of January. But the November strength exhibited by Personal Incomes and Industrial Production and the (steady albeit slow) growth in Nonfarm Employment certainly undermines their recession call. My take is that "recession" that ECRI says began in July has about as much substance as my imaginary friend, Bill Harris, when I was a three-year-old. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. † Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level. † † For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly. † † As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. ECRI, however, has "walked the plank" with the company's recession call. And at this point there's no "Peter Pan" recession to save them from a sea of crocodiles. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000. † † Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions. † † The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began. † † As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 4.3%, up from 3.6% the previous week. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article. † † Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call † Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula:
The U.S. December budget deficit was just $260 million. This is according to the latest Monthly Treasury Statement from the Financial Management Service. Economists were forecasting a deficit of closer to $1 billion. The December deficit was also the lowest December number since 2007, reports Bloomberg. It's worth noting that monthly numbers are noisy, and that seasonal factors tend to be considerable in December. Regardless, this is an encouraging sign. Receipts were $269.5 billion while the spending was $269.7 billion.¬† This is important to remember, because budget deficits and surpluses aren't just about spending levels.¬† Indeed, growth plays just as important a role. As GDP grows, the deficit shrinks.¬† To better understand this, read this and this. Here's a look at some historical numbers. Treasury ¬† Treasury
For the past few months, Goldman Sachs has had a problematic trade on its hands. On October 22, 2012, the bank's currency strategists recommended clients go long the euro against the Canadian dollar. The trade was initiated at a level of 1.296 with a target of 1.37. (At the time, Goldman saw more upside to the euro in Canadian than in U.S. dollar terms, owing to a projected shift in Bank of Canada monetary policy). The trade has gone nowhere. It reached its highest point on December 28 ñ but by then had only risen to around 1.3170. After that, it tanked into the new year and has languished in recent days. That is to say, the trade languished up until yesterday, when ECB President Mario Draghi revealed that the central bank's latest decision not to cut interest rates was unanimous on the Governing Council. Bloomberg, Business Insider Since then, the euro has staged a sizable rally. Today, Goldman Sachs FX strategist Robin Brooks says in a note to clients that it should go much higher. However, Brooks' reasoning still has more to do with what Draghi said in July ñ that the ECB would "do whatever it takes to save the euro" ñ than what he said yesterday. Since the introduction of the ECB's OMT bond market intervention later this summer, government borrowing costs have dropped precipitously in the periphery. Nowhere is this more apparent than in Italy, where the spread between Italian 10-year sovereign bonds and German bunds fell below 250 basis points today for the first time since before the euro crisis exploded. However, recently the euro crisis conversation has turned to fundamental economic growth and eurozone member states' inability to meet economic targets. Today, the rate of contraction in Spanish industrial production†unexpectedly accelerated to a staggering 7.2 percent,†well below the 3.1 percent decline in the previous month and economists' expectations of a 1.5 percent contraction. Hence, a new debate: what's really driving the euro? Brooks thinks it's still the former factor, OMT's effect on peripheral bond markets, that still has the most pull. The Goldman strategist calls it the "fiscal risk premium" ñ measured as the GDP-weighted spread between euro periphery bond yields and yields on German bunds. This fiscal risk premium, Brooks says, trumps the 2-year swap rate differential (a proxy for economic growth) in explaining euro moves: Over the last three months, the fiscal risk premium has explained about 16% of daily variation in EUR/$, compared to 9% for the 2-year swap rate differential. The fiscal risk thus clearly dominates the rate differential, something that has been the case since the middle of 2011. However, something curious has happened recently, Brooks notes (emphasis added): Now, the importance of both factors in explaining EUR/$ variation has fallen in recent months. In the middle of 2012 the fiscal risk premium explained up to around 50% of daily variation in EUR/$, with the 2-year swap rate differential accounting for 25%. Meanwhile, the oil price has become a more important driver of EUR/$, accounting for 14% of daily variation, even as variations in global risk appetite essentially play no role for EUR/$...A good chunk of the recent drop in EUR/$ therefore fails to map into any of the fundamentals we examine here, something we examine next. This leads Brooks to conclude that the drop hasn't been driven by fundamentals, which means the euro now has some upside to stake out in order to catch up to the price appreciation in peripheral sovereign bonds over the last several months. In other words, it's mostly a mean-reversion trade. And since Goldman thinks those peripheral bonds will continue to rally, Brooks sees even more additional upside to the euro, writing, "Putting a number of things together, we think upside is currently around 6 big figures, which is what lies behind our ongoing tactical recommendation to be long EUR/CAD with a target of 1.37."
In 2011, Wall Street lost one of its greatest to brain cancer, billionaire private equity investor Teddy Forstmann. And while Forstmann was a huge public figure ‚Äî he was a philanthropist who also owned IMG, the biggest sports and modeling talent agency in the world ‚Äî a lot of his life was quite private. On the private side of things was the Gulfstream V (G V) jet he got after buying, turning around, and then selling the Gulfstream in the 1990s. The February issue of Vanity Fair has a long profile of Forstmann's last days told by a man who spent many of them with him ‚Äî Rich Cohen, the ghostwriter working on Forstmann's biography. Forstmann loved to travel, so Cohen ended up spending a lot of time on the Gulfstream going from New York City to Paris, London and beyond. Here's what it was like: We met at a heliport on the west Side of Manhattan. Teddy's driver carried his bags across the concrete. I followed behind with my own, battered valise, climbing into the passenger cabin of the helicopter as Teddy gave the signal and up we went.... Soon the helicopter set us down on a runway at the Morristown Municipal Airport in New Jersey. Teddy's plane was waiting, its turbines already spinning, its crew standing in starched uniforms, its jet bridge ascending to technological heaven as the tycoon and his ghost made their way across the tarmac... Teddy's plan was all command center: deep leather chairs, financial journals, and flat-screens. There was a bed, but it was hidden away, disguised... We landed in Paris as the sun was going down. the city was gold and blue and strung with lights. When you are rich, you do not stand in line to show your passport. Instead, after the G V rolled to a stop, scotch glasses clinking in the tray beside the single malts, a customs official came aboard, greeted us in her beautiful language, gave our documents the once-over, sad, Oui Oui Monsieur Forstmann, and bid us adieu as we moved on to the car, then off through the moody twilit streets. Pretty boss, right?
Futures contracts for wheat and corn are both trading up big this afternoon since 12 PM ET when the U.S. Department of Agriculture released its monthly World Agricultural Supply and Demand Estimates report. The report is one of the most critical WASDE releases of the year, according to commodity broker John Payne, because it provides the final statistics for the 2012 crop. Sure enough, supplies of wheat were lower than previously expected, and demand is projected to be higher than before. Corn supplies came in slightly stronger than previously expected, but demand is also projected to increase more than previously thought. Wheat futures are up 2.2 percent, though they are starting to give back gains: Thinkorswim Corn is up around 2.3 percent: Thinkorswim Below is the key passage from the report regarding wheat: Projected U.S. wheat ending stocks for 2012/13 are lowered 38 million bushels this month. Feed and residual use is projected 35 million bushels higher as December 1 stocks, reported in the January Grain Stocks, indicate higher-than-expected disappearance during September-November. Seed use is raised 2 million bushels based on the winter wheat planted area reported in Winter Wheat Seedings. Projected exports for all wheat are unchanged; however, Hard Red Winter (HRW) wheat exports are lowered 25 million bushels and Soft Red Winter (SRW) wheat exports are raised 25 million bushels based on the pace of sales and shipments to date and the increasing competitiveness of SRW wheat in world markets. All wheat imports are also unchanged, but small adjustments raise projected HRW wheat imports 5 million bushels and reduce Hard Red Spring wheat and Durum imports by a combined 5 million bushels. The projected range for the 2012/13 season-average farm price for all wheat is lowered 10 cents at the midpoint and narrowed to $7.65 to $8.15 per bushel, based on prices reported to date. The passage detailing the latest developments in the corn harvest reads similarly: Projected corn use for 2012/13 is raised with higher expected feed and residual disappearance more¬†than offsetting reduced prospects for exports. Feed and residual use is projected 300 million bushels higher based on September-November disappearance as indicated by December 1 stocks and on higher expected beef, pork, and poultry production. Corn exports are projected 200 million bushels lower reflecting the slow pace of sales and shipments to date and increasing pressure from larger supplies and exports for South America. Corn ending stocks are projected 44 million bushels lower at 602 million. The season-average farm price for corn is unchanged at $6.80 to $8.00 per bushel. While stiff competition has limited U.S. corn exports, higher domestic disappearance leaves the balance sheet historically tight and is expected to support continued strong and volatile prices well into summer, particularly in the domestic cash markets. Click here for the full report &gt;
Funny or DieDow Jones starring CommonWe recently saw U.S. initial jobless claims tick up a bit. While it's far too early too call it a trend, we can certainly think in terms of hypotheticals. Enter Citi chart guru Tom Fitzpatrick, who presented some eerie charts of initial jobless claims and the Dow to King World News. "Initial Claims, one of our favorite leading indicators of the overall economic picture, appear to be bottoming, pointing to a deteriorating employment situation in the US," said Fitzpatrick.¬† "Fitting with idea that a low could be forming just as it did in late 1978." Citi via King World News Again, it's too early to call a turn in jobless claims. Here's Fitzpatrick's chart overlaying the Dow today with the Dow during the 1970's Citi via King World News Fitzpatrick concludes: We continue to believe that the charts above are compelling and suggest: ‚Äì The economy and in particular the employment picture look set to once again deteriorate with initial claims set to move higher over 2013 and possibly 2014.¬† The pictures on small business, ISM and consumer confidence are all ‚Äúflashing red‚Äù for us. We continue to expect the Equity market to move lower this year with the down move possibly extending¬† into 2014.¬† At least a 20%+ fall in the DJIA (High to low) and possibly as much as 27% is still our bias. Again, as in the fixed income markets we suspect that the interference/kicking the can dynamic means that the moves lower in both yields and Equity markets may be more extended in time taking us into late Q2/early Q3. Fitzpatrick's commentary also includes an expectation for gold to surge. Read more at KingWorldNews.com.
One culprit was Hurricane Sandy. The storm did a real number on the gambling business, with November profits down more than 27%. But things weren't looking too bright even before then: with profits down 4.8% through September. Overall, the gambling industry made $3.05 billion in 2012, 8% less than the previous year. Lasry's Avenue Capital is a big investor in Entertainment, which owns two casinos in the area, the Trump Taj Mahal and Trump Plaza, while Ichan owns Tropicana Casino and Resorts. From the Post: "Lasry‚Äôs Trump Taj Mahal saw casino winnings fall 15 percent last year, while Trump Plaza was down 25 percent, according to yesterday‚Äôs report. Icahn‚Äôs Tropicana fell 9.8 percent," the New York Post reported. Lasry and Ichan aren't the only hedge fund managers to lose money in Atlantic City casinos though. "Meanwhile, a handful of hedge funds, including Canyon Capital, have plowed money into Revel ‚Äî the first new Atlantic City casino in 10 years ‚Äî only to be disappointed since the $2.4 billion resort opened its doors in April. The report didn‚Äôt include an annual figure for Revel." Sounds brutal.
When McGregor Madden started his company, Proper Suit, he noticed something that gave him an idea for a new business.† "We had men buying $1,000 suits, yet their dress shirts never fit them," said Madden, who is a tailor by trade. "Dress shirts were a commodity, something you had to purchase, but very few men put thought into how they fit under this expensive suit."† With that experience in mind, Madden and his business partner and fellow tailor Richard Hall co-founded†subscription service Hall &amp; Madden.† For $150, men get three dress shirts customized to fit them based on height, weight, and other measurements provided by the customer.† The shirts are as high-quality as those manufactured by Hugo Boss, Burberry, and Gucci, but for about one-third of the price, Madden told us.† "We actually reverse-engineered our shirts based on these designer labels by finding their suppliers and working directly with them," Madden said. "Then we added even more luxury features, like thick mother-of-pearl buttons and handmade single-needle stitching construction, to make the shirt even better." Madden said the service is "all about the product."† "I'm a tailor by trade, so I tried to be meticulous about the product, how it was made and the fit," Madden said.† Madden is able to offer the shirt at such an affordable price because he doesn't have the overhead costs of store rents or associates, he said.† The service has 1,000 subscribers in just a few months.†Hall &amp; Madden's next step is to open an office near Chicago's Merchandise Mart.† Madden said his typical customer is a young man who is just starting out in his career.† "I think that a lot of men graduate business school and have no real idea of how their work clothes should fit, or what they should be wearing," Madden said. "Our goal is to ease that stress and provide a product that works for them."† DON'T MISS: How Retailers Track Your Every Move &gt;
Here's a straightforward chart from a presentation given by Joachim Fels, Chief International Economist for Morgan Stanley. It shows the contributions of the developed markets (DM) and emerging markets (EM) to global GDP growth every year since 1970. Even during the financial crisis, the EMs continued to grow. Morgan Stanley
The reputation of Boeing's 787 Dreamliner, the long-awaited jet that promises to make flying more efficient and pleasant, has been regularly marred over the past few years, reaching what may prove to be a low point this week when two different Japan Airlines 787s at Logan International Airport in Boston had major problems. In response, stocks are down nearly three percent today, after the FAA and Boeing announced a comprehensive review of the 787's power system that will also cover the plane's design and manufacturing. The Promise Of The Dreamliner Boeing's moniker for the new 787 ó Dreamliner ó was chosen to emphasize the fundamental, positive changes the aircraft would bring to the industry. A special air filtration systems keeps the cabin's humidity at a higher level, so it is more comfortable at cruising altitudes. Business Insider's Steve Kovach flew first class on the Dreamliner from New York to Houston last month, and called the aircraft "incredible." For airlines, the Dreamliner offers something even better: improved fuel efficiency, thanks to a lithium ion battery, new electrical systems, and lighter composite materials that make up its fuselage. But those new technologies, which put the Dreamliner ahead of other aircraft, have also held the new plane back. Early Problems Boeing delivered the first Dreamliner to All Nippon Airways in September 2011 ó three and a half years behind schedule. To conserve fuel, the Dreamliner uses five times more electricity, and more electrical systems, than other jets, and is the only aircraft certified to use a lithium ion battery. Wary of the aircraft paving new ground, the FAA certified the aircraft only with several "special conditions." Its caution was justified. In 2009, tiny wrinkles in the composite fuselages of more than 20 planes were found. In January 2010, flaws were found in the Dreamliner's tail section. In November 2010, debris in the electrical panel let to an in-flight fire and the grounding of Boeing's test fleet for six weeks, Bloomberg reported. A Fresh Round Of Headaches For about a year after that fire, things went well for the Dreamliner, culminating in FAA certification and the All Nippon Airways delivery. But now that several dozen 787s are in service, more problems have surfaced. In July 2012, an engine component in a 787 fractured as the plane was preparing for its first flight, sparking a fire and the shutdown of a South Carolina airport, according to the Daily Mail. December 2012 was especially rough for Boeing. Fuel leaks on two planes led the FAA to issue an airworthiness directive on December 5, requiring checks of fuel-line connectors in all Dreamliners. The day before, a United Airlines flight from Houston to Newark made an emergency landing after it a computer falsely indicated one of the plane's power generators had failed. Qatar Airways and Chilean LAN Airlines had similar issues, Aviation Week reported. In Boeing's Defense Despite all these issues, Boeing stands by the 787. Dreamliner Chief Engineer Mike Sinnett argues the problems are no worse than those that faced the 777, which has had no serious issues since its 1995 introduction. In a statement today, Boeing said: "Like the 777, at 15 months of service, we are seeing the 787's fleet wide dispatch reliability well above 90 percent." "Just like any new airplane program, we move through these issues and move on," Sinnett said in a conference call Wednesday. "We're not satisfied until our reliability and our performance are 100 percent." In a statement announcing the review of the 787's critical systems, FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta echoed his point: "We are confident that the aircraft is safe. But we need to have a complete understanding of what is happening." But the promise of the Dreamliner and its history of delays have focused the critical gaze of investors, government administrators, and the public, magnifying the impact of each stumble. The Dreamliner's Future The FAA review itself is a bad sign for Boeing, and comes after an especially rough week. A fire broke out in the belly of a Japan Airlines Dreamliner at Boston's Logan International Airport on Monday. Tuesday, 40 gallons of fuel leaked from a different Japan Airlines Dreamliner, also at Logan. After Monday's fire, United Airlines inspected its own fleet of Dreamliners, and a source told the Wall Street Journal faulty wiring was found (United would not confirm this finding). That wiring was related to the auxiliary power unit battery, the unit that was badly damaged in the Japan Airlines fire: an ominous sign. Today, a crack appeared in the cockpit window of a All Nippon Airways 787 in Japan, Reuters reported, a change from problems that have mostly come from the plane's electrical systems. The FAA review will cover the Dreamliner's "design, manufacture, and assembly." If it finds problems, Boeing should hope they are in the manufacture and assembly stages: A fault in the design of the aircraft would require it to go back and make fundamental changes in how the plane is built. Boeing has delivered only 50 Dreamliners, and is behind on delivering the 800 it has taken orders for. Designing, certifying, and introducing a new airplane is a major investment that takes many deliveries to pay off. If the FAA condemns some part of the Dreamliner, the damage, in terms of money and reputation, could be devastating. Now see what it's like to fly first class on the Dreamliner &gt;
This week, among record fund flows into stocks around the world,†long-only equity mutual funds recorded inflows of $8.9 billion ñ the biggest weekly inflow seen since March 2000, during the height of the tech bubble:  Not only did more money flow into long-only funds this week since 2000, but it was also the fourth-largest weekly inflow on record. Many Wall Street strategists expect a "great rotation" out of bonds and into equities in 2013. This week's flows are indicative of a strong thrust into stocks, but perhaps the most amazing part of the data is that bond funds also had strong inflows this week ñ meaning that the big rotation out of fixed income isn't quite happening yet. Citi strategist Tobias Levkovich, one of those who expects a "great rotation" out of bonds and into stocks on the horizon, wrote in a recent note to clients: That equities have generated better returns for investors than bonds over the past four years seems to have been missed by many who have continued to allocate more money towards bond mutual funds. Furthermore, pension managers and endowments have tried liability driven investing and now are running into problems trying to achieve 6%-8% like return needs. Hence, a shift back towards stocks appears very probable, but some pension benefit consultants and actuaries may need to wait for five-year numbers in early 2014 to get over the hump. What does it mean shorter-term? BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett suggests that this a sign that the recent exuberance in the stock market is getting a bit overdone, and suggests that it could strengthen the case for a correction: Neither massive inflow nor bullish sentiment guarantees big correction in equities - still need a catalyst; but vulnerability to negative catalyst rising sharply 5% January dip in January would be healthy; without one risk of much larger correction later in the quarter grows. Other signs investor sentiment now bullish: big large specs positions in NKY, SPY, IWM and Oil; 41/45 markets now trading above 200 &amp; 50dma ñ most bullish reading since Nov'10. READ MORE: The Two Things That Could Kill The Current Market Rally &gt;
ParamountBy day, he's a 39-year-old lawyer in Atlanta. Also by day ó like many other bored attorneys ó he haunts policy blogs and starts bullshit sessions with like-minded professionals about problems ailing the country. † It was in one such forum that the lawyer ó online handle†"beowulf" (he asked us not to publish his real name for fear of upsetting clients) ó conceived the idea that now has one at least one GOP congressman racing to stop it: minting a $1 trillion coin to skirt the debt ceiling. You can read the full details about the evolution of beowulf's idea†at Wired†and Talking Points Memo†ó it basically started with a discussion on Warren Mosler's modern monetary theory blog about the profit opportunities for the government from minting coins. But beowulf ó who describes his political views as right-leaning ó has a message for Rep. Walden: your time would be better spent focusing on paying the bills you've already incurred.† "To think that the debt limit will reduce the deficit is like thinking a restaurant tab will help you lose weight," beowulf told us by phone Friday. "It's unfair. You're hurting people who relied on the U.S. to pay their bills." To review: beowulf found a clause in the U.S code that allows the Treasury to mint unlimited amounts of platinum coinage. In theory the Treasury could mint one platinum coin with a $1 trillion denomination, deposit it at the Federal Reserve, and keep the U.S. beneath the debt ceiling.† Beowulf is under no illusion that the idea is likely to happen. But he is frustrated by the lack of intelligence surrounding the debt ceiling debate. "The U.S. doesn't have a debt problem," he says. "We have these artificial crises, but when there's really a problem, the country doesn't worry about the debt. During World War II, the debt hit 120 percent of GDP...But when the wolf's not at the door, people try to push their own deficit agenda ó it's 'the debt's too big' when Republicans are in power, and 'taxes are too low,' for Democrats." He observes that borrowing remains the cheapest tool at the government's disposal for paying its bills. Interest on 3-month Treasury bills is less than one†tenth of one percent the interest the Treasury would have to pay to banks holding reserves. "The credit of the U.S. is so good, the government can borrow for less than rate of inflation," he says. "People are paying the government to watch their money for them." Beowulf chalks up his discovery to trying to apply his world ó law ó to economics. Too often, thinking about how to solve a problem in the realm of one results in ignoring limitations posed by the other. "It's a technical issue, it's not a political issue," he says. "The democrats are cheerleading now, Republicans are not Ö But if Romney had won, the Democrats would be out there saying it's a right-wing plot right."
Courtesy of WhiteHouse.govPresident Barack Obama will deliver the State of the Union Address on Feb. 12 this year after he accepted House Speaker John Boehner's invitation this morning. And because of the circumstances that will surround Obama's address, this year's State of the Union could be one of the most dramatic in recent history.† Specifically, the U.S. could hit its "X date" on the debt ceiling as soon as Feb. 15†ó three days after Obama delivers his address to the joint session of Congress. The address could come in the midst of tense negotiations and squabbling among the branches of Congress and Obama about raising the debt ceiling and avoiding a default on U.S. credit. (Side note: It could also be three days before Obama needs to decide on whether he wants to mint the platinum, trillion-dollar coin as a way to work around the ceiling.) The address will also come about two weeks before the massive spending cuts in the sequester start to take effect, and negotiations will likely be underway to avert at least some of those cuts. If things aren't going well in either negotiation, look for Obama to make good on his threat from the fiscal cliff talks. He said that he would use every opportunity ó including the high-profile Inauguration speech and State of the Union address ó to say that Republicans were at fault if talks broke down.
St. Louis FedHave you heard about the trillion dollar platinum coin proposal to avert a debt ceiling crisis next month? Pundits from the political, economic, and investment spheres continue to weigh in on the plan. Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCO ‚Äì the world's biggest bond fund ‚Äì said in a CNN op-ed today that the trillion dollar coin proposal just might work. El-Erian writes: I suspect that market reaction would be generally calm if the option were used as a way to diffuse what could otherwise be a repeat of the debt ceiling debacle in the summer of 2011 -- when political brinkmanship and bickering harmed growth, risk assets and the country's credit rating...It could also encourage Congress to deal once and for all with the oddity of having to consider both annual budgets and disconnected debt limits. In fact, there is a reason why this dual approach is not prevalent outside our borders. It is both redundant and harmful. However, El-Erian acknowledges one caveat that other critics of the trillion dollar coin proposal from the investment community often raise.  Should the coin be viewed more of and end in itself than a means to an end, it could be a problem: Markets would worry about whether the approach would add considerable fuel to the fires of Congressional discontent, dysfunction and polarization. Political risk would increase, serving to price out an even greater array of job- and growth-enhancing investments by the private sector. Meanwhile, the rest of the world could well view this policy approach as potentially inflationary, and also indicative of a superpower that has lost its way. All of which would be detrimental to equities, bonds and the value of the US dollar. Read the rest of El-Erian's take on the coin at CNN &gt; SEE ALSO:¬†It Doesn't Sound Like Jon Stewart Is On Board With 'Mint The Coin' &gt;
Sources: "A Boost In Your Paycheck: How Are US Workers Using The Payroll Tax Cut?", Federal Reserve Bank of New York Liberty Street Economics, UBSAmericans only spent about two-fifths of the extra cash they got from the 2009 payroll tax cuts.If you've already received your first paycheck of the year, then you've probably noticed that it was a teeny bit smaller than expected. That's because when the temporary cut in payroll taxes expired at the end of last year, policymakers decided to let them stay that way as a part of the fiscal cliff tax deal, also known as "American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012." Now that these payroll taxes are back, the US government can expect to collect revenue equivalent to about 0.66% of GDP, according to a report by UBS' global macro team. That's a reduction of around $115 billion in the disposable incomes of American households. So Americans are going to end up spending a little less than they would have, right? Not really says UBS. Turns out, the payroll tax cut didn't really do much to increase spending in the first place. "The negative consumption impact from the Social Security payroll tax rise should be far less than the estimated $115 billion hike in such taxes this year. That is because the temporary two percentage point Social Security tax rate cut in 2011-2012 was not a big consumption booster." This keeps in line what's happened in the pastólike in the 1960's, when the US government enacted a temporary income tax surcharge, spending only reduced by 35 cents on the dollar of the extra revenue. The tax deal also enacts heavier taxes on higher income households, most significantly effecting those making $500,000 a year or more. But this will probably result in a drop in savings, not so much a reduction in spending, said the report. "Higher Federal income taxes on relatively wealthy taxpayers should be accompanied by a drop in savings that limits the negative near-term consumer spending impact. Saving rates increase sharply at higher income levels, with the saving rate estimated at 51 cents on the dollar for the top 1% of the income distribution and 37 cents on the dollar for the top 5%."
Best Buy reported its holiday sales numbers this morning.†Global comp sales fell 1.4 percent, though†U.S. numbers were flat. And that's not so bad. "Our holiday selling strategy, backed by a compelling assortment, increased employee training and price match policy, allowed us to deliver these results," said Best Buy†CEO†Hubert Joly.† Right now, Best Buy's in the early stages of a revamp under Joly, the former hospitality exec who took over the consumer electronics retailer in September. He has been working beneath the backdrop of founder Richard Schulze's attempts to buy back the company. Best Buy said that same-store sales rose in mobile phones, tablets, and appliances, but fell in entertainment, computers, and TVs. Joly has passed an early test. Best Buy's holiday season wasn't an absolute catastrophe. ì[It] gives the board greater bargaining power now that theyíve got the first glimmer of a turnaround," Erik Gordon, a business and law professor at the University of Michigan, told Bloomberg.†"It was not the disaster that people were fearing.î "The company likely gained market share," Janney analyst David Strasser wrote†in a note to clients. "These results should put a long awaited floor on the stock and give potential buyers incremental confidence in the structural strengths." Not everyone's so optimistic. "There are no redeeming qualities to the quarter from Best Buy," wrote Brian Sozzi, chief equities analyst at NBG Productions, in a note. "In my view, it finds itself in quite the pickle.† A clearly deteriorating business that could be left to die on public markets...†seeing as the founder may be concerned by the pace of deterioration and vanish from the picture."† Sozzi's especially worried about one number in particular. Best Buy lowered its free cash flow guidance to $500 million from November's range of $850 million-$1.05 billion. ìWhile we believe the holiday sales indicate the new senior management team has begun to stabilize the business, we are troubled by the reduced free cash flow guidance,î BB&amp;T analyst Anthony Chukumba†told MarketWatch.
This week we witnessed historic flows into stocks around the world. In fact, at $22 billion in inflows, it was the second-biggest week ever. Perhaps the most remarkable detail about this week's flows, however, was in the fixed income data. Surprisingly, despite all of the money flowing into equities, flows into bonds were robust as well ñ total flows into fixed income were $6.5 billion. Furthermore, the gains were broad-based. Investment grade, high yield, and emerging market bond funds all recorded between $1.5 billion and $2 billion of inflows, while municipal bond funds grew by $1.6 billion. Only U.S. Treasuries ñ the world's largest bond market ñ saw any outflows, totaling $1.3 billion. Jefferies analyst Daniel Fannon writes in a note to clients that taxable fixed income funds had their best week since†March. Money market funds saw big inflows as well ñ $22 billion this week, bringing the three-week total to $69 billion ñ but BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett says flows are likely related to deposit outflows after unlimited FDIC insurance expired on December 31. Hartnett and many other strategists across Wall Street are coalescing around the "Great Rotation" theme in 2013 ñ but it didn't happen this week. The idea is that investors stage a big rotation out of bonds, which have been in an epic bull market for over 30 years, and that money finally flows into stocks. The chart below from Citi analyst Markus Rosgen provides a bit of perspective. With this week's historic move into equities, the flows are really starting to achieve liftoff. At the same time, bond fund flows seem to be nearing trend again after a brief dip at the end of 2012:  However, flows into bond funds are definitely slowing down, even if they haven't stopped. The chart below plots the growth of assets under management in bond versus equity funds based on weekly fund flow data.  That is how Rosgen characterizes it, writing that the "switch to equities from bonds continues" this week. And in case you haven't seen the statistics on this week's massive move into stocks: Wall Street analysts are starting to talk about a correction in the stock market in the first half of this year. It will be interesting to see if the out sized flows into equities can continue.
This week we witnessed historic flows into stocks around the world. In fact, at $22 billion in inflows, it was the second-biggest week ever. Perhaps the most remarkable detail about this week's flows, however, was in the fixed income data. Surprisingly, despite all of the money flowing into equities, flows into bonds were robust as well ñ total flows into fixed income were $6.5 billion. Furthermore, the gains were broad-based. Investment grade, high yield, and emerging market bond funds all recorded between $1.5 billion and $2 billion of inflows, while municipal bond funds grew by $1.6 billion. Only U.S. Treasuries ñ the world's largest bond market ñ saw any outflows, totaling $1.3 billion. Jefferies analyst Daniel Fannon writes in a note to clients that taxable fixed income funds had their best week since†March. Money market funds saw big inflows as well ñ $22 billion this week, bringing the three-week total to $69 billion ñ but BofA Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett says flows are likely related to deposit outflows after unlimited FDIC insurance expired on December 31. Hartnett and many other strategists across Wall Street are coalescing around the "Great Rotation" theme in 2013 ñ but it didn't happen this week. The idea is that investors stage a big rotation out of bonds, which have been in an epic bull market for over 30 years, and that money finally flows into stocks. The chart below from Citi analyst Markus Rosgen provides a bit of perspective. With this week's historic move into equities, the flows are really starting to achieve liftoff. At the same time, bond fund flows seem to be nearing trend again after a brief dip at the end of 2012:  However, flows into bond funds are definitely slowing down, even if they haven't stopped. The chart below plots the growth of assets under management in bond versus equity funds based on weekly fund flow data.  That is how Rosgen characterizes it, writing that the "switch to equities from bonds continues" this week. And in case you haven't seen the statistics on this week's massive move into stocks: Wall Street analysts are starting to talk about a correction in the stock market in the first half of this year. It will be interesting to see if the out sized flows into equities can continue.
The global investment scene is dominated by deleveraging, according to Gary Shilling. And in the U.S., the¬† financial sector and household sector need 9.5 years and 8.3 years, respectively, to return their balance sheets to trend. And until this period of deleveraging comes to an end, Shilling forecasts average U.S. GDP growth of two percent. But there are nine other factors that would also slow U.S. and global growth in coming years. From the latest A Gary Shilling's Insights: A. Gary Shilling ¬† SEE ALSO: Gary Shilling's 10 Favorite Investments In This Wildly Distorted Market &gt;
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A U.S. regulatory probe of JP Morgan Chase &amp; Co is expected to result in an order that the bank correct lapses in how it polices suspect money flows, in an action expected as soon as Friday, people familiar with the situation said. The action would be in the form of a cease-and-desist order, which regulators use to force banks to improve compliance weaknesses, the sources said. The order is expected to be issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve. JP Morgan is not expected to pay a monetary penalty, according to one person familiar with the situation. The Treasury Department's anti money-laundering unit, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, also could take a separate action against the bank. A JP Morgan spokeswoman declined comment. The status of the inquiry could change and the timing of the action could extend to next week or later. The JP Morgan inquiry dates back several months, according to people familiar with the probe. Under the order, the bank is expected to be required to bolster systems it uses to monitor risk and transactions. The order is the latest action that U.S. regulators have taken this year to force banks to tighten their anti money- laundering systems, which are supposed to flag suspect transactions from sanctioned countries or those from customers with ties to drug trafficking or terrorism. Britain-based bank Standard Chartered Plc agreed to pay a total of $667 million to U.S. and state regulators to resolve anti-money laundering probes, while HSBC Holdings Plc, also headquartered in Britain, agreed in December to pay $1.9 billion to settle a U.S. inquiry. In April, the Comptroller of the Currency identified major lapses in compliance systems at U.S. bank Citigroup Inc, though Citigroup didn't pay a monetary penalty. (Reporting by Carrick Mollenkamp and Emily Flitter of Reuters, and Brett Wolf of the Compliance Complete service Thomson Reuters Accelus; Editing by David Holmes) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Wesley Wang wore a wire, he recorded phone calls, and according to Bloomberg, he named over 20 names. Perhaps that why yesterday, according to the NY Post, despite the fact that the former SAC Capital analyst admitted to insider trading for 7 years he was sentenced to two years probation without a fine. It's a message from Federal regulators ‚Äî if you help us, we'll help you. Wang's cooperation led to ten insider trading convictions. From the NY Post: ‚ÄúThe extent of Mr. Wang‚Äôs cooperation . . . really goes beyond that even of most cooperators,‚Äù Manhattan federal Judge Jed Rakoff said at Wang‚Äôs sentencing yesterday. ‚ÄúHe is really quite, quite valuable.‚Äù When the infamously harsh Judge Rakoff is giving you props, you've obviously done your duty. And since no one knows the extent to which Wang cooperated, Wall Street may not have seen the Feds act on all the information he gave them. That should be disturbing for SAC Capital and its founder, Steve Cohen.SAC founder Steve Cohen himself was said by federal prosecutors to have¬†interacted with¬†alleged inside trader Mathew Martoma.¬† Martoma is accused of running the most profitable insider trading scheme in history, netting a total of $276 million in alleged ill-gotten gains, but so far Martoma's not talking. Maybe after seeing how Wang was sentenced he'll change his mind.
Comedy CentralThe idea of minting a trillion-dollar platinum coin to work around the debt ceiling has gained some credible support in what has been just more than a week since its renewed take-off. Rep. Jerry Nadler supports the idea. Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman wrote his first print column today advocating the possibility if Republican members of Congress vote against raising the debt ceiling. Even the White House didn't flatly rule it out. But don't count Daily Show host Jon Stewart among its supporters. He jabbed at the idea in a segment in his show on Thursday, comparing it to newly nominated Treasury Secretary Jack Lew's signature. "I'm not an economist," Stewart said. "But if we're going to just make [stuff] up, I say go big or go home. How about a $20 trillion coin?" Or, he suggested, maybe a $1 "quillion" coin. "We donít need some trillion-dollar coin gimmick," Stewart said. "We need a way to get the world to take the U.S. dollar seriously again." Then he presented Lew's signature. At least he thought the trillion-dollar coin wasn't as ridiculous as that. "Hey, Lew, hereís a tip: stop signing all your checks on the tea cup ride at Disney World," Stewart said. Here's the full clip, courtesy of Comedy Central: The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook Now see the 'IOU' plan to work around the debt ceiling &gt;
Many have already questioned the reliability of Chinese economic data. Now, Benford's Law, a 1930s' mathematical tool named after former GE physicist Frank Benford, has been used to raise new concerns about data, according to research by the Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking Group. Benford's Law refers the to rate at which certain digits are distributed across data. It argues that the number 1 is the first digit about 30 percent of the time, while larger numbers will be the first digit fewer times.† Wikimedia Commons From Bloomberg:  "The ANZ economists studied Chinaís annual nominal gross domestic product data from 1952 to 2011 to measure how frequently numbers from one to nine appeared as the first digit. While the 24 occurrences of ìoneî is higher than the 18 suggested by the rule, the economists said the statistics largely abide by what Benfordís Law allows. The same is true of industrial production data. Suspicions emerged when the data was probed more deeply and reported in percentage terms, the ANZ report said, adding that the guilty party was often the second digit. An examination of the quarterly GDP growth rate from December 1991 to September 2012 shows zero occurred as the second digit 21 times, much higher than what Benford would calculate and suggesting a rounding-up to achieve a bigger leading digit. One through four also appeared more regularly than the law reckons, while seven through nine featured less. Inflation reported on a percentage basis also failed to fit the law. Non-conformity to the Benfordís law does not always indicate data manipulation, but nevertheless it raises doubts about the quality of Chinese data,î the authors said. ìOur statistical analysis seems to have confirmed the long-rooted suspicion on quality and reliability of Chinese data."† Bloomberg says Benford's Law has previously shown that Greece and ponzi-schemer Bernard Madoff's numbers were manipulated.†
Alex DaviesThe 2013 1.0-liter Fiesta.US automaker Ford said Friday it plans to add 2,200 salaried jobs in the US, its biggest increase in such positions in 10 years. The number two US automaker said in a statement the new jobs would be primarily in engineering, production, and IT. The company had previously pledged to add 2,350 hourly workers as it invests in and expands manufacturing plants in the US. The new jobs are part of how Ford plans to fulfill a promise it made to the United Auto Workers union during contract negotiations to add 12,000 US jobs by 2015. Ford, which suffered during the 2008 financial crisis, has come back strong after major restructuring and product revamps in North America. Last year, the company hired 8,100 new employees, in both salaried and hourly positions. The company emphasized that around a thousand of the posts created by bringing back operations that had been done elsewhere, including in Mexico and Japan. Ford employs some 172,000 people and maintains 65 plants worldwide. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. Now see how Ford's plan to make Lincoln relevant again is working so far &gt;
Gold is falling fast after a sharp surge upward around 8:30 AM ET. It just dropped by about $20 an ounce: Thinkorswim The shiny yellow metal is now down 1.1 percent. It's unclear what is driving the sharp move. This follows a strong day for gold yesterday, as Deutsche Bank commodities analyst Xiao Fu explains in a note this morning: Yesterday's strength in the gold market was bolstered by a weak trade-weighted US dollar. The dollar's weakness coincided with the release of Initial Jobless Claims which were higher than expected. On the back of this data point we suspect that the market adjusted with a thought towards the read-through to the Fed, given its focus on employment in the US, certainly data of this nature bolsters the case for continued ultra-accommodative monetary policy. We also note the potential for further increases in US housing prices could be a powerful force in lifting the velocity of money in the US going forward, we believe that this is something that investors are debating. An increase in velocity could be inflationary in our view given the expansion of the Fed's balance sheet over the past five years. From a trading perspective there is room for the gold price to move towards the USD1,700/oz level, which would represent a considerable resistance level in our view. One thing is clear, though: investors bought a lot of stocks this week. SEE ALSO:¬†Investors Are Staging One Of The Biggest Moves Into Equities Of All Time &gt;
SAC Capital has told its employees and advisors to brace themselves for a mass exodus of investor capital in the coming months, the WSJ reports. Withdrawals could equal $1 billion, or 17% of outside investor funds, and clients have until February 15th to request a redemption if they want their money back by the end of Q1. According to Bloomberg, SAC was the most profitable large hedge fund in the world in 2012, so the question is not the success of its investments. Rather, investors have becomes skittish because the firm has come under the intense scrutiny of regulators for its links to multiple insider trading scandals over the last several years. SAC founder Steve Cohen himself was said by federal prosecutors to have interacted with alleged inside trader Mathew Martoma.¬†Martoma was a fund manager at a SAC Capital subsidiary fund, and is accused of helming the most profitable insider trading scheme of all time. $1 billion is a considerable mount for a firm like SAC. In total, it manages $14 billion, $6 billion of which comes from outside investors. From WSJ: "It is premature to speculate about redemptions," an SAC spokesman said Thursday. "Investors have until next month to decide." Even if investors demand all their money back from SAC, they will only be able to collect their funds 25% at a time, every three months starting in March, people familiar with SAC's rules said. The staggered withdrawals mean that SAC expects at least $250 million to be withdrawn at the end of March. There have already been signs that investors are willing to flee despite SAC's record of 30% annualized returns since its inception in 1992. At the end of last year, Societe Generale's Lyxor Asset Management arm (with $113 billion assets under management) announced that it would take its money out of SAC. Titan Advisors, a wealth managements firm whose co-founder has been investing with SAC since its early days, also announced that it withdrawal. Yesterday the WSJ reported that Citigroup had advised its pension plans to file redemption requests with SAC. And things are getting darker. This week Bloomberg reported that Wesley Wang, a former SAC Capital analyst, was naming names left and right. Yesterday in Court, the NY Post reports, Wang was sentenced to two years in prison without a fine. Sounds like the Feds were happy with him.
Lately Iíve had a ton of friends and family writing me about visiting Chile. ìWeíre fed up with this place,î is how the emails usually start. People are hitting their breaking points and starting to consider their options abroad. There are a lot of fantastic places to be. Chile is certainly one of them. Itís beautiful, optimistic, full of opportunity, cost effective, civilized, and free. But the one issue people seem to have is the language barrier. Most of the emails I receive also say something like ìÖ but I donít speak Spanish!î Big deal. Learning another language is not rocket science. With a vocabulary of just 100 wordsñ I, you, he, she, go, do, see, eat,† etc.ñ you can do just fine. That being said, I sprung for Rosetta Stoneís language software for a few friends, just to help them along. Now, Rosetta Stone has an instant download option; they donít need to send you any software in the mail, you can just buy and download directly from their site. Easy. So imagine my surprise when I got to the checkout screen, entered my credit card information, and the system added 8.25% sales tax, simply because I was using a credit card with a billing address in Texas. This seemed crazy to me. Iím a consumer in Chile downloading software over the Internet from a company based in Virginia. None of the transaction touches Texas, yet the State of Texas had its hand out for a piece of the action. So I backed up a screen and used my Hong Kong PayPal account. Hong Kong has no sales tax, no VAT, nada. And poof, the sales tax disappeared from my order. Simple. (Anyone can do thisñ it takes about 90-seconds to establish a Hong Kong-based PayPal accountÖ) This little episode really underscores a key theme worth repeating: technology progresses much faster than laws doÖ so the system we all live under is completely antiquated. And easily defeated. Most of the legal and policy framework in the West still operates under a 20th century paradigm, and there are examples everywhere. Tax policy, for instance, is decades old. It completely fails to take into account digital commerce. Our global financial system is an artifact of the last centuryÖ from the way a tiny banking elite sets interest rates, to how nations around the world MUST use the dollar and US banking system as part of international trade and commerce. All of that worked just fine in the 1950s. But in the digital age, money can flow across borders in an instant. Entire currencies and lending operations (bitcoin, digital crowdfunding) can exist outside of the system. Hell, I was able to defeat the taxman with a simple PayPal account. Itís clear that the current system is woefully, laughably outdated. Now, if a business fails to adapt to changing technology, it perishes. With governments, though, old, useless laws can stay on the books for decades. Yet eventually, the chasm between policy and technology becomes so vast that it FORCES a complete reset. Or collapse. As an example, the Ottoman Empire was so hobbled by ancient regulation, the first printing press wasnít introduced until 1729, three centuries after its invention. Together with its massive debt level, rapid currency debasement, and completely outdated (and counterproductive) system of tax farming, the Ottoman Empire began a death spiral into historyís dustbin. The West today is in a similar positionñ heavily indebted, printing money like crazy, and operating under outdated systems and policy frameworks. Weíve seen how this movie ends. It would be foolish not to expect a major reset in the way the world does businessÖ starting with an abandonment of the US dollar as the global reserve currency. Will it start happening in earnest this year? Possibly. But even if not, you wonít be any worse off for reducing your exposure to a crumbling, deeply flawed system. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ª
Haven‚Äôt blogged in a while. So I decided to look back and pull out one of my first blog posts, from 2004. ¬†An oldie, but goodie !  The Number. I recommend that anyone with an interest in the market jump at the chance to buy it. In 1990, I sold my company, MicroSolutions which specialized in what at the time was the relatively new¬†business of helping companies network their computer equipment to CompuServe. After taxes, I walked away¬†with about $2 million. That was going to be my nest egg, and my goal was to protect it at all costs, and grow it¬†wisely. I set about interviewing stockbrokers and settled upon a broker from Goldman Sachs, Raleigh Ralls. Raleigh was¬†in his late 20s, and relatively new to Goldman. But we hit it off very well and I trusted him. As we planned my¬†financial future, I made it clear that I wanted my nest egg to be invested not like I was 30 years old, but as if I¬†were 60 years old. I was a widows and orphans investor. Over the next year I stuck to my plan. I trusted Raleigh, and he put me in bonds, dividend-paying utilities¬†and blue chips, just as I asked. During that year, Raleigh began asking me a lot of questions about technology. Because of my experience at¬†MicroSolutions, I knew the products and companies that were hot. Synoptics, Wellfleet, NetWorth, Lotus, Novell¬†and others. I knew which had products that worked, didn‚Äôt work, were selling or not. How these companies¬†were marketed, and whether or not they were or would be successful. I couldn‚Äôt believe that I would have an advantage in the market. After all, I had read A Random Walk Down Wall¬†Street in college. I truly thought that the markets were efficient, that any available knowledge about a company¬†was already reflected in its stock price. Yet I saw Raleigh using the information I gave him to make money for his clients. He finally broke me down to start using this information to my advantage to make some money in the¬†market. Finally after more than a year, I relented. I was ready to trade. Notice I didn‚Äôt use the word invest. I wasn‚Äôt an investor. I just wanted to make money. The reason I was ready¬†to try was that it was patently obvious that the market wasn‚Äôt efficient. Someone like me with industry knowledge¬†had an advantage. My knowledge could be used profitably. As we got ready to start, I asked Raleigh if he had any¬†words of wisdom that I should remember. His response was simple. ‚ÄúGet Long, Get Loud‚Äù. Get Long, Get Loud. As we started buying and selling technology stocks, most of which were in the local area¬†networking field that I had specialized in at MicroSolutions, Raleigh put me on the phone with analysts, money¬†managers, individual investors, reporters, anyone with money or influence who wanted to talk technology and stocks. We talked about token ring topologies that didn‚Äôt work on 10BaseT. We talked about what companies were¬†stuffing channels ‚Äì selling more equipment to their distributors than the distributors really needed to meet the retail¬†demand. We talked about who was winning, and who was losing. We talked about things that really amounted to¬†the things you would hear if you attended any industry trade show panel. Yet after hanging up the phone with¬†these people, I would watch stocks move up and down. Of course as the stocks moved, the number of people wanting to¬†talk to me grew. I remember buying stock in a Canadian company called Gandalf Technologies in the early 90s. Gandalf made Ethernet¬†bridges that allowed businesses and homes to connect to the Internet and each other via high-speed digital phone lines¬†called ISDN. I had bought one for my house and liked the product, and I‚Äôd talked to other people who‚Äôd used it. They had¬†decent results, nothing spectacular, but good enough. I had no idea Gandalf was even a public company until a¬†friend of Raleigh‚Äôs asked me about it. What did I think about Gandalf Technologies? It was trading at the time at¬†about a buck a share. It was a decent company, I said. It had competition, but the market was new and they had as¬†much chance as anyone to succeed. Sure, I‚Äôll buy some, and I would be happy to answer any questions about the¬†technology. The market size, the competition, the growth rates. Whatever I knew, I would tell. I bought the stock, I answered the questions, and I watched Gandalf climb from a dollar to about $20 a share over¬†the next months. At a dollar, I could make an argument that Gandalf could be attractive. Its market was growing, and compared¬†to the competition, it was reasonably valued on a price-sales or price-earnings basis. But at $20, the company‚Äôs¬†market value was close to $1 billion ‚Äì which in those days was real money. The situation was crazy. People were¬†buying the stock because other people were buying the stock. To add to the volume, a mid-sized investment bank that specialized in technology companies came out with a buy¬†rating on Gandalf. They reiterated all the marketing mishmash that was fun to talk about when the stock was a¬†dollar. The ISDN market was exploding. The product was good. Gandalf was adding distributors. If they¬†only maintained X percentage of the market, they would grow to some big number. Their competitors were trading at¬†huge market caps, so this company looks cheap. Et cetera, et cetera. The bank made up forecasts formulating revenue numbers at monstrous growth rates that at some point in the future¬†led to profits. Unfortunately, the bank couldn‚Äôt attract enough new money to the stock to sustain its¬†price. It didn‚Äôt have enough brokers to shout out the marketing spiel to entice enough new buyers to pay the old¬†buyers. The hope among the ‚Äúsophisticated buyers‚Äù was that one bank picking up coverage would lead to others doing the¬†same. It didn‚Äôt happen. No other big investment banks published reports on the stock. The volume turned¬†down. So I did the only smart thing. I sold my stock, and I shorted it to boot. Then I told the same people who asked me¬†why I was buying the stock that I had shorted the stock. Over the next months, the stock sank into oblivion. In¬†1997, Gandalf filed for bankruptcy. Its shares were canceled ‚Äì wiped out ‚Äì a few months later. I wish I¬†could take credit for the stock going up, and going down. I can‚Äôt. If the company had performed well, who knows¬†what the stock would have done? But the entire experience taught me quite a bit about how the market works. For years on end a company‚Äôs price¬†can have less to do with a company‚Äôs real prospects than with the excitement it and its supporters are able to generate¬†among investors. That lesson was reinforced as I saw the Gandalf experience repeated with many different stocks¬†over the next 10 years. Brokers and bankers market and sell stocks. Unless demand can be manufactured, the¬†stock will decline. In July of 1998, my partner Todd Wagner and I took our company, Broadcast.com, public with Morgan Stanley.¬†Broadcast.com used audio and video streaming to enable companies to communicate live with customers, employees,¬†vendors, anyone with a PC. We founded Broadcast.com in 1995, and we were well on our way to being profitable. Still, we¬†never thought we would go public so quickly. But this was the Internet Era, and the demand for Internet stocks was¬†starting to explode. So publicly traded we would become and Morgan Stanley would shepherd us. Part of the process of taking a new company public is something called a road show. The road show is just¬†that. A company getting ready to sell shares visits the big mutual funds, hedge funds, pension funds ‚Äì anyone who¬†can buy millions of dollars of stock in a single order. It‚Äôs a sales tour. 7 days, 63 presentations.¬†We often discussed turning up the volume on the stock. It was the ultimate ‚ÄúGet Loud.‚Äù Call it¬†Stockapalooza. Prior to the road show, we put together an amazing presentation. We hired consultants to help us. We practiced and practiced. We argued about what we should and shouldn‚Äôt say. We had Morgan Stanley and others¬†ask us every possible question they could think of so we wouldn‚Äôt look stupid when we sat in front of these savvy¬†investors. Savvy investors? I was shocked. Of the 63 companies and 400-plus participants we visited, I would be exaggerating if I said we got 10 good questions about our business and how it worked. The vast majority of people¬†in the meetings had no clue who we were or what we did. They just knew that there were a lot of people talking¬†about the company and they should be there. The lack of knowledge at the meetings got to be such a joke between Todd and I that we used to purposely mess up to¬†see if anyone noticed. Or we would have pet lines that we would make up to crack each other up. Did we ruin¬†our chance for the IPO? Was our product so complicated that no one got it and as a result no one bought the¬†stock? Hell no. They might not have had a clue, but that didn‚Äôt stop them from buying the stock. We batted¬†1.000. Every single investor we talked to placed the maximum order allowable for the stock. On July 18, 1998, Broadcast.com went public as BCST, priced at 18 dollars a share. It closed at $62.75, a gain¬†of almost 250 percent, which at the time was the largest one day rise of a new offering in the history of the stock¬†market. The same mutual fund managers who were completely clueless about our company placed multimillion orders¬†for our stock. Multimillion dollar orders using YOUR MONEY. If the value of a stock is what people will pay for it, then Broadcast.com was fairly valued. We were able to¬†work with Morgan Stanley to create volume around the stock. Volume creates demand. Stocks don‚Äôt go up¬†because companies do well or do poorly. Stocks go up and down depending on supply and demand. If a stock is¬†marketed well enough to create more demand from buyers than there are sellers, the stock will go up. What about¬†fundamentals? Fundamentals is a word invented by sellers to find buyers. Price-earnings ratios, price-sales, the present value of future cash flows, pick one. Fundamentals are merely¬†metrics created to help stockbrokers sell stocks, and to give buyers reassurance when buying stocks. Even how¬†profits are calculated is manipulated to give confidence to buyers. I get asked every day to invest in private companies. I always ask the same couple questions. How soon till I¬†get my money back, and how much cash can I make from the investment? I never ask what the PE ratio will be, what¬†the Price to Sales ratio will be. Most private investors are the same way. Heck, in Junior Achievement we were¬†taught to return money to our investors. For some reason, as Alex points out in The Number, buyers of stocks have¬†lost sight of the value of companies paying them cash for their investment. In today‚Äôs markets, cash isn‚Äôt earned¬†by holding a company and collecting dividends. It‚Äôs earned by convincing someone to buy your stock from you. If you really think of it, when a stock doesn‚Äôt pay dividends, there really isn‚Äôt a whole lot of difference between¬†a share of stock and a baseball card. If you put your Mickey Mantle rookie card on your desk, and a share of your favorite non-dividend paying stock next¬†to it, and let it sit there for 20 years. After 20 years you would still just have two pieces of paper sitting on¬†your desk. The difference in value would come from how well they were marketed. If there were millions of stockbrokers¬†selling baseball cards, if there were financial television channels dedicated to covering the value of baseball cards¬†with a ticker of baseball card prices streaming at the bottom, if the fund industry spent billions to tell you to buy¬†and hold baseball cards, I am willing to bet we would talk about the fundamentals of baseball cards instead of¬†stocks. I know that sounds crazy, but the stock market has gone from a place where investors actually own part of a company¬†and have a say in their management, to a market designed to enrich insiders by allowing them to sell shares they buy¬†cheaply through options. Companies continuously issue new shares to their managers without asking their existing¬†shareholders. Those managers then leak that stock to the market a little at a time. It‚Äôs unlimited dilution¬†of existing shareholders‚Äô stakes, death by a thousand dilutive cuts. If that isn‚Äôt a scam, I don‚Äôt know what¬†is. Individual shareholders have nothing but the chance to sell it to the next sucker. A mutual fund buys¬†one million shares of a company with your and your coworkers‚Äô money. You own 1 percent of the company. Six¬†weeks later you own less, and all that money went to insiders, not to the company. And no one asked your¬†permission, and you didn‚Äôt know you got diluted or by how much till 90 days after the fact if that soon. When Broadcast.com went public, we raised a lot of money that certainly helped us grow as a company. But once¬†you get past the raising capital part of the market, the stock market becomes not only inefficient, but as close to a¬†Ponzi scheme as you can get. As a public company, we got calls every day from people who owned Broadcast.com stock or had bought it for their¬†funds. They didn‚Äôt call because they were confused during our road show, were too embarrassed to ask questions and¬†wanted to get more information. They called because they wanted to know if the ‚Äúfundamentals‚Äù ‚Äì the marketing¬†points ‚Äì they had heard before were improving. And the most important fundamental was ‚ÄúThe Number,‚Äù our quarterly¬†earnings (or in our case, a loss). Once we went public, Morgan Stanley published a report on our company, as did¬†several other firms. They all projected our quarterly sales and earnings. Would we beat The Number? Of course, by law, we were not allowed to say anything. That didn‚Äôt stop people from asking. They needed¬†us to beat the forecast. They knew if we beat The Number the volume on the stock would go up. Brokers would¬†tell their clients about it. The Wall Street Journal would write about it. CNBC would shout the good news¬†to day traders and investment banks that watched their network all day long. All the volume would drive up the¬†stock price. Unfortunately, patience is not a virtue on Wall Street. Every day, portfolios are valued by at closing price. If the value of your fund isn‚Äôt keeping up with the indexes or your competition, the new money coming in¬†the market won‚Äôt come to you. It just wasn‚Äôt feasible for these investors to wait till the number was reported by¬†companies each quarter. The volume had to be on the stocks in you fund. To keep the volume about a stock up, and¬†the demand for the stock increasing, you needed to have good news to tell. Volume, The Number, whisper numbers, insiders granting themselves millions and millions of options - these are the games that Wall Street plays to keep on enriching themselves at the expense of the public. I know¬†this. I have tried to tell people to be careful before they turned over their life savings and their financial¬†future to someone whose first job is to keep their job, not make you money. Till I read The Number by Alex Berenson, I never had a book that explained how the market truly worked that I could¬†tell my friends, family and acquaintances to read. I never had a book that would truly warn them that the market¬†was not as fair and honest as mutual fund and brokerage commercials made them out to be. I may be a cynic when it comes¬†to the stock market, but I am an informed cynic, and that has helped me make some very, very profitable decisions in¬†the market. If you are considering investing in the market, any part of it, or if you are considering giving your hard earned¬†money over to someone else to manage, please, please read The Number first. Mark Cuban, Dallas, Texas, January 2004  Read more posts on Blog Maverick ¬ª
"Morning Joe" co-host Joe Scarborough went on a substantial rant on the NRA and other gun-rights groups and retailers the day after many†met with Vice President Joe Biden at the White House.† Scarborough charged gun manufacturers with making "millions and millions" over the "slaughter of 20 innocents" in the aftermath of the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. He also slammed the NRA for "ginning up fears" in the wake of the tragedy. Here's Scarborough's diatribe: This is about gun manufacturers making millions and millions and millions of dollars. This is about retailers making millions and millions and millions of dollars. Do you know how much money these people have made over the slaughter of 20 innocents in Newtown? Do you know how much richer these rich gun manufacturers have gotten over the past month, and how the NRA uses that tragedy to gin up fears, and websites use that tragedy to gin up fears that theyíre coming to take your guns away? Hey, they canít take your guns away ó weíve got something called the Second Amendment in the Constitution of the United States. Justice Scalia said in 2009 they canít come and take your guns away. You can have a handgun to protect your family. But after that, they can regulate guns. Scarborough also warned that if Republicans continued to support the groups, they would be "driving off the cliff into political oblivion." Watch the full clip below, courtesy of MSNBC:  Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
This year, flu season is hitting hard. The latest data show that influenza cases are up 31.6 percent from last year. The thick blue line below shows the volume of Google searches for influenza-related terms this year ñ a good coincident indicator of flu activity ñ which is sharply above any other year in recent memory: Google Analysts are predicting it will only get worse.†Citi analyst Deborah Weinswig writes in a note to clients that "the flu season is off to an early start this season, and the CDC is projecting the worst season in 10 years." That doesn't sound encouraging, but Weinswig says it will be good for drug stores, who should see their same-store-sales numbers rise. BofA Merrill Lynch analyst Kevin Fishbeck says hospital stocks should get a bit of a boost as well. The chart below from Fishbeck shows the early spike in flu-related hospital visits this year in comparison to past years:  And it doesn't seem like anyone expects the surge to relent very soon. Jefferies analyst†David Windley†wrote, "In short, we are seeing an increase in activity with no signs of moderation yet," and continued, "If we take the CDCís rule†of thumb that flu season typically peaks in January or February, it seems likely to us that this season will be markedly worse than either of the last two years, and may reach the level of the 2007-2008 season."
Huge move for the Euro these last couple of days. Mario Draghi's upbeat comments yesterday were ver helpful. It's just crossed 1.33, but now Goldman is saying Buy the euro, with a target of 1.37. FinViz
Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images UPDATE: Big number on the trade deficit. In November, the trade deficit came in at $48.7 billion. That's well wider than the $41.8 billion that was expected. The full report can be found here. ------------------------------- EARLIER: The one big economic datapoint of the day: The trade balance. Analysts are expecting a trade deficit of $41.8 billion, which is a slight narrowing of $42.2 billion that was last month. Remember, the wider the trade deficit, the worst it is for GDP, but on the other hand, the wider the trade deficit, the more trade and economic activity there is typically. So it cuts both ways. We'll have the number here LIVE at 8:30 AM ET.
It‚Äôs no (new) news that Eddie Lampert ‚Äì key shareholder (approximately 22%) and hedge fund trader extraordinaire ‚Äì is now, officially, CEO of Sears.¬† Despite the business press‚Äô questioning (yet remarkably uncritical attitude toward) of Lampert‚Äôs new job title, make no mistake: this move is a massively, unmitigated disaster set in motion.¬† By naming himself CEO, Lampert has sealed Sears‚Äô fate as the next big retail failure. Here‚Äôs why. First, let‚Äôs look at the basics.¬† Since Lampert stitched ‚Äúdeeply wounded Kmart to Sears' once-venerated brand in 2005,‚Äù the retailer has lost more than $10B in revenue, ¬†¬†not to mention a drop in market cap down to $4.4B this past year.¬† And, despite Lampert‚Äôs habit of blaming ‚Äújournalists, analysts, and rating agencies for much of the trouble plaguing his retailing empire,‚Äù the market has, essentially, been reading the writing on the retail wall when analyzing and pricing shares of the retailer: Sears is a dying brand in a declining marketplace ‚Äì one that‚Äôs now plagued with a misguided CEO devoid of operational abilities who‚Äôs put himself in charge of operating a $40+B retailer in a declining marketplace. What makes Lampert‚Äôs latest move so deadly for Sears? Up until this point, Lampert‚Äôs essential strategy, post-AutoZone‚Äôs success of reallocating capital assets (which worked in part because ‚Äúthe strategy to scrutinize capex so tightly worked well for an auto parts retailer because you don‚Äôt eat in the stores, and women don‚Äôt buy apparel there‚Äù), has been to drastically cut back on capex for Sears, reducing it to less than 1% of sales (compared with 2-5% in the traditional department store space).¬† In turn, the Sears shopping experience ‚Äì once a hallmark and characteristic of the retailer‚Äôs legacy ‚Äì has devolved from bad to worse during the very years when department stores with limited web exposure were being left in the retail dust by retailers dominating the online shopping revolution.¬† And while Lampert has blamed a multitude of imagined enemies for Sears‚Äô decline, his assumption that a pure capex (as opposed to multi-tiered) strategy would turn around the retailer has turned out to be patently and provably wrong. So what now?¬† Lampert‚Äôs move to CEO indicates a new nadir in Sears‚Äô increasingly depressing status. While insiders report it nearly impossible to work within Lampert‚Äôs territorial and ugly system, the CEO has more to worry about than just a disenfranchised group of employees.¬† His obvious next move will most likely involve selling off Sears‚Äô real estate holdings (does he, as a hedge fund trader, have more than this one trump move in managing a company?), a desperate attempt to boost cash reserves and re-establish some stability, all without actually implementing a significant shift of in-store or online strategy. One problem, however: with JCP rumored to be considering a liquidation of some of its assets, Lampert will be faced with assets immediately devalued in the marketplace. And, given what employees and senior leaders have revealed about their time at Sears, Lampert‚Äôs hardly a competent leader ‚Äì more-often a divisive and ineffectual one ‚Äì one whose skills will be severely tested by the market and consumers in the next 12 months. Is this the death-knell for Sears? No, of course not.¬† It‚Äôs important to remember that this is, after all, a $40B company ‚Äì one that will not simply disappear into the department store graveyard.¬† Tragically, however, given JCP‚Äôs recent decent into retail nothingness, Lampert‚Äôs missing a real opportunity to change Sears.¬† And the department store experience in and of itself. In short, short Sears.¬† Nothing good will come from this.¬† Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with¬†ACM Partners, a boutique crisis¬†management and distressed investing firm serving companies and municipalities in financial distress.¬† She can be reached at margaret@acm-partners.com. 
Pretty snoozy start to bank earnings season. Wells Faro basically right in line. Wells Fargo $WFC reported Q4 EPS of $0.91, 2c better. Revs $21.9B vs $21.3B
flickr / alex 1560Good morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
It's been a dazzling week for mutual funds and ETFs. $22.2 billion flowed into equity funds this week, marking the second-largest weekly inflow in history. Inflows into emerging market equity funds this week were the largest ‚Äì at $7.4 billion ‚Äì of all time. "A new year, memories of 2012 returns, zero rates, the ‚Äúfiscal whiff‚Äô...whatever the reason investors capitulated into equities this week," writes¬†BofA strategist Michael Hartnett. Other big winners were long-only mutual funds, which recorded $8.9 billion in inflows this week ‚Äì the largest since March 2000:  Hartnett also notes that retail investors have only purchased more stocks than they did this week twice before. The chart below, via¬†Markus Rosgen at Citi, breaks down where flows went by region. It shows that North American equities dominated developed market flows, whereas emerging market inflows were primarily into broad-based, "global emerging market" funds.  And even while money poured into stocks this week, bonds recorded $6.5 billion in inflows as well. Hartnett says these flows strengthen the case for a correction: Neither massive inflow nor bullish sentiment guarantees big correction in equities - still need a catalyst; but vulnerability to negative catalyst rising sharply  5% January dip in January would be healthy; without one risk of much larger correction later in the quarter grows.  Other signs investor sentiment now bullish: big large specs positions in NKY, SPY, IWM and Oil; 41/45 markets now trading above 200 &amp; 50dma ‚Äì most bullish reading since Nov'10. All in all, a historic week. ALSO: The Two Things That Could Kill The Current Market Rally &gt;
Italy is rapidly becoming "core" Europe, by which we mean, a country seen as having very little sovereign risk anymore. Borrowing costs continue to plunge, even in just the last few days. Here's a beautiful 5-year chart of yields on the Italian 2-year. Not only are they close to the lows for the period, they've had a nice job in recent days. Bloomberg
APIt's becoming clear that another major test of Keynesian theories is underway in Japan. Ever since new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was elected, the country has seen a basically daily drip of headlines about new stimulus measures, both on the fiscal and monetary policy front. The latest is a pretty substantial fiscal stimulus. From the NYT: We will put an end to this shrinking, and aim to build a stronger economy where earnings and incomes can grow,‚Äù Mr. Abe told a televised news conference. ‚ÄúFor that, the government must first take the initiative to create demand, and boost the entire economy.‚Äù Under the plan, the Japanese government will spend about ¬•10.3 trillion, or about $116 billion, on public works and disaster mitigation projects, subsidies for companies that invest in new technology and financial aid to small businesses. Through these measures the government will seek to raise real economic growth by 2 percentage points and add 600,000 jobs to the economy, Mr. Abe said. The package announced Friday amount to one of the largest spending plans in Japan‚Äôs history, he stressed. As we've written a lot about over the last couple of months, Abe's pro-stimulus stance has resulted in huge financial market moves. The yen has been tanking (which is a feature, not a bug) and the Nikkei has just hit a 23-month high. On January 22, the Bank of Japan meets, and there are high expectations of a new, aggressive target. So keep watching this space. If the country starts whirring to life (or if it doesn't) we'll have fresh new data about how the government can jumpstart the economy.
Two good charts from Morgan Stanley show the demographic challenge facing China, which is on the verge of a turnaround, whereby its dependency ratio (which relates to the number of young people taking care of old people) starts to turn down. The first chart shows the dependency ratio (yellow line) on the verge of a downturn in China, whereas the second one relates to South Korea and Japan. Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley
As we pointed out yesterday, the idea that the US pays a lot in taxes in objectively false on a global basis. Americans pay relatively little compared to most countries. Now from Deutsche Bank is a chart that shows the US doesn't spend very much, either, at least compared to other major developed nations. Duetsche Bank A couple of interesting things to note. One is that Germany is usually considered a model of austerity and restraint, and it spends way more than the US does. The other thing that's surprising is that Japan is usually considered a model of reckless profligacy--and it spends less as a share of GDP than the US does. A couple of other interesting charts from the report include this one, which shows that pre-crisis, our spending to GDP was pretty stable (not exploding at all). Deutsche Bank On the other hand, it is true that healthcare spending has grown fairly significantly as a category of government spending. Duetsche Bank SEE ALSO: Krugman: The deficit is basically solved &gt;
Flickr/david_shankboneGetting up early is a no brainer for most executives. It means being awake during a part of the day when there are few distractions. It means reacting to the biggest news of the day while others are dreaming. And in the evening you have the option to work late too ‚Äî ¬†or¬†to get to sleep early while others are partying and watching TV.¬† From Jack Dorsey to Indra Nooyi, this is habit is common to tons of famous leaders. Whether they were born early risers¬†or learned good sleep habits, these people know how to seize the day.
Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty ImagesNobody's talking much about the financial or sovereign debt crisis in Spain right now. But the economy continues to be dismal. Spanish industrial production in November saw a huge drop that was far worse than estimates. From the report (.pdf): The Industrial Production Index (IPI) experienced an annual variation of ‚Äì7.3% in November, more than eight points below that registered in October. All the industrial sectors presented negative annual rates. Those that most influenced were: ‚Ä¢ Capital goods, with a variation of ‚Äì12.9% and an effect of ‚Äì2.555 on the general index, due to the negative evolution in the majority of activities comprising this sector. Among them, highlighting Manufacture of metal elements for construction, Manufacture of motor vehicles and Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles. ‚Ä¢ Intermediate goods, with a rate of ‚Äì7.4% and an effect of ‚Äì2.468. The activities most influenced in this drop were the Manufacture of basic chemical products, nitrogen compounds, fertilisers, plastics and synthetic rubber in primary forms and Manufacture of rubber and plastic products. Conversely, the Manufacture of other chemical products presented an important increase in its production. ‚Ä¢ Non-durable consumer goods, with a rate of ‚Äì6.1% and an effect of ‚Äì1.787. In the most of the activities comprising this sector decrease their productions. Among the activities with the most negative effect, worth noting the Graphic arts and related services and Manufacture of soaps, detergents, and other cleaning and polishing items; manufacture of perfumes and cosmetics. Among the increases highlighted the Manufacture of bakery and farinaceous products.
An unexpected rise in China's trade surplus announced today had a material impact on global markets. The increase in trade activity shows that China's economy may be picking up steam faster than originally anticipated (see discussion). Exports rose 14% on a YoY basis against 4.5% consensus.  Global markets responded with the "risk-on" trade. The dollar sold off while commodities rallied.  One of the broader developments in recent weeks in response to the China growth story has been the rally in US transport shares. DJ Transports index has materially outperformed DJI since mid-December. Cognito: - China is the worldís second largest and most rapidly growing major economy. It is also the worldís largest exporter. As a result, a bottom and potential turn in Chinaís international shipments can be reasonably viewed as a sign of a bottom and potential turn in worldwide trade. Many of the twenty companies comprising the Dow Jones Transportation Average are engaged in the international shipment of goods. Hence their sales and earnings would benefit from an increase in global trade. Global transportation bellwether Federal Express/FDX is a prime example. Perhaps not coincidentally, FDX is attempting to emerge from a substantial reverse head-and-shoulders consolidation spanning more than two years! This is not unique to the US, with Australian transport shares rallying as well. An improvement in the transport sector is good news for global growth because it tends to lead economic expansion. 
mikedacosta via statigramMostly it's quiet, as has become the norm. Europe is generally flat. US futures are flat. The big mover of the day was Japan, which gained 1.4% (hitting a 23-month high) on new monetary talk and fiscal stimulus. New Japanese PM Shinzo Abe seems to be on a stimulus-a-day diet right now, pushing the market higher and higher. Today will be very quiet in terms of US economic data.
BloombergSPDR S&P Homebuilders ETFOne of the big stories of 2012 was the comeback of the U.S. housing market and the accompanying surge in the homebuilder stocks (see below). However, some experts now believe the homebuilder stocks may have gotten way ahead of themselves. Bond god Jeff Gundlach recently said he is "flabbergasted" when he sees housing sector price-earnings ratios. In a new research note, Gluskin Sheff strategist David Rosenberg shares that sentiment. But he points to another valuation metric. "I realize that the widespread consensus is very bullish on housing," wrote Rosenberg. "But the ratio of the builder stocks' market cap to single-family construction spending is at an all-time high.¬† Hence caution may be warranted." Here's Rosenberg's chart that makes housing stocks look more expensive than they did during the housing bubble. Gluskin Sheff
