When we hear about Wall Street layoffs we usually hear about them in the hundreds or (more likely) thousands. So normally a dozen or so layoffs doesn't make an impact. This is different. Reuters reports that Credit Suisse has sacked the head of its NYC rates desk along with about a dozen salespeople and traders. One trader told Reuters, "they've obliterated our rates desk." This is dramatic, but it isn't shocking. The Fed's low interest rate policy makes rates trading dismal business as there's such low volatility. But remember it could be worse, it could be UBS.
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisAll eyes are on Cyprus right now, a tiny island in the Mediterranean that is destined to become the modern-day version¬†of the 1930s Great Depression. ¬† On Tuesday, the Cypriot Parliament rejected a controversial ‚Ç¨10 billion bailout package, devised by the Eurozone,¬†that would also force depositors to pay part of the bill. This would happen through a tax of 6.75 percent on accounts with less than¬†‚Ç¨100,000 and a 9.9 percent tax on accounts of more than¬†‚Ç¨100,000.¬† A new plan must now be drawn, or Cyprus' banks face total collapse. ¬† The image of Cyprus played out in the American media has one been one of chaos ‚Äî a mix of¬†residents and wealthy foreign investors rushing to ATMs to withdraw cash¬†and¬†thousands of outraged locals protesting in the streets.¬† Nicolas Philippou is more of passive observer, watching all of this (slightly exaggerated) mess unfold from his home in Cyprus. That doesn't mean he isn't deeply concerned about the future of his country. ¬† Nicolas is the owner of a trading consultancy company and is the Vice President of the¬†American Chamber of Commerce in Cyprus.¬† He doesn't plan to protest. And he hasn't been to the ATM machines. But he does seem himself hopelessly stuck in a game of wait-and-see. "What will the Europeans say?" "Will they give the bailout money or not?" These are the questions that will keep Nicolas, and his fellow Cypriots, up at night over the two next days, if and when the banks do open. ¬† "I worry about what will happen if one of the two major banks goes bankrupt," Nicolas said over the phone.¬†"But it's hard to accept the legal robbery by the government." Cyprus' economy represents less than 0.2 percent of the Eurozone ‚Äî a very insignificant amount. So why such a big fuss?¬† "The Germans want to get rid of Cyprus as a financial center. They want to destroy the Cyprus economy," he said. ¬† Some experts believe that giant reserves of natural gas will be discovered in Cyprus within the next two years. Although this hasn't been proved yet, Nicolas believes Germany would want Cyprus under their influence in that fortunate circumstance. ¬† "The same way that [Germany] bombed London in the second World War, they destroyed the Cyprus economy by taking this action," Nicolas said. ¬†¬† He is not alone in his sentiments.¬† Photographs of German Chancellor Angela Merkel painted to make her look like Adolf Hitler have been circling at anti-bailout rallies.¬† What's unfortunate is that in any outcome, regardless of when the banks open, Cyprus has already taken the hit. Foreign investors will want to withdraw their holdings and locals will try to take out money and place it under their pillows, said Nicolas.¬† "I'm not optimistic. The damage has been done."¬†
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorUK chancellor George Osborne is presenting the 2013 Budget to parliament at 12:30 GMT (8:30 a.m. ET). UK watchers widely agree that this budget could help restore or further erode the government's credibility. Osborne is expected to stick to his plan for austerity (despite the backlash). He has already asked most departments to cut their budgets by an additional 1 percent in 2013 and 2014, thereby freeing up £2.5 billion for capital spending. In December, he announced cuts of 1 percent in 2013-2014, and 2 percent in 2014-2015, to the budgets of various departments. Here's a quick round-up of what analysts are looking for: BNP Paribas - The Focus of the Budget will be monetary not fiscal policy Paul Mortimer-Lee and David Tinsley, don't expect the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) to make huge changes to their forecasts since the Autumn Statement (AS) was issued recently (on December 5). The current forecast is for 2013 growth of 1.2 percent, this could be lowered to 1 percent. They expect growth of 0.7 percent. It is unlikely that they will make adjustments to forecasts for the following years. The biggest revision will probably be to inflation. Osborne does however have room to ease, because the end of the forecast period for the AS is 2017/18, and because, for that year, the AS forecast sees "cyclically adjusted current surplus at 0.9% of GDP." "Because achieving a cyclically adjusted surplus by, say, 0.1% or 0.2% of GDP would be perfectly consistent with meeting the fiscal mandate, the Chancellor could, potentially, announce a discretionary easing of the fiscal stance worth 0.7% of GDP, or around GBP 10bn, and still meet his fiscal mandate. Whether the Chancellor will decide to pursue such a policy is largely about politics. On the one hand, such a policy could look like an obvious deviation from ëPlan Aí. But on the other, with the political arithmetic stacking up against the parties in the coalition, this Budget may be time to make some selective easing of policy in the hope that some of the ëfeel-goodí, or at least ëfeel-betterí factor starts to affect the electorate in time for the 2015 general election." Other things to watch for: Societe Generale - George Osborne will have his hands tied The fact that markets didn't really react to 1. The OBR's prediction that the UK would fail to meet its debt mandate. 2. The Moody's downgrade, has given Osborne the "confidence to allow a little more slippage in the fiscal path," writes Societe Generale's Brian Hilliard. "The Chancellor is facing criticism from many quarters but his room for maneuver is extremely limited. We expect the OBR, yet again, to lower its growth forecasts and to raise its deficit forecasts. Mr Osborne has already let the debt mandate slip in the 5 December Autumn Statement (AS). This is certain to remain the case in the Budget so a further deterioration in the public finances should not trigger a significant policy reaction in terms of further tightening. Moreover, any tightening that is announced should relate to the years after the election and so will have little effect on the short term growth outlook." Things to watch for: David Blanchflower - "Almost everything the government says, do the opposite" Ahead of the UK Budget, Blanchflower Business Insider that the government should immediately reinstate 20 billion on infrastructure spending, reverse austerity, and cut taxes. "My preferred option would be cut VAT immediately by 5 percent tonight, reduce payroll taxes, and give firms incentives to hire and invest." He said his "default position would be to do the opposite" of what this government is doing. As the UK teeters on the edge of a triple dip recession, and stands stripped of its AAA rating, people want to see Osborne fired. A poll by ComRes Ltd. for ITV News, via Bloomberg, showed that 44 percent of voters want him gone, and 54 percent think his budget cuts are unfair. Tomorrow's budget is expected to show that despite such sentiment, Osborne will stick to his austerity plans.
Getty Images / Matthew LloydThere remains controversy over just how long America's current energy boom will last. Some, like University of Chicago professor Raymond Pierrehumbert, argue we are totally overlooking†the rapid depletion rate of shale oil and gas wells. This is among other signs of a slowdown. And there's also been vocal opposition to the practice itself, as evidence has shown fracking can contaminate groundwater and cause earthquakes. Support is mounting†in New York to††to maintain the state's fracking moratorium. But there are plenty of experts who would argue such notions are off the mark. Using data from the Energy Information Administration and Canadian energy consultancy ITG, we have put together what we think is a comprehensive review of the American shale story.† Ultimately, we think that you'll conclude that "Saudi America" is real and here to stay.
Flickr / FederalReserveAt 2:00 PM EST on Wednesday, the Federal Reserve will conclude its two-day Federal Open Market Committee Meeting.† We'll simultaneously get their statement and their economic forecasts. No one expects the Fed to announce a change in interest rates or its $85 billion per month asset purchase plan. However, economists expect the language of the statement to be tweaked thanks to economic developments since the January FOMC meeting. Here's UBS's Drew Matus: Specifically, we see two changes as likely in the statement: First, we would look for the phrase that ìthe Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlookî to be revised to explicitly note the fiscal drag from the sequester or to be eliminated outright. Secondly, we would look for the FOMC to cut the phrase that ìIf the outlook for the labor market does not improve substantially, the Committee will continue its purchases of...securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate...î Given recent improvements in the data flow there is much to be gained from acknowledging the better economic environment and distancing the FOMC from the promise of never-ending QE. High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan generally agrees with Matus: Officials will have to acknowledge a pick-up in growth in Q1 after exaggerated weakness in Q4, and they may tweak the wording on QE3 slightly, but the end result will likely be no deviation from current policies and no hint that a scaling down in the pace of easing is imminent. The main reason for continued easing: The unemployment rate remains ìelevated.î Like Matus, JP Morgan's Michael Feroli believes the Fed will have to address the negative impact of the sequester.† As such he thinks this could send a confusing message given the surprisingly strong Q1 data so far.† Here's Feroli: The combination of the statement and the Committee economic forecasts (both released at 2pm) may send mixed signals: on the one hand the statement will likely note the improved tone of recent economic data, on the other hand the forecast for growth this year may be revised down a touch as Committee participants incorporate the sequester into their outlook. At 2:30 PM ET, Chairman Bernanke will be giving a press conference.† Economists expect him to address plans to end easy monetary policy. Here's Feroli: In the post-meeting press conference the Chairman may make note of continued monitoring of the potential costs of asset purchases, though we do not expect those remarks will be substantially different from ones made after the December meeting. Finally, the Chairman may make reference to deliberations regarding the exit process, with the asset sale step the one most at risk of being modified. Business Insider will be covering the statement, forecasts, and press conference live starting at 2:00 PM ET.
WikipediaA rendering of the Solaire.Event On March 16th Bloomberry Resorts' Solaire Manila, the first of four giant casino resorts that are to be opened the next four years, started trading in the capital. Analysis The resort lies at the heart of the Philippine government's ambitious plan to make Manila a major gaming hub in Asia, alongside Singapore and Macau. The government wants to create a Las Vegas-style strip consisting of four casino resorts, Entertainment City, as a key element of its plans to develop tourism as a major industry. It is hoped that an increase in tourism will create jobs and boost incomes, especially in remote areas far from large cities. The government wants to raise tourist arrivals to 10m a year by 2016, from 4.3m in 2012. The new casino's opening underscores the pragmatism of the president, Benigno Aquino, who allowed the project to go ahead after a brief review, despite the alleged murky circumstances surrounding the selection of the four investor groups that have been granted exclusive licences to build the casino resorts. The licences were awarded not through competitive tender but rather via negotiation, during the term of Mr Aquino's predecessor, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. Speculation was rife at the time that some of the recipients of licences were her close allies. Despite this, Mr Aquino has allowed the project to proceed. Currently, the government runs most of the country's casinos via the Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR, the state-owned gambling company and regulator), while the few private casinos that exist are required to pay a share of their earnings to PAGCOR. Growth in gaming revenue has been slow in the past. The opening of the four mega-casinos is expected to cause gambling revenue to rise faster, from US$1.4bn last year to US$5bn-7bn a year by 2016. Some industry analysts believe that in the next four years the Philippines will outpace Singapore, where gambling revenue amounted to US$6bn last year. But realising this goal will be tough. Continuing diplomatic spats between the Philippines and China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea may disrupt the expected steady flow of casino visitors from mainland China. Moreover, it is questionable whether the local market will grow fast enough to support four new casino resorts that will open at intervals of just one year. Click here to subscribe to The Economist 
Christina AvraamToday the Cyprus parliament voted overwhelmingly to reject a bailout deal that was agreed to by the President this past weekend. The bailout would have imposed a one-off levy on all bank depositors, a form of confiscation that the public is furious about, and which politicians are (understandably) not inclined to support. Since no levy has been passed, the banks remain closed. Cyprus needs to raise several billions of euros to recap its banks, and again make them eligible for emergency liquidity assistance from the ECB. So what happens now? SocGen analyst Anatoli Annenkov gives two possibilities. 1) Cyprus finds alternative measures to raise the EUR 5.8 bn that the deposit levy would have raised: either through a higher haircut on deposits over EUR 100,000 and a lower on smaller deposits (or none at all, as favoured by the eurogroup), but such options seem to have been rejected, as it would damage Cyprus status as a financial centre. Or they could also sell state assets, such as gas reserves (or banks), possibly to Russian interests, or find other creditors (Russia). 2) The eurogroup shows flexibility and accepts that the debt level in Cyprus rises to 120% of GDP, similar to what was agreed for the Greek bailout, possibly in return for stricter conditionality (more banking oversight and restructuring, lower interest rates on deposits). Depending on the structure of such deal and interest rates, this could reduce the amount Cyprus would need to raise by some EUR 2.5 bn. The remaining 3.3 bn would still need to be found, either from a deposit levy (on deposits over 100,000), bondholder bail-in, other investors or selling of state assets. There are actually three other possibilities, with lower odds attached to them. They are: Clipping senior bank bondholders (which wouldn't get enough money, but would help), haircutting governmnet debt holders, or leaving the Eurozone, and firing up the printing presses to go back to the Cypriot pound, which is actually what one member of Parliament said tonight on BBC could theoretically happen soon if no deal is soon reached. And mow for a really deep dive into Cyprus, check out Daniel Davies fantastic Choose Your Own Adventure guide to the bailout, which will help you understand the decision making process in this crisis better than anything you've read yet.
Designing a new airplane is an incredibly expensive, complicated, and long process, one that can prove wasteful if not executed properly ‚Äî as Boeing's troubled Dreamliner jet has proven in recent months. In 2007, looking to avoid the costs and pitfalls that come with new aircraft, aviation entrepreneur Kenn Ricci created a business that would sell small jets for half of what they usually cost, thanks to a simple change. Instead of building new jets, Nextant Aerospace would take old jets, refurbish them, and sell them for 50 cents on the dollar. The result, President Sean McGeough says, gives you "everything a new aircraft gives you." Unless a buyer is dead set on having a 100 percent new plane, he seems right. That's because Nextant retains the hull of the plane, then replaces just about everything else. So far, Nextant has produced one model, the 400XT, based on the Hawker 400. The huge cost of designing a plane from scratch does not have to be recouped, so the price of the planes stays low. In refurbishing a jet, the airframe is kept, while the avionics and any life-limited components, along with the interior, are replaced. From start to finish it takes about 6,000 man hours of work, around 16 weeks. Before re-entering service, the jets go through the same certification process and flight testing as any new plane. The end result, McGeough says, is a "virtually new" airplane. NextantIn fact, he says, the updated planes are often improvements of their original selves, because they are outfitted with systems developed since the planes were first designed. Once a Hawker 400 becomes a Nextant 400 XT, its operating costs drop 30 percent, and its range improves by 50 percent, says McGeough. McGeough joined Nextant as President after leading Hawker Beechcraft's international operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia Pacific. Selling old planes instead of new ones was "very new territory," he says, but he was drawn to Nextant by its value proposition and track record of high deliveries: 25 planes in 13 months. Matt Doyle is the Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Flight Options, a fractional jet ownership company that has purchased 12 aircraft from Nextant (its chairman is Kenn Ricci, Nextant's founder). Asked if he hesitated before buying refurbished aircraft, Doyle said no. If Flight Options can offer essentially new planes to its customers for half the cost, and saves everyone money, it's a good deal, Doyle told Business Insider. NextantThat's especially important in a private jet industry that has been lagging in the United States in the wake of the recession. Nextant has sold aircraft to corporate clients, commercial fleet operators, and wealthy individuals. Its business model has proved popular abroad as well: Despite expectations that its clients would be mostly domestic for the first few years, McGeough now predicts 60 percent of its products over the next three to five years will go to foreign buyers. So far, Nextant has not gone beyond its first product, the refurbished 400XT. To build on its early success, the company is getting ready to announce its next model, a few months from now. And while selling old planes may seem questionable, the saga of Boeing's Dreamliner ‚Äî the commercial passenger jet full of new technology that was designed to change the industry ‚Äî proves its wisdom. The Dreamliner debacle is an example of why remanufacturing works, McGeough argues: "You don't go through the teething problems you would on a cleansheet design," and you work only with proven technology.
China's pollution problems have been getting a lot of press this year for extremely high levels of smog in Beijing.  In his first press conference as premier, Li Keqiang said China would not drive growth at the expense of the environment. Bank of America's Ting Lu summed up Premier Li's comments: "The new governmentís goal to fully upgrade the economy also includes doing the best to ensure people clean air and safe water and food." Here's a stunning photo from Reuters' Wei Yao that uses panels from photos of Tiananmen Square on March 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 15 to show air quality in a span of two weeks. Reuters/Wei Yao †And here's a look at air quality over Tiananmen Square from March 4 through March 17. Reuters/Wei Yao
Defense stocks have actually outperformed the S&amp;P 500 since the start of the year, a sign that investors are relatively unconcerned about the effects of the sequester budget cuts on the military-industrial complex.† Compiled by Sober Look, the chart below looks at the year-to-date performance of the S&amp;P 500 (red) against the†iShares defense industry ETF (ITA, blue), which is a composite index of defense stocks. SoberLook.com See a difference? Neither does Tyler Cowen at Marginal Revolution, and the general idea is that investors by and large haven't priced in risk as a result of the implementation of sequestration into the price of defense stocks.† While ITA underperformed the S&amp;P earlier this year ó during the uncertainty period ó for whatever reason, they are now outpacing the S&amp;P.† This likely means one of two things: It's also conceivable that it is a little of both.† That reaction is a far cry from the doomsday rhetoric that the White House and the Pentagon have been spouting for the past few weeks, as they warn that the sequester could have long-term consequences on American military readiness.† Read the original post on Sober Look.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Gambler's Fallacy Does Not Exist In The Stock Market (Advisor Perspectives) Gambler's fallacy refers to the belief that past events can change the probability of that event taking place in the future, for instance, the believe that if five coin flips have ended in favor of heads, the next will be tails. This is because each coin flip is independent of the other. But Jeffrey Saut at Raymond James says this does not hold true in markets.¬† "While that‚Äôs true in gambling, it is not so true in the stock market. The fact is, there are certain historic precedents in the stock market that can tilt the odds of success decidedly in your favor. Take last Friday when I wrote, ‚ÄúIt is rare for the Dow to go in any one direction for more than nine consecutive sessions, and yesterday was day 10 in this current upside skein. Indeed, in my notes of over 50 years, there have only been 25 occasions when the Dow has rallied for nine consecutive sessions (or more), the longest being 14 straight sessions that ended on 1/20/1987.‚Äù Almost on cue, the Dow ended its 10-session romp last Friday by closing down 25.03 points." But Saut thinks the sell-offs are temporary and investors should consider this a buying opportunity. SEC Freezes Assets Of Massachusetts Advisor Charged With Stealing From Clients (The Wall Street Journal) The SEC has frozen the assets of Gregg D. Caplitz and his Massachusetts based firm Insight Onsite Strategic Management. Caplitz is charged with embezzling $1.1 million from clients who thought they were investing in a hedge fund. The assets of those who received the investor money have also been frozen. One Outrageous Reason That Companies Could Raise Dividend (Morgan Stanley) Companies typically pay out dividends based on their balance sheet and increasing shareholder wealth, but that seems to be changing. Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker writes that this now also depends on changes to executive compensation packages. "Management teams are paying themselves more in restricted stock units (RSUs) than in options. In recent years, more CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies have received compensation in the form of restricted stock than as options (Exhibit 14). It is important that fundamental analysts understand how the senior management teams of the companies they are analyzing are variably compensated, as those with restricted stock and not options are much more likely to increase dividends. The principle? People rarely intentionally damage their own net worth." Morgan Stanley What To Do When Emotions Rise And Fall With Markets (Marketwatch) After investors calm themselves there are a few key things they can do as they try and avoid losses in the event of a downturn and not entirely miss the rally either according to Chuck Jaffe. He tells investors to 1. Re-examine your criteria for buying and selling 2. Take another look at your portfolio allocation 3. See if your fund is performing the way you expected it to and if its keeping pace with the rest 4. "Don't let the market's rally go to your head." The Latest Black Swan Risk Map (Societe Generale) Societe Generale
flickr / Partij van de ArbeidJeroen DijsselbloemEurogroup President Jeroen Dijsselbloem's response†to the Cypriot parliament's decision to totally reject the Cypriot bank bailout deal today is only two sentences, and it offers no help at all: I take note of the decision of the Cypriot parliament on the government's proposal for a oneoff stability levy. I confirm that the Eurogroup stands ready to assist Cyprus in its reform efforts and reiterate the position of the Eurogroup as I stated yesterday. Wolfgang Schaeuble, the German finance minister, is of course a major power player in all of the EU bailout negotiations. His statement on the Cypriot parliament's decision to vote no on the deal today was similarly unhelpful (via Reuters): "We regret the decision," Schaeuble told ZDF television. "Cyprus requested an aid programme. For an aid programme we need a calculable way for Cyprus to be able to return to the financial markets. For that, Cyprus's debts are too high." Schaeuble added that it was a "serious situation" now in Cyprus and said the country had no one to blame for its situation other than itself. He said he doesn't think its "business model" works anymore and warned Cyprus must act quickly. Cyprus is clearly in a bind, and it doesn't look like the EU has much figured out on what to do next.
Christina AvraamCyprus' legislators recently voted down a controversial bank bailout deal that would have put a surprise levy on the accounts of all the country's bank depositors. But they were merely expressing the will of the people ‚Äî or at least those who'd gathered outside the¬†House of Representatives in Nicosia Tuesday¬†to protest the deal. We reached out to Christina Avraam, a photographer and¬†Erasmus Program Assistant at University of Nicosia, who attended the demonstration. She was kind enough to pass her notes and pictures of the event.¬†¬† Huge thanks to Christina for the pics!
Banks in Cyprus have been closed since the country put together a deal with the EU over the weekend to bail out its troubled banking system. The thing that makes this deal so controversial is that every person with a savings account at a bank in Cyprus will be subjected to an instant, 10 percent expropriation of his or her account balance before banks re-open. They were originally supposed to re-open their doors today after a bank holiday Monday. Then, it was reported that they would remain closed until Thursday. A new report from Dow Jones suggests that Cypriot banks now won't be re-opened until next Tuesday. *Cyprus Banks Could Stay Closed Until Tuesday March 26 - Source RANsquawk: #Cyprus and ECB officials working on capital control plans for when banks open, include limits on daily transactions I dislike depositor bail-ins, but capital controls are in-f-ing-sane. Let's hope there is nothing more than rumour to this
The Chinese automaker that was in talks to buy struggling Fisker Automotive has backed out, Reuters reports, leaving Fisker without its best bet for avoiding bankruptcy. Geely, which owns Volvo and is one of China's biggest car manufacturers, was reportedly on track to acquire Fisker, but dropped out of talks due to conditions that come with paying back the $193 million Fisker has borrowed from the United States Department of Energy. A new Fisker owner would not have to take any more money from the DOE, but Fisker does come with technology developed with American taxpayer money, and it's unclear how compensation of the $193 million Fisker has already spent would work. $23 million of that was used to purchase and refurbish an old General Motors plant in Delaware, which is supposed to produce the Atlantic, Fisker's high-volume model, and create about 2,500 American jobs ó the crux of the DOE's justification for making the loan.  A source familiar with the case told Reuters: Those obligations are too complicated to handle and seem too risky. The plan's footprint was too big. It would take a long, long time to fill up the plant with products and restore employment there. According to Reuters' sources, the resignation last week of Henrik Fisker, who co-founded the futuristic car company in 2007 and designed the Karma and Atlantic models, did not have an impact on Geely's decision to back out of talks. On Monday morning, Reuters reported that another Chinese automaker, Dongfeng Motor, has submitted an offer to buy a majority stake in Fisker, but according to the Wall Street Journal, the company has also backed away from a deal. If nothing materializes and Fisker does go bankrupt, American taxpayers ó through the DOE ó would have first lien on its assets, so some of the $193 million could come back. Things have not gotten that bad just yet: Fisker spokesperson Russell Datz said the company is still having talks with multiple interested parties. The details are confidential, but he said "the company is pleased with the level of interest from potential partners."
Detroit Electric went out of business in 1939, after losing its edge to internal combustion engines that no longer needed to be started with a hand crank. As of today, it's back, with a bold plan to have a new electric car rolling off the line by the end of 2014. The brand was first revived in 2008 by Albert Lam, the former CEO of Lotus Engineering Group and Managing Director of Apple's Asia operations. The plan was to build an electric car based on the Malaysian Proton sedan, and put an electric drive train in a Lotus Elise. But nothing happened, according to Wired. Then today, the company announced it's back, again, and intends to create 180 jobs in Michigan by the end of the year. It is setting up shop in the Fisher Building in downtown Detroit. Its car will be a limited edition, 100 percent electric two-seater. The new Detroit Electric will be unveiled early next month, and make its first appearance at the Shanghai Motor Show on April 20. Based on the teaser image Detroit Electric put out, it will likely be based on another Lotus. Lotus makes beautiful, especially light cars, so they work well as electric conversions: The elegance adds cachet and appeals to wealthy buyers, and the added battery pack doesn't weigh it down too much. (Tesla's first model, the Roadster, was based on the Lotus Elise.) But there are reasons to doubt the hype. As Wired points out, the Detroit Electric press release is noticeably lacking in details about where its money is coming from and what sort of performance the car will offer. Wikimedia CommonsA 1916 Detroit Electric car.But new CEO Don Graunstadt makes up for that lack of specifics with confidence: ‚ÄúWe are proud to become the fourth car manufacturer born out of Detroit, and the first to manufacture a pure electric sports car from Michigan,‚Äù he said in the press release. The original Detroit Electric peaked in the 1910s, when it was popular among women and physicians who wanted a car that would start quickly and without cranking, according to the Detroit Free Press. As cars with combustion engines became less expensive and more reliable, the slower, range-limited electrics were left behind. The reinvigorated brand will be making cars that look very different, but the challenge ‚Äî battling cheaper, more convenient vehicles ‚Äî is the same. It's very hard to build and sell electric cars in the U.S. After near failure and multiple big cash infusions, Tesla is finally on the verge of being profitable. Fisker is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy, and any savior will likely come from China or Europe. It's even difficult for large, established automakers; there are no more than a handful of highway-capable electric models on the roads today, despite years of promises from GM, Ford, and others that the future is electric. Genevieve Cullen, vice president of the Electric Drive Transportation Association, a pro-EV organization, acknowledges "it's a big challenge to start a new car company." But, she argues, there are opportunities to tweak the conventional business model established by the big Detroit players over the past decades. Newcomers like Tesla, she says, are "inventing new ways to succeed." The industry is "headed to electrification," she adds ‚Äî so Detroit Electric could capitalize on the trend. The reborn brand has an ambitious goal ‚Äî cars on the road in about 20 months ‚Äî and a tough road ahead. But if it can build a car that's reliable and meets its milestones, it could put American electric cars back on top.
Some of Lululemon's biggest fans are calling for the CEO's firing after the retailer announced it was recalling some pants for being too transparent.† Carolyn†Beauchesne, author of†the blog Lululemon Addict, claimed in a post that Day "ruined" her favorite brand.† Beauchesne's blog is a gathering place for women who want to review and discuss the yoga gear.†She once told us that she's spent a total of $15,000 shopping there.† Responding to the see-through pants scandal, Beauchesne explained why many fans of the retailer don't like the CEO:† "Day has ruined everything special about lululemon. The bullet proof quality, the fit, the femininity, the lululemoness of the product," Beauchesne writes. "She is a one-trick pony who grew the company through expansion." Day replaced Lululemon founder Chip Wilson in 2007. Before that, she was an executive at Starbucks.† The transparent pants, which resulted in a recall of 17 percent of product, are the fourth quality-control issue that Lululemon has had this year.† Many of Beauchesne's commenters appeared to support her vendetta against Day.† "I had more faith in Chip Wilson to appoint someone with a like-minded vision for the company," one commenter wrote. "I'm surprised that he fell for her-she provided short-term eye candy for the investors, but look where it has taken her in the long run." "I do not think Day should stay on, but not all of the blame falls on her," wrote another commenter. "The head of product/manufacturing and head of design must be replaced. Whoever allowed that shoddy fabric, construction and design should be shown the door, stat. They clearly don't understand the brand or the vision." One commenter claimed that customers have been complaining about sheer pants for more than a year.† "I am desperate to find a replacement brand," wrote another commenter. "I purchase online, but was recently in a Lulu store...the jackets were mostly short and ugly." One of Lululemon's greatest strengths is its customers, whom Day once called "fanatical." With even the biggest supporters turning on the brand, Lululemon will have to work fast to beat the mounting competition.† Another popular blogger, who goes by Lulumum, criticized Day's expansion strategy. "I think it's time the board take a very serious look at what the cost of such quick expansion really is, because you are losing us here," Lulumum wrote. "And you are losing integrity while you are at it."
Wikimedia CommonsDonkey walking on road in CyprusMarkets made a modest move today as headlines crossed out of Cyprus. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,455, +3.7 pts, +0.0 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,548, -3.7 pts, -0.2 percentNASDAQ: 3,229, -8.4 pts, -0.2 percent And now the top stories:
From Michael Block at Phoenix Partners, some thoughts on what's about to come. Key things to watch overnight:† 1) Cyprus's next cut at a deposit tax plan; and /or 2) The next gambit from the Troika/ECB/Germans in averting disaster.†† Remember that even if Cyprus is "allowed" to leave the ECB/Troika won't allow it to leave a gaping hole.† ECB would pump in liquidity to clean up the mess and would provide assurances of no repeats in Spain, etc.††† The wild card is how Russia reacts to all of this.† Don't forget the FOMC decision at 2PM tomorrow, followed by Ben at 2:30PM.† All this turmoil gives Ben ammo to sound more dovish.† That is key and has me a better trading buyer into the close here.
Lululemon announced Monday that it was recalling†black luon yoga pants deemed too see-through. They made up 17 percent of all women's bottoms at Lululemon. The apparel retailer blamed the problem on its supplier. "The ingredients, weight and longevity qualities of the womenís black luon bottoms remain the same but the coverage does not, resulting in a level of sheerness in some of our womenís black luon bottoms that fall short of our very high standards,"†the company stated. Now, the supplier has fired back. Eclat Textile Co. of Taiwan said that the Lululemon yoga pants that it shipped were not "problematic," according to The Wall Street Journal. "All shipments to Lululemon went through a certification process which Lululemon had approved," Eclat Textile CFO Roger Lo told The WSJ. †"All the pants were manufactured according to the requirements set out in the contract with Lululemon." Lo also said tha Lululemon hasn't contacted Eclat since the incident. Lululemon said that it expects the recall to have a "significant" impact on its financials this quarter.
Flickr/reventionFormer UBS banker Juerg Buergrin could face time in jail for allegedly having sex with an underage prostitute in Singapore, according to an Agence France-Presse report.¬† Prostitution is legal in Singapore, but the prostitute must be at least 18 years old. A lawyer for Buergrin, who was the head of operations for the Swiss bank in Singapore, claims that he was tricked by the girl and her pimp. From the AFP:¬† "The prostitute, in a conspiracy with the pimp, had deceived the accused as to her true age and thereby intentionally induced him to engage her services," his lawyer Selva Naidu said in a written statement released to journalists. The prosecution said the website advertised the girl as an "18-year-old polytechnic student". Fifty other men, both foreign and local, have also been charged with allegedly having sex with the underage Singaporean prostitute, the report said. She¬†is now 20 years old, according to Bloomberg News. Buergrin is married with two kids, according to Bloomberg. ¬† The maximum jail time for paid sex with someone under 18 in Singapore is seven years.¬†
APThe ECB has spoken. The euro and the S&amp;P 500 just jumped on headlines (via Bloomberg) that the ECB will provide liquidity to Cyprus within the existing rules governing the central bank. The ECB also noted that it was in contact with its "troika" partners (the EU and IMF) regarding the decision today in the Cypriot parliament not to pass the controversial Cyprus bank bailout deal hatched with the EU over the weekend. The meaning of the specification "within existing rules" is unclear, but it could refer to the ECB's Emergency Liquidity Assistance program, the last recourse for banks in the Eurosystem.¬†(Many now fear a full-blown run on Cypriot banks when they finally re-open.) The announcement from the ECB was not a big surprise, but many have awaited the central bank's response to the Cyprus situation for obvious reasons.
Google FinanceThe stock market has been wobbling for most of the day on a stream of headlines coming out of Europe. Moments ago, leaders in Cyprus voted down a controversial bank bailout deal. Following that vote, the European Central Bank announced that it would provide liquidity to the island nation under existing rules.¬† This is according to a report from Bloomberg. Click Here For Full Coverage Of Today's Market Action &gt;
Would it surprise you to discover that China is planning to add 800 miles to its subway system over the next two years? That‚Äôs the distance equivalent to building a network from Dallas to Chicago in less time than the U.S. Congress can resolve a budget! In 2015, when the infrastructure build-out is complete, China‚Äôs subway track alone will be a mind-boggling 1,900 miles, according to JP Morgan. The Asian giant has been in the midst of constructing the world‚Äôs largest transportation system, laying mile after mile of high-speed rail and subway track. According to the World Metro Database, Beijing and Shanghai currently have the longest metro and subway systems, with about 275 miles each. The city of Guangzhou in China also falls in the top 10, with 144 miles of rail, beating Paris‚Äô network length of 135 miles.  This ambitious program is part of the pragmatic solution to help 1.3 billion residents move around the country efficiently and reduce the increasing problem of air pollution due to car emissions in big cities including Beijing. The circulating reports and photos of Beijing‚Äôs smog have recently become a dark cloud hanging over the country‚Äôs remarkable achievements, but it‚Äôs not a new issue. In the winter, smog conditions can seem much worse. Pollutants tend to linger when the air is heavier and colder compared to lighter, warmer air during the summer. In addition, the city is located near the Gobi Desert and has always been subject to sand and dirt storms, even back in the days when it was called Peking. The U.S. experienced similar sand storms during the Dust Bowl in the 1930s, which caused catastrophic ecological and agricultural damage to the American prairies and made the economic impact of the Great Depression much worse. Sixty-five percent of the topsoil was blown away and millions of people were left homeless. Industrialization in Beijing has certainly aggravated the matter, but Beijing is not the first city suffering from its horrible haze. The London smog of 1952 caused 12,000 total deaths, resulting in the Clean Air Act of 1956, and according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Manhattan suffered particularly poor air quality in the 1960s, affecting the eastern edge of the U.S. Because of the government‚Äôs concerted effort to encourage consumption and help its residents achieve a higher standard of living in previous five-year plans, new cars congested the roads as fast as they were paved. Over the past decade, sales accelerated from less than 5 million vehicles in 2002 to nearly 20 million in 2012. About 114 million automobiles are now registered to Chinese residents, with ownership exceeding 1 million across 17 Chinese cities.  As we‚Äôve discussed many times, the country is also the world‚Äôs largest energy consumer, with a huge dependence on fossil fuels, especially coal. You may think that the country‚Äôs use of coal would be the single largest factor driving air pollution, but, in Beijing, emissions from vehicles make up a bigger percentage. One-fifth of the fine particulate matter, which is made up of nitrates and sulfates, organic chemicals, metals and dust particles, comes from automobile and truck emissions in the city, according to JP Morgan. Across the entire country, automobiles cough out 27 percent of total nitrogen oxide emissions.  With residents dealing with increasing cancer-causing pollutants and vehicle congestion on roads, public discontent is rising, ‚Äúadding particular urgency to causes such as environmental protection and public sector reform,‚Äù says JP Morgan. China‚Äôs government policies were already addressing air pollution by ‚Äúrequiring thermal power plants to install desulphurization systems and progressively increasing vehicle-emission standards,‚Äù according to the research firm. As one recent example, last May, I discussed Beijing‚Äôs additional subsidies devoted to energy-efficient products, including fuel efficient cars, LED lighting, and high-efficiency motors. This year, leaders appear ready to continue these environmental priorities. In comparison to last year‚Äôs budget, a larger portion of government spending will go toward environmental programs. While other areas will see a decrease in spending compared with last year, spending on environmental protection is projected to grow nearly 19 percent, says JP Morgan.  With a concrete plan and a budget in place, it all boils down to execution and enforcement. And in March, the once-in-a-decade transfer of power became official, as the National People‚Äôs Congress in China elected Li Keqiang as premier and Xi Jinping as president. Xi now holds the three most powerful titles in elite Chinese politics: the Secretary General of the Party, the Chairman of Military Commission and President of the Nation. This ‚Äútriple-power strength‚Äù positions him as an ideal reformer for China. He may likely have little interference from former leaders, giving him a freer hand to tackle some of the growth challenges in China today, including reforms to improve environmental protection. We look forward to watching these leaders in action. U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources and emerging markets opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds.
Bloomberg TVThe Cypriot parliament has voted against the controversial bank bailout deal hatched with the EU over the weekend, reports Bloomberg. 36 voted no. 19 abstained from voting. No one voted in favor of it. The vote was held in a show of hands. The big part of the bailout plan that has everyone up in arms: a controversial decision to apply haircuts to depositors, which essentially amounts to an expropriation of a certain percentage of money from everyone's bank account. That includes insured depositors ñ those with up to 100,000 euros in the bank ñ whose funds, up to now, were widely considered sacrosanct. Before the vote, Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades told German Chancellor Angela Merkel in a phone call that he didn't have the political support to pass the deal through parliament, as several parties had already pledged to vote "no." There is a lot riding on the Cypriot parliament's ability to get this bailout deal passed, including potential market volatility, but the euro has already been getting crushed today on various headlines indicating the vote looked unlikely to pass. In a note to clients,†JPMorgan economist Alex White explained†why the three options facing Cyprus for making the bailout deal more palatable are all problematic, and said markets are underestimating the risks emanating from the tiny island nation. Meanwhile, reports indicate that plane tickets from Moscow to Cyprus are sold out. This could indicate that Russians using the Cypriot banking system as an offshore tax haven are scrambling to get their cash. We have already seen lines at ATMs this week in Cyprus as local depositors try to pull whatever they can out of their accounts. In short, things are a mess in Cyprus. Reports earlier that Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris, who landed in Moscow this morning to meet with Russian officials, had offered his resignation, had everyone confused. Those reports were later denied by Sarris himself. However, there were also reports that President Anastasiades refused his resignation. So, there has been a lot out of Cyprus for markets to digest today. Anastasiades has only been in office for three weeks, by the way. All of this makes us wonder ñ is this the worst start to a presidency ever?
@Alwaleed_Talal/TwitterPrince Alwaleed Bin Talal of Saudi Arabia, the billionaire who broke ties with Forbes this month over the way the magazine valued him on its most recent rich list, has joined Twitter. It's a fitting move, considering that he made a $300 million investment in the social media company in late 2011, and now holds an estimated 3 percent stake in the company. The Prince has been tweeting from his official Twitter handle, @Alwaleed_Talal, in both English and Arabic for about a week. He already has close to 184,000 followers, and is Twitter-verified. We found out about the account from the Saudi-U.S. Trade Group. Thanks for the heads up! With my first tweet I look forward to connecting with you on this global platform. Alwaleed
The UK will reveal its budget tomorrow and everyone expects more austerity. With that in mind, over 400 people dressed as Chancellor George Osborne protested in front of the British Parliament on Tuesday, according to Reuters.† The activists were campaigning for 'Enough Food IF' campaign against global hunger. The carried briefcases that resembles the budget briefcase with the word IF on it. Daniel Collins who was part of the flash-mob told Reuters "We all want to make sure that he (Osborne) doesn't forget about the promise to enshrine the 0.7 percent for overseas aid." The UK had previously promised to continue contributing to foreign aid. REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth REUTERS/Stefan Wermuth
We're seeing it more and more. Retailers turning shops into man caves, and most recently, those man caves are turning into parties. This Thursday NYC bespoke-style men's suit shop, Windsor Custom, is inviting gentlemen to come over for a flight of three Glenmorangie Scotches and a custom shirt for $150. The store is under The Ainsworth, an upscale sports bar, so the idea is that guys come with friends; drink; shop; and then head upstairs for the start of March Madness. The whole event is a really good example of where the whole male shopping experience is going in general. First, of course, there's the move toward affordable custom clothing we've been seeing for a while now ($150 for a bespoke dress shirt sounds like a deal). The second trend is man-friendly space. According to The New York Times, retailers from J. Crew to Ugg, Saks Fifth Avenue to Christian Louboutin (think red-soled high heels) are completely rethinking men's stores, and in some cases, building completely separate spaces from women's stores. Retailers are putting a lot of thought into the layouts of these spaces too ó think: places to sit, darker colors, gadgets and reading material lying around. Lastly, men's shopping is getting to be a group activity ó not something that's done with a female, not something that's done alone. It's a big change, and even though men have been the fastest growing segment of the adult apparel market, the change is coming slowly. But the scotch will probably help.
YouTubeMuch of the recent economic data has been better-than-expected, and many economists are starting to believe that the U.S. is headed back to a 3 percent GDP growth rate. This is particularly encouraging given the recent payroll tax hike and the $85 billion worth of sequestration budget cuts that are rippling through the economy. However, BlackRock's Russ Koesterich warns that we aren't completely in the clear. In a new blog post titled "The Most Important US Economic Number Now," he writes about the importance of the upcoming income and spending report. Here's an excerpt: But investors wondering about the outlook going forward for the US economy will want to watch one economic number in particular: February‚Äôs personal income figure, which is scheduled for release on March 29th. Why is this number so important? While consumer resilience to the tax increase can partly be attributed to a stronger labor market, lower savings and low interest rates have also cushioned consumption. For instance, the US personal savings rate has been heading lower for most of the past four years and it plunged to 2.4% in January, the lowest level since late 2007. But neither low interest rates nor low savings are likely to prove sustainable over the long term. The Federal Reserve is likely to eventually raise rates and without faster personal income growth, consumers are likely to run out of savings, especially considering the massive amount of debt they are still unwinding. In other words, if consumption and the broader economy are to remain resilient going forward in the face of consumer deleveraging, they will need to be supported by an improving labor market leading to faster personal income growth. Koesterich warns that if we don't see a pickup in personal income, then the economy could hit a speed bump in the second quarter. Read the whole post at iSharesBlog.com.
Reuters/Tatyana MakeyevaA woman holds a sign with Magnitsky's portrait during a protest in Moscow last December. It says, "Dead in fight against the system of thievery."The Russian government closed its investigation into hedge fund lawyer Sergei Magnitsky's death on Tuesday, just days before his posthumous trial for tax evasion is set to begin.¬† The Russian Investigative Committee said it hadn't found any evidence that a crime was committed in arresting and imprisoning Magnitsky, who died of untreated pancreatitis in a Russian prison in 2009, the AP reports. ¬† Magnitksy's death has been a source of some controversy. The Russian government's human rights council announced two years ago that prison officials may have tortured Magnitsky and refused to give him medical treatment for the pancreatitis he developed in prison. President Vladimir Putin later contradicted this, and said he¬†died of heart failure,¬†according to Reuters Magnitsky was thrown in jail in 2008 after exposing the alleged $230 million tax fraud committed by high-level tax and law enforcement officials. He had been working for Hermitage Capital, a hedge fund owned by American-born businessman Bill Browder.¬† Although Magnitsky's been dead for three years, he and Browder are on trial for tax evasion in Tverskoy District Court in Moscow. In the country's first posthumous trial, Russian officials allege Magnitsky helped Hermitage evade $16.8 million in taxes. In the wake of Magnitsky's death, Browder has lobbied for "Magnitsky Acts" in the UK and America. The Magnitsky Act, which Congress passed in December, was designed to blacklist several Russian officials¬†who were allegedly involved in the Russian tax scandal, barring them from entering the US. The Kremlin found the bill insulting and vowed that "an adequate response would be certainly forthcoming." Later that month, Putin fired back with a law banning Americans from adopting Russian children, further souring US-Russian relations. Browder's team hasn't given up their quest to avenge Magnitsky's death. A Heritage Capital spokesman said the decision "confirms that the Russian state has officially decided to defend those who tortured and killed Sergei Magnitsky," AFP reported.¬†
Daily Intelligencer's Kevin Roose has uncovered the "Winklevoss twins" of Goldman Sachs ó Peter and Paul Scialla. The good-looking twins who both made it to the highly-coveted "partner" title in the same year (it was the first time in the firm's history that twins got it together), just left the investment banking giant last week, according to†Daily Intelligencer, citing an unnamed source. According to†DI,†they left Goldman to focus on working on a wellness company Paul founded, Delos Living, which builds healthy living spaces. You might recognize Paul. He was the partner in the Instagram pictures that were posted recently from the Goldman partnership dinner with Las Vegas model Shannon Kelly. (Whoops). Anyway, we wanted to learn more about these brothers, so we did some digging around, too. According to FINRA records, Peter Earnest Scialla worked at Morgan Stanley from 1997 to 2004. He was a managing director there. Peter joined Goldman in 2004 where he became the head of the single stock volatility trading desk. He made partner in 2008. Paul Dante Scialla's†FINRA broker check shows that he worked at UBS in Stamford, CT from 1995-98 in the sales and trading department. He then joined Morgan Stanley where he ran the mortgage pass-through†business†until 2003 before moving to Goldman as a vice president. †He became the U.S. interest rate products cash trading and was also named a†partner in 2008.† The twins seem to do everything together. Back in 2009, they†bought a condo at 345 W. 13th St. in West Village for $1,622,500. They even graduated with their bachelor's degrees in 1995 from NYU Stern.† You can see a photo of them here &gt;
APFollowing reports earlier that Cypriot finance minister Michael Sarris had offered his resignation while on a trip to Moscow, now there are conflicting reports saying that was false. Via Bloomberg, Reuters is reporting that Sarris says there is no truth to the reports about his resignation. Earlier, Bloomberg¬†and Reuters reported that Cyprus finance minister Michael Sarris has resigned, citing Market News International. Sky News cited sources as well, saying this is the case. Sarris is in Moscow today to meet with Russian officials over the Cyprus bank bailout, so the timing of the reports seem very odd. CNBC also reported that Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades won't accept the resignation. ALERT: Cyprus Finance Minister offers to resign, resignation yet to be accepted. Greek newspaper Kathimerini had its own report, saying, "Sarris is about to be replaced upon his return from his current trip to Moscow, Kathimerini understands, as he no longer enjoys the support of President Nicos Anastasiades following his handling of the crisis." This is getting interesting.
A mix of rumors and headlines are coming out of Cyprus as leadership mulls over a controversial bailout package that could involve levies on bank depositors. This uncertainty is causing stocks to sell off and the euro to tumble. In fact, Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports that the euro is now below $1.29 for the first time since December. At¬† $1.2858, its down 0.76 percent for the day. FinViz
Bloomberg TVJefferies strategist David Zervos has been known for a long time as a bull on markets, in large part due to the steady hand of policy makers. But he was quick to go negative on the Cyprus haircut, characterizing the news as a "nuclear war" on savings and wealth. In an interview yesterday on Bloomberg TV he came down decidedly cautious on markets. And now he's sounding even more nervous. The die is cast. There is no going back for the Cypriots or the Eurozone leaders. As soon as the banks open in Cyprus there will be billions in withdrawals. The question of course is - "where will the money come from?". Well, if the parliament votes YES, then the Euros will have to come from the Eurosystem. But there is a glitch. The Cypriots have already borrowed 10b euro via the ELA and Target2. How can Mario just wire over 20 billion more (less the 10 to 15 percent haircut) for the Russians, and another 20 to 30 billion for the wealthy Greeks. What collateral will an economy with 20b in GDP post to get this cash? Unless Mario violates every collateral rule at the ECB, the Cypriot financial system will collapse even with a YES vote. Its a wonderful life - Cyprus style. Again, this all assumes a deal is passed, which is not clear at all. He concludes that this time, things may really turn for markets. This is not a BTD opportunity (yet), rather we might actually have an STD (sell the dip) situation brewing. Good luck trading. Find more Zervos at Markit Hub --- &gt;
C4 News Economics Editor Faisal Islam tweets an interesting anecdote about the unfolding Cyprus situation: C4News travel agent: "every flight I can see from Moscow to Cyprus is full, apart from two seats". Unusual, as its not holiday season. The website for Russian airline Aeroflot seems to confirm. We're not sure exactly what this means, but there are a lot of worries that due to a controversial aspect of the Cyprus bank bailout ‚Äì a haircut on depositors ‚Äì moneyed Russian interests using the Cypriot banking system as an offshore tax haven will look to move their funds elsewhere as soon as they get the chance. We've already seen Cypriots lining up at ATMs, trying to withdraw whatever cash they can.
Maurizio Pelone (left) and Jos√© Palau (right)Jos√©¬†Palau, who worked as director¬†of equity trading at Waverly Advisors with Andrew Barber, is making an aggressive bet on the fitness sector these days. Right now, Palau, who has more than eight years experience in finance, is getting ready to launch Aura Fitness ‚Äî a boutique fitness studio based in Los Angeles that specializes in¬†indoor spinning and yoga.¬† "We were managing a fund. I kind of had this, you know, life change where I wanted to start working in fitness and leave finance." ¬† An accomplished rock and ice climber, Palau, and his business partner, Maurizio Pelone, a professional swimmer and fitness trainer, will be launching¬†Aura's¬†flagship spin and yoga studios in West Hollywood this week. Aura Fitness consists of two separate boutiques ‚Äî Aura Cycle and Aura Yoga. ¬†Aura Cycle offers an indoor cycling experience and Aura Yoga is heated yoga somewhat like hot yoga, but a little more active, Palau explained. "The idea will be that our clients do both cycling and yoga, really focusing on the body, mind, building endurance, and toning up," he told Business Insider. While this is a completely different industry from finance, Palau said that he brought a lot of the concepts that he learned on the Street, especially from trading, to this business. What happened was originally Pelone ‚Äî a close friend and pro swimmer from Italy ‚Äî approached him about investing in Aura Fitness in March of 2012. After doing some due diligence, Pelau realized he really loved it. ¬†For him, Aura was a "life style change" he said, adding that he dropped close to 50 pounds and is now a lot healthier.¬† "One of the things that I was able to apply from equity trading is understanding these shifts that you have within industries and new trends that are developing," he said.¬† He said that working on Aura was like a really "aggressive bet into the sector." He explained that their industry, which is the boutique fitness studio, is a subsector in the fitness industry has seen tremendous growth over the past couple of years.¬† "It's almost like a new renaissance in fitness where people don't want to go to these big gyms anymore," Palau said, adding, "Instead, they're going these more specialized little communities which offer better experience because they're more focused on the activities they want, they get to interact with instructors a lot more and meet the people there." He also noted that there aren't really that many boutique operators in the U.S. besides Core Power Yoga, Soul Cycle and a couple others.¬† Palau and Pelone will start operating their own chain of boutique gyms in L.A.¬† Palau, who graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with a degree in finance and economics, was based in New York when he was working for Waverly.¬† "You know I love trading," he said, adding, "The good thing about being on the west coast is I can wake up and have the market open." He explained what it's like trading on the west coast versus the east coast. Trading activity on the west coast is based around the open and the close ‚Äî 6:30 a.m. and noon to 1 p.m. "It's not that bad. In the morning, you're more refreshed even though it's three hours different. You think a lot better. It's really quiet."¬† He said that working out can help tremendously with trading.¬† "Working out, you will also find that, especially if you're more of an active trader, emotion is a big part, and when you are working out you are releasing all this energy. You're calm, you have endorphins. Instead of going to happy hour you're going to yoga and really balancing your life a lot more." Since working on Aura, he admitted that he hasn't been trading as much. He told us that he intends to get back into trading after Aura launches.¬† Palau said he's been really happy with his decision to work on Aura during the last year.¬† "Finally seeing it actually come true is something that's great," he said, "One thing, I kind of realized is that doing this and entrepreneurship is really similar to trading. As a trader, one of my views is that you're getting paid to hold risk for other people, same thing in entrepreneurship."¬†
WikipediaNicos AnastasiadesNot everyone following the unfolding Cyprus bailout story may realize this, but Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades has only been in office for a little over two weeks. Anastasiades, a conservative, won the presidential election on February 24 and assumed office on February 28. The whole Cyprus bailout was delayed by the EU until after the Cypriot elections, because former Cypriot President¬†Demetris Christofias, a communist, refused to comply with the EU's conditionality requests that are a part of the deal. The Cypriot government is reportedly behind the entire idea to impose a haircut on insured depositors ‚Äì those with less than 100,000 euros in their Cypriot bank accounts. That provision of the deal has been almost universally condemned, and now the EU is taking a harder line on the matter of deposit insurance, saying it should be preserved in this bailout. However, it doesn't really look like the Cypriot government has any good options for tweaking the structure of the bailout this point. And this is all less than three weeks into Anastasiades' presidency. If you can think of any worse starts for a president, let us know in the comments.
flickr / breki74Markets have mostly shrugged off the news out over the weekend that the EU bailout of the Cyprus banking system will contain a controversial haircut on depositors ‚Äì an unprecedented move in this era of euro area bailouts and restructurings. European markets took a bit of a hit yesterday, but nothing on the scale that would indicate investors in Spain and Italy, for example, are worried about the fallout from the Cyprus deal. In a note titled "Why the market is underestimating Cyprus," JPMorgan economist Alex White challenges this notion, explaining why the Cyprus deal could still spoil the party in Europe. "While the probability of an outright failure and default remains low," says White, "it is still possible, in our view; existing as a low probability, high impact risk." Cyprus is trying to renegotiate the terms of the haircut on depositors, which has left many Cypriots furious at the prospect of part of their savings accounts being confiscated. The original plan was to expropriate 6.75 percent of deposits from bank accounts with balances of less than 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent of deposits in accounts with over 100,000 euros. Distributing the levy this way got Cyprus to the total 5.8 billion euros demanded by the EU as the Cyprus contribution to the bailout. The levy against insured depositors ‚Äì those with less than 100,000 euros in their bank accounts ‚Äì has been almost universally condemned, and there probably isn't much chance of getting the deal passed through the Cypriot parliament as-is because of this. As White explains, this leaves Cyprus with no good options at this point. They still have three less-than-good options, but all are wrought with serious problems. The first option is to remove the levy on insured depositors and shift the entire burden of it to uninsured depositors ‚Äì those with over 100,000 euros in their accounts. However, in order to get to the total 5.8 billion euros, the levy on uninsured depositors would have to be hiked to 15.4 percent. This is a problem, because a significant portion of those uninsured deposits come from moneyed Russian interests looking to use the Cypriot banking system as a tax haven. "There is some possibility that Russia would respond to a larger haircut by refusing to roll its existing ‚Ç¨2.5bn loan to Cyprus; meaning that this option would still leave a significant shortfall," says White. "In such a scenario, either the haircut on uninsured deposits would need to be around 21.8%, or further Troika funding would need to be found." The second option, then, is to go straight back to the EU for additional support. However, given the ostensible reason that the EU asked Cyprus to chip in to the bailout so much to begin with ‚Äì a looming German federal election in September ‚Äì White says it's unlikely that German politicians will be interested in any sort of "U-turn." In fact, going back to the EU could make things worse if EU leaders manage to further complicate the situation. The third option is to go with a more progressive levy. One proposal is to subject depositors with less than 100,000 euros in their accounts to a smaller levy ‚Äì 3 percent from 6.75 percent ‚Äì while making those with between 100,000 and 500,000 euros pay 10 percent, and those with more than 500,000 euros pay 15 percent. This probably won't do much to appease those offended by this idea of deposit expropriation, meaning a plan like this might not make it through parliament either. "Cypriot depositors are angry at what they perceive as a smash and grab raid, tweaking the quantum is unlikely to change their prevailing emotions," says White. Those are all of the obvious problems in the short term. White writes there are also longer-term implications for the whole euro zone, though (emphasis added): In the longer-term, we expect significant ongoing ripple effects from the revealed preferences and attitudes that have emerged in the Cypriot case. Firstly, the affair reflects a change of behaviour amongst the policy making community, which looks more willing to accept risk in an OMT world. Secondly, it hints at a far more hawkish German attitude than we expected, which could have implications for the implied willingness to intervene in extremis elsewhere in the periphery (we will write more on this shortly). Essentially, we are seeing the rise of ‚Äòthe Germany that can say no‚Äô. Thirdly, these events are likely to lead to gradual change in the behaviour of depositors around the region. We do not expect short-term bank runs or direct contagion, Near-term impacts on bank equity have been relatively limited so far (mostly in the 4% range). However depositors will now be aware that they are effectively taking a significant credit risk when they leave funds in weak banks backed by weak sovereigns ‚Äì and there is a good chance that rates may need to rise in the periphery to reflect this increased perceived risk (indeed, we believe this action hints at broad risks for anyone with capital in a fiscally stressed country). The long-term implication for bank funding in the periphery is not a positive one, in our opinion, and by implication, there could be impacts on the supply of credit. Effectively, this would appear to work directly against the objectives of Banking Union, which is designed to ensure that a Euro in a Cypriot bank can ultimately be treated in the same way as a Euro in a German bank. In other words, the Cyprus situation is still giving investors in bigger markets plenty of issues to consider going forward.
British servicemembers stationed in Cyprus have been victims of the hit to local deposits. The British government has promised to reimburse them however. And now it gets even more dramatic. Euros are being airlifted to Cyprus! Sky news' Alistair Bunkall reports... Alistair Bunkall
BloombergTo many people's surprise, the U.S. economy has been returning to a normal pace of growth. In fact, the recent string of strong economic data has caught Wall Street's economists off guard, and they have been revising up their Q1 GDP growth forecasts to almost 3 percent. UBS's U.S. economics team led by Maury Harris has long held a 3.0 percent forecast for growth, largely due to the belief that easier credit conditions would boost job growth. And as many sounded alarms about sequestration budget cuts would do to jobs, Harris' team argued that fears were overblown. They reiterate that point in a new note to clients today: Our overall payroll forecast of 200,000 per month reflects flat to slightly higher payrolls at the state and local level, where revenues continue to rebound, and a just over 100,000 annual decline in Federal payrolls. Our public sector employment projections are very much under various job loss estimates stemming from the $85 billion Federal spending sequester in fiscal 2013. The major flaw in sequester- related government job loss estimates is that they typically are generated by simply dividing spending cuts by average wages and salaries for Federal workers. However, the sequester instead is being implemented primarily through furloughs entailing one- or two-day drops in the monthly workweek per worker. Such furloughs ‚Äúspread the pain‚Äù and do not entail major headcount cuts. Harris notes that despite the ongoing stream of news about policy dysfunction, business and consumer sentiment has been resilient, which is particularly encouraging.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderBeloved steakhouse Peter Luger is being sued for alleged wage and hour violations by former employees, Newsday reports. Four former waiters filed a federal suit last week claiming that, starting in the Spring of 2007, the restaurant failed to pay them for prep work before and after their shifts, forced them to share their tips with kitchen staff, and required them to work through breaks. To be clear, this suit (for now) only applies to Peter Luger's Great Neck, Long Island location, not it's legendary Brooklyn flagship. From Newsday: The waiters' attorneys allege both federal and state labor-law violations and seek class-action status for the lawsuit. Under New York State labor laws, the statute of limitations for violations is six years, compared with two to three years under federal law. "Our position is that Peter Luger knowingly disregarded the employees' rights and their obligations under federal and state law," said Douglas Lipsky, a partner of Bronson Lipsky in Manhattan. It's also worth pointing out that lawsuits like this are pretty common in New York's restaurant scene. There's even an attorney that specializes in this work, "thorn in the industry's side" Maimon Kirschenbaum. He's sued even the likes of mega-chef Jean-Georges Vongerichten. The point is, this lawsuit isn't weird. It could very likely be settled out of Court. We'll keep you posted either way.
Lululemon recalled 17 percent of its famous yoga pants for being too transparent.† The product defect is expected to hurt Lululemon's reputation in the short-term. If women are paying $98 for yoga pants, they expect quality.† But the pants shortage could also cause longer-term problems, hurting the brand's value and sending customers to competitors.† CEO Christine Day has said that the company relies on a low-inventory model. This creates the illusion of scarcity and allows Lululemon to sell 95 percent of its product at full price.† Lululemon's customers are notorious for their fanacticism. They cite the brand's great selection and quality for reasons why they shell out for the brand.† But demand for the pants is already high, and now there is 17 percent less product.† That means that customers could line up for yoga pants at Lululemon, and be unable to buy them, putting the company in a troubling position. † Competition is rampant, with Athleta, Nordstrom, and Under Armour all investing heavily in providing the best work-out gear for women.† These companies offer very similar products for a cheaper price. None have had product blunders such as Lululemon's most recent one. If the experience of shopping at Athleta or Nordstrom becomes better, women are going to go there instead.† Investors are also wary of Lululemon's future. Quality was paramount at the company, and this snafu raises questions about its long-term growth abilities.† Lululemon has apologized, and says it's taken steps to amend the error.† But it will have to work twice as hard to gain back customers it lost.†
flickr/mattbuck007People leave high paying banking and consulting jobs to get MBAs because top programs provide a big salary bump.¬† John Byrne at Poets &amp; Quants took the salary data business schools give to US News and World Report for their MBA rankings and revealed the top 10 programs in the US by average starting salary in a post at LinkedIn. According to Byrne, US News figures are the most accurate for average salary because most schools report salary and bonus numbers separately, failing to account for the fact that some MBAs don't get a signing bonus. US News includes grads who didn't get a bonus to get a better average.¬† Salaries line up pretty nicely with quality, our business school rankings have Stanford and Harvard in the top two spots, though with the two reversed.¬† Here's Byrne's chart:¬† John Byrne/LinkedIn There's a complete list of all 39 schools that average a six-figure starting salary over at Poets &amp; Quants.
European stocks are in the red as the region tries to figure out what to do about Cyprus. Later today, Cypriot leaders will meet to discuss a controversial bank bailout package that could involve a levy on bank depositors. The Greek stock market, which is heavily exposed to Cyprus, is getting hit the hardest today down 3.9 percent. Here's an intraday look via Bloomberg: Bloomberg For a bit more historical context, here's the 5-year chart. Bloomberg
Shares of Lululemon are down today. Yesterday, management said there would be a shortage of yoga pants for sale after some pants didn't meet the company's standards. Specifically, those pants were a bit too see-through. Here's an intra-day look at the stock via Yahoo Finance: Yahoo Finance
The ongoing and escalating concerns about the EU debt crisis are well known.¬† But according to Bank of America's latest EM and Asia Fund Manager Survey, Global fund managers are increasingly worried China, . A Chinese hard landing is now the third biggest tail risk, with 18 percent saying so in March, up from 10 percent the previous month. BAML Moreover, growth expectations for China fell to 14 percent, from 60 percent ‚Äì the lowest level since October 2012. BAML

RedfinNow that Tim Geithner has been relieved of his duties as Treasury Secretary, he can do all the things that former Treasury Secretaries do ó write books, speak on TV programs, hang out with his family, and most importantly, leave Washington. That's why Geithner's Bethesda, Maryland, home is now on the market,†Curbed DC reports.  Geithner and his wife bought it for $950,000 in 2009 and are now selling it for $995,000. In case you were ever wondering, Tim Geithner is not a fancy guy. His†four bedroom house is pretty modest, yet spacious.† Matthew Maury of Stuart &amp; Maury, Inc has the listing.
REUTERS/Jay LaPrete21.5 percent of all residential properties were underwater at the end of Q4 2012, according to CoreLogic's latest report. 10.4 million mortgages were still in negative equity ‚Äì where the homeowner owes more on his mortgage than the home is worth. This is however down from 10.6 million or 22 percent at the end of Q3 2012. The value of negative equity fell to $628 billion in Q4, from $670 billion the previous quarter. Moreover, 200,000 returned to positive equity, bringing the total for last year to 1.7 million. ‚ÄúThere is certainly more to do but with fewer borrowers underwater, the fundamentals underpinning the housing market will continue to strengthen,‚Äù said Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic in a press release. ‚ÄúThe trend toward more homeowners moving back into positive equity territory should continue in 2013.‚Äù The decline in negative equity certainly bolsters the housing recovery, since people in negative equity are more likely to default on their mortgage payments. But at 10.4 million the pool is still large, and sandy states continue to struggle. Here are some details from the report: This chart shows negative equity, and near negative equity by state: CoreLogic
BloombergTVFormer Central Bank of Cyprus chief Anthanasios Orphanides was on Tom Keene's show on BloombergTV this morning. In his interview, he goes off on the EU for its treatment of Cyprus, and says the European project is dying. You can watch the full video here. Below is a partial transcript provided to us by Bloomberg TV. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Orphanides on Cyprus bailout: "We are witnessing historic times. What we are witnessing is the slow death of the European Project. We are in a situation that some European governments are essentially taking actions that are telling citizens of other member states that they are not equal under the law." "What we have seen in the last few days is a very serious blunder by European governments that are essentially blackmailing the government of Cyprus to confiscate the money that belongs rightfully to depositors in the banking sector in Cyprus. It is not clear how this can affect in a positive matter the European project going forward." On EU making a mockery of Banking Union "Cyprus did not have a problem before earlier blunders that were made by European governments." "We have had decisions taken by the strongest government in Europe that is spreading misery sequentially to citizens in Greece, Ireland, Portugal, in Spain, in Italy and this is not going to end the way that European governments are handling this. We need to have a decision making process where governments are asked to care for citizens in other states." "In order for the EU area to stay together they needed to form a banking union which meant, they needed to have a common credible deposit insurance guarantee for everybody in the EU area. Indeed by making a mockery of that right now, the governments who pushed for this measure are sending a message that they want no part of a banking union." On the possibility of bank runs across Europe "I would hope not‚Ä¶ we have finance ministers from a number of countries who should have known better and they have taken a decision that has encouraged bank runs across Europe."
Getty ImagesSpring and then summer will be here before we know it and that means Wall Streeters will start heading out to the golf course after work and on the weekends. ¬† So that got us thinking. Which bankers and hedge fund managers are the best on the fairway? ¬† We combed through the latest handicap data of some of the Street's biggest names compiled by GHIN, a website run by the U.S. Golf Association. We've included a full rundown of Wall Street golfers in the slides that follow. ¬†We also threw in some of the more infamous names who are no longer on the Street. ¬† Some of these golfers are very, very talented, while others could use a bit more practice. Take Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein for instance. He seems to find shooting low scores a difficult endeavor. Keep in mind, the higher the handicap number, the worse the player is in comparison to others with lower handicaps. Also, JPMorgan's CEO¬†Jamie Dimon¬†doesn't golf.¬†His two predecessors at JPMorgan were members of the prestigious Augusta National Golf Club though.¬† If you know of anyone who should be on the list that we omitted, please email us at jlaroche@businessinsider.com.
Here's Societe Generale's review of some of the tail risks, or unlikely scenarios, out there.† For now, they believe we should be more worried about the downside risks. Societe Generale
REUTERS/Mike BlakeHousing starts were up 0.8 percent month-over-month (MoM) in February to an annual rate of 917,000. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for housing starts to rise 2.8 percent MoM, to an annual rate of 915,000. Click here to refresh &gt; Building permits were up 4.6 percent MoM, to an annual rate of 946,000. This beat expectations of a 2.3 percent MoM to an annual rate of 925,000. Housing starts for January were revised up to reflect a 7.3 percent decline to an annual rate of 910,000, from the initial reading of an 8.5 percent decline to 890,000. Meanwhile, building permits were downwardly revised to show a 0.6 percent decline to 904,000, from a 1.8 percent rise to 925,000. Remember, homebuilders downsized during the crisis, and it will take time for projects to pick up again. Yesterday we got homebuilder sentiment, considered a leading indicator for housing starts. That declined to 44 in March. The U.S. already has extremely tight housing supply. And economists have in large part raised their home price forecasts because of a decline in housing inventory.¬† Paul Diggle at Capital Economics has said that if capacity constraints among mortgage lenders eased up it could help the housing recovery. The recovery in employment in the real estate credit sector hasn't kept pace with the increase in mortgage applications.
Since 1930, dividends have accounted for 42 percent of stock market investment returns. With bond yields near historic lows, dividend paying stocks have become increasingly popular in recent years.¬† Typically, a company will pay out a regularly growing dividend if it has a healthy balance sheet and a long track record of dividend growth. But the decision to pay out a dividend may not be driven only by things like optimal capital budgeting and maximizing shareholder wealth. You also have to consider conflicts of interest. In a new note, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker discusses what companies are doing with their over $1.5 trillion worth of cash on their balance sheets. Regarding dividends, Parker notes that the evolution of compensation packages could impact how these decisions are made: Management teams are paying themselves more in restricted stock units (RSUs) than in options. In recent years, more CEOs of S&amp;P 500 companies have received compensation in the form of restricted stock than as options (Exhibit 14). It is important that fundamental analysts understand how the senior management teams of the companies they are analyzing are variably compensated, as those with restricted stock and not options are much more likely to increase dividends. The principle? People rarely intentionally damage their own net worth. It's a bit ironic. Equity-based compensation was designed to align executives' interests with shareholders. However, we have to wonder if corporate decision-makers will pass up better uses of cash to enrich themselves in the form of dividends. Morgan Stanley
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Flickr/sloleeThe biggest source of uncertainty from the Cyprus bank bailout deal this week is whether the government can get it through parliament. The deal, which features a controversial haircut for depositors, is being revised to make it more progressive, so that the burden of the haircut falls more heavily on those with bigger bank accounts. Still, people are angry, and understandably so. Meanwhile, the new haircut distribution doesn't raise the total 5.8 billion euros that the EU demands Cypriot depositors chip in to the bailout. That's why everyone is watching to see what happens in parliament this week. BNP Paribas rates strategists lay out two scenarios for markets: one if parliament passes the deal, and one if it doesn't. (1) Cypriot parliament rejects the plan: the risk-off mode surges Direction: We would probably see a strong rally in the Bund. We would expect the 1.30% level to be rapidly reached and maybe broken, with the risk of an extension closer to last yearís lows of 1.20-1.25%. Massive selling pressure on the peripherals would materialise, with higher yields across the board. A return to the 5.25-5.50% (10y BTP), 5.50-6.00% (10y Bono) and 7.00-7.50% (10y PGB) areas could be expected. Curve: A flight-to-quality-driven rally is usually linked to steepening pressure. However, this would probably be more limited at the current levels of yield on short-dated German paper. A break through 0% on the 2y Schatz would be likely, as the contagion risk effect would cause the embedded FX option (eurozone break-up) to be partly priced in. This should not prevent the German curve from flattening. The move could be similar and even more pronounced in swaps, with more widening pressure on 2y swap spreads than on 10y swap spreads. In the peripherals, the reaction would probably be bear steepening, as the short ends should benefit from the†protection of potential ECB support if the situation worsened. (2) Cypriot parliament accepts the plan: Risk-off mode eases slightly Direction: We would only expect a very limited setback in core markets. As long as Cypriot banks remained closed, the risk of a bank run will remain elevated. This would offer core EGBs solid protection very near term. Peripherals would recover, but as the deterioration in Italy and Spain would be very limited, we wouldnít expect a decent rally. Curve: A limited bear steepening in the cores and a limited bull flattening in Italy and Spain. Once again, because of the lack of reaction in both countries so far, any correction would likely be limited as well. It's unclear when a vote will be held.
AP The initial "Plan A" of the Cyprus bailout was simple. Those holding less than 100K euros in their bank accounts would be subject to an instant deposit levy of 6.75%. Those holding more than 100K euros would face a tax of 9.9% (on deposits above the threshold). Yesterday there was growing talk about making it all more progressive, and even completely sparing sub-100K depositors, who were technically "insured." The downside of sparing sub-100K depositors is that you have to really crank up the tax on the rich, and that means hitting the Russians and other folks who use Cyprus as an offshore banking center, which is fine, but then you're decimating one of the island's biggest industries. The new proposal that's coming out -- being reported in multiple outlets -- seems pretty close to Plan A. Skai TV: New proposal: No tax on deposits under Ä20,000, 6.75% on 20,000-100,000, 9.9% on deposits above 100k. Shortfall of Ä400 mln #Cyprus That's marginally more progressive, obviously, but then as Nick notes, you have a 400 million euro shortfall, which is problematic. And then you still have the problem of the principle of violating insured sub-100K deposits. Meanwhile, headlines about whether there will be a vote today conflict every few minutes.
Wikimedia CommonsCyprusIn an editorial signed by The Editors, Bloomberg View thrashes the Cyprus bailout, and its element of confiscating a chunk of everyone's bank deposits in order to bail out the banks. Of all the many steps that the euro area has taken to contain its debt crisis, the decision to force ordinary savers in Cyprus to contribute to their country‚Äôs bailout is the worst. The problem? It's just such a violation of trust, especially as it falls on those with "insured" depositors under 100K euros. They propose: What‚Äôs impossible to understand is how these finance ministers agreed to let Cyprus attack insured depositors, an act of recklessness sure to have implications for the rest of the currency zone. Even if, as seems likely, the Cypriot deal is now changed to redistribute the pain from small to large account holders, the finance ministers have sent a damaging signal: Europe‚Äôs guarantee that its governments will stand behind deposits of less than 100,000 euros is no longer certain. The euro area needs to recognize its mistake quickly and control the damage. It should demand that Cyprus levy its tax only on deposits above the insured level -- and impose losses on the banks‚Äô bondholders as well, even if the sum raised is only symbolic. The Cypriot government will then have to increase the levy on savings exceeding 100,000 euros to make up the difference, taking the risk that Russian and other foreign investors withdraw their funds. If that ends the Cypriot offshore banking model, all the better. Read the whole thing &gt;
Shutterstock.com / Andriy MarkovCyprus is currently scheduled to vote on its bailout/bank haircut plan, and right now it's not clear if anything can pass that would allow the country to recapitalize its banks and prevent a financial collapse. Via Felix Salmon, sovereign restructuring experts Lee Bucheit (lawyer at Cleary) and C. Mitu Gulati (a professor at Duke) have produced a short 3-page paper titled Walking Back From Cyprus, which proposes a more elegant solution in 3 steps, which are: 1. All insured depositors to be protected. Indeed, the public announcement of the bailout package would liberally sprinkle adjectives such as ìsacredî and ìinviolableî in front of the words ìinsured depositsî wherever they appear. 2. Holders of deposits in excess of the insured Ä100,000 minimum would receive, at par, interest-bearing bank certificates of deposit for those excess amounts. Depositors would be given the option of taking CDs of, say, five or ten yearsí duration, with differing interest rates designed to encourage a longer stretch out. Also, to encourage a takeup of the longer dated CDs, the Government could offer a limited recourse guarantee on the ten-year CDs benefiting from a pledge of a portion of the Cypriot gas revenues that should come on line when those CDs mature. The CDs would be freely tradable and liquid in the hands of the holders. 3. The maturity dates of all sovereign bonds would be extended by a fixed number of years, letís say five years. By our reckoning, this would reduce the total amount of the required official sector bailout funding during a three-year program period by about Ä6.6 billion. So there's no confiscation. But money would be converted to CDs, which would have a net-present value that's less than the current amount. That would still be painful, but it wouldn't feel like such a violation. And it would raise plenty of money.
ReutersThere's still no deal in Cyprus. As it stands, the government does not have the votes to pass the bank levy that would be required in order to reopen the banks without a financial collapse. Negotiations remain underway to reschedule the tax (make it more progressive; have it fall more on those with over 100k euro in the bank) but so far there's no deal. Markets are down a bit in Europe although not dramatically so yet. U.S. futures were flat, and Asia was actually up nicely, with Japan gaining two percent. Cyprus remains the story the whole world will be watching.
