St Stev / FlickrEarlier, we learned that Japanese exports unexpectedly fell by 2.9 percent year-over-year in February. Economists were looking for an increase of 0.9 percent. On the surface, this was rather disappointing considering the dramatic devaluation of the yen, which has effectively made its goods cheaper to foreign customers. However, it's important to note that the timing of China's Lunar New Year holiday certainly hurt the number. One investment advisor told Business Insider that we also shouldn't ignore the the "bright spot" in the report: exports to ASEAN, a group of Southeast Asian countries that includes Indonesia, Singapore, and Thailand. Exports to this region actually climbed as importers enjoyed the cheaper prices.† Check out this chart: Waverly Advisors One country that will suffer greatly amid this yen devaluation is South Korea, Japan's big competitor in the export market in that part of the world. Japan's yen devaluation has effectively made South Korea's goods a whole lot more expensive.
At HP's annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, three board members kept their jobs but one large shareholder still wants to see them gone: NYC Comptroller John C. Liu. ìShareowners have sent a clear message that the directors most responsible for HPís recent debacles must be held accountable,î Comptroller Liu said in a statement sent to Business Insider. ìThe onus is now on the board to take the steps necessary to ensure that all of its directors enjoy broad investor support." HP directors need a simple majority, over 50 percent, to be voted in. Directors John Hammergren and G. Kennedy Thompson, barely made it. Hammergren got 54 percent of shareholders' votes, Thompson got 55 percent. Chairmain Ray Lane only did slightly better at 59 percent, reports Fox News' Poornima Gupta. Shareholders appear to be holding these three directors responsible for HP's $11 billion purchase of Autonomy in 2011. In November, HP wrote off $8.8 of that purchase and said it discovered $5 billion worth of fraud in Autonomy's books, after the deal closed. Autonomy execs deny any wrongdoing. Another board member, large shareholder†Ralph Whitworth, promised changes to the board are coming soon, maybe within months. That won't be soon enough for Liu, who voted against both Thompson and Hammergren. Here's Liu's full statement about the shareholder vote: NYC COMPTROLLER LIU STATEMENT ON HP DIRECTORS VOTE****************************************** NEW YORK, N.Y. ñ NYC Comptroller John C. Liu released the following statement in response to questions about the vote in todayís director election at Hewlett-Packard: ìShareowners have sent a clear message that the directors most responsible for HPís recent debacles must be held accountable,î Comptroller Liu said. ìThe onus is now on the board to take the steps necessary to ensure that all of its directors enjoy broad investor support. Shareowners need directors who will protect the long-term interests of the company and its investors.î Comptroller Liuís March 8 announcement that the NYC Pension Funds would vote their shares against Directors John Hammergren and G. Kennedy Thompson is available here: http://www.comptroller.nyc.gov/press/2013_releases/pr13-03-039.shtm New York City Comptroller John C. Liu serves as the investment advisor to, custodian, and trustee of the New York City Pension Funds. The NYC Pension Funds hold 5,536,118 shares in Hewlett-Packard for a combined asset value of $126,389,573.94 as of 3/18/2013.
Moments ago, we learned that the HSBC China Flash Manufacturing PMI was stronger than expected, jumping to 51.7 from 50.4 in February.¬† Economists were looking for a reading of just 50.8. Any reading above 50 signals expansion. This should be welcome news. However, Bank of America's Ting Lu is out with his instant reaction, and he pours cold water on the report. First of all, he says that the market saw this coming. "The rally of China-related equities yesterday was partially boosted by a whisper that the March HSBC flash PMI to be released today will be significantly above the 50.4 reading in February and the 50.8 consensus forecast," notes Lu. "Well, the flash HSBC PMI did rebound to 51.7." Furthermore, he points to non-recurring items and the fact that the report conflicts with the recent slew of disappointing data out of the world's second largest economy. "That said, there are significant distortions on PMI readings around the Lunar New Year (LNY) holiday, so investors should view those volatilities in PMI with caution. Other leading indicators such as daily power output suggest that March manufacturing activities remain relatively weak and street economists will likely cut their 1Q13 GDP growth forecasts." In a note published yesterday, Lu lowered his China GDP forecasts noting a slew of weak economic data released earlier this month.
Flickr / Stuck in CustomsChina just released its HSBC Flash Manufacturing PMI report, a preliminary reading of manufacturing activity in the world's second largest economy. The March reading jumped to a two-month high of 51.7 from 50.4 in February. Economists were expecting a reading of 50.8. Any reading above 50 signals growth in the sector. This comes after a wave of weak economic data forced economists to lower their forecasts for China's GDP growth. Here's a break down of the report: Markit From HSBC's Hongbin Qu: ‚ÄúMarch flash manufacturing PMI rebounded to 51.7 on the back of stronger new orders and production growth. This implies that the Chinese economy is still on track for gradual growth recovery. Inflation remains well behaved, leaving room for Beijing to keep policy relatively accommodative in a bid to sustain growth recovery.‚Äù Click Here For Updates &gt;
Earlier today, Bank of America economist reduced his 2013 GDP growth forecast to 8.0 percent from an earlier reading of 8.1 percent. "With the recent weak industrial production growth, the brought-forward property tightening measures, the new leadersí serious crackdown on governmentís luxury consumption, the demand for much tougher stance on environment protection and the worsening situation in Europe, we cut forecast of Chinaís annual GDP," he wrote. Furthermore, he notes that the other economists on the street have yet to adjust their forecast for the weaker data. "Current market consensus of Chinaís GDP growth is 8.2% and 8.0% for 2013 and 2014 respectively after several rounds of upward revisions since late 2012," he writes. "We believe markets now are a bit too bullish and we expect consensus forecast to be trimmed in coming weeks. We may see relatively strong headwinds for equity and commodity prices." Lu warns of "possible overreactions" in the markets when those estimates start coming down. At 9:45 PM ET, China will release its HSBC Flash Manufacturing PMI report, a preliminary reading of manufacturing activity in the world's second largest economy. This report will be closely watched given the recent weak round of Chinese economic data came in surprisingly below expectations.† Lu expects today's China Flash Manufacturing PMI report to come in at 50.4.† This is below the consensus expectation of 50.8.
The Japanese market is unstoppable. Despite news like this: #Japan Feb Exports -2.9% On Year, Expected +0.9% On Year; Imports +11.9% On Year Nikkei.com This is the highest level since early September, 2008 for the Nikkei.
REUTERS/Steven ShWe're expecting HSBC Flash PMI for China at 9:45 p.m. ET. Economists polled by Bloomberg are looking for flash PMI to rise to 50.8 in March, from 50.4 the previous month. Official PMI fell to 50.1 in February. Remember, a reading below 50 indicates contraction. Meanwhile, industrial production increased 9.9 percent in the Jan-Feb period, compared with a 10.3 percent rise in December. The slowdown in manufacturing is part of the reason investors are getting anxious about a Chinese hard landing again. A Bank of America survey of global investors showed that those expecting strong growth fell to 14 percent in March, from 60 percent. Now BAML's Ting Lu has lowered his GDP forecasts. "With the recent weak IP growth, the brought-forward property tightening measures, the new leadersí serious crackdown on governmentís luxury consumption, the demand for much tougher stance on environment protection and the worsening situation in Europe, we cut forecast of Chinaís annual GDP," he writes. Lu expects Q1 and Q2 growth to come in at 7.9 percent and 8.1 percent, down from earlier estimates of 8.3 percent for both quarters respectively. For 2013, he expects growth of 8 percent, down from 8.1 percent. "We believe markets now are a bit too bullish and we expect consensus forecast to be trimmed in coming weeks," Lu writes. He expects consensus estimates of 8.2 percent growth in 2013, and 8.0 percent growth in 2014 to be revised down. He also sees "relatively strong headwinds" for stocks and commodities.† While previous data was taken with a grain of salt because of the impact of the New Year, the March PMI numbers should give a clearer picture of manufacturing and a broader picture of economic growth.
So the Cyprus drama makes for a fascinating story. But as of yet, the crisis hasn't leaked into broader markets. Even Bernanke noted that today, during his press conference. And it seems that some are annoyed by the market resilience. SocGen's currency wizard Kit Juckes tweeted this evening: Kit Juckes Via email, we asked him to expand on what he meant. Basically, in his latest swing through New York City meeting with hedge fund clients, he talked with a lot of folks who had recently made long gold bets (or were looking for it to run), and anti-euro bets. He writes: Everyone 'gets' that Cyprus sets an awful precedent. I'm not sure I could find a euro 'dip-buyer' anywhere in the US!! †But if you concluded it was terrible news and if you thought deposit tax on top of QE was the final straw that destroys confidence in fiat money, you might be a little annoyed by the size of the move... So yes; annoyingly no big market reaction. But definitely an incredible human drama.
Christina AvraamAccording to reports, Cyprus will try again tomorrow to cobble together some kind of bank bailout bill that can pass parliament. Cyprus needs to raise another 5.8 billion euros, which it could do from some combination of deposit taxes, Russian money, and pension nationalization. None of the options are good, but until it's done, banks will likely have to remain closed, a situation that can't go on much longer. This is a stunning turn of events for a modern Eurozone nation. And SocGen's Ciaran O'Hagan argues in a note that the market (which hasn't really moved at all on Cyprus) is being too blase about the whole thing. It's incredible that this can happen, and the precedent its set will linger for a long time, if not permanently. He writes in a note: In a matter of days, a modern functioning Western economy has been transformed into a cash economy, if not quite a barter one yet. Coinage is being hoarded, stores are refusing credit cards, commercial credit has ceased. True, that can all be quickly reversed if a compromise is conjured up now. What will never be reversed so easily is the threat of capital controls in a supposed monetary union. The Republic of Cyprus may still avoid such a draconian measure. But that‚Äôs not the point. If the Cyprus economy can be sent backwards 50 years so easily, we now know the same can happen to other euro area members. And in a matter of a few days, as we‚Äôve just seen. And the next crisis (surely there will be more) is likely to hit a member with a large and functioning bond market. Investors will be quicker next time round to remember he precedents set by the Cypriot Republic. As we argued earlier. The Eurozone is a gigantic wreck, and its luck appears to be running out.
There's a huge obsession with the national debt. And it doesn't take much to realize that expectations of a future debt explosion are driven by health care costs, particularly related to Medicare. The essence of Rep. Paul Ryan's plan to reduce health care inflation is to encourage the end consumer to find ways to reduce costs. In an interview with Business Insider, former Obama OMB director Peter Orszag exploded the main flaw with this concept. "It is fundamentally based on a misconception, which is that consumer-driven health care can dramatically reduce cost." In other words, it's nice to believe that if we just had more consumer control then prices would automatically go down, but it's very modest. In this discussion, Orszag discusses some alternative ideas for reducing costs, including incentivizing the provider to reduce costs, an effort that's already bearing fruit in some places. Video:† Produced by Business Insider Video

Stephan Goss, the chief actuary for Social Security (SS) provided a detailed report on the status of the SS Disability Fund (DI) to the House of Representitives. The short story is that DI is going bust in a few years. The options to fix this problem were spelled out in the report. The extremes of the required ‚Äúfix‚Äù range from an immediate cut in DI benefits of 16%, or an increase in DI payroll taxes of 20%. Nothing new there. But, there is a ‚ÄúPlan B‚Äù for the DI Fund. The solution is to raid the SS Retirement Fund for the deficits at DI:  A simple tax-rate reallocation between OASI and DI, as was done in 1994, could equalize the financial prospects of the trust funds avoiding reserve depletion until 2033. Note: ‚ÄúSimple tax-rate reallocation‚Äù means $40+b a year‚Ä¶. Bingo! The raid on the retirement fund results in no cuts in benefits, and no new taxes. What‚Äôs not to like about that result? The gutless wimps in D.C. would love to kick the can down the road a decade, therefore the Raid solution is an obvious choice. (The consequence of the Raid would be to reduce the expected life of the Retirement Trust Fund by as much as five years.) This is not the first time this has come up. The Congressional Budget Office, in its 2/5/13 report on the SS Trust Funds had these words in a footnote: CBO‚Äôs baseline assumes that the Commissioner will pay DI benefits in full even after the trust fund is exhausted. Note: For a discussion of the CBO report, see my article from 2/10/13 (Link). Okay, we now have two legs of the government who have (functionally) suggested that a raid on the OASI fund is a possible fix for DI. Lightening does not strike twice in the same place very often, especially in Washington. The idea of raiding one fund to preserve another, has just gotten another big supporter. If the folks at AARP understood what was being proposed ‚Äì they would flip their wigs! ++ The True Cost of the Disability Program I have a list, (it‚Äôs pretty short) of the folks who I think are ‚Äúdoing the right thing‚Äù in Washington. Stephen Goss was on that list. I‚Äôm disappointed with him and his presentation of the ‚ÄúFacts‚Äù about the DI program. Mr. Goss‚Äôs report to the House ran nineteen pages;¬† there are 14 charts. (Link) Everything a Congressman (or the public) could ever want to know about the DI program is spelled out in detail. But, Goss completely left out the most critical cost of DI. The Chief Actuary failed to identify a cost directly related to DI. The numbers are big ‚Äì $80b in 2012. The estimate is for more than a trillion of over the coming decade. If you look beyond that time horizon, the costs that Goss failed to identify are in the mega-trillions. Goss failed to provide the full picture when he did not disclose the DI costs to Medicare. Every individual who gets DI benefits ALSO gets Medicare. In a report dated 3/14/2013 (Link), the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) accurately described the real costs of DI: I give Stephen Goss an ‚ÄúF‚Äù for failing to provide all of the information needed to evaluate the DI program. How do you sweep a trillion dollars under the carpet?
Earlier this week I posted a commentary Is This Bull Market Fundamentally Driven? A Look at PE Expansion. The content was largely reprinted from an analysis at the Wall Street Rant website. Among the many email responses I received about the post, one in particular stood out. Jonathan Schoolar, a long-time veteran of the investment industry, wrote: "Another, slightly less complicated way of looking at it is that bull markets go for as long as they go and for whatever reason. It is the terminal valuation that determines the degree of damage done in the subsequent bear market. Value must be reset, and the higher the starting point, the worse the decline when the bull driver ends. Here is a quick look at the terminal Shiller P/E and subsequent declines using his info. Few data points but better "fit" than plotting the fundamental ratio. Bear markets from Shiller ratios above 20 are nasty." Jonathan's email included a chart illustrating the cyclical P/Es at the peak before the 20% declines in the S&amp;P 500 since its inception in March of 1957. Here is my annotated version of his chart. This is a scatter graph that uses the vertical axis to show the percent declines of the nine bear markets over this timeframe. The horizontal axis shows the cycle P/E ratio at the peak preceding the decline. Because this type of graph doesn't show the chronology, I've used callouts to indicate the date of the trough (market low) following the peak. The regression is a linear "best fit" though the nine data points. Only four of the nine are tight fits to the regression. The three bear markets in the 1950s and '60s were less severe. The savage decline linked to the surge inflationary surge following the Arab Oil Embargo in 1973 was an outlier to the downside, as was the bear market associated with the Great Recession -- the one still vivid in our memories. I highlighted the market trough in 1970 because the cyclical P/E ratio of its preceding peak in November of 1968 was 22.2. That's the same as the latest ratio in February of this year. As Jonathan points out, "bull markets go for as long as they go and for whatever reason." As I type this, our current bull in the S&amp;P 500 is just a few points, about half a percent, from a new all-time high. Mainstream market mavens are increasingly bullish on US equities. For example, on Monday well-known analyst Meredith Whitney said: "I have not been this constructive and bullish on US equities in my career." And of course we saw a cyclical P/E ratio north of 40 at the market peak in 2000. At some point I hope to all another dot to the chart above. Where will it lie in the overall scatter? Only time will tell. ¬† Appendix for Further Consideration For a long-term look at the cyclical P/E 10 ratio, see my latest monthly update: Here is a chart of the S&amp;P 500 with callouts for bear markets declines to one decimal place. I've also included a pair of near bears. ¬† ¬†
JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson was called out by The New York Post's James Covert for commuting on a company jet every week from his home in Palo Alto, CA, to the JCPenney headquarters in Plano, TX. The news struck a nerve with employees, but, as it turns out, Johnson isn't the only senior executive who doesn't live near the Plano headquarters. He's far from it. At least nine senior JCPenney executives commute to work by plane, and the company pays for it,¬†sources tell Sapna Maheshwari at Bloomberg News. For instance, Johnson, EVP Ben Fay, and EVP Laurie Miller fly in from California. CCO Michael Fisher and senior design and trends exec Nick Wooster come in from New York. A worker at Love Field in Dallas, TX, told us that JCPenney has a pair of Gulfstream G450 business jets located there. These planes cost around $41 million each, according to Gulfstream. "I know that quite a bit of the flying there at JCPenney is to move upper management from where they live to Dallas for work and then back to where they reside full time." the worker told us. So, what's JCPenney have to say about it? Here's what a spokesperson told Bloomberg: ‚ÄúSeveral of the people who currently travel to Plano from other cities are in the process of setting up permanent residence here and are moving to the Dallas area. With all the travel retail leaders do, it doesn‚Äôt always make sense to uproot and relocate their families, move them away from friends and family to a new city ‚Äî only to be gone traveling to visit vendors, stores or overseas.‚Äù Right now, JCPenney's internal culture is going through a period of flux, and the company needs to do everything it can to get people on board with the vision.¬†Executives who are physically detached aren't going to help with that. ‚ÄúFor a company that‚Äôs in turmoil, you really do have to have the senior leaders of a company, if for no other reason than showing face time, show that they‚Äôre committed, accessible, aware of what‚Äôs going on there," Howard Gross, managing director of retail and fashion at executive search firm Boyden,¬†told Bloomberg.¬† And it's affecting morale and trust within the company, especially in an environment that's so brutally unforgiving for both the retail worker and the lower-level corporate employee. "We are being forced to watch the death of a 100-year-old company while our CEO flies back and forth on a¬†private¬†jet¬†and tells us that we're doing a great job," one JCPenney store employee told us. "It's strange the way we seem to be firing those on the front lines while continuing to employee executives whose decisions are costing us our livelihood." "It's clearly about [Johnson's] ego and check book!" a salon worker complained to us when he learned about his CEO's commute.
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 5 Reasons To 'Like' Stocks Even Though They've Got Expensive (Barron's) Stocks hit an all-time high in March and as they become expensive there are still five reasons to "like not love them", according to JP Morgan Funds' chief global strategist David Kelly.¬† 1. "The stock market is cheaper than at previous peaks." 2. Despite the rise in payroll taxes and the sequester, the economic data has been "reassuring." 3. Consumer confidence could boost multiples. 4. The global economy is registering growth, even if it is at a slow pace. 5. A rise in interest rates doesn't necessarily have to hurt the stock market. The Stock Market's March Madness (LPL Financial) "As we narrow down stocks‚Äô ‚Äúsweet sixteen‚Äù potential drivers this year, the four ‚Äúregions‚Äù of market-moving factors vying for investor attention are: economy, policy, fundamentals, and market dynamics. "‚Ä¶The key message for investors in considering these factors is: don‚Äôt be too confident in any particular outcome. Respect the complexity of the situation. This is a time for caution and taking some profits, not for indiscriminate selling. It is a time to nibble at opportunities as they emerge; it is not a time to jump in with both feet." LPL Financial ¬† Advisors Tells Investors To Be Careful When Investing In The Materials Sector (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors are telling investors to be wary of stock funds focused on raw materials. This is because at this point in the stock market cycle they should be popping, according to Thomas Meyer, CEO at Meyer Capital Group, but "the fact they've been lagging is a red flag that it's still too early to make any oversized bets."¬† Chris Bertelsen of Florida-based Global Financial Private Capital told the WSJ that the materials sector is "stupid cheap" but at this point they could decline further if the S&amp;P falls so he is telling his clients to be cautious. Here's Where We Will First See The Ugly Consequences Of All The Central Bank Easing (Morgan Stanley) Global central banks have been pushed easing money for some time now. Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack writes that the first signs of stress from such easy monetary policy will be seen in emerging market debt, or corporate junk bonds in the developed market. "More to the point, these are parts of the financial system where developed market central banks would likely be unwilling or unable to ‚Äòdo whatever it takes‚Äô to prevent a serious setback. The question would then be whether setback and stress in these sectors could be contained in a world of high leverage." Morgan StanleyReal Estate Stocks Are Still Attractive (Advisor Perspectives) "While global real estate stocks may look pricier than other equities, valuations have only just recovered to levels that are average relative to their own history and they are still attractive when compared with bonds," writes Eric Franco at Alliance Bernstein. This is especially the case outside of the U.S. Publicly traded REITs for instance are "required to distribute most of their earnings as dividends." For investors looking for income, this area still an attractive bet.
flickr / RevolwebOracle just released quarterly earnings results, and the stock is down around 6 percent in after-hours trading. Earnings per share missed estimates by a penny, coming in at $0.65. Revenues, however, came up shorter, at $8.97 billion versus the $9.37 billion expected by analysts. New software licenses and cloud software subscription revenues were down 2 percent to $2.3 billion. Software license updates and product support revenue was up 7 percent to $4.3 billion. Adjusted operating margin was 47 percent. Below is the full text from the release: REDWOOD SHORES, CA--(Marketwire - Mar 20, 2013) -¬†Oracle Corporation ( NASDAQ : ORCL ) today announced that fiscal 2013 Q3 total revenues were down 1% to $9.0 billion. New software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were down 2% to $2.3 billion. Software license updates and product support revenues were up 7% to $4.3 billion. Hardware systems products revenues were $671 million. GAAP operating income was up 1% to $3.3 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 37%. Non-GAAP operating income was down 1% to $4.2 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 47%. GAAP net income was unchanged at $2.5 billion, while non-GAAP net income was down 1% to $3.1 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.52, up 6% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 5% to $0.65. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $13.7 billion. Without the impact of the US dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported Q3 GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.01 higher at $0.53, up 8%, and Q3 non-GAAP earnings per share would have been approximately $0.01 higher. Total revenues also would have been 1% higher and new software licenses and cloud software subscription revenues would have been 2% higher than reported. "Our non-GAAP operating margin increased to a Q3 record of 47%, and we expect it to reach an all-time high for the fiscal year," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "Both operating cash flow and free cash flow were at record levels for a Q3, with operating cash flow of $13.7 billion over the last twelve months." "The Oracle Cloud is the most robust and comprehensive cloud platform available with services at the infrastructure (IaaS), platform (PaaS) and application (SaaS) level," said Oracle President, Mark Hurd. "In Q3, our SaaS revenue alone grew well over 100% as lots of new customers adopted our Sales, Service, Marketing and Human Capital Management applications in the Cloud." "This month we will begin deliveries of servers based on our new SPARC T5 microprocessor: the fastest microprocessor in the world," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "The new T5 servers can have up to eight microprocessors while our new M5 system can be configured with up to thirty-two microprocessors. The M5 runs the Oracle database 10 times faster than the M9000 it replaces." Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Flickr / George M. GroutasParty in CyprusStocks are heading back toward their all-time highs. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,511, +55.9 pts, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,558, +10.3 pts, +0.6 percentNASDAQ: 3,254, +25.0 pts, +0.7 percent And now the top stories:
Reuters/ Mike SegarThe Sohn Investment Conference is coming up in May. The¬†high-profile hedge fund industry event brings together some of the top fund managers to present their investment views and picks. Business Insider will be there covering it.¬† Another key part of the Sohn conference is the annual investment contest for people to submit their best long or short investment ideas. ¬†The contest is judged by some of the industry's biggest names ‚Äî Bill Ackman, David Einhorn, Seth Klarman, Michael Prince and Joel Greenblatt. ¬† If you have a long or short idea and want to get the chance to have top fund managers review it, then this is the contest for you. ¬†The winner also gets to present their idea on stage in front of thousands of investors.¬† Here's the release with all the details: ¬† ¬†NEW YORK, NY, (March 20, 2013) ‚ÄîToday, The¬†Sohn¬†Conference Foundation, sponsor of the original and premier investment idea conference, announced the launch of its Investment Idea Contest ahead of its 18th annual conference, which takes place on May 8, 2013 from 12:00pm ‚Äì 6pm at New York City‚Äôs Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center. The contest is intended to encourage anyone with an investment idea to showcase that idea in front of the world‚Äôs leading global investment minds. Contest participants are to submit their best investment idea by 5pm (ET) on May 2, 2013; entries can be any marketable security (long or short) with a market capitalization above $1 billion. The winner will be selected based on the judges‚Äô determination of the most compelling investment idea over a one-year horizon.A distinguished group of judges led by Joel Greenblatt and including Bill Ackman, David Einhorn, Seth Klarman and Michael Price will determine the most compelling investment idea. The winner will present the investment idea in front of approximately 3,000 people at the renowned¬†Sohn¬†Investment Conference.‚ÄúThe¬†Sohn¬†Investment Conference is renowned for bringing fresh investment insights and strategies to the forefront of the global financial community, providing a stage for the most savvy minds on Wall Street to share their insights,‚Äù said Daniel Nir, Co-Chair of the¬†Sohn¬†Conference Foundation. ¬†‚ÄúThe Investment Contest expands that stage for both veterans and up-and-coming investors, offering a unique opportunity to be recognized by industry leaders.‚ÄùFor more information or to enter the contest, please visit¬†https://app.wizehive.com/appform/login/sohn2013.¬†For more information or to register for the conference, please visit¬†www.sohnconference.com.
REUTERS/Jorge SilvaA pump jack is seen during sunset at Lagunillas field in the eastern coast of Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.Brent oil prices are up 1.2 percent this afternoon as Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke announced the agency's bond buying program would continue almost entirely in tact. WTI prices were also up 1.1 percent. Markets are also responding to Venezuela's announcement that it was suspending all contact with the U.S. Venezuela's foreign minister said he didn't know what kind of relations Washington wants in 2013.

Lululemon puns are totally out of control. For those still unfamiliar with what happened with the apparel retailer, Lululemon has pulled from its shelves a large number of black luon yoga pants, which had been deemed too see-through. Granted, it was bound to happen, considering the nature of the story at hand.¬† But we're seeing a deluge of yoga pants puns, the likes of which mankind has never seen. Look at all these headlines: "Lululemon stock drops as yoga pants expose problems" ‚Äî Reuters "Yoga-Pants Supplier Says Lululemon Stretches Truth" ‚Äî¬†The Wall Street Journal "Sheer Lululemon pants would sell, say cheeky observers" ‚Äî¬†CBC "Yoga Pants Reveal Lululemon Shortcomings" ‚Äî¬†The Financial Times "See-through pants? How Lululemon became the butt of the Internet‚Äôs jokes" ‚Äî The Globe and Mail "It's clear to see: Yoga pants were too sheer" ‚Äî The Columbus Dispatch "I See London, I See France: Lululemon Wears Crisis Well" ‚Äî¬†MarketingDaily "Lululemon yoga pant recall sheer comfort for cheaper brands" ‚Äî The Lantern Yuk yuk! Once you delve into those articles and many others, you realize how rampant the puns are: "Another problem like this could leave the company with a lasting (ahem) bum rap." ‚Äî Jena McGregor at The Washington Post ‚ÄúIt is clear from the disclosed information that [Lululemon] has not yet gotten to the bottom of the problem (pun intended).‚Äù ‚Äî¬†Faye Landes, analyst at Cowen &amp; Co, to The Financial Times "Are these see-through pants a cover-up for falling revenue? ‚Äî Amanda Holpuch at The Guardian "The company's profits are going downward, dog." ‚Äî Robin Abcarian at the Los Angeles Times "Investors usually like transparency. But not in this case." ‚Äî Anne D'Innocenzio and Michelle Chapman at the Associated Press "And just like that, shareholders ran to cover their own bottom (lines, that is)" ‚Äî Lydia Dishman at Forbes Of course, the Twitter-folk would never have allowed themselves to be left behind for yoga-punmageddon:¬† See-through #Lululemon pants headline suggestion: Sheer Madness! No company has embraced transparency quite like Lulumon. Unwanted exposure for Lululemon cbc.sh/2RTwJWM I "recall" when Lululemon was nonexistent and the Italian Stallion ate raw eggs and jogged the Philly dawn in thick baggy cotton MAN sweats! Flaw or transparent marketing genius? &gt;&gt; See-through yoga pants a pain for Lululemon bo.st/11fhoQG via @bostondotcom Yoga outfitter Lululemon has found itself in a compromising position. ow.ly/jfONi fb.me/1BWFJB9gE
Federal Reserve / USStreamThe FOMC just released the statement from its March meeting. To sum it up, Federal Reserve bond buying is still full speed ahead at $85 billion per month, but the FOMC notes that fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive since the last meeting (i.e., sequester). The FOMC also updated its economic forecasts. The Committee now thinks unemployment will fall faster than previously expected. Below is a live blog of Bernanke's presser and Q&amp;A. -------------------------------------------------- 2:30 PM: Bernanke begins. 2:31 PM: Bernanke says the housing sector has seen further gains, payrolls are growing faster, and inflation is running below target, but unemployment, of course, remains elevated. 2:33 PM:¬†Most on the FOMC see inflation eventually rising to target and agree that quantitative easing is supporting job creation. 2:35 PM:¬†It bears emphasizing that the Committee views its actions in the context of monthly purchases, as opposed to total purchases. 2:37 PM:¬†Asset purchases under quantitative easing are in order to increase near-term economic momentum. 2:38 PM:¬†The employment situation has improved, but fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive. 2:39 PM:¬†Q&amp;A begins. 2:39 PM:¬†The lack of quantitative thresholds for QE is due to the fact that it is a complex issue. Not only does unconventional monetary policy affect the economy, but it's also important for financial market stability. The Fed may adjust the rate of purchases from month to month at some point in the future. 2:40 PM:¬†We will be looking for sustained improvement across a range of labor market indicators in a way that is taking place throughout the economy. We are looking at the outlook for future conditions as opposed to current conditions, which will allow us to look past short-term shocks or programs. 2:41 PM:¬†The problem with having a single criterion for adjusting asset purchases is that it's "all-or-nothing." That would be very difficult for the markets to understand and anticipate. As we make progress toward our ultimate objective of substantial approvement, we may adjust the pace of asset purchases. We won't do it every month, or frequently. 2:43 PM:¬†"Substantial improvement" means broad based improvement in a range of indicators ‚Äì a period in which the labor market is doing better and we perceive it to be stronger. If the outlook worsened, we could bring purchases back to the "previous level." 2:44 PM:¬†At each meeting, we will look at progress that has been made since the last meeting, trying to determine if there's been enough change to shift our policy stance. 2:46 PM:¬†It's a difficult situation in Cyprus. In a financial sense, it's bigger than it is in a GDP sense, as its banking system is so much larger than its economy. The vote failed, and markets are up today, so I don't think the impact has been enormous. 2:47 PM:¬†We at the Fed don't have an estimate for what is too big to fail or the subsidy banks gain from being too big to fail. There is some evidence of market discrimination. I never meant to imply that the TBTF problem is solved and gone. It's still here. But we're working on making progress toward it, with Basel capital rules and Dodd-Frank regulation. 2:49 PM:¬†I don't have a strong view on term limits for central bankers. The President always has the option of appointing or re-appointing Fed chairmen, and Congress can confirm or deny. So, term limits are redundant. 2:51 PM:¬†I have a relative that is unemployed. I come from a small town in South Carolina that has taken a big hit from the recession. The home I was raised in had just been foreclosed upon when I visited there last. I think it's very important that we act to address unemployment, and I think that most would agree that the Fed has been fairly active in that regard. 2:53 PM: We have not been able to agree on what guidance we should give on asset purchases. As we go forward, we have to factor in the efficacy of those purchases, which is another issue. As we move forward in time, we'll be learning more about how effective the policy is, and the risks arising from it. I agree that it would be more effective if we could give numerical guidance. 2:55 PM:¬†Capital is an important element in addressing too big to fail. One of the things that will be proposed is surcharges on the largest banks (they will have to hold more capital as a percentage of assets than smaller banks). That should equalize their cost of funding with other banks and make a failure safer, because the risk is more limited. 2:58 PM:¬†The tightening of credit in mortgage markets ‚Äì our sense is that it's gone too far. Some tightening is obviously needed. We are now seeing much higher credit quality requirements on potential borrowers. That does have some effect on monetary policy. One of the most powerful tools we have is bringing down mortgage rates ‚Äì stimulating home buying and construction-related industries. 2:59 PM:¬†The number of borrowers underwater on their mortgages goes down as house prices go up, and this is providing an improvement in credit quality for those people. I don't want to overstate it, but higher prices are bringing more people into the mortgage market. 3:00 PM:¬†We are not targeting asset prices or measuring our success by the stock market. While the Dow may be hitting a high, it's in nominal terms and not real terms. I don't think it's all that surprising that the market would rise, given the increased optimism in the economy, and profits are high. 3:02 PM:¬†CBO estimates that putting together the fiscal cliff, the sequester, and other cuts, fiscal restraint is cutting something like 1.5 percentage points off of economic growth. We take as given what the fiscal authorities are doing. The economy is weaker than it would be otherwise. Monetary policy cannot offset fiscal restraint of that magnitude. The final outcome in terms of jobs will be worse than without that fiscal restraint. However, long-term, it is important to put the country on a sustainable fiscal path (not necessarily in the short term). 3:05 PM:¬†There's been some disconnect in the short run between unemployment rate changes and growth. We are just going to have to measure developments in the economy and see what happens. We're not necessarily projecting strong growth, but the unemployment rate outlook is considerably lower than per the previous forecasts. 3:06 PM:¬†The reason for publishing the severely adverse scenario from the stress tests is because that is the ultimate test. If they can survive the severely adverse scenario, they can survive a less stressful adverse scenario. The severely adverse scenario is mostly a scaling up of the adverse scenario. We found generally that banks can sustain an increase in long-term interest rates. One reason is that it increases their franchise value ‚Äì net interest margins will rise over time. 3:10 PM:¬†The reason we define "price stability" as 2 percent inflation is because if you're at zero inflation, you're very close to a deflation scenario. We haven't contemplated changing that, but it's currently being debated in academic circles, and we'll see what comes out of that. 3:14 PM:¬†I think the issue Cyprus faces is that there is a pretty big financial hole in the sense that there is a fiscal issue and a bank restructuring/recapitalization issue. They are looking for resources where they can find them. There is the issue of setting a precedent that could reduce confidence in banks in certain periods. It's a very tough issue, and finding the resources to solve the Cyprus problem ‚Äì there's probably no easy way to do it. 3:16 PM:¬†The reason for the spring slump we've been observing each year could be due to statistical issues with seasonality. However, that should have washed out by now. If we see another similar slump, there could be more fundamental basis for it. 3:18 PM:¬†I don't think a bank run in Cyprus has direct implications for the U.S. economy unless depositors in other countries lose confidence. I'm not aware that there is any evidence that is the case at this point. I consider a deposit tax to be extremely unlikely in the U.S. 3:20 PM:¬†Labor force participation has been declining on a trend-like basis in the U.S. for a while, mostly due to demographic factors ‚Äì the aging of the population and the fact that female participation is starting to decrease a bit. There's a trend underlying this, and there are some people who have left the labor force because they've been discouraged and can't find work. As the economy strengthens, they could re-enter the labor force. I doubt in the near term that we will see an increase in labor force participation because of that underlying downward trend. 3:22 PM:¬†Monetary policy is a very blunt instrument. If you are raising interest rates to pop an asset bubble, you may also at the same time be throwing the economy into a recession, which kind of defeats the purpose of monetary policy. If the economy is weak, it's difficult to contemplate raising interest rates a lot to counter something in the financial sphere. 3:25 PM:¬†I've spoken to the president a bit, but I don't really have any information for you on my future at this juncture. I don't think I'm the only person in the world who can manage the exit." There is no single person who is essential to that. Regarding my personal plans, I will certainly let you know when I have something more concrete. 3:27 PM:¬†Q&amp;A concludes.
Since March Madness starts tomorrow, we've been asking around to see how Wall Streeter's see it all playing out. SkyBridge Capital's Anthony Scaramucci was kind enough to send us his entire bracket. He has Indiana winning it all. Check it out below: Courtesy of Anthony Scaramucci
Robert JohnsonLast week, Exxon released the U.S. edition of its 2040 outlook.† The big news is that while North America will soon be a net exporter of energy, the U.S. will not. And the continent won't get there without Canada's oil sands. Cars will become incredibly fuel efficient your car could become.† And while U.S. industrial energy demand will fall, commercial demand will rise. We've pulled the key charts from the report.
Flickr / FederalReserveThe Federal Reserve has just concluded its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. They also just published an update to its economic forecasts. The good news is that they just lowered their unemployment rate forecasts.¬† However, they also modestly revised lower their expectations for GDP. Here's a round up: Here are their charts: Federal Reserve
Wikimedia CommonsThe March FOMC statement is out. The Committee notes that fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive, but maintains its $85 billion per month pace of bond buying. In short, current monetary policy stimulus remains full speed ahead. Markets aren't moving much on the release. Stocks, bonds, gold, and the dollar are all trading around pre-release levels. The Fed also updated its economic forecasts. Unemployment forecasts have been revised down.¬†Click here for the report &gt; Below is the full release: Release Date: March 20, 2013 Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January suggests a return to moderate economic growth following a pause late last year.¬† Labor market conditions have shown signs of improvement in recent months but the unemployment rate remains elevated.¬† Household spending and business fixed investment advanced, and the housing sector has strengthened further, but fiscal policy has become somewhat more restrictive.¬† Inflation has been running somewhat below the Committee's longer-run objective, apart from temporary variations that largely reflect fluctuations in energy prices.¬† Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability.¬† The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic growth will proceed at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate.¬† The Committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook.¬† The Committee also anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. To support a stronger economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee decided to continue purchasing additional agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month and longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $45 billion per month.¬† The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction.¬† Taken together, these actions should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months.¬† The Committee will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability.¬† In determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, the Committee will continue to take appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic objectives. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens.¬† In particular, the Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and currently anticipates that this exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored.¬† In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments.¬† When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Charles L. Evans; Jerome H. Powell; Sarah Bloom Raskin; Eric S. Rosengren; Jeremy C. Stein; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Janet L. Yellen.¬† Voting against the action was Esther L. George, who was concerned that the continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation expectations. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;

Flickr/Giovanni HashimotoBrains and beauty. It's a winning combination that's hard to resist ‚Äî especially in college students. Our friends at College Prowler created an exclusive list of American schools where the students are both hot and smart. College Prowler ranks schools based on input from real students at the schools. They have more than 700,000 student reviews on nearly 7,000 schools. To compile this list, they considered schools that students said have the hottest students and the smartest students, and averaged those lists together. These rankings were based on approximately 120,000 hot/smart data points taken from about 370,000 surveyed college students. We've included some comments that students posted on College Prowler about the schools.
Newly minted Pope Francis is Argentine, and though he and the country's socially liberal President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner have had their differences, she went to see him in Rome on his first days. That sounds pretty standard, but it's the way she got to their visit that's strange. Instead of flying the state plane to Rome, Fernandez de Kirchner stopped off in Morocco, dropped off her jet, and then boarded a commercial flight to Italy, Argentine site ABC Sociedad reports. She didn't want any problems. Last October, a group of hedge fund managers got a Ghanaian Court to sign an order impounding an Argentine warship (La Libertad) in a Ghanaian harbor. The most high profile member of that group is billionaire hedge fund manager Paul Singer. He and other "holdouts" have been locked in a legal battle with Argentina over $1 billion that they say the country owes them after a 2001 investment in Argentine sovereign debt. Argentina refuses to pay Singer and co. because other investors restructured their debt twice. Politicians say the holdouts are "vulture capitalists." Overall this legal battle still isn't over, but when La Libertad was stuck in Ghana, it took two months and some intercession by the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to get the boat back home. The last thing Fernandez de Kirchner needs is for something like that to happen to her own plane.
Click for sound. ¬† The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on Wall Street may date back to the Buttonwood Agreement signed in Manhattan in 1792, but there is nothing dated about its state of the art broadcast operation. Home to over 30 daily broadcasters, NYSE Euronext has become one of the largest and most sophisticated television studios in the world. The first live video report from the NYSE was in 1987, when CNN sent Jan Hopkins to report live during the stock market crash of that year. The next year the NYSE established its broadcast and multimedia center, which still coordinates all the newscasts from the Exchange. But reporters were still not able to report live from the floor. Then in 1995 Maria Bartiromo from CNBC became the first reporter to go live to TV from the floor of the NYSE, marking the beginning of a new era as reporters and traders began to interact regularly during the day and on the news.¬† In the past couple years electronic trading has reduced the need for physical traders on the floor, and newscasters have taken over the floor of the Exchange. CNBC has its own elaborate set in the place where one of the trading posts stood, and over 30 broadcasters report live from the floor every day, not to mention the many smaller outlets that also cover the Exchange and utilize its multimedia center. The evolution of media and technology has transformed the NYSE into the biggest stage for business news. We spoke with journalists on the floor and the people behind the NYSE Multimedia Center about how media reporting from the floor has changed over time and what lies ahead. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Kamelia Angelova
The Chinese central bank has finally granted Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFII) access to its onshore interbank bond market. The China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) first revised rules to allow QFIIs to invest in the interbank bond market nearly nine months ago. But the Chinese central bank is the main regulator of the market, and only just granted them access. Until now, QFII's could only invest in equities and exchange traded bonds.¬† Remember, bonds are traded in the interbank, exchange market, and over-the-counter (OTC) market in China, but the interbank bond market accounts for 95 percent of all onshore bonds, according to Bank of America's Ting Lu. For China, developing the bond market has been a way of reducing the risks in the banking sector. For investors, they get to tap into China's bond market, which is the third-largest bond market in the world. Between August 2012 and February 2013, foreigners' bond holdings have increased 110 percent, from 92 billion yuan to 192.8 billion yuan, according to Lu. BAMLSo far, the biggest players here were foreign central banks, renminbi clearing banks, and Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor (RQFII). Remember the RQFII is based in renminbi and is geared towards retail investors, while the QFII is based in U.S. dollars and targets institutional investors. What's more? When China announces reforms, many question whether it will actually follow through with them. This shows that China is serious about loosening its capital controls.
">APReuters'¬†Svea Herbst-Bayliss reports that Andrey Hicks, a fake hedge fund manager who bilked NBA basketball player Kris Humphries and others, has been¬†been sentenced to 40 months in prison. The judge has also ordered Hicks to pay $2.3 million in restitution. Hicks, who ran a fake $1 billion dollar AUM Locust Offshore Management,¬†lied about his credentials to investors. According to a civil complaint from the SEC, he claimed he had both an undergraduate and ¬†a PhD degree from Harvard and worked as a successful hedge fund manager at Barclays Capital in the past. ¬†He never even finished is undergraduate degree¬†and never worked on Wall Street. ¬† He was able to lure investors by claiming he ran an exclusive hedge fund that used mathematical models he developed during his Harvard PhD program, according to Reuters. The thing his he only took one math class during his brief undergraduate career and got a D.¬† What's more is in 2011, which was a very volatile year for hedge funds in general, he claimed he was up an astonishing 80%. ¬†In reality, he didn't use the money from investors to invest in the fund, but instead used it for his own personal expenses, according to the U.S. Department of Justice.¬† Late last year, he pleaded guilty to defrauding 10 people of more than $2.3 million. Hicks sat behind Humphries and Kim Kardashian at their wedding rehearsal dinner. Humphries lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in the investment scheme, according to TMZ.
APTo understand how much skin Russia's elites have in the Cyprus game, you have to check out oligarch holdings. But these investments are complicated. For example, some of these investors have holding companies based in Cyprus through which they control their empires. Others own holding companies in, say, the Cayman Islands, through which they own Cypriot companies. So we've tried to figure out who the truly big fish are. Two of them are Alexander Abramov and his better-known partner, the 78th richest man in the world, Roman Abramovich. Together they own Evraz, a giant international steel company that trades on London's FTSE. Abramov and Abramovich hold their stakes in Evraz through an investment vehicle called Lanebrook Limited, according to Evraz's shareholder disclosures. Lanebrook was incorporated in Cyprus in 2006. flickr/jsmjrThe Eclipse Abramovic is well known for owning the biggest yacht in the world, the Eclipse (which was docked in NYC recently), as well as the U.K.'s Chelsea soccer team. He also owns a Boeing 767, tons of precious art, Maybach limousines, a huge security detail and homes in Aspen and the South of France. If that's not enough for you (it's not for him, obviously) Abramovic is also converting nine London apartments into one huge mansion. He's hard to ignore. Screenshot via Youtube/slolkovoschoolAbramovHowever, it's Abramov (worth an estimated $4.6 billion) who was made a Cypriot citizen in 2010 for "the highest level of service to the Republic of Cyprus, and considering his business activities, naturalization is in the public interest.î according to Cyprus Mail. It makes sense. Everaz has been making big investments in Cyprus (from CyprusMail): In 2008 the company announced its acquisition of a 51.4 per cent stake in the Cyprus based company, Palmrose for USD $1.06 billion (Ä0.83 billion), and as of June 2010 Evraz held minority stakes in two Cypriot scrap metal companies , EKV Invest (9.6 per cent) and RVK Invest (42.6 per cent). Evraz also has a 50 per cent stake in Cyprus based Streamcore Limited, which had net assets of $62 million in September 2009. Abramov went to Russia's Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and was a scientist before he went into business. Funding for his research had dried up due to the Russian financial crisis in 1998, so he started buying up steel and coal companies on the cheap. He's also currently building the biggest house in New Zealand. The project has been kept under wraps but one of the country's top real estate agents told the New Zealand Herald it could cost as much as $40 million to build. So these two gentlemen are likely a bit concerned about Cyprus' well-being.
BBC/National Army MuseumMoscow and Cyprus are still negotiating terms of a potential bailout. ¬† ¬† Most will hail the crisis's receding if a deal is reached. But for Turkey, seeing Cyprus and Russia growing even closer together could revive age-old hostilities between Moscow and Istanbul. Depending on how far back you want to go, the love between the two was first lost upon Mehmed II's sacking of Constantinople ‚Äî capital of Christian Orthodoxy ‚Äî in 1453.¬† Then came the Crimean war in the 1850s, which pitted Russia against the Ottoman Empire (as well as France and Britain) over the rights of Christians in the Middle East. And during the Cold War, Turkey became a staunch ally of the U.S. Relations have improved more recently, especially under President Medvedev. Google MapsBut the conflict that engulfed Cyprus in the '70s ‚Äî which saw Turkey invade the island to prevent it from coming under Orthodox Greece's influence ‚Äî has never actually ended. To this day, a small enclave calls itself "The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus" and is recognized by Turkey (though they're the only ones who do so). As recently as 2001,¬†Turkey was threatening to annex the north if Cyprus joined the EU. We already know Russians do a lot of business on the island, so any more intimate relations between the two countries ‚Äî like a naval base ‚Äî shouldn't really come as a surprise. ¬† But that kind of move will not likely sit well in Istabul.
Bloomberg TelevisionEasy monetary policy from the world's central banks is likely to be around for a while.† Central bankers have been adopting a "whatever it takes" mentality to keep economic growth going. But Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack warns that this is not sustainable. For now, he's closely watching areas where central banks have little influence. "I think that the problems caused by excessively loose monetary policy may first appear in areas where ëwhatever it takesí central bankers have limited or no control," writes Minack "Emerging market debt or developed market high-yield corporate debt are two segments that could be a source of stress." The high-yield, or junk bond, market has become increasingly popular as investors search for income in this low-interest-rate environment. This has made it very cheap and easy for companies with low credit-quality to borrow more money. This is OK when earnings are growing at a healthy clip. "For now, servicing debt is not troublesome due to solid earnings and low rates," he continues. "However, the rise in leverage in the U.S. is now occurring against a backdrop of slowing earnings growth." Here's the chart Minack included demonstrating this potential problem. Morgan Stanley "The point, however, is not that these are sectors of imminent stress," he writes. "The point is that these are areas that could see more dangerous mis-pricing of risk emerge in coming quarters because monetary policy is likely to remain loose, liquidity plentiful, and investors will continue to hunt for yield." Some have argued that this mis-pricing is actually a bubble in the junk bond market. "More to the point, these are parts of the financial system where developed market central banks would likely be unwilling or unable to ëdo whatever it takesí to prevent a serious setback. The question would then be whether setback and stress in these sectors could be contained in a world of high leverage." Keep an eye on the junk bond market.
WikipediaUnemployment is up again in Pennsylvania. The state's energy boom has helped revive what would otherwise have been a moribund Rustbelt economy whose capital went bankrupt, sending the unemployment rate down 1.1 points in the span of a year.¬† But the Keystone State saw its January rate rise 0.6 points YOY to 8.2 percent, the most for any state that month. What happened to all those drilling jobs? Well, the sector is definitely not losing jobs, but they've stopped adding them, for now. Here's the chart for non-coal mining employment from the state's Center for Workforce Information and Analysis. PA Workstats John Hanger, an energy and utilities expert who's also running for governor, says this is due natural gas prices having fallen 18 percent between November and February. But more broadly, he argues, Pennsylvania ‚Äî population 12.7 million ‚Äî cannot subsist on the approximately 100,000 direct and indirect jobs he says drillers have created. "Pennsylvania is not North Dakota," he told us by phone. "If your population is 600,000, and you've created 100,000 jobs, you've brought base prosperity. One hundred thousand in Pennsylvania is simply 2 percent of all jobs. We need need economic development strategy to recognize that fact and stimulate the broader economy." The largest YOY unemployment increases were in construction (0.9 percent) and government (0.4 percent), according to state data.
REUTERS/Marcelo del Pozo The crisis in Cyprus is a good opportunity to take a step back and remind ourselves how incredibly broken the Eurozone remains. For one thing, the whole reason the Eurozone has these sovereign debt crises is because while the countries share a common currency, they don't share a common Treasury. So it is literally possible for a country to just run out of cash. That can't happen in a country like the U.S. or the U.K., which are capable of creating their own money. And then even beyond that, the single monetary policy isn't helpful. The periphery needs much more stimulus, whereas Germany is worried (perhaps fairly) about bubbles, as everyone rushes cash into its borders. Plus, Germany has virtually no unemployment, so it sees no need for stimulative measures. Economist and professor David Beckworth looked at the big picture on Monday, pointing out how the system needs some serious structural reforms to function properly. One reform is to alter ECB policy so that it actually tries to stabilize nominal spending for the entire Eurozone, not just Germany. Since it inception, ECB monetary policy has been biased toward Germany at the cost of destabilizing the Eurozone periphery. This could be fixed by having the ECB abandoned its flexible inflation target and adopt a NGDP level target. Another complementary reform, would be to create meaningful fiscal transfers in the Eurozone similar in scale and scope to the United States. Both of these options, however, would face stiff opposition from Germany. For the former would require temporarily higher inflation than Germany desires and the former would require large fiscal commitments for the Eurozone from Germany. Neither is likely to happen. The Eurozone made its first step towards a true structural reform last summer, when the ECB announced its "OMT" program, which begins to establish the central bank as a lender of last resort, backstopping governments that get into trouble. That's cooled the crisis a lot (reducing government borrowing costs) but the catch is that to be eligible, countries have to put on handcuffs (reforms, austerity, etc.) and that's sent the economies of various countries right into the toilet. Here, for example, is the unemployment rate in Italy. Trading Economics That's hardly an unusual looking chart. Outside of Germany, pretty much every economic indicator in the Eurozone just gets worse and worse. While Mario Draghi rightly can claim to be the world's #1 central banker (given the difficult situation he faces, and his limited mandate) leadership remains poor. In the wake of the Italian election -- wherein incumbent Prime Minister Mario Monti received a pathetic 10% of the vote -- he was praised for having taken the tough unpopular austerity decisions that allowed interest rates to fall as they have. In fact this was nonsense. Interest rates fell because of the ECB. Austerity and reform didn't accomplish squat on their own. But the beatings will continue until morale improves. Against the backdrop of bad theory and bad policies, Europe has engaged in a series of ad hoc rescues and bailouts that tamp down flareups where they occur. And heretofore Europe has actually gotten lucky. All the big votes have gone Europe's way. Remember all those Greek austerity votes? They always passed by the skin of their teeth. Remember the German Supreme Court decision on the legality of the bailouts? It went Europe's way. Remember when Slovenia was the center of attention, because it came close to not approving the expanded bailout plan? Slovenia eventually played ball. And then of course the public elections always turned out okay. In Greece last summer, the conservative New Democracy party narrowly edged out the leftist SYRIZA party. Had SYRIZA won, it would have set up an epic clash, as SYRIZA was not going to go along with the austerity that was demanded by the outside. It looks like Europe's luck is running out. In Italy last month, the election ended inconclusively. The center-left coalition failed to get enough votes (it seems) to form a government, and there might need to be new elections. And then it finally happened in Cyprus yesterday. A bailout vote just failed. It didn't just fail. It didn't even garner one yea vote. And the whole reason Cyprus is faced with this awful bailout proposal (which taxes depositors) is because if Cyprus were to just get a grant or a blank check without brutal conditions, then that couldn't pass the German parliament. So there are really two parliaments here that are ready to vote 'no' on something. This has always been the risk to the system, that a vote would go wrong. And now it's happened.
March has been maddening for investors in the past few years (2010-2012) as the S&amp;P 500 raced higher in March only to reverse all of those gains in a pullback of about 10% that began in late March or April. It later took stocks at least five months to climb back to the peaks of March. As the NCAA tournament gets down to its own sweet sixteen at the end of this week, it is a good time to reflect on the competing drivers of the markets that may make for an exciting showdown in the weeks and months to come. LPL FinancialFigure 1: Stocksí Sweet Sixteen As we narrow down stocksí ìsweet sixteenî potential drivers this year, the four ìregionsî of market-moving factors vying for investor attention are: economy, policy, fundamentals, and market dynamics. † Economy ï†††††††Employment ñ Job growth has been picking up with more than 200,000 jobs created in three of the past four months and first-time filings for unemployment benefits have started to fall after stabilizing around 350,000 for over a year. ï†††††††Housing ñ The powerfully rebounding housing market, as seen in data such as housing starts and building permits, is a positive for growth. ï†††††††Confidence ñ Last weekís University of Michigan data showed that consumer confidence fell sharply in the preliminary reading for March to the lowest level in over a year. ï†††††††Gasoline Prices ñ Retail gasoline prices are back up near the ìdanger zoneî that coincided with stock market pullbacks in each of the past few years. † Policy ï†††††††Federal Reserve ñ ìDonít Fight the Fedî rally is intact, but as the Federal Reserve publicly contemplates ending the latest stimulus program, the stock market may suffer the same sell-off that surrounded the ending of prior quantitative easing programs, so-called QE1 and QE2. ï†††††††Europe ñ†With the Eurozone back in recession, an inconclusive election leaving no government in Italy, a political scandal hampering the ability to implement needed reforms in Spain, Greece unlikely to meet the terms of its own bailout, and Germany pushing hard terms on any aid ahead of its fall elections, the events in Cyprus could provide the catalyst for another Europe-driven spring slide in the world's stock markets. ï†††††††Geopolitics ñ The hot spots are heating up again given the power grab following the death of Chavez in Venezuela, the coming elections in Iran, different factions vying for power in war-torn Syria, and North Korea annulling its cease fire agreement. ï†††††††Fiscal Cliff ñ A fiscal drag on gross domestic product (GDP) of about 2%, and showdowns over the continuing resolution funding the government and the debt ceiling still to come, may weigh on investor sentiment as the recently implemented sequester threatens to halt labor market improvement with an estimated cost of 750,000 jobs, according to the Congressional Budget Office. † Fundamentals ï†††††††Earnings ñ Earnings are the most fundamental of all drivers of stocks. Earnings growth has been the most consistent factor driving the markets in recent years, but growth has now slowed to the low-single digits for S&amp;P 500 companies. ï†††††††Valuations ñ The price-to-earnings ratio of the S&amp;P 500, at around 15 on the past four quartersí earnings,†is well below the 17ñ18 seen at the end of all prior bull markets since WWII. ï†††††††Credit ñ Demand for credit has improved and credit spreads have narrowed; both trends are key supports to growth. ï†††††††Corporate Cash - Strong cash balances provide a cheap source of capital to invest and incentive to buy back shares to boost earnings per share growth. † Market Dynamics ï†††††††Momentum ñ Stocks have been on a strong winning streak that could continue. ï†††††††Volume ñ Trading volume in the markets has been light this year, 10ñ15% below last year, traditionally seen as a sign that a trend has become vulnerable. ï†††††††Volatility ñ Investors have once again become net sellers of U.S. stock mutual funds in the past two weeks, according to data from the Investment Company Institute (ICI), despite strong and steady gains. A return to more volatile markets may further undermine individual investor support. ï†††††††Interest Rates ñ Interest rates are on the rise, potentially acting as a drag on everything from housing to the U.S. budget, but from very low levels. † There are quite a few listed here, but these certainly are not all the factors that are influencing the markets. The key message for investors in considering these factors is: donít be too confident in any particular outcome. Respect the complexity of the situation. This is a time for caution and taking some profits, not for indiscriminate selling. It is a time to nibble at opportunities as they emerge; it is not a time to jump in with both feet. Investing is not a game, but it is important also to remember that forecasting is not an exact science, and many factors can affect outcomes that are hard to predict. Two years ago, the Japanese earthquake had a big impact on markets and natural disastersódespite tremendous advances in technologyóare very hard to predict with any degree of accuracy. Geopolitical outcomes can also be hard to foresee as we look to the stresses in the Middle East. For example, the outcome of the Arab Spring uprisings and the changes they have led to in countries including Syria and Egypt were hard to foresee. The markets rarely offer perfect clarity on their direction because they are driven by these factors as well as many others. Even this weekís NCAA March Madness can be seen as a reminder of how it can be notoriously hard to predict winners. Historically, a teamís ranking has meant nothing after getting down to the elite eight. These factors will play out in the markets over the course of the year, not just in the coming weeks. This means there will likely be some upsets that result in volatility and pullbacks as these factors face off against each other. In the end, we expect a positive year with many opportunities for investors.
U.S. crude oil production is on pace to hit 7.3 million barrels a day by the end of this year, according to the EIA. That would put it above total imports, which will be hovering around 7 million barrels a day by December. The last time production outpaced imports was 1995, according to the EIA. And by 2014, production-imports gap could rise to as much as 2 billion barrels.¬† Here's the chart: EIA The reason, of course, is the shale boom. The cross-over could happen even sooner if production ramps up, the EIA says.
nic_r via FlickrHabitat 67The Architecture Billings Index (ABI) climbed to 54.9 in February from 54.2 in January. Any score above 50 indicates growth. The new projects inquiry sub-index jumped to 64.8 from 63.2 a month ago. The ABI is considered to be a reliable leading indicator of commercial real estate growth. Last month, Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz told us these billings are a "huge tailwind" for the stock market. Here's a historical look from Calculated Risk: Calculated Risk ¬† From the AIA: Washington, D.C. ‚Äì March 20, 2013 ‚Äì With increasing demand for design services, the Architecture Billings Index (ABI) is continuing to strengthen. As a leading economic indicator of construction activity, the ABI reflects the approximate nine to twelve month lag time between architecture billings and construction spending. The American Institute of Architects (AIA) reported the February ABI score was 54.9, up slightly from a mark of 54.2 in January. This score reflects a strong increase in demand for design services (any score above 50 indicates an increase in billings). The new projects inquiry index was 64.8, higher than the reading of 63.2 the previous month ‚Äì and its highest mark since January 2007. ‚ÄúConditions have been strengthening in all regions and construction sectors for the last several months,‚Äù said AIA Chief Economist, Kermit Baker, PhD, Hon. AIA.¬† ‚ÄúStill, we also continue to hear a mix of business conditions in the marketplace as this hesitant recovery continues to unfold.‚Äù Key February ABI highlights: ‚Ä¢ Regional averages: Northeast (56.7), Midwest (54.7), West (54.7), South (52.7), ‚Ä¢ Sector index breakdown: multi-family residential (60.9), mixed practice (56.9), commercial / industrial (53.3), institutional (50.7) ‚Ä¢ Project inquiries index: 64.8 The regional and sector categories are calculated as a 3-month moving average, whereas the index and inquiries are monthly numbers. 

The Cypriot banking system needs a bailout. The EU, led by Germany, pushed heavily for the Cypriot banking system to contribute a substantial share of the bailout ñ 5.8 billion euros of the total 17 billion requested ñ by imposing a controversial "tax" on Cypriot savings accounts. Market analyst Peter Tchir pointed out that, with relative ease, the U.S. passed a $60 billion rescue package for areas of the Northeast that were damaged by Hurricane Sandy, but the EU ñ Germany ñ isn't even willing to pony up a tenth of that amount to avoid all of the problems that have arisen as a result of the forced haircut to which Cypriot depositors are now being subjected. The reason is pretty clear: Germany has a looming federal election in September, and it doesn't look good for them to support a bailout of a banking system with a reputation as an off-shore tax haven for moneyed Russian interests. "We have argued many times before that the issue of wealth redistribution could become a source of friction within the monetary union," says NBF Financial Chief Economist and Strategist StÈfane Marion. "This is all the more true when it involves a member state with a large 'parallel' economy." To put a number on it, Marion says that 26 percent of GDP in Cyprus is the result of "economic activities and the income derived thereof that circumvent or avoid government regulation or taxation." That's quite a bit. Not only does it show why there's no political appetite for a bailout of Cypriot banks in Germany, but also how much Cyprus stands to lose if its status as a tax haven is jeopardized, which seems to be the direction this whole saga is headed. NBF Economy & Strategy (data via Schneider (2012)

Budgets continue be the center of debate in Washington, which is great, since we recently had Peter Orszag (Vice Chair at Citi and Obama's former OMB director) at Business Insider to discuss budgets. In this video, he explains the draconian nature of Paul Ryan's budget (even current spending trajectories are unrealistic in terms of how low we're forecasting spending) and the flawed assumptions behind it (that just by block granting money to the states to solve problems, they'll be able to find cost savings). He also argues that more stimulus is still justified in the short term, and that Democrats who oppose any long-term changes to entitlements are making it harder to make good policy in the short term. More clips to come.† Produced by Business Insider Video
Sallie Krawcheck, past head of Merrill Lynch and Smith BarneyThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>† Are we beating a dead whale? Last weekís Senate hearing on JP Morgan $6 billion ìLondon Whaleî trading losses captured its fair share of media attention.  But even with the compelling theater this provided, the hearingís most significant contribution may not be the particulars of the loss; it could instead be a renewed discussion on the safety of the financial system and the large banks. Here are some of the significant questions that have not been fully unanswered: Do banks and their regulators truly have their arms around the risks they are taking?†It is awfully clear that we as an industry did not going into the crisis. Have banks gotten smarter ñ or smarter enough ñ about risk, and have their risk management systems improved enough? What does the London Whale loss indicate about this? If banks are going to make mistakes, do they have enough capital to absorb them? Is the upcoming Basel 3 capital regime simply too flawed to be effective?†Even before we adopt it, we know a number of Basel 3ís flaws: sovereign debt treated as risk-free (uh-oh), banks using their own risk models to determine capital weightings, continued reliance on rating agencies, and Baselís significant complexity. Is it ìgood enough,î or should it be overhauled before adoption? If Basel is flawed, how about the old-school leverage ratio? If a minimum leverage ratio is a backstop, does it provide enough of a cushion?†The 8% leverage ratio (equity / assets) that a number of respected regulatory heavyweights are calling for is much better than the 2% of some large financial institutions going into the downturn. But, by definition, it means that losses of 8% of assets wipe out equity (and banks certainly suffer bank runs well before that). Is that enough of a capital cushion? Does it protect against a 100-year flood, or just a 10-year flood?? Are the banks still too complex to be effectively monitored by Boards and regulators? Do their management teams have to be super-human smart to manage them or can they be run by mere mortals? And are we comfortable that businesses of this complexity carry this level of financial leverage?†Asked yet again, do the capital cushions provide enough margin for error for these systemically important institutions, since mistakes can have far greater impact than just on the shareholders? Has senior bank executive compensation changed enough to disincentivize risk taking?†This is not an issue of lowering compensation levels, but making sure that the structure of compensation is incenting the desired behavior. Are claw-back provisions and the longer vesting of equity enough? Or should there be a move toward paying in less-risk-encouraging instruments, such as bank debt? How can the bank Boards more effectively manage these institutions?†The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency recently determined that 17 of the 19 large national bank Boards do not provide effective oversight of their banks. How can this be improved? Itís likely not as easy as replacing Board members, since there has been a great deal of turnover since the crisis. Should the Chairman and CEO roles be split? Should board sizes be reduced, to improve their sense of personal accountability? Should Boards commit significantly more of their time to the banks? Would breaking up the large banks make a difference?†There has been a good deal of discussion on this. It could certainly make each individual entity less complex, but it wouldnít necessarily make them better capitalized and thus may not necessarily make the system substantially safer. Can we please take some action on making money funds safer?†This does not impact many of the large banks directly. But the structure of money funds today ñ a huge market with implicit guarantees to individual investorsÖwith no capital cushion in case of lossÖfor products that can lose principalÖthat has been subject to panics in the past ñ can be a risky combination, to say the least.
ECBMeeting of the ECB governing councilFollowing the Cypriot parliament's total rejection of the controversial bank bailout deal reached by EU finance ministers over the weekend, the ECB released a statement saying that it would provide liquidity to Cyprus "within the existing rules." Emergency Liquidity Assistance is the ECB's last recourse for euro zone banks that find themselves unable to raise funding in the open market through bond issuance. However, as several pointed out following the statement, Cypriot banks probably don't even qualify for ELA, which means the ECB may have really been saying something more along the lines of "don't count on it." Deutsche Bank economist Gilles Moec explains in a note to clients. "The provision of ELA funding is normally conditional on the receiving banks remaining intrinsically solvent," says Moec. "With the prospect of a bank run starting immediately after the expiry of the bank holiday, this condition hardly holds." In fact, Moec writes that the ECB is probably even incentivized NOT to step in and provide assistance for the Cypriot banking system: Still, on balance, the limited direct impact - plus a state of "non-emergency" in Cyprus itself due to the bank holiday and the availability of cash via ATMs - probably incentivizes the ECB to stand firm and effectively turn the tap off. Indeed, we think that yielding to Cyprus' pressure would create a dangerous precedent for the central bank in the eyes of the Governing Council. We do not think that the European governments could take the political risk of backtracking now on the deposit levy. This "strategy of tension" is obviously bad news for the Euro area in general, but a tough response by the central bank is probably - unfortunately - what it will take for the negotiations to resume. Indeed, the perspective of seeing Cyprus shut from the European liquidity system is unlikely to do much good to the country's standing as an appealing off-shore financial centre, beyond the very uncomfortable impact that such a move would have on the Cypriot economy (all†these events taking place just a few weeks before the opening of the tourism season). Moec thinks that the complete rejection (zero votes in favor) of the bailout deal in Cypriot parliament yesterday, despite a new provision exempting those with bank accounts containing under 20,000 euros from a levy on deposits, indicates that "the 'reprofiling' of the levy, which was obviously open to negotiations with the troika, was not the main issue." "More likely," Moec writes, "it is the very principle of a bank levy ñ†and the adverse consequences it would have on the country's standing as an off-shore centre ñ which is being overwhelmingly rejected by Cyprus' political circles." However, given the incentives of the ECB and EU politicians, Cyprus may not have much of an option.†Moec thinks the only rational thing for Cyprus to do is accept a deal with the EU that includes a deposit levy, "even if some sweeteners have to be found (e.g. on the austerity measures). "As each day goes by, however," says Moec, "the cost of the stalemate for Cyprus increases."
CNBCIn an interview with Charlie Rose last week, GMO's Jeremy Grantham reminded us that civilizations have historically collapsed after around 250 years. Now, UBS's Art Cashin is talking about the same thing. "Martin Armstrong has just issued a 46 page report titled 'The 224 Cycle of Political Change. Is 1789 ñ 2013 Really Here?'" writes Cashin in a note this morning. He went on to republish a comment he made in June 2011.† Here it is (emphasis ours): That ìMade Upî Quote Looks Truer And Truer Each Day ñ The continuing loud cautions of ìDonít Tread On My Entitlementsî, and the imminence of a majority of voters not paying any taxes, recalls yet again the rather prophetic but apparently fictitious quote of Alexander Tytler.† According to many internet sources, Tytler is reputed to have published this stunning quote in a book called ìThe Decline and Fall of the Athenian Republicî (ironically said to have been published in 1776 when something interesting was happening across the pond). "A democracy cannot exist as a permanent form of government.† It can only exist until the voters discover they can vote themselves largesse from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates promising them the most benefits from the public treasury, with the result that a democracy always collapses over a loss of fiscal responsibility, always followed by a dictatorship. The average of the world's great civilizations before they decline has been 200 years. These nations have progressed in this sequence: From bondage to spiritual faith; from spiritual faith to great courage; from courage to liberty; from liberty to abundance; from abundance to selfishness; from selfishness to complacency; from complacency to apathy; from apathy to dependency; from dependency back again to bondage." Tytler was easy enough to research.† He apparently lived from 1747 to 1813.† He is also listed as Lord Woodhouselee and served for a time as Judge Advocate (circa 1790).† He also worked with the great Scots poet Robert Burns ñ offering edits and suggestions. There is, however, no sign or evidence of the alleged book nor of the quote.† Some feel it was manufactured, perhaps in the Presidential Election of 2000.† It does feel disturbing prophetic however. "Republics with a potential life of 200 years," writes Cashin. "Very strange."
Five years ago this week, the world watched the spectacular implosion of Bear Stearns and its sale to JP Morgan for $10 a share. It was almost sold for $2 a share, collapsing under the weight of loads of bad securities. It seemed horrible at the time, but Wall Street would soon find out that it was only the beginning. Bear's sale was soon trumped by the Street's "Lehman Moment," in the fall of 2008, and the global financial crisis that followed. Since then, Bear Stearns has been a bit of an afterthought. But the people that ran it are still around. A lot of them are still working on the Street. Here's what they've all been doing. Carrie Hodjnicki also contributed to the reporting of this story. 
Screenshot via C-SPanUK chancellor George Osborne is presenting the 2013 Budget to parliament at 12:30 GMT (8:30 a.m. ET). Click here for updates &gt; Osborne, who joined Twitter this morning, is widely expected to stick to his plans and deliver more austerity even as the country has been stripped of its AAA rating and teeters close to a triple dip recession. Osborne already asked most departments to cut their budgets by an additional 1 percent in 2013 and 2014, thereby freeing up ¬£2.5 billion for capital spending. In December, he announced cuts of 1 percent in 2013-2014, and 2 percent in 2014-2015, to the budgets of various departments. We will have the highlights here. George Osborne has begun speaking at Parliament. He began by saying, "This is a budget for people who aspire to work hard and get on." Osborne sees a budget for people who want to own homes. Osborne is being booed by members of parliament. Forecasts The Office of Budget Responsibility (OBR) now expects 600,000 more jobs and 60,000 fewer claiming unemployment benefits. It sees a budget deficit at 7.4 percent of GDP. Public debt is expected to reach 79.5 percent of GDP in 2013. GDP is expected to rise 0.6 percent in 2013, compared with 1.2 percent in the autumn statement, and 1.8 percent in 2014, from 2 percent in the AS. Bank of England's Remit Osborne as expected revealed a review of the remit. This would recognize use of unconventional tools and the MPC could issue explicit forward guidance and has asked the Bank of England to assess the benefit of forward guidance. He said Mervyn King and incoming BoE governor Mark Carney have seen the remit and agreed to it. International aid Yesterday, we saw activists campaigning to ensure that Osborne stuck to his promise to contribute to international aid. Osborne just confirmed that the UK will spend 0.7 percent of GDP on international aid. Energy Osborne said there will be tax relief for shale gas. Interestingly, he said the ceramic industry would be exempt from climate change taxes on energy costs. Corporate taxes Osborne says main corporate tax will be lowered to 20 percent in 2015. He says, "Britain is open for business." Alcohol Beer duty escalator scrapped. Osborne said he was cutting beer duty by one pence, "a penny off the pint". But there will be increases in on all other types of alcohol. Jobs Osborne said he wants to support jobs. He said the final tax cut is the biggest in the Budget. The new employment allowance will cut national insurance bills by ¬£2,000 per employee. That means 450,000 small businesses will pay no jobs tax.
Joshua Santino/FlickrFormer UBS banker Juerg Buergrin, who was the head of operations for the Swiss bank in Singapore,†is on trial for allegedly having sex with an underage Singaporean prostitute. The banker's lawyer says he wasn't actively seeking underage sex. In fact, he sought the services of at least 10 other prostitutes ages 20 to 43, Bloomberg News reports† Buergrin's lawyer has already claimed that the banker was deceived by the pimp and the 17-year-old prostitute about her age. Prostitution is legal in Singapore, but prostitutes have to be at least 18 years-old.†† The alleged underage sexual encounters happened in luxury hotels in September 2010 and January 2011, the report said. †Buergrin was married with two children at the time, according to Bloomberg. Fifty-one other men, both foreign and local, have been charged with having sex with an underage prostitute. Buergrin is the first to go to trial, though.† The maximum jail sentence for paid underage sex in Singapore is seven years.†
AP Barack Obama and David Cameron both have various reputations when it comes to spending and deficits. Obama is known as a free-spender who doesn't care bout reducing the deficit. David Cameron is known for committing to austerity, even in the face of a weak economy. And yet actual numbers show that when it comes to reducing the deficit, the U.S. is better at it. AND the U.S. is on a better trajectory on this measure. And yet check out these stats from CNBC's Kelly Evans. UK's revised f'cast sees *7.4%* deficit this fiscal year -- up 0.6pp since Dec. Meantime CBO projects 5.3% deficit this year for the US. From same starting point (76% this fiscal yr), UK debt now seen rising to 85% of gdp by fiscal 2018; US seen falling to 73%, per CBO. This chart is particularly powerful. 

UK Chancellor George Osborne is unveiling the government's budget.  As part of that, the government is also revealing various economic assumptions for growth, employment, borrowing, and so forth. As you should know by now, things are deteriorating in the UK economy, which has caused the pound to tank. The remarkable part is the speed. Back in December, growth for the country was expected to be 1.2%. Today, just a few months later? Just 0.6%. Oof. BREAKING: U.K. GDP forecast to rise 0.6% in 2013 vs previous est. 1.2% *UK Govt Borrowing To 2017-18 Will Be GBP59.8 Bln Higher Than Planned In Dec. #budget
Earlier today the Evening Standard leaked details of the UK Budget (Watch live coverage here). Now, Joe Murphy, the editor of the Evening Standard has apologized for the leak. Joe Murphy via Twitter ¬† Joe Murphy via Twitter This cover of London's Evening Standard newspaper just hit the internet. And it appears to have a lot of budget details that are supposed to be unveiled soon. It says that borrowing is going to "soar". Growth forecast is slashed. A beer tax will be eliminated. Other points that we can make out in the blurriness: Evening Standard
Sam Palmisano was an excellent CEO for IBM. During his decade or so in charge of the company, he successfully transitioned it away from hardware into a services and software powerhouse. Still, details in IBM's latest proxy statement raised eyebrows this week.†In addition to providing a historically large exit salary, the company disclosed it is paying around a million dollars to staff and furnish an office for its retired CEO.† Palmisano's retirement package is worth approximately†$271 million, according to Footnoted.com's Michelle Leder, who has been analyzing SEC filings since 2003. According to the Wall Street Journal, if that figure is correct, Palmisano's would be one of the 10 highest CEO pay packages in history. Only six US CEOs have left with packages valued in excess of $200 million.† An IBM spokesman said†in a statement to CNBC†that the figure depends on "a number of assumptions and speculations on IBM's stock value and performance well into the future," so it may over- or underestimate what he eventually receives. † Palmisano's newly renovated office will be staffed and maintained†as long as he wants it, the company said. The company's proxy filing describes the expense in two different ways:† "Payments relating to furnished office space and administrative support provided to Mr.†Palmisano after his December†1, 2012 retirement, as well as amounts for the renovation of the space." (On page 39 of the filing.)†And†"personal use of company autos, retirement items, office payments and administrative support, including space renovation." (On page 40 of the filing.) IBM spokesman Edward Barbini told CNBC that these funds were being set aside to "establish an office for a former CEO off of the IBM campus," but he did not explain why refurbishing or staffing the office would cost that much.† What will Palmisano use the office for?†According to the proxy filing, Palmisano "may be asked from time to time" to provide consulting services for IBM. If he spends four hours consulting, he gets paid $20,000. If he spends less than that, he'll be paid $10,000. (As of December 31st Palmisano hadn't been paid any consulting fees.)† The amount spent on the office is tiny compared to Palmisano's overall exit package. It's even tinier compared to the amount IBM's value improved under his watch.† As Michelle Leder of Footnoted.com says: The disclosure in IBMís†proxy statement†filed earlier this week probably doesnít rank quite as high as former Tyco CEO Dennis Koslowskiís†$6,000 shower curtain†or former Merrill Lynch CEO Jon Thainís†$35,000 commode. But thatís only because weíre lacking some of the details on what IBM spent $1.03 million on for what it describes in its proxy statement as ìspace renovationî for former Chairman and CEO Samuel J. Palmisano. Leder continues: "We should also give IBM and/or Palmisano credit where itís due: if Palmisano had retired after Dec. 31, instead of Dec. 1, most of these details would have forever been hidden since by the time IBMís 2013 proxy came out, Palmisano would no longer have been a named executive."
Via Bloomberg, there is a report in Kathimerini that Cypriot bank Cyprus Popular will be sold to Russian investors. According to Kathimerini, the deal would reduce the country's financing needs by 4 billion euros. The euro is rising on the news. Soci√©t√© G√©n√©rale strategist Kit Juckes had this to say in an email: Stop press, first Russia offer is to buy Cyprus Popular bank, according to gossip. Would Putin offer a loan to Cyprus in exchange for a share of future gas revenues? I would, if I were in his shoes. The US would mind that less than the notion of Putin asking for a naval base, and the EU would prefer a loan to a Russian purchase of a Cypriot bank. Not that any of this means this is what will happen ‚Äì geopolitics means that we now wait and see how the EU responds, while Cypriot banks stay shut and Cypriot depositors dare to hope they will end up keeping more of their cash. Time though, is short... The chart below shows the spike in the euro against the U.S. dollar on the report. However, according to Reuters, the Cypriot government is denying the deal. Cyprus Government Spokesman Denies Reports Of Deal To SellCyprus Popular Bank To Russian Investors via @reuters ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
Bloomberg TVCiti's Steven Englander tries to figure out the endgame in Cyprus. He notes a few things: A full bailout is politically impossible due to German politics. The cost of leaving the Eurozone is too high. There is a risk to other peripheral banks due to the cyprus precedent. Cyprus wants to keep foreign depositors. So bottom line? Here's what happens: So some mixture of non-EU money, a substitution of austerity promises for immediate levy cash, terming out and locking in of large foreign depositors would seem to be the intersection set of all interested parties, while eliminating the levy on small deposits and the need for the OED to add a new definition for ëdeposit guaranteeí. So as bad as it looks now, both the US and the euro zone have been down rehearsed this piece of theatre in the past.
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider.comIt's time to make a personal disclosure: If Cyprus leaves the Eurozone, I'm going to lose $1000. For most folks in my industry (typing words on a keyboard) that counts as a lot of money. Actually, if anyone leaves the Eurozone in the next 2.5 years or so, I'll lose $1000. That's cause about 2.5 years ago, I made a late-night bet in a bar that no current Eurozone country would leave the common currency in the coming 5 years. Things were particularly dark at that time. At that specific point, the focus was on Ireland, and the possibility that it might not be able to come to a deal. Greece was of course omnipresent in the news at that point. But mostly it seemed to me that inertia would win out... That elites who control the purse strings didn't want to open the Pandora's Box of anyone going back to their own currency. Furthermore, even in the countries bearing the worst of it, staying in the Euro has always been extremely popular. So although lots of folks were talking about it, it just didn't sem very plausible. There have been a few scares along the way, but mostly things have been fine. Greece got its deals. Ireland is rebounding. And the ECB last summer finally started serving as something of a backstop (although a backstop that comes with austerity handcuffs that's making the economy miserable). Since last summer, it seemed like the main threat was a country like Italy or Greece rebelling like austerity due to the horrible economy. Cyprus has always been an issue lingering out there for the bet, but the cost of saving it was so cheap that it didn't really seem like it could be a problem. But actually that is the problem. It's just too small to worry anyone outside of Cyprus. Markets don't seem to care at all (yet). The actual amount required to save it is nothing, but politically it's too explosive to be seen as giving money to Russian depositors. And it's not clear that anyone outside of Cyprus can walk things back. Merkel seems locked into her position, in part because opposition and coalition parties in Germany are getting traction by turning this into an issue in an election year. It still doesn't seem likely that Cyprus will leave. They'll probably hack together a deal. But given that the subject of #CypriOut has been breached multiple times, I figure it's best to let people know that I have a financial stake in the outcome. Betting is good for people in this business. It's a BS-tax. I'll try to remember to link to this post on issues of sensitivity on this matter.
FedEx, the global package delivery company, just announced its fiscal Q3 financial results, and at first glance it's not encouraging. Adjusted earnings came in at $1.23 per share, which is way below the $1.38 expected. "The third quarter was very challenging due to continued weakness in international air freight markets, pressure on yields due to industry overcapacity and customers selecting less expensive and slower-transit services,‚Äù said CEO Fred Smith. Management blames Asia, which also forced them to slash forward guidance. They cut Q4 EPS guidance to a range of $1.90 to $2.10.¬† Analysts were looking for $2.12. "Our lower-than-expected results for the quarter and reduced full-year earnings outlook were driven by third quarter international revenues declining approximately $100 million versus our guidance primarily due to accelerating customer preference for lower-yielding international services, lower rate per pound and weight per shipment,‚Äù said CFO Alan B. Graf Jr. ‚ÄúWe expect these international revenue trends to continue. We have other actions under way beyond those already included in our profit improvement program. Some of these additional actions may involve temporarily or permanently grounding aircraft, which could result in asset impairment or other charges in future periods." "In response, beginning April 1, FedEx Express will decrease capacity to and from Asia and will aggressively manage traffic flows to place low yielding traffic in lower-cost networks," said Smith.
Chris Jackson/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Partly fueled by Carl Icahn outbursts, the age-old debate about whether activist investors are good or bad for companies and shareholders has cropped up again. Are they short-term bettors who cause drama and then get out of a stock as soon as shares see a pop? Or are they constructive critics who add value, partly by pushing executives and boards to do things they are too complacent to do otherwise? The answer varies depending on the activist and which company he (it‚Äôs usually a he) is targeting. Here‚Äôs a rundown on 10 of the most important activists in the US, which is partly based on 13D regulatory filings they have to submit if they‚Äôve amassed at least a 5% stake in a company. (However, investors can still play an activist role with a lesser stake, and some have enough credibility to do so.) The data are from 13D Monitor and FactSet, and they are listed in alphabetical order. The basic takeaway is that activism pays, especially in down or stagnant markets. How a company‚Äôs long-term value is affected is a topic for another discussion‚Äîstay tuned. His public spat with Carl Icahn over Herbalife and his failing bet on JC Penney can make people forget that Ackman has made some shrewd investments. His other successes include the breakup of Jim Beam maker Fortune Brands. And he made a killing on mall operator General Growth Properties¬†as he rode its recovery after bankruptcy; that represents the bulk of the fund‚Äôs 13D returns. Ackman has a reputation for arrogance, but also for being a persuasive salesman. Retail seems to be his Achilles‚Äô heel, with investments in Borders and Target also losing out. Einhorn isn‚Äôt normally an activist and he hasn‚Äôt filed a 13D in a few years, but he has been known to nominate directors, write letters to management and even offer to buy a company when he feels like it‚Äôs moving in the wrong direction. He has enough of a reputation that he has a voice without amassing a large stake. When Einhorn announced he was shorting Green Mountain Coffee and criticized the company‚Äôs strategy, shares immediately dropped. He‚Äôs been most noticed lately for his push to get Apple to return some of its more than $137 billion in cash to investors. He won a lawsuit in that fight and is sure to claim victory when Apple announces its cash plans, which it will likely do later this spring. At 77, Icahn seems to be more active than ever, showing up so far this year in Dell, Herbalife and Transocean. Companies know they will have the spotlight on them when Icahn comes along. But sometimes he seems to have no rhyme to his reason, like his push for Clorox to sell itself in 2011 when there were no logical buyers. And lately he‚Äôs lost more proxy fights than he has won. People say that‚Äôs an example of ‚ÄúCarl being Carl‚Äù where he throws spaghetti at a wall and sees what sticks. Since he returned outside investor money in 2011, he seems to be in an even more rambunctious mode, and still keeps to his late night schedule, which means no morning meetings. Loeb‚Äôs fund mainly invests in non-activist situations but because of his high profile, his activist activities get a lot of attention. It was¬†he who outed¬†former Yahoo CEO Scott Thompson‚Äôs dubious college degree. That got him on Yahoo‚Äôs board, along with two other newcomers, and Marissa Mayer of Google is the new CEO. Loeb is also known for writing public letters that give a tongue lashing to executives and directors, while some of his phone conversations end with one of the parties hanging up on the other. Peltz used to be known as a corporate raider with whom boards and CEOs usually did not get along. But he‚Äôs evolved over the years and is more open to working with companies. Prime example is Heinz, which recently got sold to Warren Buffett‚Äôs Berkshire Hathaway and Brazil‚Äôs 3G Capital. He and Heinz CEO Bill Johnson were mortal enemies during their proxy fight in 2006, but Peltz came to be seen as a helpful Heinz board member and he now praises Johnson. Like Icahn, Peltz hasn‚Äôt let his age slow him down (he‚Äôs 72) and can tell you in detail about how Wendy‚Äôs, a Trian investment, makes its burgers. But his son-in-law Ed Garden, who is chief investment officer, has played an increasingly bigger role. Trian president Peter May is also active, with board seats at Tiffany and Wendy‚Äôs. Rosenstein isn‚Äôt a household name like Icahn nor does he strive to be. But Jana does get involved in well known companies, like McGraw-Hill and Marathon Petroleum. Jana often comes armed with detailed white papers on a company‚Äôs financial and prospects. Although they are usually seen as constructive critics who are open to working with management, they are also known to be persistent and aren‚Äôt afraid to get into a fight, as they did with TNT Express and currently with Canada‚Äôs Agrium. Elliott is known to be tough on companies and sometimes offers to buy the firms it targets, like Compuware (which¬†said no). It has focused on several tech companies, like BMC Software, but also has investments in other sectors. It is currently embroiled in a fight with energy company Hess, pushing for board changes or a sale or spin-off of some assets. It hasn‚Äôt reached the 5% threshold to file a 13D, but recently increased its stake to 4.39%. Starboard is a young activist fund, having spun off from Ramius in 2011, and focuses on small-cap companies. But Ramius was known to cause a stir at many companies and that tradition seems to be carrying on. Despite its newcomer status, Starboard quickly went after well known companies¬†like AOL, but lost its proxy fight there. More recently, it pushed Office Depot to cut costs¬†and the office supplier later announced a deal with OfficeMax. The fund isn‚Äôt as well known as some of its brethren but is very active in the companies it gets involved in, and is on the board of about half of its portfolio companies. It typically looks at companies that it thinks are undervalued, usually because the firms are going through a major transition or have fallen out of favor, but still have growth potential. Some of its targets include tech firm Adobe Systems, Moody‚Äôs¬†(video) and¬†Motorola Solutions. But companies usually don‚Äôt shudder when ValueAct comes along, since it has a reputation for working with management and boards. Although Whitworth is a well known name in the activist crowd, he isn‚Äôt seen as a lighting rod like Icahn or Ackman. Relational is known for doing its homework and usually presents a sober view of a company. Besides pushing companies on a break-up or sale, Relational also sometimes goes after corporate governance issues, like criticizing the pay for¬†former Occidental Petroleum¬†(paywall)¬†CEO Ray Irani and his lack of succession planning. Whitworth has enough credibility that even when he has only a small stake in companies, like Hewlett-Packard or Pepsi, CEOs still listen.
If you want to know why the EU is nervous about Cyprus negotiating with Russia for a bailout, look no further than this Ekathimerini report on the status of negotiations between the two countries. It is likely the Russians will ask for some form of compensation for such an investment. A naval port in Cyprus for the Russian fleet and access to the country‚Äôs natural gas reserves are among the rewards Moscow might seek. Future gas reserves are one thing. A naval port? Now that gets interesting. And here's a reminder of where Cyprus is: flickr / breki74
wwitv.comFor anyone whose sanguine about the idea of Cyprus leaving the Eurozone, these observations from Felix Salmon are important to consider: The worst-case scenario ‚Äî call it #CypriOut ‚Äî is that talks just break down entirely, with no plan acceptable to both the Eurogroup and the Cypriot parliament, while the Russians ultimately decide that they don‚Äôt want to throw good money after bad. In that event, Cyprus ends up with a chaotic default and devaluation ‚Äî think Argentina 2002, only on an island which is already fractured along intractable ethnic lines. The cost of CypriOut to the ECB and to Europe as a whole would be substantial, both in euros and in precedent. If you think that taxing deposits is a bad precedent, just wait until you see what happens when the world learns that a country can leave the eurozone after all. So a lot of people are going to spend a lot of effort trying to avoid it. And judging by recent European history, some last-minute deal will manage to get cobbled together somehow. But this whole situation is horribly messy ‚Äî it reminds me of the Argentine political chaos in March 2001, a few months before the country finally defaulted. It would be an economic catastrophe for Cyprus, for sure. If you think that taxing depositors is a blow to the country's financial center status, then switching back to the Cyprus Pound would be dramatically more so. And then yes, this does create a precedent that leaving the Eurozone is something that happens, and a lot of the progress in the rest of Europe may melt away. It's a very grim scenario for all involved.
Alessandro ReginatoBTIG's Dan Greenhaus characterizes some of his recent conversations with clients: We are currently on the road and have been meeting with clients fairly consistently from late February through today. We can say unequivocally that conversations with clients have turned remarkably bullish in the last several months, especially so this year. The performance of U.S. equities in the face of Cyprusí troubles is just the latest piece of evidence that ìthe market just wants to go higher.î Maybe so, but the issue weíre having now is that the rally is becoming increasingly a select story; Australia, Spain, Brazil, Italy, China, Canada and Mexico all have equity markets that do not look like the United States or Japan. Another analyst we spoke to this week reported the same thing. If there's one bet that people feel they have to make right now, it's long US equities. US outperformance is one of the big economic stories, and it's hard to justify betting against US stocks.
A good point from Pawelmorski here: Worse yet, this looks more and more like a ‚Äúringfenced‚Äù Cypriot problem, as markets continue to refuse to sell off (-1.25% on EuroStoxx? a 0.1% rise in BTP (Italian govt) yields? really?) If Cyprus thought it had any leverage in its negotiations, that's going out the window daily, as financial markets everywhere else have been basically unafected. Greece has been hit a bit. Italy a hair. But even amid the Cyprus rejection, and the lack of new avenues, markets are totally ho-hum about this. Here's Italy, up another 0.5% today. FTSE MIB Were markets tanking all weekend, we might see a little more blinking from Europe on this matter.
Interesting commentary from David Rosenberg here regarding negative real rates and the tendency for excess to occur. ¬†I‚Äôd say this time is slightly different in that the low real rates of the past tend to coincide with better credit conditions, but this time might find a different enabler in QE‚Äôs supposed ‚Äúwealth effect‚Äù. ¬†Here‚Äôs Fed Governor Jeremy Stein first: ‚ÄúFor example, a prolonged period of low interest rates, of the sort we are experiencing today, can create incentives for agents to take on greater duration or credit risks, or to employ additional financial leverage, in an effort to ‚Äúreach for yield.‚Äù¬†An insurance company that has offered guaranteed minimum rates of return on some of its products might find its solvency threatened by a long stretch of low rates and feel compelled to take on added risk.¬†A similar logic applies to a bank whose net interest margins are under pressure because low rates erode the profitability of its deposit-taking franchise. Moreover, these three factors may interact with one another. For example, if low interest rates increase the demand by agents to engage in below-the-radar forms of risk-taking, this demand may prompt innovations that facilitate this sort of risk-taking.‚Äù And then Rosie: ‚Äúas the charts below illustrate, it may take time to fester, but each period of real zero or sub-zero real interest rates ushered in by the Fed in recent cycles generated bubbles somewhere. ¬†And they don‚Äôt tend to end very well. ¬†Store that in your pocket for future reference.‚Äù Hard to argue with this one. The Fed has been on a strategy of boom/bust cycles for the last 25 years that tends to target some form of nominal wealth with the presumption that this will help generate real sustained wealth. ¬†It might accomplish that to some degree, but it appears to come with a price that includes a huge amount of economic volatility‚Ä¶. PragCap
It's Fed day in the US, and in the afternoon, Ben Bernanke will be holding a press conference. He's widely expected to say that the gas pedal remains press down for the foreseeable future. Ben White at POLITICO passes this along in today's Morning Money newsletter: HFE‚Äôs Jim O‚ÄôSullivan: ‚ÄúWe expect the message on Fed policy, including QE3, will remain ‚Äòfull speed ahead‚Äô in the FOMC statement and the chairman‚Äôs press conference today. Officials will have to acknowledge a pick-up in growth in Q ‚Ä¶¬† and they may tweak the wording on QE3 slightly, but the end result will likely be no deviation¬† from current policies and no hint that a scaling down in the pace of easing is imminent. The main reason for continued easing: The unemployment rate remains ‚Äòelevated.‚Äô‚Äù This is key. While there's a lot of talk about when we'll finally see Fexit (a Fed exit from its unorthodox easing measures) Bernanke doesn't want to indulge in that. Even if he were thinking in his head about exiting, he wants to send the economy the message that if anything he'll overshoot, and let inflation go hot in order to get jobs down. Eventually he may tighten, but for now the signaling should be that he's still going full throttle, even as the economy seems to be turning.
Wikimedia CommonsSocGen's Sebastien Galy gives the state of play in Cyprus: First, the Eurogroup blinks and provides much more funds. Second, the Eurogroup stands firm and Cyprus is eased out of the EZ with ECB liquidity support ensuring a relatively orderly exit. Third, some face-saving compromise is found but where Cyprus would still deliver the bulk of the Ä5.8bn in question. Fourth, Russia enters the stage as a white knight. I doubt the Eurogroup will blink, and the next 24 hours will be dominated by the negotiation between it and Cyprus. Negotiation 101 tells you the most important factor is which of the parties hold the strongest cards. My estimation is that Cyprus holds the weakest cards. The big story right now is all about what emerges from the Cyprus talks in Russia. The Finance Minister is holding a press conference there in a couple of hours. Europe does not Russia to gain a bigger foothold there, which is one reason there might be some compromise. But Cyprus just seems too small to have any leverage in these negotiations, and the political situation at home in Germany isn't conducive to Angela Merkel giving in much.
Wikimedia CommonsCape Gkreko, CyprusThe story once again is the crisis in Cyprus, where banks are still closed, as local politicians must find a way to come up with billions of euros in order to properly capitalize the country's banks, and allow them to maintain ECB liquidity. In the meantime, European markets are up. Italy is up 0.8%. (Correction: Earlier we mentioned that Nikkei had surged. It is closed, and the quote was old. Our apologies.) US futures are modestly higher, as Cyprus still hasn't really been felt outside some peripheral European markets (Greece, Italy, etc.). And the Cyprus Finance Minister is in Moscow, where he will be holding a press conference at 6 AM ET, according to Dow Jones. Update: The press conference has now been canceled according to Dow Jones, citing the Cyprus Embassy. In the meantime, talks with the Russians remain ongoing. Later on today? It's FOMC day and Bernanke will be giving a press conference, where he's likely to make the case for continued easing. In the UK, George Osborne presents the country's budget at 8:30 AM ET.
