REUTERS/StringerAn employee wearing a self-made cardboard mask works inside a bicycle factory in Zaozhuang, Shandong province, June 9, 2013.China's one-child policy has contributed to a demographic structure in which the working-age population isn't growing fast enough to sufficiently support economic growth. Companies are struggling to fill positions, and the ones that can find candidates have to pay up because of worker shortages. This is bad news for a company that is as big as and is growing as fast as China. Currently, the average economist expects GDP growth to slow to 7.5% in 2013 and 2014. However, the economists at Deutsche Bank are a big more optimistic. They're convinced China will grow at an 8.5% rate in 2014. Among other things, they note that while wages continue to rise, the pace of wage growth has also slowed significantly. And this has come as the demand for goods has also deteriorated, essentially offsetting the unfavorable effects of tight labor supply. Here's an excerpt from the report published by Deutsche Bank's Peter Hooper, Michael Spencer, Torsten Slok, and Thomas Mayer: However, consistent with the finding above that growth has slowed to below potential in recent years, wage growth has been markedly slower since the crisis despite the government‚Äôs minimum wages mandates. After peaking at about 19%yoy in 2007 and averaging 15% between 2002 and 2008, growth in average urban wages has decelerated to around 12% in 2012 and the first few months of 2013. In inflation-adjusted terms, real wages grew about 13% pre-crisis and have been growing about 9% for the last two and a half years. Strikingly, wage growth so far this year in both nominal and real terms is lower than it was in 2009. This deceleration in wage growth has occurred as labor force growth has essentially stalled. Cyclical weakness in demand has offset structural weakness in supply. Deutsche Bank
Flickr / nanseiConsumer prices excluding food jumped 0.4% in June, which was higher than the 0.3% increased expected. This is the fastest prices have climbed since November 2008, reports CNBC's Deirdre Wang Morris. New Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was elected on the promise that he would pursue extremely aggressive stimulative policies in his efforts to get the Japanese economy humming again. Dubbed "Abenomics," these policies include ultra-easy monetary policy from the Bank of Japan. Just talk of this has caused the Japanese yen to plunge and Japanese stocks to surge. And based on the most recent CPI readings, prices may be on the rise.
A letter circulating among U.S. Senate Democrats in support of Janet Yellen's candidacy to succeed Ben Bernanke as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, Bloomberg reports. It was drafted by Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, and it is said to have signatures of other Democrats. Bernanke's term ends this year, and many expect him to retire. Yellen, who is currently the Vice Chair of the Fed, has been long considered the favorite for the position. But in more recent periods, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers has emerged as someone who could also take the vacated spot. Just yesterday, Ezra Klein wrote a piece titled "Right now, Larry Summers is the front-runner for Fed Chair." "President Obama really likes Summers," said Klein. "And heís surrounded by Summersís longtime colleagues and friends." Earlier today, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi praised Yellen during an interview with Bloomberg's Al Hunt. "I think it would be great to have a woman ó first woman chairman of the Fed, no question about it," she said. "She's extremely talented. It's not just that she's a woman."
Then Lacy and Van take us deep into the whys and wherefores of their thesis. Their reasoning and the evidence behind it make for compelling reading ‚Äì but you may want to read twice. Hoisington Investment Management Company (www.Hoisingtonmgt.com) is a registered investment advisor specializing in fixed-income portfolios for large institutional clients. Located in Austin, Texas, the firm has over $5 billion under management and is the sub-adviser of the Wasatch-Hoisington US Treasury Fund (WHOSX). I write this note from Newport, Rhode Island. There is a reason that the rich and powerful built their summer mansions here a century ago. It is disarmingly beautiful. The weather gods have arranged a perfect day and evening, the waters are calm, and the sailboats are out in force. All is right with the world. The Defense Department Office of Net Assessment futures planning group I am with uses the facilities of the Naval War College here. we enjoy a charming hotel on Goat Island, surrounded by boats and tourists, in the evenings and experience the rather drastic contrast of a military facility beset by the rigors of sequestration during the day. Air conditioning is one of the casualties of Congressional inaction, it seems. I am enjoyably assaulted by new ideas and issues each day, and often find myself very far afield from my usual intellectual haunts. We are tasked with developing outside the box future scenarios. Economics is just a small part. It is good to stretch the mind. Have a great week, and read what Lacy writes carefully. Everybody is rushing to the other side of the bond boat, trying to catch a stiff breeze that could just turn on the sailors. Be careful out there. Your feeling woefully but happily inadequate analyst, John Mauldin, Editor Outside the Boxsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com By Lacy Hunt, PhD, and Van Hoisington The secular low in bond yields has yet to be recorded. This assessment for a continuing pattern of lower yields in the quarters ahead is clearly a minority view, as the recent selling of all types of bond products attest. The rise in long term yields over the last several months was accelerated by the recent Federal Reserve announcement that it would be ‚Äútapering‚Äù its purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. This has convinced many bond market participants that the low in long rates is in the past. The Treasury bond market‚Äôs short term fluctuations are a function of many factors, but its primary and most fundamental determinate is attitudes toward current and future inflation. From that perspective, the outlook for long term Treasury yields to fall is most favorable in light of: a) diminished inflation pressures; b) slowing GDP growth; c) weakening consumer fundamentals; and d) anti-growth monetary and fiscal policies. Sustained higher inflation is, and has always been, a prerequisite for sustained increases in long term interest rates. Inflation‚Äôs role in determining the level of long term rates was quantified by Irving Fisher 83 years ago (Theory of Interest, 1930) with the Fisher equation. It states that long term rates are the sum of inflation expectations and the real rate. This proposition has been reconfirmed in numerous sophisticated statistical studies and can also be empirically observed by comparing the Treasury bond yield to the inflation rate (Chart 1). On an annual basis, the Treasury bond yield and the inflation rate have moved in the same direction in 80% of the years since 1954.  Presently the inflation picture is most favorable to bond yields. The year-over-year change in the core personal consumption expenditures deflator, an indicator to which the Fed pays close attention, stands at a record low for the entire five plus decades of the series (Chart 2).  Additional factors restraining inflation are the appreciation of the dollar and the decline in commodity prices. The dollar is currently up 14% from its 2011 lows. A rise in the value of the dollar causes a ‚Äúcollapsing umbrella‚Äù effect on prices. A higher dollar leads to reduced prices of imports, which have been deflating at a 1% rate (ex-fuel) over the past year. When importers cut prices, domestic producers are forced to follow. Commodity prices have dropped more than 20% from their peak in 2011. This drop in commodity prices has also contributed to lower rates inflation. Sustained higher inflation is not currently evident, and the forces that create inflation are absent. Thus, a period of sustained higher long term rates is improbable. GDP growth, whether if measured in nominal or real terms, is the slowest of any expansion since 1948. From the first quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013, nominal GDP grew at 3.3%. This is below the level of every entry point of economic contraction since 1948 (Chart 3). Real GDP shows a similar pattern. For the past four quarters real economic growth was just 1.6%, which was even less than the 1.8% growth rate in the 2000s and dramatically less than the 3.8% average growth rate in the past 223 years. These results demonstrate chronic long term economic underperformance.  Over the past year, the Treasury bond yield rose as the nominal growth in GDP slowed. The difference between the Treasury bond yield and the nominal GDP growth rate (Chart 4) is important in two respects. First, when the bond yield rises more rapidly than the GDP growth rate, monetary conditions are a restraint on economic growth. This condition occurred prior to all the recessions since the 1950s, as indicated in the chart. This condition also signaled the growth recessions in 1962 and 1966-67. Second, the nominal GDP growth rate represents the yield on the total economy, a return that embodies greater risk than a 30 year Treasury bond. Thus, the differential is a barometer of cyclical value for investors in Treasury bonds versus more risky assets.  On two occasions in the 1990s the Treasury bond/GDP differential rose sharply. Neither a quasi- nor outright recession ensued, but in both cases bonds turned in a stellar performance over the next year or longer. This economic indicator simultaneously casts doubt on the prevailing pessimism on Treasury bonds and the optimism over U.S. economic growth. Consumers have not yet healed from the great recession. Their income and employment situations have languished. Based on the standard of living, as measured by the real median household income, this entire recovery has bypassed the consumer sector. The standard of living has contracted regularly in recessions, but this is the first time deep into an expansion that it has continued to erode. The current standard of living is unchanged from 1995 (Chart 5).  In spite of job gains in the first half of 2013, the downward pressure on the standard of living actually intensified. Approximately three quarters of the increases in jobs were in four of the lowest paying industries ‚Äì retail trade; the temporary help services component of professional and business services; hospitality and leisure; and the nursing and residential care facilities component of the medical category. These increases may reflect efforts of firms to minimize the increase in health care costs associated with full time employment under the Affordable Care Act. Part time jobs averaged increases of 93,000 per month in the first half of 2013, while full time jobs averaged increases of only 22,000 per month. Full time employment as a percentage of the adult population is currently 47%, which is near the lows of the last three decades. Historically, when taxes are increased, the initial response of households results in a lower saving rate rather than an immediate reduction in spending. For some consumers, recognition of the tax changes in their income is a problem, particularly for those whose earnings are dependent on commissions, bonuses or seasonal work. This explains the sharp drop in the personal saving rate to 2.7% in the first five months of this year, a level at or below the entry points of all the economic contractions since 1929. The 2013 slump in the saving rate is a precursor of the painful adjustments that lie ahead, and an additional restraint on economic growth. (Note: In late July the Bureau of Economic Analysis is expected to release a benchmark revision to the National Income and Product Accounts. As a result of the revision the personal saving rate may be raised by up to 1.5%. This is due to the change in consumer ownership of defined benefit pension plans. This revision will not change the trend of the saving rate, nor will this higher figure indicate a source of funds for immediate spending since consumers will only receive such pension benefits when they retire.) The drop in the saving rate in 2013 also serves to explain why the primary drain from higher taxes occurs with a lag after the taxes take effect. Based on various academic studies there is a two or three quarter lag in curtailed spending after the tax increase. Thus, the main drag on growth will fall in the third and fourth quarters of this year, with negative residual influences persisting through the end of 2015. Approximately $140 billion of the tax increase constitutes what might be termed a reduction in permanent income, or its equivalent life cycle income. In addition to working with a lag, over a three year period this portion will carry a negative multiplier of between two and three. Astronomical sums of money have been expended by both monetary and fiscal authorities since the crisis. With the benefit of hindsight it is clear their efforts have not aided economic growth, but rather the balance of their actions has been counter productive. The Fed has maintained the Fed Funds rate at near-zero levels, and it has tried to lower longer term rates through a series of quantitative easings. The effect of each of the quantitative easings was the opposite of the Fed‚Äôs intentions. During every period of balance sheet expansion long rates rose, yet when securities purchases were discontinued yields fell (Chart 6). The Fed cannot control long rates because long rates are affected by inflation expectations, not by supply and demand in the market place. This is extremely counter intuitive. With more buying, one would assume that prices would rise and thus yields would fall, but the opposite occurred. Why? When the Fed buys, it appears that the existing owners of Treasuries (now amounting to $9.5 trillion) decide that the Fed‚Äôs actions are inflationary and sell their holdings, raising interest rates. When the Fed stops this program, inflation expectations fall creating a demand for Treasuries, bringing rates back down. The Fed‚Äôs quantitative policies have been counter productive to growth as interest rates have risen during each period of quantitative easing. During QE1 and QE2, commodity prices rose, the dollar fell and inflation rose temporarily. Wages, however, did not respond. Thus, the higher interest rates during all QEs and the fall in the real wage income during QE 1 &amp; 2 served to worsen the income and wealth divide. This means many more households were hurt, rather than helped, by the Fed‚Äôs efforts.  In terms of government spending, fiscal policy has not, and will not, have a major affect on economic growth. The increased spending immediately following the financial crisis did little to encourage the economy to grow faster. Likewise, the decrease in spending associated with the ‚Äúsequester‚Äù will unlikely be a drag on growth after the initial and lagged effects are fully exhausted. The research on government spending multipliers suggests that the multiplier on spending is very close to zero. The impact of tax changes is not nearly as harmless. It has been argued that an expired ‚Äútemporary payroll tax cut‚Äù would not effect spending as the initial increase in income was not seen as permanent. The facts seem to counter this opinion. The average monthly year-over-year growth rate of real personal income less transfer payments for 2011 was 3.4%, and in 2012 it was 2.2%. This year, with the payroll tax change in effect, the average is 1.8% through May. The slower income has resulted in a slowdown in spending. Like income, real personal consumption expenditures has trended lower, with average monthly year-over-year growth rates of 2.5% for 2011, 1.9% for 2012 and 1.8% through May of this year. This trend is expected to continue for some time. In the aftermath of the debt induced panic years of 1873 and 1929 in the U.S. and 1989 in Japan, the long term government bond yield dropped to 2% between 13 and 14 years after the panic. The U.S. Treasury bond yield is tracking those previous experiences (Chart 7). Thus, the historical record also suggests that the secular low in long term rates is in the future.  Like¬†Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. ¬© 2013 Mauldin Economics. All Rights Reserved.Outside the Box¬†is a free weekly economic e-letter by best-selling author and renowned financial expert, John Mauldin. You can learn more and get your free subscription by visiting¬†www.MauldinEconomics.com.Please write to¬†subscribers@mauldineconomics.com¬†to inform us of any reproductions, including when and where copy will be reproduced. You must keep the letter intact, from introduction to disclaimers. If you would like to quote brief portions only, please reference¬†www.MauldinEconomics.com.To subscribe to John Mauldin's e-letter, please click here:¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com/go/bwYeg/To change your email address, please click here:¬†http://www.mauldineconomics.com/change-address Outside the Box¬†and MauldinEconomics.com is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and those that he interviews. Any views expressed are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest and is not in any way a testimony of, or associated with, Mauldin's other firms. John Mauldin is the Chairman of Mauldin Economics, LLC. He also is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA) which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states, President and registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS) member¬†FINRA,¬†SIPC, through which securities may be offered . MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Introducing Broker (IB) and NFA Member. Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. This message may contain information that is confidential or privileged and is intended only for the individual or entity named above and does not constitute an offer for or advice about any alternative investment product. Such advice can only be made when accompanied by a prospectus or similar offering document. Past performance is not indicative of future performance. Please make sure to review important disclosures at the end of each article. Mauldin companies may have a marketing relationship with products and services mentioned in this letter for a fee. Note: Joining The Mauldin Circle is not an offering for any investment. It represents only the opinions of John Mauldin and Millennium Wave Investments. It is intended solely for investors who have registered with Millennium Wave Investments and its partners at http://www.MauldinCircle.com (formerly AccreditedInvestor.ws) or directly related websites. The Mauldin Circle may send out material that is provided on a confidential basis, and subscribers to the Mauldin Circle are not to send this letter to anyone other than their professional investment counselors. Investors should discuss any investment with their personal investment counsel. You are advised to discuss with your financial advisers your investment options and whether any investment is suitable for your specific needs prior to making any investments. John Mauldin is the President of Millennium Wave Advisors, LLC (MWA), which is an investment advisory firm registered with multiple states. John Mauldin is a registered representative of Millennium Wave Securities, LLC, (MWS), an FINRA registered broker-dealer. MWS is also a Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) and a Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) registered with the CFTC, as well as an Introducing Broker (IB). Millennium Wave Investments is a dba of MWA LLC and MWS LLC. Millennium Wave Investments cooperates in the consulting on and marketing of private and non-private investment offerings with other independent firms such as Altegris Investments; Capital Management Group; Absolute Return Partners, LLP; Fynn Capital; Nicola Wealth Management; and Plexus Asset Management. Investment offerings recommended by Mauldin may pay a portion of their fees to these independent firms, who will share 1/3 of those fees with MWS and thus with Mauldin. Any views expressed herein are provided for information purposes only and should not be construed in any way as an offer, an endorsement, or inducement to invest with any CTA, fund, or program mentioned here or elsewhere. Before seeking any advisor's services or making an investment in a fund, investors must read and examine thoroughly the respective disclosure document or offering memorandum. Since these firms and Mauldin receive fees from the funds they recommend/market, they only recommend/market products with which they have been able to negotiate fee arrangements. PAST RESULTS ARE NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS. THERE IS RISK OF LOSS AS WELL AS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR GAIN WHEN INVESTING IN MANAGED FUNDS. WHEN CONSIDERING ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS, INCLUDING HEDGE FUNDS, YOU SHOULD CONSIDER VARIOUS RISKS INCLUDING THE FACT THAT SOME PRODUCTS: OFTEN ENGAGE IN LEVERAGING AND OTHER SPECULATIVE INVESTMENT PRACTICES THAT MAY INCREASE THE RISK OF INVESTMENT LOSS, CAN BE ILLIQUID, ARE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE PERIODIC PRICING OR VALUATION INFORMATION TO INVESTORS, MAY INVOLVE COMPLEX TAX STRUCTURES AND DELAYS IN DISTRIBUTING IMPORTANT TAX INFORMATION, ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AS MUTUAL FUNDS, OFTEN CHARGE HIGH FEES, AND IN MANY CASES THE UNDERLYING INVESTMENTS ARE NOT TRANSPARENT AND ARE KNOWN ONLY TO THE INVESTMENT MANAGER. Alternative investment performance can be volatile. An investor could lose all or a substantial amount of his or her investment. Often, alternative investment fund and account managers have total trading authority over their funds or accounts; the use of a single advisor applying generally similar trading programs could mean lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk. There is often no secondary market for an investor√¢‚Ç¨‚Ñ¢s interest in alternative investments, and none is expected to develop. All material presented herein is believed to be reliable but we cannot attest to its accuracy. Opinions expressed in these reports may change without prior notice. John Mauldin and/or the staffs may or may not have investments in any funds cited above as well as economic interest. John Mauldin can be reached at 800-829-7273.
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleRacegoers queue to place bets during the first day of the Royal Ascot horse racing festival at Ascot in southern England on June 18, 2013.During the downturn and early stages of recovery, we were huge proponents of investors taking advantage of overcorrected home prices to make great investments while also helping the housing market recover. Mission accomplished. We are now concerned that investor momentum has swung too far in the other direction. Recent developments include: John Burns Real Estate Consulting While the permabears or big name economists (who are lucky to have a staff of one focused on housing) went on TV claiming that rising mortgage rates would cause another downturn, and Wall Street responded by selling all things housing, we went public on June 3 and June 26 saying that rising rates were necessary to prevent another bubble. Since investors remain as optimistic as ever, rising rates do not appear to be cooling the market much at all. At this pace, the Fed will soon accomplish their unstated goal of eliminating negative equity, which will allow for refinancing that will be great for the economy. However, I don't know what will shut off the investors other than another crisis or recession. I am reminded of the Housing Cycles History video we did in March 2008, when the housing market was falling apart, but the economy was still growing. There are some valuable lessons in here worth revisiting, including the Fed's historical role. As for now, the fundamentals still look strong.
www.flickr.comHalliburton has agreed to plead guilty to destruction of evidence in the Deepwater Horizon oil drilling tragedy. The plea deal ‚Äî which is still subject to court approval ‚Äî means they'll pay the maximum available statutory fine, be subject to three years probation, and continue to cooperate with the government's investigation. The company made a separate and voluntary contribution of $55 million to the National Fish &amp; Wildlife Foundation. The Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded off the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, killing 11 workers and injuring 16 others. The spill of roughly 4.9 million barrels of oil into the gulf lasted 87 days, and remains the largest spill in U.S. history. Halliburton was used as the cement contractor for the drilling rig. According to details released today from the Department of Justice, employees were directed to and did destroy evidence of alleged wrongdoing in the disaster. Here's the¬†full statement from the DoJ: Halliburton Energy Services Inc. has agreed to plead guilty to destroying evidence in connection with the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the Department of Justice announced today.¬† A criminal information charging Halliburton with one count of destruction of evidence was filed today in U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana.Halliburton has signed a cooperation and guilty plea agreement with the government in which Halliburton has agreed to plead guilty and admit its criminal conduct.¬† As part of the plea agreement, Halliburton has further agreed, subject to the court‚Äôs approval, to pay the maximum-available statutory fine, to be subject to three years of probation and to continue its cooperation in the government‚Äôs ongoing criminal investigation.¬† Separately, Halliburton made a voluntary contribution of $55 million to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation that was not conditioned on the court‚Äôs acceptance of its plea agreement.According to court documents, on April 20, 2010, while stationed at the Macondo well site in the Gulf of Mexico, the Deepwater Horizon rig experienced an uncontrolled blowout and related explosions and fire, which resulted in the deaths of 11 rig workers and the largest oil spill in U.S. history.¬† Following the blowout, Halliburton conducted its own review of various technical aspects of the well‚Äôs design and construction.¬† On or about May 3, 2010, Halliburton established an internal working group to examine the Macondo well blowout, including whether the number of centralizers used on the final production casing could have contributed to the blowout.¬† A production casing is a long, heavy metal pipe set across the area of the oil and natural gas reservoir.¬† Centralizers are protruding metal collars affixed at various intervals on the outside of the casing.¬† Use of centralizers can help keep the casing centered in the wellbore away from the surrounding walls as it is lowered and placed in the well.¬† Centralization can be significant to the quality of subsequent cementing around the bottom of the casing.¬† Prior to the blowout, Halliburton had recommended to BP the use of 21 centralizers in the Macondo well.¬† BP opted to use six centralizers instead.¬†¬†¬†As detailed in the information, in connection with its own internal post-incident examination of the well, in or about May 2010, Halliburton, through its Cementing Technology Director, directed a Senior Program Manager for the Cement Product Line (Program Manager) to run two computer simulations of the Macondo well final cementing job using Halliburton‚Äôs Displace 3D simulation program to compare the impact of using six versus 21 centralizers.¬† Displace 3D was a next-generation simulation program that was being developed to model fluid interfaces and their movement through the wellbore and annulus of a well.¬† These simulations indicated that there was little difference between using six and 21 centralizers.¬† Program Manager was directed to, and did, destroy these results.¬†¬†¬†¬†In or about June 2010, similar evidence was also destroyed in a later incident.¬† Halliburton‚Äôs Cementing Technology Director asked another, more experienced, employee (‚ÄúEmployee 1‚Äù) to run simulations again comparing six versus 21 centralizers.¬† Employee 1 reached the same conclusion and, like Program Manager before him, was then directed to ‚Äúget rid of‚Äù the simulations.¬†Efforts to forensically recover the original destroyed Displace 3D computer simulations during ensuing civil litigation and federal criminal investigation by the Deepwater Horizon Task Force were unsuccessful.In agreeing to plead guilty, Halliburton has accepted criminal responsibility for destroying the aforementioned evidence.The guilty plea agreement and criminal charge announced today are part of the ongoing criminal investigation by the Deepwater Horizon Task Force into matters related to the April 2010 Gulf oil spill.¬† The Deepwater Horizon Task Force, based in New Orleans, is supervised by Acting Assistant Attorney General Mythili Raman and led by John D. Buretta, who serves as the director of the task force.¬† The task force includes prosecutors from the Criminal Division and the Environment and Natural Resources Division of the Department of Justice; the U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana and other U.S. Attorney‚Äôs Offices; and investigating agents from:¬† the FBI; Department of the Interior, Office of Inspector General; Environmental Protection Agency, Criminal Investigation Division; Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Inspector General; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Office of Law Enforcement; U.S. Coast Guard; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality.The case is being prosecuted by Deepwater Horizon Task Force Director John D. Buretta, Deputy Directors Derek A. Cohen and Avi Gesser, and task force prosecutors Richard R. Pickens II, Scott M. Cullen, Colin Black and Rohan Virginkar.An information is merely a charge and a defendant is presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
Brazilian tycoon Eike Batista no longer belongs to the world's billionaire's club, Bloomberg reports.¬†At this time last year he was the world's 8th richest man. Most of Batista's problems can be traced to his oil and gas company, OGX. In the last year the¬†stock has fallen 86%, investors have filed an injunction to prevent Batista from selling any company assets, and his larger holding company, EBX, has been forced to refinance a loan from Mubadala Investment Corporation, Abu Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund. At his richest last March, Batista was worth $34.5 billion, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. Now, with $1.5 billion due to Mubadala and about $2 billion worth of personal liabilities, Bloomberg estimates that he's worth $200 million. Earlier this month, in an open letter to Brazilians in the journal, Valor International, he wondered what went wrong: More than anyone, I wonder where I went wrong. What should I have done differently? A first question might be linked to the funding model I chose for the companies. Today, if I could go back in time, I would not have resorted to the stock market. I would have a structured private-equity firm that would allow me to create from scratch and develop over at least 10 years each company. And they would all remain private until I was sure that it was time to go public. In the projects that I conceived, time proved a vital stress factor for the reversal of expectations on companies bearing broadly satisfactory results and valuable assets. Indeed ultimately, Batistas companies did not live up to his promises. At the end of his letter, he assured readers that¬†he was still "buzzing with new ideas that spring from nothing and slowly take shape. I feed myself from this ability to dream and achieve. Undertaking is in my blood, in my DNA. It is my inexhaustible source of energy and life." For his sake, he better be right about that one. ¬†   
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. New Survey Shows Investors Are More Afraid Of Investing In Stocks Than Death (Investment News) Nationwide Financial surveyed potential investors with at least $100,000 in investible assets and found that 83% fear another financial crisis, while 62% are afraid of investing in stocks. "We were pretty surprised that people are more afraid of investing than public speaking and dying," Michael Spangler, president of Nationwide Funds told Investment News. "There doesn‚Äôt seem to be much understanding of the recovery. There was a double digit return on the equity markets in 2012." 58% of those surveyed said they fear death. If You're Looking For Income, The Biggest Mistake You Can Make Is To Listen To Current Wall Street Wisdom (Morningstar) Josh Peters, a strategist at Morningstar said one of the biggest behavioral mistakes an investor looking for income can make right now, is listening to Wall Street wisdom. "I think for people who are looking for income, the biggest mistake he can make is listen to the current Wall Street received wisdom, which is that the dividend trade is over. It amazes me how quickly people will seize on this idea that you only buy high-yielding stocks if the economy is getting worse or if interest rates are going down, and then you bolt and you sell these great companies with their great dividend yields as soon as times get better or interest rates go up. That's not what these stocks are about."These stocks are not, in fact, at all about Wall Street; they're about you, because you're getting your cash earnings directly from the company through those dividend payments. These companies can help you meet your financial objectives whether you're beating the market right now in this current month or current year, or not. ‚Ä¶So, what you want to do is stay away from this idea that it's a competition, that somehow investing is a game you're playing against other people that you have to win. It's a journey and the destination is actually being able to meet your financial goals." How Every Major Asset Class Has Performed Since The Taper Tantrum Started (Deutsche Bank) Strategists at Deutsche Bank pointed out that "The 'taper tantrum' is over: markets have retraced much of their post May 22 sell-off, with US equities reaching fresh all-time highs." Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank Research. Prices as of 24 Jul 2013, 9:00 GMT Quarterly Statements Have Brought Losses To The Attention Of Bond Investors (The Wall Street Journal) Investors with fixed income portfolios have begun ringing their advisors about the bond selloff in June which is showing up in their quarterly statements, according to the WSJ. "Even though you consistently tell them they'll go down when interest rates go up, they just have to be reminded of it," Larry Carroll of Carroll Financial Associates told the WSJ. "I just don't think it's very intuitive to them." Some firms have moved to make portfolio's less rate sensitive, while others say talk of alternative investments is on the table now. SAC Capital Is Indicted By A Federal Grand Jury (Business Insider/CNBC) SAC Capital Advisors was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York on criminal charges of insider trading on Thursday. Steve Cohen's SAC has been charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud. The SAC has since responded to the charges (via CNBC): "SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance and management obligations seriously. The handful of men who admit they broke the law does not reflect the honesty, integrity and character of the thousands of men and women who have worked at SAC over the past 21 years. We will continue to operate as we work through these matters."
REUTERS/Steve MarcusFox Business Senior Correspondent Charlie Gasparino, who has written a book on insider trading called "Circle of Friends," has a piece in TIME following today's criminal indictment of $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors. ¬† One of Gasparino's sources, who is friends with SAC's founder Steven Cohen, said that the billionaire hedge fund manager has been putting on lbs. lately. From TIME:¬† A friend of mine ... who knows Cohen personally said he ran into him at the MLB All-Star game at Citi Field, the home of the New York Mets, in which Cohen owns a small stake. Cohen ‚Äúlooked terrible‚Ä¶and he‚Äôd gained 15 pounds‚Äù since the time the two met just a month or so earlier.¬†More than that, my source told me, Cohen conceded that his business was basically finished and ‚Äúat this point my No. 1 goal is not getting personally indicted.‚Äù Although Cohen wasn't explicitly named in the indictment today, Gasparino writes "don‚Äôt be surprised if you see an indictment of Cohen in the coming weeks as well."¬†

ZyngaZynga just reported its Q2 earnings, its first under the new leadership of Don Mattrick, its CEO. The stock is plummeting 14% after hours. It was a beat on the top and bottom line, but it looks like investors may be worried about Zynga's decision to abandon real-money gambling in the U.S. Its DAUs and MAUs are also down significantly year over year. "While the Company continues to evaluate its real money gaming products in the United Kingdom test, Zynga is making the focused choice not to pursue a license for real money gaming in the United States," the company said in a release. Here are the Q2 numbers: Mattrick cautions that Zynga expects its next two to four quarters to be "volatile." Here's the press release.†A summary of the call is below. Audience metrics down quarter over quarter and YOY. Q2 bookings $188 million, $3 million above our updated outlook on June 3.&nbsp; In relation to new products, we have them in various stages from being prototyped to those that are further in their cycles.  The energy that exists inside the company. The board is plugged in. It's been incredibly fun to be here over the past few weeks. Ko: We've seen the mobile market continues to grow from phones and tablets. We haven't been executing across this opportunity.  What King's accomplished, I'm a Candy Crush player. It's a challenge for us to look at what are we creating. While we've got a lot of work to do, I see a lot of opportunity in having the collection of people we've assembled.&nbsp; Ko: We are not happy with the performance of Zynga Poker. We love the category, we see the market is growing over all. We're taking steps to improve.
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonFacebook Inc. CEO Mark Zuckerberg is seen on a screen televised from their headquarters in Menlo Park moments after their IPO launch in New York on May 18, 2012.Markets made some small moves today. But the Nasdaq outperformed thanks to a gigantic move in Facebook shares. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Revenue was $15.7 billion, which is about in line with analyst expectations of¬†$15.73 billion. It had an EPS loss of $0.02, which is worse than expected. Analysts were looking for EPS of $0.06.¬† Amazon is forecasting revenue of $14.45 billion to $17.15 billion, which is about in line with expectations of $16.98 billion for the next quarter. It's also guiding for an operating loss of¬†between¬†$440 million and $65 million for the quarter. The stock was down 2% in extended trading an hour and a half after the report was released. 
Ace WSJ Federal Reserve reporter Jon Hilsenrath is out with a new article suggesting that the FOMC will likely discuss revising its forward guidance targets at next week's policy meeting, which takes place July 30-31. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested in a recent speech that the 6.5% unemployment rate threshold the Fed has described as necessary to reach before the central bank will begin raising interest rates may actually understate weakness in the labor market. So, the idea is that perhaps the Fed will lower that threshold, implying that easy money will be the status quo longer than markets previously expected.¬† The market is taking the news quite credibly. The chart below shows the big move in 5-year U.S. Treasury notes following the release of the article. ThinkorswimClick to enlarge
REUTERS/Steve MarcusHedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen (L), founder and chairman of SAC Capital Advisors, responds to a question during a one-on-one interview session with Anthony Scaramucci, managing partner of SkyBridge Capital, at the SkyBridge Alternatives (SALT) Conference in Las Vegas, Nevada on May 11, 2011.SkyBridge Capital, a fund-of-funds run by†Anthony "The Mooch" Scaramucci, has taken most of SkyBridge's money out of embattled SAC Capital Advisors, Fox Business Network's senior correspondent Charlie Gasparino Tweeted. According to Gasparino, it's up to SkyBridge investors to pull out the rest of the money, but Scaramucci expects them to do so. Earlier today, the $14 billion Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund run by Steve Cohen was hit with a federal indictment on criminal charges of insider trading.† Cohen was not charged or named explicitly in the indictment.† Moments later, SkyBridge's Scaramucci called into†CNBC's "Halftime Report"†to weigh in on the indictment. †It wasn't clear what SkyBridge was going to do about its money it has invested in SAC.† "So I think right now I think we†just have to feel bad for the†employees there and for the†families associated with this.†I†have said long ago that if†they have a case and it's a†substantial one, let's bring it. Obviously, the presumption is†still on innocence both for the†firm and for Steve.†That's the way our criminal†justice system works. But the government has that†case.†I†hope Steve and his team will†get the opportunity to say their†side of the story as well.†But as it relates to public†policy and things like that,†fraud is a terrible thing, and I†hope to God that they will be†innocent, but if they're not,†obviously we'll do what's†prudent for our†investors†as†everyone else would." Scaramucci, who has personal money invested with SAC, also defended Cohen. "...at the end of the day, I like†Steve.†He's a friend of mine.†I†have tried to teach my†children and my employees and†people around me you stick by†your friends when they're in†trouble, and if he's obviously†done something wrong here,†hopefully it gets settled very†quickly," Scaramucci said on CNBC†via telephone from his vacation. "I say to my other friends out†there on Wall Street, you know,†let's not†cut and run†from†people that we've been close to†for a very long period of time," he added later during the interview.† Here are Gasparino's Tweets:† Twitter.com/CGasparino Twitter.com/CGasparino
REUTERS/Ilya Naymushin A worker operates an electrolysis furnace, which produces aluminium from raw materials, at the Rusal Krasnoyarsk aluminium smelter in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, May 18, 2011.Mounting controversy and alleged market manipulation has led Washington legislators to take a stronger look at major banks' hold over commodities, with the Fed to possibly reevaluate regulation in the coming months. But for investors, the case for holding commodities as a strategic move is still clear, according to Goldman Sachs commodity strategist Jeffrey Currie. Currie tells clients three reasons why: "1) commodities as a hedge against hostile markets amid rising geopolitical risks, 2) significant roll-yields on the back of the tightness in Cushing which will likely support backwardation in energy markets into the autumn, and 3) an increasing decline in correlations across returns, both within commodity markets and against other asset classes, making the case for commodities investments as a way to diversify portfolio risk." In their latest Commodity Watch report, the analysts at Goldman provide forecasts and commentary for 25 major commodities. We highlight 13 of those.
Remember the days when ó if you were rich ó you were able to mooch off your wealthy parents easily and without consequence? If your familyís loaded, we hope you enjoyed those times while they lasted, because if your family is like any of the ones the New York Times†spoke with, they are no longer going to freely lend money to their broke munchkins. People who wanted to borrow money from their families would have to go through a loan application process just like they would need to if they were to borrow from an actual bank. If they were borrowing money to start a small business, for example, their families might require them to submit a business proposal and to give them status updates on their business. We get it. Lending family money has never been straightforward: it can be potentially awkward for one party if theyíre unable to lend any money, it puts another in a bind if the borrower is unable to pay the loaner back. These are the same kinds of hassles shared by those who have to lend a close friend money, but itís harder to cut family off than it is to cut a friend off if the deal were to go very sour. But with the economy going the way it is, more children of wealthy families need help financially after college or when trying to get a business off the ground, and the rules of family lending are changing a bit. Advocates of the family bank system say that itís a more democratic way of doling out money and increases the borrowerís sense of liability to use the money wisely and devise a repayment system in place. Financial advisers are saying that by making lending an actual financial transaction, officiated by a bank and abiding by all legal rules, parents are taking the chance to educate their children, ìWhereas a hard bank [a traditional bank] would manage the loans for profitÖ a soft bank [banking within the family] would look at the loans as a way to develop the human capital of their children.î Itís never too late to learn about money, but it does seem a wee bit impersonal to have to fill out a loan application when borrowing from a family member. Yes, your family will probably be more lenient with you if you were to experiencing some hiccups with repayment, but getting your family loan approved by a ìsmall group of advisorsî? Filling out a loan application? Definitely sounds more ìbankî than ìfamily.î If you were to borrow money from a family member, or if you needed to lend money to a relative, would you ever set up a family bank?

BloombergBlackBloomberg LLP is liquidating its wealth management business, BloombergBlack¬†affecting 30-40 employees that could return to the company or be laid off permanently, according to sources close the situation.¬† It was a venture that had yet to leave its trial phase. Around April, the financial blogosphere got wind of the product and ‚Äî with a monthly price of $100, the power of Bloomberg's real-time information, and the promise of smart wealth advisors and strategists ‚Äî it was expected to be disruptive. Bloomberg co-founder Tom Secunda addressed the unit the morning and employees were asked to leave headquarters by noon. Their terminal access was immediately revoked, said the source.¬† Bloomberg denies that employees were asked to leave the premises. ‚ÄúWe weighed the future prospects of the business against the ongoing resource investment and concluded that it wasn‚Äôt in our best interest to continue moving forward," said Bloomberg spokesman Ty Trippet. "We remain optimistic about the idea and open to the possibility of pursuing a similar business in the future.‚Äù Employees that have been let go will have an opportunity to interview within the company or stay on to help with the closing of the business. "All affected employees are being offered the opportunity to find other positions within the company and some placements have already been made. ¬†Several are also staying on to help with the transition. ¬†We expect many affected employees will continue on to other jobs at the company," said Trippet.
WSJ's Tom Gara writes BP has taken out a full-page ad in both his paper and the New York Times protesting aggressive lawsuits that continue to emerge from the Deepwater Horizon spill. How could the company charged in the deaths of 11 rig workers¬†now say it's a victim?¬† BP alleges the office charged with administering damage claims from private citizens is in cahoots with lawyers representing plaintiffs.  This is not without merit: two staff attorneys working for the administrator have already been ousted after evidence surfaced they took improper payments from plaintiffs lawyers, Bloomberg reports.¬† The oil company¬†also accuses the administrator of approving hundreds of millions of dollars in claims for ‚Äúfictitious‚Äù business economic losses under a liberal interpretation of the accord, Bloomberg says. The allegations are being investigated by former FBI director Louis Freeh. The ad features U.S. business leaders supporting BP's charge that wealthy trial lawyers have hijacked the claims process: BP via WSJ
REUTERSHedge fund bigwig Carl Icahn (left) and comedy legend Mel Brooks, who would surely play Icahn in the filmMartin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" will hit theaters this fall, giving moviegoers a stylized glimpse into the corruption and opulence that can plague the finance world. The film, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, promises to be a classic. It wouldn't be the first great Wall Street movie. From "Trading Places" to "American Psycho," we can't get enough of Wall Street culture on the silver screen. But there are some "based-on-a-true-story" tales that have yet to become blockbusters. So here are the 10 true Wall Street sagas¬†‚Äî and the corresponding must-cast actors¬†‚Äî that should be movies.
Steve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors broke its radio silence moments ago to respond to today's federal indictment against the firm on criminal charges of insider trading. Via CNBC's Kayla Tausche:¬† "SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance and management obligations seriously. The handful of men who admit they broke the law does not¬†reflect the honesty, integrity and character of the thousands of¬†men and women who have worked at SAC over the past 21 years.¬†We will continue to operate as we work through these matters."¬† According to Bloomberg News, SAC sent out another statement saying the government's action is not intended to affect ongoing operations or redemptions. ¬†SAC expects an agreement with the government to protect client interestes.¬†
Flickr via @kmeronMG Siegler interviewing Uber CEO Travis Kalanick at LeWeb in 2011.Earlier this week, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick made a public comment that sounded like he was denying claims his company was raising at a valuation north of $2.5 billion. "There are probably one or two folks we're talking to who we've signed NDAs with who are particularly loose with information, but that information is not correct," Kalanick said when asked on Tuesday at Fortune's Brainstorm conference. Instead, his company may be raising at a valuation that's up to $1 billion higher than that. According to AllThingsD's Liz Gannes, the financing Uber is currently working on could value the real-time driver service at up to $3.5 billion. Similarly, Fortune's Dan Primack is reporting that Uber is asking for a "pre-money valuation well north of $3 billion." The size of the 9-figure check Uber is seeking will be "at least $150 million," Primack writes. Both Primack and Gannes agree: The round will likely be led by private equity firm, Texas Pacific Group. Both also say Google Ventures is likely to invest, despite being invested in one of its ride-sharing competitors, Sidecar. That may mean MG Siegler is behind the deal there; he was at CrunchFund when it invested in Uber's 2011 $37.5 million round of financing and he is now at Google Ventures. Then, Uber was valued at $330 million. Siegler hasn't yet responded to a request for comment. When you're an attractive company like Uber is, raising a ton of money at a sky-high valuation doesn't mean you have to give up much of your company. You can set unusually desirable terms for yourself and some investor will abide by it.¬† The demand is certainly there. Uber's valuation seems to have increased by $1 billion since the fundraising talks began. "I've never seen people leaning in like this," one source close to the deal tells Business Insider, who also said investors were flying from all over to meet with the company. Primack says Kalanick isn't planning to sell any of his own shares in the new financing round and that, despite writing a 9-figure check, TPG may not be given majority ownership of Uber. The deal may get done with Kalanick not having to give up more than a few percent of his company. The deal is still in the works, so all of the speculation above is subject to change. Uber operates in 35 cities and while it isn't profitable as a whole, it is profitable in all of its earliest markets including New York and San Francisco. Revenue is growing 18% month over month and its Net Promoter Scores rival Apple's, which is about 72%. Uber has not responded to a request for comment.
"The 'taper tantrum' is over: markets have retraced much of their post May 22 sell-off, with US equities reaching fresh all-time highs," write Deutsche Bank strategists in their latest "House View" report. The chart below shows returns in various key markets around the world ‚Äì year-to-date, since May 22, when Ben Bernanke's congressional testimony sparked a big sell-off, and between May 22 and June 24, when the brunt of the sell-off occurred. Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank Research. Prices as of 24 Jul 2013, 9:00 GMT
NEWARK, N.J./BOSTON (Reuters) - U.S. prosecutors charged six foreign nationals with hacking crimes, including credit and debit card thefts that authorities say cost U.S. and European companies more than $300 million in losses, and charged one of them with breaching Nasdaq computers. Prosecutors said the indictments unsealed on Thursday for the payment card hacking were the biggest cyber fraud case filed in U.S. history. The long list of victims include financial firms Citigroup Inc, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc, PNC Financial Services Group Inc and a Visa Inc licensee, Visa Jordan. Others include retailers Carrefour SA and J.C. Penney Co along with JetBlue Airways Corp, prosecutors said as they announced indictments. Prosecutors said they conservatively estimate that a group of five men stole at least 160 million credit card numbers, resulting in losses in excess of $300 million. Authorities in New Jersey charged that each of the defendants had specialized tasks: Russians Vladimir Drinkman, 32, and Alexandr Kalinin, 26, hacked into networks, while Roman Kotov, 32, mined them for data. They allegedly hid their activities using anonymous web-hosting services provided by Mikhail Rytikov, 26, of Ukraine. Russian Dmitriy Smilianets, 29, is accused of selling the stolen data and distributing the profits. Prosecutors said he charged $10 for U.S. cards, $15 for ones from Canada and $50 for European cards, which are more expensive because they have computer chips that make them more secure. The five concealed their efforts by disabling anti-virus software on victims computers and storing data on multiple hacking platforms, prosecutors said. They sold the payment card numbers to resellers, who then sold them on online forums or to "cashers" who encode the numbers onto blank plastic cards. "This type of crime is the cutting edge," said U.S. Attorney Paul J. Fishman for the District of New Jersey. "Those who have the expertise and the inclination to break into our computer networks threaten our economic wellbeing, our privacy and our national security." The indictment also cited Albert Gonzalez as a co-conspirator. He is serving 20 years in federal prison after pleading guilty to helping mastermind one of the biggest hacking fraud schemes in U.S. history, helping steal millions of credit and debit cards. Drinkman and Smilianets were arrested on June 28, 2012, while traveling in Netherlands at the request of U.S. authorities. Smilianets was extradited last September and is expected to appear in New Jersey Federal court next week. Drinkman is awaiting an extradition hearing in the Netherlands. Asked if he believed the other three are still in Russia, Fishman said: "I'm not going to say where I believe they are, we just know they're not in our custody." Kalinin and Drinkman were previously charged in New Jersey as "Hacker 1" and "Hacker 2" in a 2009 indictment charging Gonzalez, 32, in connection with five breaches - including one on Heartland Payment Systems. NASDAQ BREACH The U.S. Attorney's Office in Manhattan announced two other indictments against Kalinin, one charging he hacked servers used by Nasdaq from November 2008 through October 2010. It said he installed malicious software that enabled him and others to execute commands to delete, change or steal data. The infected servers did not include the trading platform that allows Nasdaq customers to buy and sell securities, prosecutors said. Officials with Nasdaq said they could not immediately comment. A source with knowledge of the breach said on Thursday the indictment was not related to a 2010 attack that Nasdaq had previously disclosed, though it has said little about the matter. Sources told Reuters in 2011 that the previously disclosed attack was targeted against Directors Desk, a service used by corporate boards to share documents and communicate with executives, among other things. (http://reut.rs/nd9HnN) The source who spoke to Reuters on Thursday, who asked to remain anonymous due to the sensitivity of the matter, said that Nasdaq was working with the FBI and Department of Justice on the matter. The second indictment filed against Kalinin in Manhattan, which was unsealed on Thursday, charged that he worked with a sixth hacker, Russian Nikolay Nasenkov, 31, to steal bank account information from thousands of customers at Citibank and PNC Bank from 2005 to 2008, resulting in the theft of millions of dollars. MAKING PROGRESS Mark Rasch, a former federal cyber crimes prosecutor, told Reuters that the arrests show that law enforcement is making progress in identifying those responsible for major cyber crimes. "They involve dozens or even hundreds of people huddled over computer terminals all over the world in a common purpose of stealing of disseminating credit card numbers," said Rasch, who was not involved in bringing the case. Among the breaches cited in the New Jersey indictment, prosecutors charged that the group was responsible for the theft of more than 130 million credit card numbers from U.S. payment processor Heartland Payment Systems beginning in December 2007, resulting in approximately $200 million of losses. The indictment charged that they took approximately 30 million payment card numbers from British payment processor Commidea Ltd in 2008 and 800,000 card numbers from Visa Inc's licensee Visa Jordan in 2011. An attack on Global Payment Systems that begin in about January 2011 resulted in the theft of more than 950,000 cards and losses of about $93 million, according to the indictment. It charged the ring with stealing approximately 2 million credit card numbers from French retailer Carrefour SA, beginning as early as October 2007, and 4.2 million card numbers from U.S. grocer Hannaford Brothers Co., a unit of Delhaize Group. It said the theft of card numbers from Dexia Bank Belgium resulted in $1.7 million in losses. Other victims included Dow Jones, Wet Seal Inc and 7-Eleven Inc, according to prosecutors. Dow Jones said in a statement that there was "no evidence" that information of Dow Jones or Wall Street Journal customers information was compromised as a result of the breaches. Officials with Carrefour, Global Payments and JCPenney declined comment. (Reporting by David Jones and Jim Finkle; Additional reporting by John McCrank, Christian Plumb, Phil Wahba, Beth Pinsker, Varun Aggarwal, Jennifer Saba and David French; Writing by Jim Finkle; Editing by Scott Malone, Alden Bentley and Claudia Parsons)
The EIA released its world energy outlook through 2040.¬† There were lots of fascinating charts, but this one jumped out at us: China's projected use of nuclear power. From about 15 gigawatts to 160 gigawatts by 2040, that's about a 967% increase.  To put that in perspective, U.S. capacity is currently about 101 gigawatts. And as the title of the slide indicates, it accounts for more than 40% of all future global nuclear growth. By 2040, nuclear will  comprise¬†11% of total generation in China, compared with just under 2% now.¬† EIA international energy analyst Linda Doman told us China already has lots of nuclear plants set to come online through 2020. After that, growth will be driven by the country's plan to break coal's grip as the dominant source of energy. Business Insider, EIA
 REUTERS/Issei KatoThe Southern District of New York, led by U.S. attorney Preet Bharara, †just wrapped up its press conference announcing charges against SAC Capital. There weren't too many new revelations in Bharara's remarks which weren't already included in the indictment. Of course, reporters tried asking about the implications of the charges against SAC CEO Steve Cohen, and why another portfolio manager ended up being charged instead. Bharara didn't budge on that one either. Instead, here's how he responded, via CNBC's Eamon Javers: Preet: "People like to talk about fish + the size of fish. We don't think about it that way. Sometimes a small fish is very delicious."
Warner Bros. / The Great Gatsby TrailerWe all make the same mistakes when it comes to money, thinking the more we earn, the happier we'll be. If you really want to buy yourself a more fulfilling life, it's not how much money you earn that matters, but how you†spend it. That's the idea explored in a fascinating new book, "Happy Money: The Science of Smarter Spending," written by a pair of renown behavioral scientists, Dr. Elizabeth Dunn and Dr. Michael Norton. "When it comes to increasing the amount of money they have, most people recognize that relying on their own intuition is insufficient, spawning an entire industry of financial advisors," they write. "But when it comes to spending that money, people are often content to rely on their hunches about what will make them happy."† We've combed through and highlighted five ways to change the way you think about money that will make you happier in the long-run. In a world where anything and everything can be yours with a credit card and access to the Internet, it's easy to get swept up by material things.† But if you recognized the fact that you could get more satisfaction out of a $50 dinner with friends than that big screen TV or new iPhone, it might change the way you shop.† \"Research shows experiences provide more happiness than material goods in part because experiences are more likely to make us feel connected to others,\" Dunn and Norton write. \"Understanding why experiences provide more happiness than material goods can also help us to choose the most satisfying†kinds†of experiences.\" To help, here are four questions they suggest asking before you spend money on an experience that may not be as happiness-inducing as others:† 1. Does this bring me together with other people?2. Will this make a memorable story that I will tell for years to come?3. Is this experience in line with who I am or who I'd like to become?4. Is this a unique opportunity and something I can't compare to things I've done before?† Sometimes, we get too caught up in either working hard to save a buck or working hard to earn a buck to realize what really matters ñ our time. \"Research suggests that people with more money do not spend their time in more enjoyable ways on a day-to-day basis,\" the authors write.\"Wealthier individuals tend to spend more of their time on activities associated with relatively high levels of tension and stress, such as shopping, working, and commuting.\" On the flip side, penny-pinchers sometimes take saving too far. When you trade your time for some kind of monetary payoff (saving $20 on a flight by staying up all night on Kayak.com or using your vacation to earn over-time pay), you could be sacrificing your overall happiness in the process. Now, if you get a high from saving five cents on a gallon of gas by driving 10 miles out of your way, then fine. But most people would be happier spending a little extra money to get home 20 minutes earlier for dinner. What could possibly be more satisfying than ditching that old starter home you and your spouse moved into during your broke newlywed years?† Two studies cited in \"Happy Money\" prove otherwise. When researchers followed groups of German homeowners five years after they moved into new homes, they all wound up saying they were happier with their newer house. But there was one problem: They weren't any happier with their†lives. The same was true in a study of Ohio homeowners in which it turned out they weren't any happier with their lives than renters. \"Even in the heart of middle America, housing seems to play a surprisingly small role in the successful pursuit of happiness,\" Dunn and Norton write. \"If the largest material purchase most of us will ever make provides no detectable benefit for our overall happiness, then it may be time to rethink our fundamental assumptions about how we use money.\"† When you've got unlimited financial resources, it may seem stupid to deny yourself simple pleasures that you've come to enjoy, like new jewelry or an expensive bottle of wine with dinner every evening. But when you reach that point of material over-saturation, you could be killing the potential to make yourself any happier.† \"This is the sad reality of the human experience: The more we're exposed to something, the more its impact diminishes,\" Dunn and Norton write. \"Knowing†we have access to wonderful things undermines our happiness by reducing our tendency to appreciate life's small joys.\" You think if the McRib were always on the menu, people would line up to get a taste every day? Probably not. Instead, try to make things you really enjoy a special treat you only allow yourself once in a while. It will pack a much happier punch. Like love, it stands to reason that the happier you are with yourself, the more likely it is that you'll bring happiness to others. But Dunn and Norton suggest flipping that idea on its head. Make others happier first and you'll bring yourself happiness in the process. It sound obvious, but you'd be surprised how many of us forget it. \"In [a study] of more than 600 Americans, personal spending accounted for the lion's share of most people's budgets,\" they write. \"But the amount of money individuals devoted to themselves was unrelated to their overall happiness. What†did†predict happiness? The amount of money they gave away. The more they invested in others, the happier they were.\" That being said, you may wonder why you don't really feel all that much happier after donating a bag of clothing to Goodwill or cutting a check to the Red Cross. The real happiness comes from†seeing†your money at work.† We're big fans of charitable organizations that allow donors to see where their money goes in real time. Kiva.org is a micro-lending site that employs a host of workers whose sole job is to write reports on the progress of their borrowers so donors are always in the loop. Dunn and Norton suggest DonorsChoose.org, which also lets donors see their gifts making a difference.†
Google FinanceAfter spending the entire morning in the red, U.S. stock indices have just turned positive. Right now, the S&amp;P 500 is trading at 1688, up 0.1%; the Dow Jones Industrial Average is at 15,545, basically flat on the day; and the Nasdaq is at 3601, up 0.6%. U.S. stocks have closed lower in the past two trading sessions. Earlier this morning, we got a mixed durable goods report, a slightly worse-than-expected jobless claims report, and a better-than-expected report on regional manufacturing conditions from the Kansas City Fed.
REUTERS/Yves HermanThe Energy Information Administration, one of the government's greatest research outfits, has released its latest outlook for what the energy landscape will look like by 2040. The takeaways: We've selected 11 key charts from the EIA's 33-slide presentation.
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider Opening a†checking account†is usually a pretty mundane experience. You walk into a financial institution or visit the website, open the account and deposit your funds. But if you catch a bank on a good day, the experience can pretty great. You may be able to snag a free prize, bonus cash offer or even earn a much higher interest rate on your deposits. Just about every financial institution offers some promotional rate or prize at some point, but weíve nailed down the†best checking accounts†available so far in 2013.  One of the†best checking accounts 2013†has to offer comes from Chase Bank. Hereís how it works: First, open a Chase Total Checking account (available only to new Chase checking customers). After opening the account, set up direct deposit and youíre all done. Within 10 days of your first direct deposit, you will receive $200 in your new Chase checking account. Keep in mind that to qualify, you must deposit $100 or more into your account within 10 business days of account opening. Also, you must have your direct deposit made to the account within 60 days of account opening. Offer expires August 15, 2013. Coupon must be used to take advantage of offer.  PNC Bank is making it easy to earn some quick cash when obtaining a Virtual Wallet with†Performance Spend. Customers must open a Performance or Performance Select Checking Account then making a qualifying Direct Deposit along with one payment via PNC Online Bill Pay. All requirements must be completed within 60 days of account opening. Itís also important to note that the total amount of all qualifying Direct Deposits credited to the checking account must be at least $2,000. Once requirements are met, the bank will credit $150 to the account. Offer ends July 27, 2013.  Sovereign Bank customers with the Premier Checking Package can enjoy a $125 bonus. To qualify, Sovereign Bank requires customers: The process appears to be pretty simple, though note the deal also requires the following: (1) make a minimum deposit of $25 for checking and a minimum deposit of $10 for savings, (2) enroll online in Online Banking at account opening, (3) request a Sovereign Debit MasterCard at account opening and (4) make five purchases with the Debit Card or have one direct deposit by September 30th.  Capital One 360 (formerly ING DIRECT) is offering a $50 deal with its 360 Checking account. Customers will need to open an account online, then three card purchases or Person2Person payments (or any combo of the two) within 45 days of opening. The $50 bonus will automatically be deposited into the account on day 50. The bonus is only available for new accounts with a new customer as primary owner. Another bonus of this checking account is that it offers a variable interest rate for all balances (rates increase with dollar amounts saved). Itís pretty uncommon to gain access to interest, variable or fixed, with a checking account that comes with no fees, no minimums and access to over 38,000 fee-free Allpoint ATMs.  Bank of America is offering up to $250 to customers who sign up for the†Keep the Change†program, which automatically rounds up all Bank of America debit card purchases to the nearest dollar then transfers them to a Bank of America savings account. One thing to keep in mind is it could take some time to reach the goal of $250 since after the first three months of participation have passed, the bank will only match up to 5 percent in your account, which is why it maxes at $250. But with only a $25 opening balance in the checking account to participate and every debit card purchase ó online or in-store ó qualifying for the purchase, achieving this goal is possible.  By simply opening one of three U.S. Bank Package Checking accounts (Silver, Gold or Platinum ó $25 minimum deposit is required to open any account), linking it to a U.S. Bank savings account of choice and setting up recurring transfers from your chosen checking account to savings account, you can take part in the S.T.A.R.T. Program. Once $1,000 has been saved in the savings account, U.S. Bank will offer a $50 U.S. Bank Rewards Visa Card. If you are able to keep that $1,000 (or more) in the savings account for a year, U.S. Bank will offer another $50 Rewards Card.  Citibank is offering one of the better†checking account promotions†out there ó but you will have to work a little to make the most of it. By opening a new Citibank Regular Checking account in the Citigold, Citibank or Basic Banking Account Package then completing one qualifying direct deposit and one qualifying bill payment for two consecutive calendar months, you could earn up to 30,000 in ThankYou Points, which are redeemable for up to $300. The bank is also offering an additional 10,000 in ThankYou Points by downloading the Citi Mobile or Citi Tablet App then log in†or†enrolling in Popmoney and completing one transaction†or†signing up for Paperless Statements (one or more services must be completed within 60 days of opening). The 10,000 points earned can be redeemed for up to $100, making the grand total $400 in offers. ThankYou Points will be credited to the ThankYou Member Account within 90 days from the end of the statement period in which all requirements are satisfied. Offer expires July 31, 2013.  By opening the First-Time Checking Client Yield Pledge Account, customers can take advantage of the first-year interest rate along with a bonus rate (currently 1.10%) that is available on balances up to $100,000 for the first six months of the account. Features of the account include: One thing thatís great about EverBankís Yield Pledge is it guarantees that rates will always be in the top 5 percent of competitive accounts at leading banks.  Salem Five is offering one of the better†checking account offers†with its $100 Visa Reward Card deal. Steps necessary to qualify for the card include: ï Open a new Salem Five Star, Gold Star or eOne Checking account as a primary ownerï Make two direct deposits over $250 each†or†6 online bill pays over $25†or†20 debit transactions over $5 each within 60 days of opening an account. The minimum balance to open a personal Star or Gold Star Checking account is $10 in person, $100 by mail or online. The eOne can only be opened online with a minimum $100 balance. After completion of program requirements, customers will receive the $100 reward card within four to six weeks.  If you think youíre seeing double, youíre right! Chase Bank has made the list a second time for its $125 Total Checking Account promotion, making it one of the†best banks for checking accounts. Hereís how it works: † Like the other checking deal, you must deposit $100 or more into your account within 10 business days of account opening and have your direct deposit made to the account within 60 days of account opening. † So which of the banks above offers the†best checking account? That determination can only be made by you and should be based on your personal preferences,†budget†guidelines and financial needs. But whatever decision you make, it sure is great to know that there are so many amazing deals available!
Business Insider is looking for paid interns to join our editorial team this fall! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time if their schedule allows. We require 3 days a week minimum. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three journalism clips to jliebman@businessinsider.com. Please briefly describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. (Don't know what our sections are? Check out the nav bar on the home page.) And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs from September through the end of December. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed.†
APNew York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner has entered a free-fall amid revelations of new online activity†that came after his resignation from Congress in 2011, according to an NBC New York/Wall Street Journal/Marist College poll released Thursday.† The poll puts City Council Speaker Christine Quinn on top of the mayoral field in the Democratic primary, grabbing 25% of the vote. Weiner comes in second with 16%. Public Advocate Bill de Blasio and former Comptroller Bill Thompson are right behind him at 14% apiece.† Overall, Democratic support for Weiner has plunged by 9 percentage points since last month. Quinn's support increased by 5 points, de Blasio is up 4 points, and Thompson trickled up a point. Overall, there's been a 14-point swing in the contest between Quinn and Weiner, the two front-runners. The poll was conducted on Wednesday, the day after the latest revelations about Weiner's online activity under the pseudonym "Carlos Danger" were exposed. On Thursday, he said he "believed" he had communicated with three women after resigning from Congress. Weiner has rejected mounting calls for him to drop out of the race, though by a 47-43 margin, New York City Democrats think he should stay in if he wants to. ìFor many Democrats the latest revelations about Anthony Weiner are more of the same, only more so,î says Dr. Lee M. Miringoff, Director of The Marist College Institute for Public Opinion. ìWeiner has lost his lead and his negatives are at an all-time high.î The drop in support for Weiner accompanies a startling shift in how the public views him. In last month's Marist poll, Weiner had finally broken through with New York City Democrats, who viewed him favorably by a 52-36 margin.  Now, 55% view him unfavorably, and only 30% view him favorably. Collectively, that is an unprecedented 41-point swing in just a month. And 46% of Democrats say that Weiner's online sexual relationships will affect their vote. Here's a chart showing the brutal decline in Weiner's favorability: Marist College
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannEconomic data out of Europe has been improving, showing that the eurozone is stabilizing.  And concerns of a major European crisis have been fading. The OMT program, open market transactions, a bond buying program the ECB launched following Mario Draghi's promise to do "whatever it takes," has not yet been tested. But Nomura's Alastair Newton thinks that the time could come in the fall when the OMT will come into play. "We think that it would probably take several ‚Äòbad‚Äô events occurring simultaneously for there to be a significant possibility of OMT having to be activated," said Newton. "The multi- dimensional nature of the eurozone crisis appears to allow for this possibility, as illustrated by the following non-exhaustive list of ‚Äòissues‚Äô which could flare up in September/October." Here's a quick look at what Newton's worried about: Amid all these, the 2014 European Parliament elections will also be weighing on Europe's biggest players. Newton thinks "conditions are ripe for extremist parties to make significant gains in these elections," making policy decisions even harder.
Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, has said he's looking for a "simple, predictable, and free-cash-flow-generative and enjoys high barriers to entry." CNBC's David Faber points out that there's speculation that Air Products could be that company. (Again, this is just speculation.†Faber said he reached out to Ackman for comment, but has not heard back.) Earlier today, Air Products put out a statement†about adopting a shareholder rights plan (a.k.a. Poison Pill) after the company "observed unusual and substantial activity" in its shares, Faber reported. Following the news, the stock hit a 52-week high today. It's trading up more than 5.4%. Even if it's not Ackman's new investment vehicle or Pershing Square, Air Products clearly feels an activist investor is coming after them. Here's the full release from Air Products (emphasis ours):† Air Products (NYSE:APD) today announced that its Board of Directors has unanimously adopted a stockholder rights plan (the ìRights Planî or ìPlanî) and declared a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of Air Products common stock.†Air Products has observed unusual and substantial activity in the Companyís shares. The Board of Directors believes that the Rights Plan will help promote the fair and equal treatment of all stockholders of the Company in the event of an accumulation of a substantial block of the Companyís shares and ensure that the Board of Directors remains in the best position to discharge its fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. The Rights Plan has not been adopted in response to any specific takeover bid or other proposal to acquire control of the Company.†Pursuant to the Plan, Air Products is issuing one preferred stock purchase right for each current share of common stock outstanding at the close of business on August 5, 2013. Initially, these rights will not be exercisable and will trade with the shares of Air Productsí common stock.†Under the Rights Plan, the rights generally will become exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 10 percent (or 20 percent in the case of institutional investors filing on Schedule 13G, as described in the Rights Plan) or more of Air Productsí common stock in a transaction not approved by Air Productsí Board of Directors. In that situation, each holder of a right (other than the acquiring person, whose rights will become void and will not be exercisable) will have the right to purchase, upon payment of the exercise price, a number of Air Products common shares having a market value of twice such price. In addition, if Air Products is acquired in a merger or other business combination after an acquiring person acquires 10 percent (or 20 percent in the case of 13G institutional investors) or more of Air Productsí common stock, each holder of the right will thereafter have the right to purchase, upon payment of the exercise price, a number of common shares of the acquiring person having a market value of twice such price. The acquiring person will not be entitled to exercise these Rights.†Air Productsí Board of Directors may redeem the rights for a nominal amount at any time before an event that causes the rights to become exercisable. Under the Planís terms, it will expire on July 24, 2014.†Additional details about the Rights Plan will be contained in a Form 8-K to be filed by Air Products with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Air Product's stock has been performing well. †The stock has been trading in a range of $101.93†to $108.66 today. †It has also enjoyed higher volume. Check out the chart:† Yahoo! Finance
DNAInfo/Irene PlagianosKathleen Christatos, 27, gets her profile ready for the Matchmaker Cafe database of singles.FINANCIAL DISTRICT ó Love is brewing. Matchmaker CafÈ,†a pop-up cart at the plaza and beer garden outside upscale hotel†Andaz Wall Street,†has been serving coffee ó and connecting couples ó since launching two weeks ago. The shop is an outpost for longtime New York City matchmaker Nancy Slotnickís virtual concierge dating service of the same name,†which she started in November. ìWeíre really happy to have an actual spot for people to meet," Slotnick said. "Weíre trying to help harness that serendipity that naturally happens between two people ó and maybe give it a little bit of a push.î The cafe, which serves coffee from†Brooklyn Roasting Company, is part of the city's new effort to energize the publicly owned private spaces ó known as POPs ó that run along Water Street. The program, called†Water Street Pops!, includes a variety of activities and events through Labor Day, to help reinvigorate the Sandy-hit neighborhood. At the cafe, as matchmaker-baristas serve up coffee they also try to find out if the customer is single.† ìSince we have a huge sign that says Matchmaker CafÈ, people usually ask about it, but sometimes we just let them know what weíre all about," Slotnick said. "The idea is to connect local people with each other, get them offline and actually meeting, even if it's for a quick 20-minute coffee.î If single customers are interested, Slotnick takes their picture, chats about their dating life and uploads them into her database of New York City singles. The single guy or gal can then look through the database of photos on Slotnick's iPad of other people who stopped by the pop-up cafe, to see if anyone piques his or her interest. If so, Slotnick or one of her matchmakers will make the connection between the potential couple. For this week, making a call to potential dates is still free, but starting next week Slotnick will charge $5 for three calls and $10 for 10 calls. She also offers longer dating advice sessions and subscriptions to her online dating site, which has more than 5,000 members. New customer Kathleen Christatos, 27, who stopped by the pop-up recently, said she was excited to get offline with dating, and have Slotnick guide her through the process. "This just feels simple," said Christatos as Slotnick emailed several young men from the cafe, whom Christatos chose by perusing the database on Slotnick's iPad. "It makes it feel a little easier and personal." The pop-up is a continuation of Drip CafÈ, an Upper West Side coffee shop Slotnick launched in 1996 which was devoted to helping people find relationships during its nine-year run. At Drip, customers could spend time flipping through binders of hand-written dating profiles, and then Slotnick would help schedule a date at the cafe. Slotnick, who was featured on "Oprah" thanks to her cafe and dating book, "Turn Your Cablight On,"†said hundreds of marriages came out of her Drip days. Since launching Matchmaker CafÈ's pop-up, Slotnick said she has collected about 30 profiles and set up a handful of dates. "We'd like to make this permanent, and have this in neighborhoods across the city," Slotnick said. "I think the idea of a cafe is [a] very friendly, inviting place ó a regular hangout where you can let your guard down, and maybe be open to something more."
EUTERS/Daniel MunozA woman points at the price of gold on an electronic board at the headquarters of the Australian Bullion Company (ABC) in Sydney on April 19, 2013.There has been a lot of misinformation recently about Comex warehouse gold stocks. Most notably, there's confusion about how this year's sharp drop in the quantity of gold bullion held in Comex warehouses might point to some looming shortage of metal to settle gold futures contracts, or even signal an outright default by sellers to buyers. But there is no mystery or hidden agenda of how Comex works. In this article our goal is to explain how the Comex works in the simplest fashion. Having been involved in the physical gold markets for thirty years ‚Äì both making and taking delivery on the exchange, as well as through off-exchange deals for miners, refiners, fabricators and investors ‚Äì I hope I'm in a position to share a true "insider" view, the better to inform this debate properly. First question: How does gold get into warehouse stocks of the futures exchange? Although it's a lengthy process, the answer is actually quite simple. Gold is recovered either from mine output or scrap jewelry and other products, such as bars and coins, at a refinery. The refiner then produces gold bars to the standard and specification of the exchange, in this case the CME Group.¬† These gold bars belong either to the refiners themselves, meaning they have bought and own the gold. Or they belong to the refiner's customers, who bought and owned the gold at the refinery, hiring it to make that metal into saleable bars. Now, for this particular refinery to deliver metal onto the commodities exchange, it must be a registered acceptable brand, such as Heraeus, Johnson Matthey orMetalor Technologies to name a few.¬† Once these gold bars are produced, the metal must then be transported to the warehouse by exchange-approved carriers such as Brinks Inc., Via Mat International or IBI Armored Inc. There is no other way for the gold to get onto the exchange. Gold may move between Comex-approved warehouses, such as those operated by HSBC Bank, Brinks Inc., and Scotia Mocatta Depository. But any moves made between these warehouses must be made using the same approved carriers. No gold can enter the marketplace from outside of this refining loop. Once gold is removed from an exchange-approved warehouse and held somewhere outside of this circle of integrity, there is no way for the CME exchange to guarantee the bar's quality. This means that once a person or investor removes bars from the warehouse, then to return them to the exchange they would need to start at the beginning again. By going through the hands of the gold processor and refiners, this provides guarantee of the standard and quality of the material being delivered on the exchange. So with the gold inside the warehouse, second question: When is the gold considered eligible or registered on the commodities exchange? Answer: When acceptable bars are brought into an exchange-approved warehouse they become "eligible" for settlement of gold futures contracts traded on the exchange. So at this point, the owner of the bars may deliver them onto the exchange, and warehouse receipts are created. That is when the gold bars become "registered" stocks. Eligible gold stocks may or may not ever become registered stocks. Why? Because the warehouse is still a warehouse and the owner may simply want to vault their metal securely, before using it to meet demand elsewhere ‚Äì for manufacturing, or from investors in another marketplace, such as Asia. This eligible gold may belong to an investor, a refiner, a hedge fund, a bank or producer. Many times these people are holding the metal for their end customers. And it may move at any time, and is much more flexible than the warehouse receipts that are registered stocks. The CME, the exchange, does not have any direct control over nor interest in the size of eligible stocks. Registered stocks however are officially recognized by the CME for good delivery on the exchange. That means that this inventory exists and is set aside to make delivery against gold futures contracts. Traders who stand for delivery, rather than cash payment, when their contract settles take delivery of the warehouse receipt. This does not change the quantity of registered stocks inside the warehouse. It remains registered, but the receipt changes ownership. If a gold futures buyer wants to take physical delivery of the gold and "break" the receipt then this is possible. But it is a process and takes time. Once broken, if the gold remains in the exchange circle of integrity ‚Äì meaning the exchange-approved warehouse ‚Äì then those bars become eligible stocks. But if the gold bars are removed from the exchange-approved warehouse then they no longer are eligible and are no longer tracked in any way.¬† Third question then: How do the warehouse receipts work? A warehouse receipt is a bearer instrument much like a check. It can be endorsed from one party to another. The holder of the receipt pays the storage costs. Most times when people take delivery of a warehouse receipt they leave it with their brokers. In some cases people may want to take possession of the warehouse receipt themselves. This is rare, just like with equity or bond certificates; no one actually takes delivery of the documents any longer. But it is still possible for a fee. If a person owns a warehouse receipt, the gold that it represents is still in the registered stocks, even if they have taken physical delivery of the document. They can always redeliver these receipts onto the exchange by selling contracts.¬† How does the gold futures exchange work? CME Group is the largest futures exchange in the world. Many commodities, of which gold is one, are traded on this exchange. The gold exchange ‚Äì which is often still referred to as the Comex, its original name prior to being bought by the CME ‚Äì is the largest gold exchange by volume in the world. On the exchange, futures contracts are traded. These contracts are agreements to deliver a specified quantity and grade of metal at a specified time. Because of the ability to margin these contracts, meaning to pay a deposit on a greater value of gold, there is a lot of liquidity in the market. Much of this liquidity is provided by speculators who are trying to make money on the direction of the gold price. This enables the gold industry ‚Äì the mine producers, refiners, manufacturers and retailers ‚Äì to protect themselves from market risk, hedging their exposure to price movements by trading contracts for prices in the future. This is the reason that the gold futures market exists.¬† Most commodity futures contract positions are closed prior to the delivery period. This means that more often than not, the people that contract to trade on the exchange liquidate their contractual commitments prior to having to take delivery. But this does not mean that all that business is founded only on speculation. For example, a jewelry manufacturing firm may contract to sell a gold contract as they physically buy gold. Perhaps because the product they are making has not been sold to a customer yet. For simplicity's sake, imagine a jeweler needs 100 ounces of gold to make four hundred gold rings. The process may take him two weeks, and in that time period he may not want to take the price risk. So the jeweler decides to sell one gold contract (100 ounces) on the CME at the same time as he buys the physical gold for production. In this way he is hedged, which means he no longer has price risk. In two weeks' time, when the rings are ready and he has found the buyer, he sells the rings to the buyer and at the same time buys back the contract. In this instance there is no settlement of physical via the commodities exchange. There are many examples similar to this one that are used every day, one way or another, for hedgers of commodities. A main factor in the gold market is that typically, when gold registered stocks are falling, that means the gold price is falling too. This indicates that gold is being better used off the market, instead of being held on the exchange. As for the total quantity of eligible and registered stocks in CME warehouses, it also tends to track prices higher and lower. When gold prices rise, it attracts more investors, who make use of gold by holding it as a store of value. This metal itself needs storing, and it's important to remember that, as we saw above, the Comex warehouses are used to do just that, alongside their role in vaulting gold bars for futures contract delivery. The higher gold prices go, in short, the more people want to own it. So the more metal there will be held in warehouses on behalf of investors. And when prices fall, as they have in the last nine months and more, some owners of metal will find better-rewarded uses elsewhere, outside Western investment stockpiles, and converted for instance into the smaller kilobar products favored by Asian investors currently paying $20 per ounce over international prices in China. Bullion VaultAs you can see, there's little urgency or importance in the 2013 plunge in Comex warehouse gold stocks. Gross quantities are lower, but they are greater than any period prior to 2005. Just looking at the level of warehouse stocks, it is difficult and presumptuous to extrapolate market fundamentals from the holdings of eligible or registered gold at any one time. There is still plenty of metal, and there are hundreds of millions of dollars of gold traded every day off of the Comex, by thousands of different participants each with their own motivations. Yes, there are lots of good reasons to buy gold today, I believe. But misunderstanding the basics of what is in truth a simple part of the global market shouldn't be one of them.
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from BloombergMortgage rates spiked during the big bond market sell-off in May and June.Two of the country's biggest homebuilders reported earnings this morning before the opening bell, and shares of both are down more than 8% this morning. D.R. Horton announced second quarter earnings of $0.42 per share ñ above analysts' consensus estimate of $0.40 per share ñ but revenues came in light at $1.64 billion (versus expectations for $1.74 billion). PulteGroup reported earnings of $0.36 per share ñ below the consensus estimate of $0.30 per share ñ and revenues of $1.28 billion, below expectations for $1.38 billion. While sale prices were up, orders were 12% lower for PulteGroup. At D.R. Horton, however, orders were up 12%. CEOs of both companies addressed the recent surge in mortgage rates in their respective earnings conference calls. D.R. Horton CEO Donald Tomnitz said there was no question that interest rates affected sales, citing higher mortgage rates as a cause for increased cancellations. Tomnitz said traffic count has slowed since the rise in rates, but that buyers should return as rates moderate. However, he was "disappointed" that rates rose so "violently," and asserted that homebuyers were "shocked and disturbed" by the spike in rates. On the other hand, PulteGroup CEO Richard Dugas, Jr. said higher mortgage rates haven't affected the market.
The latest economic reports confirm that the Chinese economy is slowing. But it's worth taking a step back to see how far China has come in the past 30 years. Here's an interesting set of charts from Deutsche Bank's House View presentation: Deutsche Bank
We're looking for a creative, hardworking business manager with extremely strong writing, analytic, and information-gathering and processing skills to join our growing BI Intelligence team.¬† The job is a combination of responsibilities in business management, marketing, promotion, and customer service with a unique opportunity to shape and scale the offering, and influence future strategy. What is BI Intelligence?  BI Intelligence is a subscription research service from¬†Business Insider¬†that provides insights, data, and tech industry analysis.¬†We publish notes and in-depth reports as well as an exhaustive library of charts and data that help subscribers stay on top of key tech trends.¬†The service, launched in 2012,¬†has experienced rapid growth focusing on the mobile industry and is now expanding to analyze all things social media. Check out BI Intelligence¬†here.If this role is for you, here are some of the traits you possess: The role offers a unique chance to immerse in research, business journalism, marketing, and strategy, working with the Fortune 500 and startups alike, in a dynamic, fast-paced environment. It is full-time and is based in our New York City office. The ideal candidate has at least 3 years of management experience. To apply, please email a resume and short cover letter to mktgjobs@businessinsider.com. Thanks in advance.
Ed Yardeni
Shares of Crocs, the maker of unusual looking footwear, were down more than -23% after Q2 earnings fell 42%. Here's the chart: Google Finance "Challenges during the quarter included continued weakness in consumer spending in the U.S.,Europe¬†and¬†Japan, compounded by colder than normal temperatures during April and May in the U.S. and¬†Europe," Crocs CEO John McCarvel said. Dow Jones' Tess Stynes reported that¬†company now forecasts per-share earnings of 20 cents to 23 cents on revenue of $300 million and $310 million. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters most recently expected 39 cents and $325 million, respectively.
REUTERS/Peter AndrewsForbes' energy reporter Chris Helman has a great interview with outgoing EOG Resources CEO Mark Papa for the magazine's upcoming issue. EOG is actually an Enron spinoff, but Papa has left the former in the dust, guiding EOG to a +650% return over the past decade. But it turns out he's sort of skeptic on the American oil boom, mostly because the recovery rates in unconventional oil plays ó however big they are in size ó pale in comparison to conventional ones. Here's the key passage: ...itís surprising to hear him say that the Great American Oil Boom, which he helped create, is ìnot going to be as massive as people think." ìThe chances of the U.S. being independent in oil are very slim,î he says. According to Forbes, Papa has taken in $132 million in compensation over the past five years. Click here to read the full interview at Forbes ª
Facebook's stock was up 26% shortly after today's opening bell following a glowing earnings report from the company yesterday. Most importantly, Facebook showed significant revenue growth in mobile ads, which accounted for 41% of the company's ad revenues last quarter. In Q1 2013, Facebook reported $375 million in mobile ad revenue. That figure skyrocketed to $656 million in Q2 of this year. We've seen some speculation on Twitter today that Facebook could hit its original $38 per share IPO price again.
REUTERS/Steve MarcusSteve Cohen's $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors has been indicted by a federal grand jury in New York on criminal charges of insider trading.¬† SAC has been charged with four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud, according to the 41-page sealed indictment, which has been posted by Reuters. SAC subsidiaries CR Intrinsic and Sigma Capital were both charged in the indictment. The indictment states that SAC has been charged "with criminal responsibility for insider trading¬†offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by¬†institutional practices that encouraged the widespread¬†solicitation and use of illegal inside information." U.S. prosecutors allege that SAC engaged in the insider trading scheme from 1999 until 2010.  They are¬†seeking the forfeiture of profits from the alleged offenses. ¬†The indictment alleges that figure is in the hundreds of millions. "Today's indictment...is more broadly an account of a firm with zero tolerance of low returns, but seemingly questionable tolerance for bad behavior," U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said at a press conference.¬† Two former SAC portfolio managers, who have been criminally charged with insider trading, have trials coming up in November. Michael Steinberg, who worked at Sigma Capital, has been charged with using non-public information to trade in shares of tech stocks Dell and Nvidia. ¬†Former CR Intrinsic portfolio manager Mathew Martoma has been charged with using confidential drug trial information to trade in shares of pharmaceutical companies Elan and Wyeth.¬† In the insider trading case against Martoma, Cohen has been identified ¬†as "Portfolio Manager A". ¬†While he has been implicated, he has not been criminally charged. He isn't explicity named in today's indictment. Late last week, the¬†Securities and Exchange Commission civilly charged Cohen¬†with failing to supervise the two hedge fund managers. The SEC's Enforcement Division is also seeking to bar Cohen from overseeing investor funds. Cohen, 57, launched the Stamford-headquartered hedge fund in 1992. The hedge fund employs around 900 people globally.¬† "SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its compliance and management obligations serioulsy," the firm said in a statement read by CNBC's Kayla Tausche.¬†
Wikimedia CommonsThis morning's strong June durable goods order report was highlighted by a 0.7% increase in nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, also known as core capital expenditures.¬† The May core capex growth rate was revised up to 2.2% from an earlier reading of 1.1%. Core capex is a key indicator of business investment in America, and the strength is very encouraging. Here's TD Securities' Eric Green: ...The key focus of this report should be on the persistent strength in core capital goods orders ex defense, ex aircraft. This feeds directly into our estimates for investment spending and the recent trend has not just been positive, it has been exceptional. These orders rose 0.7% (expected 0.6%) despite an upward revision from 1.1% to 2.2% the prior month. Over the past four months these orders have averaged gains of 1.3%. Coupled with the surge in cap ex intentions six month forward on the Philadelphia survey, this data suggests that a shift higher in investment spending is clearly in the offing. Weak shipments today do point to tepid capex spending in Q2. The focus, however, should be on the orders cycle. With unfilled orders on the up and core orders swinging higher the odds of a shift higher in investment spending, so critical to the economic outlook, is beginning to gel. It suggests our estimate for a bounce in GDP from 1.0% in Q2 to 2.4% in Q3 remains a reasonable one. Last week, we learned that the Philly Fed Manufacturing index surged to an 11-month high. Add to that the huge June jobs report, and you can see why people are feeling increasingly optimistic about the economy.
Reuters/ Rick Wilking Billionaire hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman's Omega Advisors just signed a lease to occupy a floor in a 41-story †in Midtown Manhattan skyscraper 810 Seventh Avenue. From the press release:† Omega Advisors, led by Leon Cooperman, will occupy the entire 33rd†floor covering 17,320 square feet for a new 7 year lease. Omega is one of the worldís leading investment advisors with over $8 billion under management. After Hurricane Sandy, Cooperman had "extreme problems" with his Lower Manhattan office. †Omega's offices at Wall Street Plaza (88 Pine Street) were closed like a lot of other buildings in the neighborhood following the storm. That's not why he's moving, though.† "We were very happy at 88 Pine for the 18 years that we were there. John Lui is a great owner/landlord. The partners of the firm wanted to get uptown," Cooperman said in an email to us. Here's an image of the Midtown building:† Wikimedia Commons/ Americasroof
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonThe latest jobless claims data for the week ended June 19 are out. Initial claims rose to 343,000 from an upward-revised 336,000 the week before, slightly above consensus estimates for a rise to 340,000. Continuing claims for the week ended July 13 fell to 2.997 million from an upward-revised 3.116 million in the previous week, beating expectations for a smaller drop to 3.025 million. Click here for the full release &gt;
Flickr / harry_nlJune durable goods orders data are out. Total orders increased 4.2% in June, well ahead of expectations for a 1.4% advance. May order growth was revised up to 5.2% from 3.6%. Durable goods orders excluding transportation, however, were flat on the month. Economists had expected 0.5% growth here after an upward-revised 1.0% gain in May. The headline number was boosted in June by a 31.4% rise in aircraft orders and a 1.3% rise in autos orders. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft (a.k.a. "core capex") rose 0.7%, slightly ahead of the consensus estimate of a 0.6% gain. May core capex growth was revised up to 2.2% from 1.1%. Shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft fell 0.9%. Economists had predicted a 1.1% rise after an upward-revised 1.9% advance in May. Click here for the full release &gt;
REUTERS/Monica Ferreiros/La Voz de GaliciaRescue workers help a victim of a train crash near Santiago de Compostela, northwestern Spain, July 24, 2013. At least 56 people died after a train derailed in the outskirts of the northern Spanish city of Santiago de Compostela, the head of Spain's Galicia region, Alberto Nunez Feijoo, told Television de Galicia MANDATORY CREDIT.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Earnings came in at $0.84 per share, which is stronger than the $0.75 expected by analysts. Revenue came in at $39.1 billion, which was a tad higher than the $38.3 billion expected. "We continue to perform well in the world's two most important markets, the U.S. and China," said CEO Dan Akerson. "We also made further progress in our European business and saw the steady performance of our global brands Chevrolet and Cadillac. For the rest of the year, we'll focus on winning customers with high-quality vehicles at a compelling value." The stock is up 2% in premarket trading.
Wikimedia CommonsWe're about to get a pulse check on the state of American jobs and business investment. From Calculated Risk's Bill McBride: ‚Ä¢ At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for an increase to 341 thousand from 334 thousand last week. ‚Ä¢ Also at 8:30 AM, the Durable Goods Orders for June from the Census Bureau. The consensus is for a 1.5% increase in durable goods orders. ‚Ä¢ At 11:00 AM, the Kansas City Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for July. The consensus is for a reading of 0 for this survey, up from minus 5 in June (Above zero is expansion).
Wikimedia CommonsEgyptian Vulture, White Scavenger Vulture or Pharaoh's Chicken (Neophron percnopterus) in the Zoo of Madrid, Spain.Markets are sliding early in the European trading session. England's FTSE 100 is down 1.0%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.9%. Germany's DAX is down 1.1%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.2%. Italy's FTS MIB¬† is down 0.9%. Earlier this morning, we learned that business confidence as measured by the Ifo index, tick up for a third straight month. Here's an intraday look at the Euro Stoxx 50, which is down 1%: Bloomberg
In response to a request, I've updated some charts and tables on federal taxes, entitlements and the overall trend in federal debt. My data sources are the various reports from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The CBO has a wealth of historical data as well as future projections, the latest of which extend from 2013 to 2023. For openers, here is a 2012 snapshot of taxes and entitlements. The left column is Uncle Sam's revenue from the three major tax sources: Personal Income Tax, Corporate Income Tax and Social Insurance Tax (aka the payroll tax paid by employers and employees). Over the past 40 years big three have account for an average of 91 percent of the total revenue, the remainder being the taxes from excises, estate and gifts and customs. As we can see, 2012 entitlement costs slightly exceeded the entire tax revenue for the year ‚Äî personal, corporate, and social.  However, according to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), entitlements accounted for only about 58% of 2012 spending. Defense spending took another 19%, nondefense discretionary 17%, and interest payments 6%. We ended 2012 with an on-budget deficit of $1.151 trillion. The debt held by the public at the end of the year was $11.280 trillion. Now let's put the current deficit into the larger pattern of federal spending. I created the next two charts from a combination of CBO historical data since 1971 and their budget projections for 2013-2023. The first chart shows the astonishing growth of entitlements. ¬† ¬† The next chart shows the projected gap between revenues and outlays over the next decade together with an overlay of the accelerating growth of public debt. As long as the red line is above the green, the size of the debt burden will accelerate. ¬† ¬† The next chart below shows the growth of entitlements as a percent of total US revenues since the early 1970s. We're off recent peak following the Financial Crisis, but as you look at this chart, bear in mind that the wave of retiring boomers is in its early stages. How much of a financial burden will our aging population be? I'll close with a look at a projection of the elderly dependency ratio to 2050 based on Census Bureau forecasts. Of course, the future budgetary pressures can be managed by tax increases, benefit cuts, or some combination of the two.
MADRID (Reuters) - Spain's unemployment rate unexpectedly fell for the first time in two years in the second quarter, adding weight to the government's contention that the worst of the country's economic slump may be over. A strong tourist season helped the unemployment rate dip to 26.3 percent from 27.2 percent in the first quarter, the National Statistics Institute said on Thursday, That left 5.98 million people out of work - a far greater proportion of the population that every other euro zone country bar Greece - but the drop was the first since the same period of 2011. "Almost all the improvement we've seen today, in terms of the number of people working and the unemployment rate, is due to seasonal factors," Angel Laborda, economist at think tank Funcas, said. Tourism accounts for around 10 percent of Spanish gross domestic product and is expected to be strong this year as cash-strapped Europeans look for budget vacations away from Egypt and other Middle Eastern troublespots. "Having said that, even seasonally adjusted data is better than we expected which is in line with the economic improvements forecast by the Bank of Spain earlier in the week," Laborda added. The central bank said on Tuesday the economy shrank just 0.1 percent quarter on quarter between April and June, offering some support to a government that has talked up prospects of an exit from recession as soon as the current quarter. But many economists believe the country's two-year slump, the second in three years, is unlikely to come to an end this year A major factor behind that more pessimistic view is an unemployment rate that has surged since a property bubble burst in 2008, with some 3.8 million people joining the jobless lines since the first quarter of that year. STRUCTURAL WEAKNESS Thursday's drop in unemployment was unexpected by economists polled by Reuters, who forecast a slight rise. But the improved figure masks a deep structural problem - that of long-term unemployment. Around half of the near six million out of work in Spain have not held a job for more than a year, while the number of homes with no one in work stood at 1.8 million, the data showed. After a decade of above average economic growth, the prolonged recession prompted hundreds of thousands to leave the country in the 2012, including immigrants returning home and Spaniards in search of work elsewhere. Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
The European economy is slowly showing signs of improvement. But as with any economy, politics can easily throw any recovery off course. The analysts at Deutsche Bank compiled the key outstanding European political risks and put it on this handy map. Deutsche Bank
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonJournalists wait outside the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital, where Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge has been admitted to give birth, in London, July 22, 2013.UK GDP climbed at a 0.6% rate in Q2, which was bang in line with expectations. This is up from 0.3% in Q1. The FTSE 100 and the British pound are sliding in the wake of the report.
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachGermany's Ifo Business Climate index climbed to 106.2 in July from 105.9 a month ago. This was also a tad better than the 106.1 expected by economists. This comes a day after we learned that the euro zone purchasing managers index climbed to an 18-month high, suggesting that the economy may finally be coming out of recession.
