Right around 7:30 PM ET, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil futures rose above $100 a barrel for the first time since September. They didn't stop at $100, though ‚Äì right now, futures are trading right around $102, just off the highs of the evening. The futures market is seeing some unusually heavy volume in after-hours trading as oil advances, as illustrated in the sub-graph of the chart below. The upward thrust may be connected to the unrest unfolding in Egypt this evening, where several have been reported dead in clashes as the Egyptian military pledges to launch a coup against the government tomorrow if the demands of the Egyptian people are not met. Thinkorswim
It's jobs week in America.† The main event is the June employment situation report, which will be released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics at 8:30 a.m. ET at Friday. That's when we'll learn how many nonfarm payrolls were added by U.S. companies. (Economists are looking for 165,000 net new payrolls, with 175,000 net new private payrolls.) However, on Wednesday morning we'll get the ADP employment survey, which many people consider to be a decent predictor of Friday's nonfarm payrolls number.† (Economists are looking for 160,000.) And literally every economist has run their regressions on how accurate ADP is at predicting NFP. In fact, Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna and High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan have created and circulated identical charts for everyone to ponder. "Ignore ADP at your own peril," said LaVorgna. Here's O'Sullivan (ADP est. 180,000): The reliability of the ADP measure may have improved since Moodyís replaced Macroeconomic Advisers as the compiler of the data late last year, but that still leaves plenty of room for error. Last monthís miss was 40K, with the ADP series up 135K and private payrolls in the BLS report up 175K; total payrolls, including a 10K decline in the government sector, rose 165K. In the eight months since Moodyís took over, the ADP misses have ranged from -63K, with payrolls weaker than ADP, to +57K, with payrolls stronger than ADP. The miss without regard to sign has averaged 42K in the eight months since the change, down from 53K in the previous eight months. High Frequency Economics Here's LaVorgna (ADP est. 155,000): In the chart below, we show the initially reported values for both private payrolls and the ADP survey. Over the last 12 months, the average error between the difference in private payrolls and ADP has been -14k, which is quite small since the standard error on private payrolls is about 75k per month. There does not appear to be a bias, as there have been six months when ADP has over- predicted private payrolls and six months when ADP has under-predicted private payrolls. The average forecast error between private payrolls and ADP without respect to sign has been 62k. Therefore, we would need to see a forecast miss in ADP larger than that for us to change our +145k nonfarm payroll estimate for Fridayóprivate payrolls are projected at +155k. Deutsche Bank UBS's Kevin Cummins doesn't think much of the ADP's predictive power: The ADP employment report has not been a useful real-time predictor of the change in private payrolls reported by the BLS. The ADP report started using a new methodology in October, although its track record is still largely unproven. The absolute value of the miss between the ADP and BLS data has averaged 42,000 since the change in methodology. For comparison, from January 2008 through September 2012 the average absolute miss was 81,000. On a month-to-month basis, the ADP data still appear to lack reliability as a predictor when the errors change direction. UBS The ADP jobs report comes out at 8:15 a.m. ET on Wednesday.† That'll be followed by weekly initial jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Brown Harris StevensYou wouldn't know it from looking at all of the glass towers going up across Manhattan, but the city is running out of penthouses and other ultra-luxury apartments. Sales of multi-million-dollar properties in New York City fell dramatically in the second quarter, due in large part to lower inventory, according to real-estate firm Brown Harris Stevens. Sales of properties priced at $5 million or more fell 25 percent to $679.3 million in the second quarter compared to the same quarter in 2012. Sales of homes priced at $10 million or more fell by nearly 50 percent to $241.9 million, according to Brown Harris Stevens. Granted sales were up over the first quarter. But brokers say the year-on-year decline in sales volume is largely due to a lack of supply. The number of properties priced between $5 million and $10 million in New York fell 15 percent between the second quarter of 2012 and the second quarter of 2013. (Read More:¬†Sales Soar as Manhattan Condos Kick Co-Op Prices) But brokers and real-estate executives said the decline in current inventory is actually much greater since much of the inventory added in the second quarter is made up of apartments in buildings still under construction. "It's the lack of inventory more than anything else," said Hall. F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens Residential Sales. "It's just so tight." The inventory problems are made even worse by pricing. Brokers say a large number of the apartments for sale at the very high end are overpriced based on comparable sales. While overpriced real-estate is common throughout the country, executives say it's an especially acute problem at the top of the New York market. They say supply is especially tight and wealthy sellers aren't under much pressure to sell. (Read More:¬†Turmoil Abroad May Hit US Luxe Housing) "Many sellers are stretching their asking prices," Willkie said. "But if those prices aren't justified by comparable sales, the buyers won't buy. So many things at that end of the market are overpriced." I. Dolly Lenz, the New York mega-broker, said the millionaires and billionaires buying at the top of the Manhattan market may be rich‚Äîbut they are also highly discerning when it comes to price. And they're not willing to overpay. "The overwhelming majority of buyers in this segment of the market are value buyers," Lenz said. "Value could mean $60 million. It's not about a low price. It's about what you're purchasing and what you're getting for your money. A lot the available inventory is overpriced and somewhat stale." (Read More:¬†As Supply of Cape Cod Mansions Shrinks, Prices Soar) Many brokers pointed to the $125 million penthouse of the Pierre Hotel as one apartment with an optimistic price. The $95 million apartment on the 18th floor of the Sherry Netherland and a $44 million apartment downtown on Hudson Street also have aggressive price tags, brokers said. The mismatch between a lack of supply and buyers who aren't willing to pay the much higher prices has led to a standoff that could continue for the rest of the year. And that could hurt sales‚Äîand the New York economy. "The question is what will free up supply," he said. Especially, supply at a fair price. 
CNBCJeff SautMoments ago, the Treasury Department issued a statement saying that the White House would delay until 2015 the enforcement of the requirement for business to provide workers with health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, aka "Obamacare." Jeff Saut, the top strategist at Raymond James, just blasted an email that read: "This is a big deal. A major 2H risk off the table..." Under the ACA, businesses employing 50 or more workers would have to offer health insurance or pay a penalty of $2,000 per worker. Some economists noted that a reduction in "hours worked" in some industries was a sign that employers were reducing hours intentionally to dodge this cost. Market strategists have warned that the ACA would hit the corporate bottom line, whether it be through higher health care costs or penalties. For now, it seems that cost will be delayed. It will be interesting to see how the market will react.

Lululemon's sheer yoga pants scandal is coming back to haunt the retailer again.¬† A shareholder filed a suit in Manhattan Tuesday accusing the company of "defrauding shareholders by hiding defects in yoga pants whose sheerness led to a costly recall, and concealing talks that led to the sudden departure of its chief executive," according to Reuters.¬† A separate lawsuit filed in May alleges that Lululemon boosted executive pay just before going public with the recall, Reuters reported.¬† The retailer had to recall 17% of its pants in March for being too sheer. Last month, CEO Christine Day announced her departure from the company.¬† Lululemon says the debacle could cost the company $40 million in profits.¬† The company blamed the defect on a supply chain error.¬†
It was only a matter of time before Yelp visualized its 39 million reviews into something awesome. This week they launched the "Yelp Wordmap," a heatmap showing the density of various words used in Yelp reviews in 14 popular cities. Now you can find out the best areas in your city for cocktails, PBR, a romantic night out, or bacon. But the biggest gem in Yelp's data dump is its hipsterness heatmap. From Austin to New York to DC to Paris, check out where irony germinates and where mustachioed musicians wander. Austin Yelp Boston Yelp Chicago Yelp London Yelp Los Angeles Yelp New York Yelp Paris Yelp Philadelphia Yelp Portland Yelp San Diego Yelp San Francisco Yelp Seattle Yelp Toronto Yelp Washington, DC Yelp
Lots of countries have so much oil and gas wealth that they don't know to do with it. Some U.S. states do too. So they put it into a sovereign wealth fund ó basically a giant, actively-managed investment portfolio. Here's a map of every sovereign wealth fund in the world, via the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute (red=oil and gas, blue=not, although we think there's some overlap). SWFInstitute Here is what stood out to us: But you gotta see the whole interactive thing to learn more (click here).
APFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Should You Abandon Smaller Clients When You Leave Your Firm? (Financial-Planning) Should financial planners drop their smaller clients when they leave firms? Maybe. Clients with $100,000 or less in investible assets are over 100 times more likely to ditch their financial advisor than become a big client with that advisor, according to a report from research firm¬†PriceMetrix. Still, smaller clients may just be younger clients¬†‚Äî with potential for growth, according to some financial advisors. The Winklevoss Twins Would Like To Help You Trade Bitcoins With Their Bitcoin ETF¬†(Business Insider) The Winklevii¬†‚Äî famous for their dispute with Mark Zuckerberg over Facebook¬†‚Äî have created a trust that will give buyers exposure to Bitcoin, the elusive digital currency. From the SEC filing: "The investment objective of the Trust is for the Shares to reflect the performance of a weighted average price of Bitcoins, less the Trust‚Äôs expenses. The Sponsor believes that, for many investors, the Shares will represent a cost-effective and convenient means to access exposure to Bitcoins." One of¬†Bitcoin's earliest developers,¬†Martti Malmi, told Business Insider¬†that the ETF "would make bitcoin investment easier for the big money and could improve bitcoin's liquidity and price stability in the long run. Increase of bitcoin's market cap would be¬†obviously¬†beneficial to the Winklevii, who reportedly own 1% of all the bitcoins in existence." Malmi said it was "risky business, but worth a try." Age Divides Baby Boomers' Outlook, Study Says (FA Mag)¬† Boomers divide in two distinct groups based on their attitudes toward finances and retirement, according to a new study from the Insured Retirement Institute. The study placed created two groups ‚Äî¬†boomers between 61-66 and those between 50-55¬†‚Äî and found that older boomers were more optimistic. Having worked many years in a safer economy, 42% of older boomers believed they had enough savings to retire comfortably, while only a quarter of the young boomers were so enthused. Investment strategies should take this intra-generational divide into account, according to the study. FORGET THE FED: Here's The Troubling Trend That's Really Behind Stock Market Volatility (FactSet) "For Q2 2013, 87 companies have issued negative EPS guidance and 21 companies have issued positive EPS guidance," said FactSet's John Butters.¬† "If 87 is the final number, it will mark the highest number of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for a quarter. "The percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance is 81% (87 out of 108)," Butters added. "If this is the final percentage for the quarter, it will mark the highest percentage of companies issuing negative EPS guidance for a quarter." FactSet 8 ETFs That Are Absolutely Crushing It (Index Universe) Three Japan ETFs have been crushing it lately: the MSCI Japan Investible Markets index (appreciated 22% over the past year), the WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund (returned more than 40%), and the db X-trackers MSCI Japan Hedged Equity Fund (rallied 50%). The funds did better than Index Universe's Japanese benchmark thanks to currency hedging (returns weren't hurt by a plummeting yen).

CNBCPrince Alwaleed bin TalalBillionaire investor Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal just gave a rare interview with CNBC's Maria Bartiromo. One of the talking points Bartiromo brought up was the ongoing legal drama between the Prince and Forbes Media regarding Forbes' estimation of his wealth. "Forbes has defamed my country and the stock market over there," he told Bartiromo. In March, Forbes estimated Prince Alwaleed's wealth at $20 billion, which was $9.6 billion less than what the Prince estimated his own wealth at. According to a statement released by the Prince's Kingdom Holdings, one of the reasons for this discrepancy was Forbes' "sudden refusal after six years to accept share values as listed by the Tadawul ñ Saudi Arabiaís fully regulated, 21st century, high-tech stock exchange that services the largest economy in the Middle East and is a member of the World Federation of Exchanges." The Prince repeatedly emphasized that his dispute was not about his wealth, but rather defamation of his country and his country's stock market.
ShutterstockIt was a pretty quiet day.† The stock market spent most of the day in the green.† And then turned south. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Stocks started the day in the red, surged, moved sideways for a while, and then tumbled on no obvious news. So what happened? Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has three reasons for what he has dubbed the "Bart Simpson" formation. Here's a look at the move in the S&amp;P 500 via Bloomberg with some color modifications: Bloomberg
This post originally appeared on SteveBlank.com. The greatest number of jobs is created when startups create a new market ‚Äì one where the product or service never existed before or is radically more convenient. Yet this is where startups will run into¬†anti-innovation¬†opponents they may not expect. These opponents have their own name ‚Äì ¬†‚Äúrent seekers‚Äù ‚Äì the landlords of the status-quo. Smart startups prepare to face off against rent seekers and map out creative strategies for doing so‚Ä¶. First, however, they need to understand what a rent seeker is and how they operate ‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî- Recently, the New York and North Carolina legislatures considered a new law written by¬†Auto Dealer lobbyists that would make it illegal for¬†Tesla to sell cars directly to consumers.¬†This got me thinking about the legal obstacles that face innovators with new business models.Examples of startups challenging the status quo ¬†include:¬†Lyft,¬†Square,¬†Uber,¬†Airbnb,¬†SpaceX,¬†Zillow,¬†Bitcoin,¬†LegalZoom, food trucks,¬†charter schools¬†and¬†massively open online courses. Past examples of startups that succeeded in redefining current industries include¬†Craigslist,¬†Netflix, Amazon,¬†EbayandPaypal While¬†Tesla,¬†Lyft,¬†Uber,¬†Airbnb, et al are in very different industries, they have two things in common: 1) they‚Äôre disruptive business models creating new markets and upsetting the status quo and 2) the legal obstacles confronting them¬†weren‚Äôt from direct competitors, but from groups commonly referred to as ‚Äúrent seekers.‚Äù Rent SeekersRent seekers¬†are individuals or organizations that have succeeded with existing business models and look to the government and regulators as their first line of defense against innovative competition. They use government regulation and lawsuits to keep out new entrants with more innovative business models. They use every argument from public safety to lack of quality or loss of jobs to lobby against the new entrants. Rent seekers spend money to increase their share of an existing market instead of creating new products or markets. The key idea is that rent seeking behavior creates¬†nothing of value. These barriers to new innovative entrants are called¬†economic rent.¬†Examples of economic rent include state automobile franchise laws, taxi medallion laws, limits on charter schools, auto, steel or sugar tariffs, patent trolls, bribery of government officials, corruption and regulatory capture. They‚Äôre all part of the same pattern ‚Äì they add no value to the economy and prevent innovation from reaching the consumer. No regulation?Not all government regulation is rent or rent seeking. Not all economic rents are bad. Patents for example, provide protection for a limited time only, to allow businesses to recoup R&amp;D expenses as well as make a profit that would often not be possible if completely free competition were allowed immediately upon a products‚Äô release. Butpatent trolls¬†emerged as rent seekers by using patents as legalized extortion of companies. How do Rent Seekers win?Instead of offering better products or better service at lower prices, rent seekers¬†hire lawyers and lobbyists¬†to influence politicians and regulators to pass laws, write regulations and collect taxes that block competition. The process of getting the government to give out these favors is¬†rent-seeking. Rent seeking lobbyists go directly to legislative bodies (Congress, State Legislatures, City Councils) to persuade government officials to enact laws and regulations in exchange for campaign¬†contributions, appeasing influential voting blocks or¬†future jobs in the regulated industry. They also¬†use the courts to tie up and exhaust a startupslimited financial resources. Lobbyists also work through regulatory bodies like¬†FCC,¬†SEC,¬†FTC, Public Utility, Taxi, or Insurance Commissions, School Boards, etc.¬†¬† Although most regulatory bodies are initially set up to protect the public‚Äôs health and safety, or to provide an equal playing field,¬†over time¬†the very people they‚Äôre supposed to regulate¬†capture the regulatory agencies. Rent Seekers take advantage of¬†regulatory capture¬†to protect their interests against the new innovators. PayPal ‚Äì Dodging BulletsPayPal consistently walked a fine line with regulators. Early on the company shutdown their commercial banking operation to avoid being labeled as a commercial bank andburdened by banks‚Äô federal regulations. PayPal worried that complying with state-by-state laws for¬†money transmission¬†would also be too burdensome for a startup so they first tried to be classified as a¬†chartered trust company¬†to provide a benign regulatory cover, but failed. As the company grew larger, incumbent banks forced PayPal to register in each state. The banks lobbied¬†regulators in Louisiana,¬†New York, California, and Idaho and soon they were issuing injunctions forcing PayPal to delay their IPO. Ironically, once PayPal complied with state regulations by registering as a ‚Äúmoney transmitter‚Äù on a state-by-state basis, it created a barrier to entry for future new entrants. U.S. Auto Makers ‚Äì Death by Rent SeekingThe U.S. auto industry is a textbook case of rent seeking behavior. In 1981 unable to compete with the quality and price of Japanese cars, the domestic car companies convinced the U.S. government to restrict the import of¬† ‚Äúforeign‚Äù cars. The result? Americans paid¬†an extra $5 billion for cars. Japan overcame these barriers by using their import quotas to ship high-end, high-margin luxury cars, establishing manufacturing plants in the U.S. for high-volume lower cost cars and by continuing to innovate. In contrast, U.S. car manufacturers raised prices, pocketed the profits, bought off the unions with unsustainable contracts, ran inefficient factories and stopped innovating. The bill came due two decades later as the American auto industry spiraled into bankruptcy and its market share plummeted from 75% in 1981 to 45% in 2012. Innovation in the Auto IndustryAccording to the Gallup Poll American consumers viewcar salesman as dead last in honesty and ethics. Yet when Tesla provided consumers with a direct sales alternative, the rent seekers ‚Äì the¬†National Auto Dealers Association¬†turned its lobbyists loose on State Legislatures¬†robbing consumers in North Carolina, New York and Texas of choice in the marketplace. In these states it appears innovation be damned if it gets in the way of a rent seeker with a good lobbyist. Much like Paypal, it‚Äôs likely that after forcing Tesla to win these state-by-state battles, the auto dealers will have found that they dealt themselves the losing hand. Rent seeking is bad for the economyRent seeking strangles innovation in its crib. When companies are protected from competition, they have little incentive to cut costs or to pay attention to changing customer needs. The resources invested in rent seeking are a form of economic waste and reduce the wealth of the overall economy. Schumpeter‚Äôs¬†theory of¬†creative destruction¬†- that¬†entry by¬†entrepreneurs¬†was the¬†disruptive force that sustained¬†economic growth¬†even as it destroyed the value of established companies ‚Äì didn‚Äôt take into account that countries with lots of rent-seeking activity (pick your favorite nation where bribes and corruption are the cost of doing business) or dominated by organized interest groups tend to be the economic losers.¬†As rent-seeking becomes more attractive than innovation,¬†the economy falls into decline. Startups, investors and the public have done a poor job of calling out the politicians and regulators who use the words ‚Äúinnovation means jobs‚Äù while supporting rent seekers. What does this mean for startups?In an existing market it‚Äôs clear who your competitors are. You compete for customers on performance, ease of use, or price. However, for startups creating a new market ‚Äì one where either the product or service never existed before or the new option is radically more convenient for customers -¬† the idea that rent seekers even exist may come as a shock. ‚ÄúWhy would anyone not want a better x, y or z?‚Äù The answer is that if your startup threatens their jobs or profits, it doesn‚Äôt matter how much better life will be for consumers, students, etc. Well organized incumbents will fight if they perceive a threat to the status quo. As a result disrupting the status quo in regulated market can be costly. On the other hand, being a private and small startup means you have less to lose when you challenge the incumbents. If you‚Äôre a startup with a disruptive business model here‚Äôs what you need to do: Map the order of battle Pick early markets where the rent seekers are weakest and scale AirBnb ‚Äì Damn the¬†torpedoes¬†full speed aheadFor example,¬†Airbnb, thrives even though almost all of its ‚Äúhosts‚Äù are not paying local motel/hotel taxes nor paying tax on their income, and many hosts are violating local zoning laws. Some investors and competitors may be concerned about regulatory risk and liability.¬† AirBNB‚Äôs attitude seems to be ‚Äúbuild the business until someone stops me, and change or comply with regulations later.‚Äù ¬†This is the same approach that allowed Amazon to ignore local sales taxes for the last two decades. When you get customer scale and raise a large financing round, take the battle to the incumbents. Strategies at this stage include: Lessons Learned
Photo: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesSuccess on Wall Street means watching your ideas and work in action while making a sizable amount of money in the process.  That in and of itself is impressive, but there are some people on Wall Street that take that to the next level ‚Äî they make the Street look sexy. From bank CEOs to hedge funders and beyond, we found the 32 sexiest people in finance. With a combination of success, power, generosity, good looks, fashion sense, and personality, these people are the full package.
In the peach- and white-veined marble lobby of Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, tourists can shop for items from Donald Trumpís clothing line and buy his best-selling book, ìTrump: the Art of the Deal.î In the Trump Organizationís offices on the 26th floor, the walls are decorated with images of ìThe Apprenticeî star on the covers of magazines, from Esquire to Playboy. And at the top of the building lies Trumpís personal residence, a gold- and marble-clad Louis XIVñstyle penthouse spread over three floors, where the 67-year-old real estate developer lives with his wife Melania, a former model, and their seven-year-old son, Barron (a child who is reportedly swabbed with caviar-enhanced moisturizer each night before bed). Itís easy to see how life behind those gold-plated doors could lead to an inflated sense of self, and even in an industry full of billionaires, the outspoken Trump is known for his ego. An example of his trademark bravado: In an interview at Trump Tower last month, Trump told†The Real Deal†that heís only interested in acquiring one-of-a-kind, ¸ber-luxury properties. ìUnless itís going to be iconic, I have no interest,î he said. ìThe word ëtrophyí is not even good enough.î In addition, he said: ìI would not be surprised if my cash position was stronger than anyone in the [real estate] industry.î But many are skeptical of such claims of grandiose wealth, and over the years, the question of Trumpís actual net worth has become a controversial one. Trump has accused both Forbes magazine and ìTrumpNationî author Timothy OíBrien of under-estimating his wealth. (He filed a defamation suit in 2006 against OíBrien, who had estimated Trumpís net worth at between $150 and $250 million, claiming that the assertions in his book were inaccurate and had cost the Trump Organization deals. The suit was eventually dismissed.) Among the most outspoken skeptics of Trumpís claims are those in the New York City real estate industry, who note that he no longer owns many property assets here. Trump is well known for building Trump Tower, of course, and for developing a number of residential high-rises, such as Trump Park Avenue at 502 Park Avenue and Trump World Tower at 845 United Nations Plaza, from the late 1980s to the early 2000s. But most of those properties have long since been sold to individual unit owners. And Trump hasnít bought or developed any New York City buildings in recent years. Meanwhile, a Trump Organization spokesperson confirmed that Trump also no longer owns the properties he inherited from his late father, Fred, who started the family real estate business in outer-borough neighborhoods like Coney Island, Sheepshead Bay and Flushing. The Trump Organization sold most of those buildings in 2004, according to a spokesperson. ìDonald Trump is not a major player in New York City real estate,î said Jordan Barowitz, director of external affairs at the Durst Organization. ìMy guess is [that he owns] about 1.5 million square feet total. For comparison, the Durst Organization owns 13 million square feet in Manhattan.î (In fact, Trump owns more than 2 million square feet of commercial space in New York City.) Or as Michael T. Cohen, president of the tri-state region at Colliers International, put it: ìTrump casts a very large image on the real estate scene considering that he only has [a few large] assets.î But others noted that Trump has an asset most developers donít: fame. ìConsumers know his name,î said fellow billionaire and New York real estate titan Richard LeFrak. ìThatís what sets him apart.î And Trump has an uncanny knack for parlaying that fame into various money-making opportunities. Trump ìunderstands people,î said Steve Roth, chairman of real estate giant Vornado Realty Trust. ìHe understands what they want to buy, and what they donít want to buy.î The Trump Organization concedes that thereís an air of mystery surrounding its portfolio, which includes core real estate assets in New York and internationally as well as an array of unrelated enterprises, such as the Miss Universe pageant and ìThe Apprenticeî television franchise. Much of the confusion stems from the fact that Trump frequently licenses his name to products ó and buildings ó he has not developed and does not own, such as the hotel and condominium Trump Soho in Manhattan and the Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower in Dubai. Forbesí most recent assessment put Trumpís total net worth at $3.2 billion, but the Trump Organization said the true figure, including the value of the Trump brand, is around $8.6 billion. In an attempt to prove it, the company provided†TRD†with a 2012 financial report prepared for Trump by his accountant, WeiserMazars, a major national firm. The report puts Trumpís total net worth at approximately $4.56 billion, including $1.38 billion worth of New York City commercial real estate; $351.55 million in New York residential properties; $1.57 billion in golf courses, resorts and related facilities across the world; and $823 million in interests in joint ventures. He also has some $451.7 million in debt and other commitments, plus personal cash and marketable securities in the amount of $169.7 million, according to WeiserMazars. In addition, and most controversially, the company said it believes the Trump brand is worth some $4 billion. Using the WeiserMazars report and public records, as well as information provided by industry sources,†TRD†has inventoried Trumpís most significant real estate assets. The Trump Organization declined to provide the net operating income or the estimated dollar value of any of its individual properties to†The Real Deal. The WeiserMazars report didnít provide values for each individual asset, but instead grouped assets into categories and then provided figures for those categories. (As a sidenote, several assets straddled different categories.) Finally, we also asked industry insiders to estimate what individual assets are worth. Read on for a closer look. The Trump BrandTrumpís estimated value:†$4 billion n the Trump Organizationís eyes, its most valuable asset is the Trump name itself. For decades, Donald Trump has diligently cultivated his brand, and heís now a TV star in his own right due to the ongoing success of ìThe Apprentice,î which is now in its 13th season. Itís not all theoretical. Trump has found numerous ways to monetize his brand. Most notably, heís licensed his name to no less than 17 different kinds of products, from clothing and perfume to vodka and mattresses, as well as glassy high-rise towers as far afield as Istanbul and the Philippines. At projects such as the Trump Soho hotel/condominium at 246 Spring Street (developed by a partnership between the Bayrock Group and New York City developer Tamir Sapir) Trump is paid for the use of his name, but does not invest any of his own capital. Trump sometimes manages these projects, as he did in the case of Trump Soho, and always takes a licensing fee of $5 to $10 million, according to news reports. In some cases, he also takes a portion of potential future sales at the building. Trumpís most recent licensing deal, announced last month, is for a hotel and condo tower in downtown Vancouver. Terms of the agreements made with the developers of Trump-branded properties vary, and the Trump Organization declined to provide details of all the specific arrangements. But the company did say it has some $74.14 million worth of real estate licensing deals. And publicly available court records reveal that Trump pocketed more than $3.2 million in royalties for his clothing line, which is sold at Macyís, between 2005 and 2007. Sources agreed that these licensing deals are likely very profitable. ìIf you can make licensing deals work, itís a beautiful thing,î said developer Izak Senbahar of New Yorkñbased Alexico Group, which is currently developing the condo 56 Leonard, which will be the tallest building in Tribeca. ìYouíre not taking the risk, youíre only giving your name and taking a fee plus upside.î He added: ìYou have to give [Trump] credit for creating such a brand. Who else can go to Panama City or Istanbul and license their name that way?î LeFrak compared the licensing deals to ìgoing to the box office and taking [a share of] the gross.î ìHeís using something he has to his best advantage,î LeFrak said. ìItís very clever what heís been able to do.î But Trump has faced criticism for these licensing deals, which have occasionally landed him in legal trouble with buyers. In 2011, for instance, buyers at three separate Trump-branded properties, including the Trump International Hotel and Tower Fort Lauderdale, sued the mogul for allegedly misleading them into believing he was the developer and later pulling his name from the projects once they went belly-up. The Trump Organizations denies those claims. Some of those lawsuits, however, are still ongoing. And Trump has not put his name on a U.S. property since his Soho project began construction in 2007, leading some branding experts to speculate that it no longer holds the same weight it once did in the U.S. James Fox, CEO of the strategy firm Red Peak Branding, which does work for large companies such as Intel and American Express, said the Trump Organizationís brand estimate of $4 billion ìseems like a very high number given that, certainly in the U.S., his brand has been in pretty steady decline.î The Trump brand likely had the most cachet in the 1980s and 1990s, he said, when ìAmerican capitalism was on the rise, and he was its poster boy. He acted kind of like a rock star, with beautiful women and beautiful cars. People aspired towards that, because all of culture was moving in that direction.î Since the recession, however, American consumers are gravitating towards more humble, ìauthenticî brands, Fox said. In part, he said, thatís why Trump has started targeting consumers in other markets, which are more susceptible to what he called ìthe Trump idea of materialistic success.î ìAll developing markets go through a period of conspicuous consumption,î Fox said. ìThereís an emerging middle class, and people want to show and wear the wealth.î In response, Trump told†The Real Deal†that while he was ìhotî in the 1980s, he was only ìhotterî now, thanks in part to ìThe Apprentice.î The reason he does not do so many licensing deals in the U.S., he said, is because the economy is weak here and heís focused on buying assets rather than licensing his name. And the Trump Organization stands by its estimate of $4 billion for the brand, which came from a valuation the company commissioned six years ago from the brand strategy firm Predictiv. Predictiv pegged the value of Trumpís brand at $3 billion, and the Trump Organization estimated that it has increased to $4 billion since then. Jon Low, a partner at Predictiv, said his analysis found that Trump-branded projects generally commanded prices and rents between 9 and 17 percent above the average for the areas in which theyíre located. ìThere are people who will pay a premium to stay at a Trump-branded property, even when other accommodations are available at a lower price,î Low said. Office buildings†and residential†real estateTrumpís estimated value: $2.9 billion Donald Trump started out as a real estate developer, and property holdings do make up the lionís share of his holdings (aside from his brand). The Trump Organization said it has a total of $2.9 billion worth of commercial and residential real estate. In addition to more than $74 million in real estate licensing deals, that includes $1.38 billion in New York City commercial buildings, $351.55 million in New York residential buildings and $823.3 million worth of real estate in joint ventures. According to†TRDís research, however, these estimates may be slightly high. For example, while the Trump Organization values its combined interests in Trump Tower, Niketown, 40 Wall Street, 1290 Sixth Avenue and 555 California Street, located in San Francisco, at some $2.13 billion, industry experts said the total is likely closer to $1.86 billion. Commercial real estate Trumpís best-known ó and likely most valuable ó commercial real estate asset is his headquarters, Trump Tower, a 68-story mixed-use tower at 725 Fifth Avenue. The building, which is now 100 percent leased, was developed by a partnership of Trump and the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States in 1983, but Trump now has full control of the commercial and retail components of the tower, records show. Robert Von Ancken, chairman of Landauer Appraisal Services, a division of Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, estimated the total value of Trump Towerís commercial and retail spaces at $460 million. The Trump Organization said the building was refinanced for $100 million in August 2012, allowing Trump to take a cash distribution of over $73 million. The loan, with an interest rate of 4.2 percent, matures in 2022. Another one of Trumpís major commercial assets is 40 Wall Street, a 1.3 million-square-foot office building where Trump has had the leasehold since 1995. Michael Cohen, in-house counsel at the Trump Organization, said the mogul had paid $1 million for the leasehold; other reports say $10 million. Either way, the value of the leasehold has increased exponentially since Trump bought it; experts said itís now worth $350 to $400 million. And the pre-tax net operating income at the building as of 2011 was $20.89 million, according to the Department of Finance, while expenses totaled $14.4 million. However, Trump has a $160 million mortgage attached to the property with an interest rate of 5.71 percent, according to WeiserMazars. Tenants in the building include Countrywide Insurance, Walgreens/Duane Reade and the American Precious Metals Exchange. Industry insiders said that due to generous tenant incentives, some tenants are paying as little as $30 per square foot, despite official asking rents of roughly $50 a foot. Trumpís son Donald Trump, Jr., who heads commercial leasing at the property, told†TRD†that some tenants in the lower portions of the building are paying in the $30s per square foot but the overall average for the building is between $40 and $60 a foot. Trump also has the leasehold at the Niketown building at 6 East 57th Street. The eight-story retail building, which abuts Trump tower, is the national flagship of sports brand Nike. Von Ancken said Trumpís leasehold is likely worth some $200 million, taking into consideration the fact that Nikeís lease in the building expires in 2017. While there does not appear to be a mortgage on the property, the building serves as collateral for bonds held by Trump to the tune of $46.4 million, according to WeiserMazars. Trump acquired the last two significant pieces of his commercial real estate holdings, 1290 Sixth Avenue and San Franciscoís 555 California Street, in an unusual way: through a property swap. It all started in 1994, when Trump was facing foreclosure on the Riverside South residential high-rises heíd developed on Manhattanís far West Side. He sold a majority interest in the buildings to a consortium of Hong Kong investors, who then made a deal to swap the properties with Extell Development and the Carlyle Group in exchange for 1290 Sixth Avenue and 555 California Street. Trump objected to the exchange, thinking it undervalued the Riverside South properties, but as a minority owner, he had no legal way to stop it. His name still adorns many of the Riverside South properties, for which he also has a management contract. Today, Trump owns a 30 percent stake in both 1290 Sixth Avenue and 555 California Street. A 43-story trophy office tower, 1290 Sixth is worth $1.5 billion, Von Ancken said, with Trumpís stake worth around $450 million (without considering taxes or liabilities). And 555 California Street, a 2 million-square-foot building with tenants such as Microsoft and AXA Equitable, would likely sell for around $800 per foot, or $1.36 billion, San Francisco brokers said. That makes Trumpís interest worth in excess of $400 million. Residential real estate The Trump Organization values its holdings in New York City residential properties at more than $350 million, according to WeiserMazars. But just as in commercial real estate, industry experts said that figure may be too high. For example, Trump in 1995 paid $7.5 million for a 213-acre estate just outside the town of Bedford in Westchester County. Called Seven Springs, the property features a 13-bedroom mansion, but is also zoned to allow for the construction of 13 additional homes at the site. Local brokers put the propertyís value at around $40 million, noting that Westchester Countyís highest-ever home price was the December sale of the 100-acre Devonshire estate for $21 million. The Trump Organization declined to give a specific figure but it said it believes the estate is worth more than seven times that, based on the projected cash flow it would derive from the sale of the 13 properties on the site. Trump originally planned to build a golf club on the site, but revised those plans in the face of opposition from local authorities. The company has no immediate plans to build the houses, the company said, but may bring in a third party to develop them eventually. A mortgage on the property has an outstanding balance of $7.52 million, according to WeiserMazars. Another significant part of Trumpís residential portfolio is the plethora of New York residential high-rises with the Trump name. Thereís Trump Park Avenue, Trump World Tower, Trump Palace on East 69th Street, Trump Parc at 106 Central Park South, Trump Parc East at 100 Central Park South, Trump Plaza on 61st Street and Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower at 1 Central Park West. Upon seeing these buildings, passersby could be forgiven for thinking that Trump owns a huge swath of New York City. But most of the apartments in the properties are no longer owned by Trump: The majority are co-ops and condos that have long since sold out. Trump does still own 23 apartments at Trump Park Avenue, which he rents for rates as high as $100,000 per month, and 19 units at Trump Parc. And he also maintains ownership of most of the commercial and retail spaces in the buildings bearing his name. At Trump International, for example, Trump manages the hotel and condo portions of the building and owns the commercial elements of the property, including a garage facility and retail space, which currently houses the restaurant Jean Georges. Trump also retains rights to the rooftops of most of his buildings and leases the spaces to cell network providers such as Verizon for a fee. The Trump Organization does have some debt on these properties, including a $22.2 million loan on the developerís interest in Trump Park Avenue and an $8.3 million loan related to the commercial and retained residential portions of Trump Plaza. Another major contributor to Trumpís wealth are his sprawling personal homes, each worth millions. Most significant of these is his personal apartment at Trump Tower. Occupying the 66th to 68th floors of the building, the triplex penthouse is decorated in diamond, 24-carat gold and marble, and features an interior fountain and a massive Italianate-style painting on the ceilings. Asked by The Real Deal what the apartment might be worth, Trump said only that if he were to put the property up for sale, it would most certainly be the priciest apartment on the market in New York City. Douglas Elliman Chairman Howard Lorber estimated that the unit could sell for upwards of $100 million if it came on the market today, thanks to its location on Fifth Avenue and its likely appeal to foreign investors. Trumpís other homes include a Beverly Hills mansion on Rodeo Drive. Lee Ziff, a Beverly Hills broker with Keller Williams, told†TRD†that the house is likely worth $8.5 to $10 million, though he said he has not seen the inside. But the mogul also owns residential properties as investments rather than vacation spots. For example, he owns two private houses in Palm Beach, Fla., adjacent to his Mar-a-Lago country club. The houses, which are 4,643 square feet and 1,950 square feet, according to real estate website Zillow.com, are worth around $6.5 million and $3 million, estimated Jonathan Harris, an agent at Valore Group Real Estate in Palm Beach. And a slick business maneuver recently allowed him to nab a major residential asset for a major discount: the 2,000-acre Kluge estate in Charlottesville, Va. Formerly owned by media billionaire John Kluge and his wife, Patricia, the property features a 23,000-square-foot mansion but is also a functioning commercial winery and vineyard. Facing default following her husbandís death, Patricia Kluge put the estate on the market for $100 million about four years ago. Her lender, Bank of America, seized the property before she could unload it. Trump bought the property out of foreclosure in 2011, paying only $7.9 million for the vineyard, winery and its equipment, and the land surrounding the house; those assets alone were valued by the bank at $60 million. The 45-room mansion, meanwhile, was on the market for $16 million. In a bid to get it for far less, Trump let the propertyís grounds become overgrown so theyíd be unappealing to buyers. Eventually, he convinced the bank to sell him the house ó for just $6.5 million. Ultimately, Trump paid a total $14.4 million for the entire property, now known as Trump Vineyard Estates and managed by Eric Trump. Resorts, country clubs†and golf coursesTrumpís estimated value:†$1.57 billion In recent years, Trump has invested heavily in ìlifestyle propertiesî such as golf courses, resorts and country clubs. He owns at least 13 golf courses across the globe, including the 1,200-acre Trump International Golf Links in Scotland. Putting a dollar figure on the value of these assets is tricky, however, because many of them come with development rights or the potential for other uses. The Trump Organization values its combined interests in these club facilities and related lifestyle properties at roughly $1.57 billion, according to WeiserMazars. Among the most valuable of these assets is the Doral Resort &amp; Spa in South Florida, which Trump bought out of bankruptcy for $150 million last year in another fire sale acquisition. The 800-acre property includes five golf courses, 700 hotel rooms, meeting and conference space, a 50,000-square-foot spa and an extensive retail component. Based on current prices in the Miami area, where land has been trading at close to $20 per square foot, real estate experts said the current value of the land alone at Doral could exceed $1 billion. Trump has a $125 million loan on the property, according to WeiserMazars. Another significant holding is the oceanfront Trump National Golf Club in Los Angeles at Palos Verdes, where Trump has development rights to build 75 homes adjacent to the course. Trump told†The Real Deal†that heíd already sold five of the lots for up to $5 million apiece but was not actively looking to sell more. At Trump National Golf Club Westchester in Briarcliff Manor, Trump has rights to develop 87 luxury condos. Sixteen of those have already sold for $1.5 million to $2.45 million, according to the Trump Organization, which said it has no immediate plans to build the remaining properties. While golf courses seem to be one of Trumpís primary interests right now, he also has interests in other kinds of lifestyle properties. For example, in Florida he owns the Mar-a-Lago country club, a 17-acre property with a 20,000-square-foot ballroom, which has played host to celebrities such as Michael Jackson, Celine Dion and Oprah. Commercial real estate brokers said it was difficult to determine a value for such an idiosyncratic asset, for which there are few comparables. Taking a stab, Harris said the property could ask as much as $250 million if it came on the market today. Some of the properties in this category havenít always been positive additions to Trumpís balance sheet. In Nevada, Trump owns a 50 percent interest in Trump International Hotel Las Vegas, which he developed alongside real estate and casino mogul Phil Ruffin. Originally designed as a condominium, the property now operates primarily as a hotel; when it opened in 2008, the units sold rapidly but buyers couldnít close once the crisis hit. Trump and Ruffin ended up high and dry with 900 units they couldnít sell, Ruffin told†The Real Deal. ìIt was negative for a while,î Ruffin said in a phone interview last month. ìWithout the [Trump] brand, we probably would have let it go.î Trump and Ruffin are close to closing a deal for 300 of the buildingís units with a division of Hilton, which will use them as timeshare properties, Ruffin said. Hilton will pay around $100 million, he said. Ruffin said the deal would eradicate most of the partnershipís debt on the building, and that he and Trump will then be left with between 500 and 600 units, which will continue to be operated as a hotel. And in Atlantic City, a portfolio of properties along the boardwalk that bear the Trump name are the source of the widespread misconception that Trump at one point went personally bankrupt. Trump bought the portfolio, now known as Trump Taj Mahal Hotel &amp; Casino, in 1987. The propertyís ownership entity, Trump Entertainment Resorts, filed for bankruptcy four times between 1991 and 2009. After the first bankruptcy, the company went public and Trump began reducing his stake in it, from 36.6 percent in 1991 to just 5 percent today, the Trump Organization said. He is also no longer chairman of the companyís board. Entertainment†and other assetsTrumpís estimated value:†$317.6 million Trump also owns a wide variety of other enterprises outside the realm of real estate. For example, the real estate magnate owns the Miss Universe, Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants, which the Trump Organization said are collectively worth a total of $15 million. In addition, he owns a talent and modeling agency, Trump Model Management, and 50 percent of the value of the rights to ìThe Apprentice,î which he shares with producer Mark Burnett and on which heís been focusing much of his time and attention of late. He also owns several airplanes, including a Boeing 757 and a Cessna Citation X. But regardless of how many planes or buildings he has, Trump has made one thing clear over the years, which accounts for a significant portion of his wealth: he knows how to stay in the spotlight. More from The Real Deal: 1.†If you live in New York and you rent, youíre paying a huge tax you donít even know about†2.†A first look at Cary Tamarkinís High Line project: PHOTOS3.†Chelsea Park rents out in 10 weeks† 
Google FinanceAfter spending most of the day up, the stock markets have moved lower. The sell-off comes on no obvious news. According to CNBC, New York Stock Exchange traders are getting worried about heightened tensions in Egypt where protestors are calling for the resignation of President Mohamed Mursi. New York Fed president William Dudley is currently speaking Stamford, CT about monetary policy and the state of the economy. Bloomberg quotes him saying that the Fed at times was "too optimistic" on its economic forecasts. This comes after he reiterated the message of his peers that any change in monetary policy would be directed by the state of and outlook for the economy.
RexCarry on, James.There is a wide range of opinion about the National Security Agency's data collection program. Some people are fine with it -- anything to protect America against terrorism and other national security threats. Others are a bit uneasy about it, but support the government doing what it needs to to protect the country. Others, meanwhile, are furious and appalled at what they view as a scary, illegal invasion of privacy by an evil government extending its own power. Which of those views you hold, interestingly, seems to correlate with your age. Older people tend to be more comfortable with the NSA program, and younger people tend to be more upset about it. Middle-aged people meanwhile, tend to fall into, well, the middle. I'm middle-aged, so, not surprisingly, that's where I come down on this. I'm a bit uneasy about the NSA collecting and storing all that information, but I don't regard merely collecting and storing it as an outrageous invasion of my privacy. As long as what the NSA can do with this information is limited and subject to appropriate checks and balances, you won't see me marching on Washington about it. My attitude toward this, I think, is the result of three factors:
PIMCO has a new video of bond king Bill Gross discussing volatility in the bond markets. Unfortunately, we were too distracted by a detail in the video to listen to the whole commentary. To the right of Gross' left shoulder is a bottle of Sriracha, the fiery Thai chili sauce that is slowly emerging from the American underground to the mainstream. Say what you want about Gross, PIMCO, and their outlook for interest rates. But I think we can all agree that the folks at PIMCO obviously have great taste. PIMCOtv / YouTube Here's a closer look at another bottle: idovermani/Flickr
I recommend diversification as the key to a successful portfolio for the long-term. I also pick my holdings based on what everyone else is doing or saying. Our model below for a modern portfolio below: The Reformed Broker
5:45 ‚Äì early rise, whichever desk you end up on you are most likely going to be waking up around this time. Adjust your sleeping habits accordingly or suffer for most of the day. 6:30 ‚Äì Arrive on the desk, market opens in 90 minutes so its really a countdown from here. 20 minutes is spent just turning on all the systems, with 4 computers and basically each running 10-15 different applications this is quite time consuming. Its inevitable, but you will every morning forget to log in into one crucial system and realize at the worst absolute moment. 6:50 ‚Äì Start reading various new sources, generally FT, Bloomberg, City AM, and then the internal research that comes out. Finish off with a couple broker chats. 7:15 ‚Äì look at the largest positions on the book and try to come up with a rough game plan for the day. I generally like to make a list of risks I don‚Äôt like, in order of priority, and then work down the list throughout the day. You want to make sure you know the biggest risks in every category (ie gamma, vega, delta, decay, skew, div). 7:30 ‚Äì Morning meeting with sales and research, generally a hard time if you have had a rough night 7:50 ‚Äì Just do a last glance over the stock news to make sure nothing has been missed before the open. Last thing you want is to be surprised by a big move on the open. One good thing to keep in mind is that you never want your boss to ask you a question and you cant answer. If you are running risk, you need to be aware of everything at all times. 8:00 ‚Äì Market opens, watch any big movers on the day, cash equity prices find their levels fairly quickly, vol levels adjust a bit slower, generally within the first 10 minutes you get an idea of where vol is on most names. 8:15 ‚Äì First wave of client requests comes in. I cover several of sectors so you can get a backlog of 7-10 prices pretty quickly. Prioritize them by clients and size. It is crucial that even when you only have a couple minutes for each price you make sure you have all your bases covered. With options because you have so many different risks, you need to make sure you are not being picked off on vol (so check if anything similar is in the broker market already trading, this is also a venue to hedge out risk and allows you to skew your price accordingly), make sure you aren‚Äôt being picked off on divs and make sure that you can find borrow on the stock if you are selling shares as part of the trade. With the rules on short selling in Europe this has become more of an issue recently. 8:30 ‚Äì Finally send off last of the prices, and get some time to look at how the book is doing, start phoning up brokers and start working some trades. Options on single stocks in European trade a bit differently than in the US, the liquidity is not the same. The issue is that screen prices are kept very tight in extremely small size, and clients expect the same spreads in size that is 50x larger. Problem is that unless you can find someone to find the other side in the broker market, you will get wider prices with brokers than you give to clients. This means to survive you need to be constantly aware of what brokers are working so that you can spot chances to offload risk. So when a client request comes in you can skew it appropriately. The best case scenario is when you know someone is a buyer in the broker market, buy it from a client at a vol from mids, and then offload it in the broker market at a vol above. However, this is very rare, so most of the time you need to make a price based on a prop view if you will. You need to price it according to your view of the trade, instead of where you can offload it 9:15 ‚Äì On a typical day, this is around the time when things calm down, generally chat with co workers or use the time for a bathroom break. Always go when you have a chance and not when you need to, nothing unfocuses the mind more than having to go to the bathroom, and sometimes you just cant go for 30 minute stretches. 10:00 ‚Äì Still fairly quiet, finally get to fire up Excel and work on some longer term projects. It gets difficult on a flow book because you need to find the balance between looking after the risk, but at the same time explore opportunities to move the business forward. 10:15 ‚Äì spoke too soon, big client request comes in, good client so the price needs to be very competitive. Basically a double edged sword, you can take a lot of PNL upfront on the trade, but you know that getting out of the position is impossible and will take a couple weeks. Price it with the help of the senior guys on the desk and get back to excel. 12:00 ‚Äì company announces a profit warning, unfortunately you have a short gamma position and the stock is down 5%. This is one of the situations you hate to be in. The stock is down 5% and because of the short gamma you are long a lot of delta. Now do you sell the shares 5% down or hold on and hope it rallies back. As a personal rule I like to keep my delta‚Äôs from my short gamma‚Äôs to a certain limit, and I hedge so that it never crosses that limit. You do not want to be stuck with a stock that drops 20% in a day and you just sit there watching it. This is also important that you know everything about your short gamma‚Äôs, more so than your long‚Äôs, because if something gaps down you need to know what your pnl and delta is. With longs its fine because its positive pnl, but negative pnl always brings more senior attention. You also need to make sure you know not just your local risk, but your risk as spot moves. Because in a client flow book you have thousands of positions, your risk can quite easily flip as parameters move. That is why you need to look at your risk in three dimensions, time and spot. Its what makes derivatives more interesting than delta one products, but it also takes a bit more effort in terms of risk management. 12:30 ‚Äì stock has calmed down so get back to excel, keep an eye on the chart in the corner of the screen though if it has any follow up move. 13:30 ‚Äì Attend an IT meeting for 30 minutes, just really listen to updates on various projects that are being worked on.
JP Morgan FundsThe second quarter ended with stocks tumbling, interest rates surging, and gold crashing.¬† All of this happened as the Federal Reserve laid out a timeline for the tapering, or gradual reduction of its stimulative bond-buying program. Investors have a lot of things to consider before they make their next move. To help with this, David Kelly and the market strategy team at J.P. Morgan Asset Management have built the best presentation on the state of the markets and the economy we have seen so far. We learn that the stock markets look strong yet reasonably priced, the bond markets are rapidly evolving as rates rise, the U.S. economy is anemic yet recovering, Europe remains a mess but things are getting better, and China is growing quickly but decelerating. The charts offer an elegant and in-depth look at everything. Jump to different sections of the presentation: Note: Thanks to J.P. Morgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
REUTERS/Darren WhitesideCameron and Tyler WinklevossMartti Malmi is generally credited as the guy who turned Bitcoin from an abstract computer program and making it fit for public consumption. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are generally credited with co-creating a forerunner to Facebook.† So we thought it appropriate to get the former's opinion of the latter duo's new foray as the creator of the Bitcoin ETF. In case you haven't heard, the brothers have created a Bitcoin ETF that will track the underlying value of the cryptocurrency. In an email, Malmi gave us his thoughts on the twins' fund: The ETF would make bitcoin investment easier for the big money and could improve bitcoin's liquidity and price stability in the long run. Increase of bitcoin's market cap would be†obviously†beneficial to the Winklevii, who reportedly own 1% of all the bitcoins in existence. The risk analysis in the ETF's registration statement presents good understanding of bitcoin's technological and economical aspects. I'd say it's a risky business, but worth a try. At least it shows some good entrepreneurial spirit. Team Winklevoss!
ReasonTV / YouTubeMatthew LeskoIt's that time again when everyone prepares for earnings season, the time of year when corporations publish their quarterly financial results. In recent years, analysts and strategists across Wall Street have warned us that the next quarter at the time would be the ugly one that could break the back of the bull market. However, they've been repeatedly proven wrong, and the stock markets have only charged higher. But will it be different this time? Well, the signs aren't looking too bullish. Weeks before aluminum giant Alcoa unofficially kicks off earnings season, we hear from the "early reporters," or the companies whose quarter ends in May (rather than June for most companies). "21 May quarter end companies reported 2Q results, 62% beat consensus EPS w/ a 1.7% surprise in aggregate," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco in a note to clients this week.¬† "The surprise was slightly below the last few quarters. Aggregate y/y EPS growth was 7.9% and 5.8% for revenue; this would be healthy S&amp;P growth, but early reporters normally exceed the S&amp;P." Here's a round up of the early reporters: Deutsche Bank Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker are among the analysts who believe Wall Street is currently too optimistic about corporate earnings. "Downward earnings revisions have persisted in recent months with 7 of 10 GICS sectors seeing lower estimates over the last 3 months, and we continue to believe estimates have further to fall," said Parker. "Analysts are embedding 7% earnings growth in 2013 to $111 per share, followed by 11% growth in 2014 to $123 per share. Our top-down estimates are more muted‚Äî $103 and $110 of earnings per share in 2013 and 2014, respectively." Like Parker, Citi's Tobias Levkovich has been pointing to the surge in negative preannouncements relative to positive preannouncements. "[W]e have been a tad shocked by the surge in negative-to-positive preannouncement trends that make 2009‚Äôs surge appear less worrisome in retrospect," said Levkovich. "Upward earnings guidance has dipped as well and there has been little consternation or discussion about it." Alcoa announces its second quarter earnings on July 8.
Everyone's crazy about Federal Reserve officials speaking, especially in the wake of Chairman Bernanke's suggestion that the Fed could soon taper its quantitative easing program. NY Fed President William Dudley is speaking in Stamford, CT today, and his prepared remarks just crossed the wires. There's not much new here.† Dudley just reiterates Bernanke and the rest of the Fed, saying that he expects the U.S. economy to pick up in 2014.† He also emphasized the importance of economic data as it relates to the taper. He also noted that tapering is not the same thing as tightening. Here's the part of the speech where he addresses the taper (emphasis added): As Chairman Bernanke stated in his press conference following the FOMC meeting, if the economic data over the next year turn out to be broadly consistent with the outlooks that the FOMC sees as most likely, which are roughly similar to the outlook I have already laid out, the FOMC anticipates that it would be appropriate to begin to moderate the pace of purchases later this year.† Under such a scenario, subsequent reductions might occur in measured steps through the first half of next year, and an end to purchases around mid-2014.† Under this scenario, at the time that asset purchases came to an end, the unemployment rate likely would be near 7 percent and the economyís momentum strengthening, supporting further robust job gains in the future.† As I noted last week in our regional press briefing, a few points deserve emphasis. ††First, the FOMCís policy depends on the progress we make towards our objectives.††This means that the policyóincluding the pace of asset purchasesódepends on the outlook rather than the calendar.† The scenario I outlined above is only thatóone possible outcome.† Economic circumstances could diverge significantly from the FOMCís expectations.† If labor market conditions and the economyís growth momentum were to be less favorable than in the FOMCís outlookóand this is what has happened in recent yearsóI would expect that the asset purchases would continue at a higher pace for longer.††† Second, even if this scenario were to occur and the pace of purchases were reduced, it would still be the case that as long as the FOMC continues its asset purchases it is adding monetary policy accommodation, not tightening monetary policy.† As the FOMC adds to its stock of securities, this should continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, making monetary policy more accommodative.† Third, the Federal Reserve is likely to keep most of these assets on its balance sheet for a long time.† As Chairman Bernanke noted in his most recent press conference, a strong majority of FOMC participants no longer favor selling agency MBS securities during the monetary policy normalization process.††This implies a bigger balance sheet for longer, which provides additional accommodation today and continuing support for mortgage markets going forward.† Fourth, even under this scenario, a rise in short-term rates is very likely to be a long way off.† Not only will it likely take considerable time to reach the FOMCís 6.5 percent unemployment rate threshold, but also the FOMC could wait considerably longer before raising short-term rates.† The fact that inflation is coming in well below the FOMCís 2 percent objective is relevant here.† Most FOMC participants currently do not expect short-term rates to begin to rise until 2015.† To reiterate what I said last week, some commentators have interpreted the recent shift in the market-implied path of short-term interest rates as indicating that market participants now expect the first increases in the federal funds rate target to come much earlier than previously thought.† Setting aside whether this is the correct interpretation of recent price moves, let me emphasize that such an expectation would be quite out of sync with both FOMC statements and the expectations of most FOMC participants. Read the whole speech at NYFed.org.
REUTERS/John Gress Traders William Noah (L) and Kevin Statham call out trades in the Corn Options Pit at the CME group in Chicago July 11, 2012, Deutsche Bank's U.S. Equity Strategy team led by David Bianco are concerned about stock market volatility in the near-term as interest rates rise. "The S&amp;P should stay above 1525 given tentative signs of 10yr yields stabilizing around 2.5% and unshaken oil prices and Euro," wrote Bianco. "A further near-term jump in yields could spark fears of a surge and dislocate credit, FX, and commodity markets, but this is not likely." However, he continues to be bullish on the long-run. He sees the S&amp;P 500 at 2,000 by the end of 2015. With this framework in mind, Bianco and his team offer 33 buy-rated stocks on his latest "What To Buy Now" list. Each have a market capitalization over $10 billion, a price-earning ratio on 2013 EPS below 20, 2013 EPS growth above 5 percent, and a net debt to market cap ratio below 30 percent (excluding Financials).
I flew JetBlue from San Francisco to New York a while back. I have to tell you, for the first couple of hours, it was one of the best domestic economy-class flying experiences I have ever had. Alas, the dream ended when the aircraft hit 10,000 feet. (NOTE: Frequent readers will be be dismayed to hear that I forgot to take pictures of every moment of my JetBlue flying experience. So this story will only have a few photos. My apologies! If you want more flight photos, check back soon to learn what it's like on British Airways. Or read this American Airlines adventure...) I got to the airport way ahead of time. The JetBlue terminal in San Francisco is glassy and airy and filled with light, and it has beautiful views of mountains and airplanes. I got a ham sandwich near the gate. It wasn't horrible. I got some tea, too. That wasn't horrible, either. I found a table next to an electrical outlet. Yes, I had to stalk the table, and, yes, I had to pounce the moment the prior patron appeared to be disconnecting, but how else are you going to get juiced up before a 5-hour flight aboard which you're planning to spend every minute working? While I recharged, I ate and drank, wrote an article announcing that I was switching from Google's email app to Apple's email app (I've since had to switch back), and looked at the mountains and planes. And then, at the appropriate time, I made my way to the gate. The flight boarded on time. (Hooray!) No one grabbed my bag and checked it at the last second (Hooray!) And when I got to my seat, I discovered my seat was an Exit Row seat! (HOORAY!) BOATLOADS of leg room. Henry Blodget / Business Insider I also discovered that JetBlue has a clever name for these seats. They call them "EVEN MORE SPACE" seats. Why is that clever? Because it implies that the other seats in the plane, which presumably come with about as much space as the one-foot-by-one-foot cage that houses the average Big-Ag chicken, also have lots of space, just not quite as much. Henry Blodget / Business Insider In any event, the JetBlue EVEN MORE SPACE seats had a veritable ocean of leg room. I settled into my massive seat and, while the rest of the passengers filed in, thought about all the work I was going to get done now that I was not going to have to spend the whole flight with my keyboard in my sternum, hunting and pecking while trying to avoid elbowing my neighbor in the jaw. The flight left the gate on time.¬† It took off nicely without crashing¬† And it climbed smoothly out over the Bay without having to do any sudden acrobatics on the climb-out.¬† So everything really was going swimmingly. And then, finally, as we floated toward the Sierras, we passed 10,000 feet and got the all-clear to start using our electronic devices. I had amassed a full charge at the outlet I had stalked in the terminal, so I figured that, once connected to the plane's WiFi, if I turned the screen down super low and shut everything else down, I could squeeze maybe three or four hours of work in. So I flipped open my Air and went for it. But what was this? My Air couldn't find the plane's WiFi connection? How could that be? Was there something wrong with my Air? (Turn off WiFi. Turn on WiFi. Turn off WiFi. Turn on WiFi. No joy). Was there something special about how you connected to WiFi on JetBlue? (Search seatback pocket for in-flight magazine, scan it, learn nothing.) Was there, gasp, something wrong with THIS PLANE's WiFi? (Would it soon be fixed??) It was a few minutes before I discovered the the full horror of my reality. My laptop wasn't broken. The plane's WiFi wasn't broken.¬†There wasn't something special about how you connected to JetBlue's WiFi.¬† The reality was... JetBlue doesn't have WiFi. Seriously! What is that about? Who made THAT decision? What does JetBlue expect you to do for five hours while you float across the country if you don't have WiFi? Watch television? Eat blue potato chips? After I landed, I Googled "JetBlue WiFi" and discovered that I'm not the only JetBlue customer who has been dismayed to learn that JetBlue doesn't have WiFi. I also learned that JetBlue is now promising everyone that WiFi will be arriving this summer. (Not surprisingly, the announcement is worded as though it's a fantastic new customer-service innovation, as opposed to something that any self-respecting airline offers on long flights these days).¬†¬† Now, I don't want to overplay this. I am, of course, still happy that my cheap JetBlue flight took off and landed on time and, most importantly, arrived safely. If you get those things right as an airline, you automatically get a "B" from me.¬† And then, when you throw in freebies like blue potato chips, TV, and EVEN MORE SPACE, that grade ticks up to a "B+." But no WiFi on a cross-country flight from San Francisco to New York? Come on, JetBlue! It's 2013!
Gold, gold miners, everything gold is in the dumps, and unfortunately for some money managers, the onus is on them to explain why they went all in on the commodity, and why it's performing so horribly. Their investors still need to get that periodic letter. Business Insider obtained a copy of one such letter dated June 30th, 2013. The money manager's fund, a Florida-based "long/short value" fund that is focused on equities and commodities, lost 68.45% in Q2 2013. The letter notes that the fund's net exposure is "fully invested in gold stocks." From the letter: Here is the problem. The oldest daily gold stock index started in December 1983. If you look at the older, weekly gold stock data, which starts in December 1938, there were plenty of instances when the 1-month RSI readings went lower than February 20 and gold stocks continued to go lower. While one may think that 29 years would produce enough data to make for a robust indicator, the problem is commodities have 30 year cycles. The last major commodity top was in 1980. So the 1983 data does not even cover a full commodity cycle. While this seems obvious in retrospect, it did not become glaring obvious that something was amiss until the precious metals complex crashed in mid-April. The daily 1983 data was downgraded and the more stress-tested 1938 data was analyzed more thoroughly. At the April 17 low, even the 1938 data was indicating gold stocks were roughly in the 0.9% percentile with respect to being oversold. So it seemed like a good idea to buy even more. Well, by the end of June, gold stocks were in the 0.1% oversold percentile. In summary, there were many indicators based on 1983 data in February, March and early April that were at all-time extremes. This made the risk look negligible. However, the 1938 data does not give up ‚Äúall-time‚Äù extremes so easily. The next time around the oldest available data will be utilized. So this particular problem should be rectified Ianthe future. We are now at the point where every time gold stocks were this oversold (yes since 1938), the downside risk was quite minimal. The upside potential from here will not be mentioned. The numbers are so high that doing so would strain credibility. Incomplete data set ... whaddayagonnado? The fund remains committed to maximizing annualized return, so chins up.
As U.S. Treasuries sell off and yields rise, bond funds are seeing record outflows. Last week alone, investors pulled $23.3 billion from fixed income funds. Unlike the fixed income asset managers, though, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is loving this sell-off. Crain's Chicago reporter Lynne Marek highlights the link between the CME and rising interest rates: On May 29, CME logged the¬†biggest trading day of its 165-year-history, with nearly 27 million contracts changing hands. That day a Fed official signaled the central bank's plan to ease its buying of U.S. bonds, which has kept interest rates low. The new tack kicked up market volatility and gave traders a need to hedge interest rates with futures contracts. CME "stock is very interest rate-sensitive," former CME board member Robert Corvino says. "Volume has exploded." It may be the case that many investors aren't looking to load up on bonds, given the potential for further losses as the Federal Reserve normalizes policy in the coming months and years ‚Äì but someone still has to trade them, even on the way down. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg
In a June letter to investors, Hayman Capital's Kyle Bass turned his attention to a new target in Asia, according to Absolute Return. China, he says could see a "full-scale recession" as early as next year if they do not curb the current pace of the credit expansion. According to reports from the Wall Street Journal, Chinese officials have been equally worried about reckless lending, and intervened last month in the form of rising rates (which in turn resulted in the recent spate of Chinese bank liquidity crunches). Bass seems to fear however, that this intervention is not enough. He also said that the People's Bank of China would not be able to ensure the country's growth with easy money because of the "inescapable law of diminishing marginal returns." From the letter (via Absolute Return): "The scale and pace of credit expansion in China over the last 5 years is truly staggering. The compounded annual growth of bank assets as measured by the China Banking Regulatory Commission has been 30.8%," Bass wrote. "To give some perspective, a 30.8% compounded annual growth of credit in the U.S. equivalent over 5 years would be an expansion of $33 trillion. This rate of credit growth is three times the total credit system growth experienced in the U.S. at the peak of the bubble in 2006... "The debt-to-equity ratios of Chinese companies are exploding as they funnel new capital, not into yield returning investments, but into the black holes on their balance sheets that have been created by a slowing growth environment. In the industrial sector, there is even outright deflation as overcapacity finally takes its toll," the letter reads. "The speed and depth of the Chinese policy response will help determine the severity and duration of this crisis. If the Chinese address the issue quickly and move decisively to rein in credit expansion and accept a period of much lower growth, they may be able to use the government and People's Bank of China's balance sheet to cushion the adjustment in the economy," Bass wrote. "If, however, they continue on the current path and allow this deterioration to reach its natural and logical limit, we will likely see a full-scale recession as well as a collapse in asset and real estate prices sometime next year." That's a big get for the team China bear. For more of the letter, you'll have to go to Absolute Return (and become a member)&gt;
Casey Research / YouTubeRichard RussellRichard Russell, the long-time chartist behind the Dow Theory Letters, has been a gold bull for as long as we can remember. In his latest commentary, he notes that coverage of gold's recent decline has been much more robust than any coverage of its ascent. Indeed, in recent days gold has seen a decent bounce, even as the media coverage continues to be overwhelmingly bearish. Here's Russell via King World News: I thought it significant that when gold was declining, there was no end of publicity about the ìdreadful actionî of gold.† But when the gold miners surged on Friday -- not a word appeared about the bullish action of gold and the gold miners, NOT a word! If true, that gold has seen its lows, then adventurous subscribers might buy some out-of-the money gold calls.† If gold and silver head higher, you'll make money with the calls, and all you can lose is the original price of the calls you buy.† Check with your broker....Gold was up 32.00 to 1255.70 (on Monday) and the whole gold universe closed higher.† Gold is so hated that it could rally over $1500, and nobody would notice it.† Sentiment against gold is so bearish that I thought gold could have struck a capitulation low last week.† Another bearish piece in today's issue of USA Today.† Talk about rising on a stairway of hatred, you're seeing it now in gold!î Read more at KingWorldNews.com
ChinaSMACKSome 9 million Chinese students recently took their National College Entrance Examination, or Gaokao. These exams are extremely stressful, and students overwhelmed by the pressure sometimes commit suicide, often dubbed Gaokao suicides. It doesn't help that the essays of the top scorers, and sometimes those with a zero, are released to the public. One teenager, however, obviously didn't care about his grade. In an essay on justice ‚Äî or more accurately, 'sense of balance' ‚Äî the teen wrote that he/she expected a zero. With China's intolerance for dissent however one has to wonder if the grader was too scared to give the teen a higher score. Here is an excerpt from the essay translated into English from ChinaSMACK.com: Justice? I‚Äôve always wanted to live a just life; in a society where everyone‚Äôs equal, where the law reigns supreme, where the city management don‚Äôt beat the rabble, where school principals don‚Äôt check into hotel rooms with their students, where doctors focus on treating their patients. But I was born into this society, breathing highly polluted air, eating food that could kill you at any time, watching the director of some state tobacco bureau accumulating millions. I want to ask, do you see justice? Do you believe the Chinese Dream will ever be realized? It doesn‚Äôt matter if you believe it or not, either way I believe it. When over ten thousand pigs collectively jumped into the Huangpu River, I realized that if I don‚Äôt believe in this ‚Äújustice,‚Äù I‚Äôll end up just like them. I‚Äôve been waiting to live a ‚Äújust‚Äù life, where the government officials are honest and do real work, where the businessmen run their businesses conscientiously, where the housing prices are not so ridiculously high, and where the people live in happiness and contentment. There‚Äôs only a few minutes left before I have to turn in my test paper, and I already know my essay has pricked the test grader‚Äôs tiny little heart. Give me a zero then, my dear grader. I‚Äôm not scared, Sanlu milk powder didn‚Äôt kill me, so what more could a zero grade do? Don‚Äôt hesitate; scrawl down the grade, and then you can go play mahjong‚Ä¶ Read the whole essay at Chinasmack ¬ª
REUTERS/Frank PolichFactory orders climbed 2.1% month-over-month in May to $485 billion. This was pretty much in line with expectations for a 2% rise. April's reading was revisde up to show a 1.3% rise. The factory order report gives more complete data on manufacturing than the durable goods report. This comes after Monday's ISM report showed that manufacturing expanded in June, after a contractionary reading in May. This also follows on the PMI report that showed manufacturing expanding but at a slower pace. Here's a summary frome the U.S. Census Bureau release: "New orders for manufactured goods in May, up three of the last four months, increased $9.9 billion or 2.1 percent to $485.0 billion, the U.S. Census Bureau reported today. This followed a 1.3 percent April increase. Excluding transportation, new orders increased 0.6 percent. "Shipments, up following two consecutive monthly decreases, increased $4.6 billion or 1.0 percent to $483.6 billion. This followed a 0.7 percent April decrease. "Unfilled orders, up three of the last four months, increased $8.2 billion or 0.8 percent to $1,004.8 billion. This followed a 0.3 percent April increase. The unfilled orders-to-shipments ratio was 6.21, down from 6.28 in April. "Inventories, up six consecutive months, increased $0.3 billion to $627.8 billion. This was at the highest level since the series was first published on a NAICS basis in 1992, and followed a 0.1 percent April increase. The inventories-to-shipments ratio was 1.30, down from 1.31." Click here for the full release &gt;
APFinance books aren't usually considered a good beach read. But according to New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin, a solid Wall Street page turner can be just what you need to get you through summer vacation. This morning he published his "essential Wall Street summer reading list in Dealbook," from dramatic narratives to meaty economic history. There are 13 books on the list, we've listed about half. For the rest, head to NYT. 1. "Den of Thieves" by James Stewart "The book is a masterful look at the insider trading scandals and greed on Wall Street of the late 1980s and mirrors much of the current narrative with a colorful cast of characters," writes Sorkin. 2. "Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabiscoî by†Bryan Burrough and John Helyar Be embarrassed if you haven't read this absolute classic already ó†about the leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco. 3. ìLiarís Pokerî by Michael Lewis "Liar's Poker" charts through Lewis's time as a trader at Salomon Brothers. 4. ìThe Informantî by Kurt Eichenwald Sorkin calls this book, about the Archer Daniels Midland price-fixing scandal, underappreciated. "The book reads like a John Grisham thriller that just happens to be true and happens to be about business," he writes. 5.†ìIndecent Exposureî by David McClintick "A rollicking good read about a Hollywood scandal and the ultimate boardroom power struggle at Columbia Pictures," Sorkin writes. 6.†ìLords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the Worldî by Liaquat Ahamed For a good Fed read, pick this one up. Ahamed won the Pulitzer Prize for his book about the runup to the Great Depression. It's also a favorite book of Ben Bernanke and Tim Geithner, according to Sorkin. 7. "Capitalism and Freedom" by Milton Friedman Sorkin calls this†"a seminal work that helped frame a long and heated debate about capitalism versus socialism that is still at the heart of the American discussion of the economy and politics." 8. ìThe World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century" by Tom Friedman Friedman, Sorkin's colleague at the Times, "changed the way we think about global business, competitiveness and the implication for far-flung economies, governments, education and more." Read the full piece at The New York Times&gt;
Shares are trading at $121.30. This morning, Virgin CEO Richard Branson wrote a blog post in solidarity with Tesla chief Elon Musk's moves to block auto dealers from preventing direct Tesla sales. He linked to a White House petition that is just 9,000 signatures short of reaching 100,000, at which point the White House must respond.†

Things have really calmed down in markets, and part of that is Japan is seeing its stock market rally, and the yen weaken. The Nikkei crossed above 14,000 last night on the back of 1 .8% gain. And Nikkei futures are still rallying today. Meanwhile, the yen continues to weaken, as USDJPY goes above 100. FinViz ¬†
Freddie MacCHICAGO (Reuters) - If you're weary of watching the stock and bond market get dyspepsia over the Federal Reserve's possible pullback of its easy money policy, turn your gaze to the U.S. home market. Rising interest rates could be a catalyst to boost sales and prices. In January, the average 30-year mortgage rate, as tracked by Freddie Mac, was 3.34 percent. In the most recent survey, the rate jumped to 4.46 percent, up more than half a percentage point from the week before. While that is still a bargain by historical standards - the benchmark rate averaged about 8 percent in 2000 - the summer buying season combined with the possible end of the Fed's easing policy will move millions of buyers into the home market. Those who are still on the fence about buying a home will be worrying that rates will soar higher. Mortgage rates are still relatively low, so "fear of regret" will push them into purchasing. Overall, the outlook for U.S. housing continues to improve. U.S. home prices posted the biggest gain in seven years in April, according to CoreLogic, up 12 percent from April a year ago. Prices also climbed 12 percent year-over-year for the 20 major cities tracked by the S&amp;P Case-Shiller Home Price Indices during that month. Pending home sales hit a six-year high in May, according to the National Association of Realtors, the real estate trade association. Tight supply and pent-up demand have nudged buyers into the market. Higher mortgage rates, which have shot up over the past month, are also motivating buyers to make bids and close sales. Even more potential buyers may come off the fence: At the current pace of economic and job growth, mortgage rates could hit 6 percent next year, which could spark even more sales, according to Richard Barrington of moneyrates.com. Not every housing market will experience this upswing, though. Prices may not have bottomed out in some areas. BEST MARKETS FOR APPRECIATION Ideally, the sweet spot for home gains is in a market with robust job growth, healthy inventories and low foreclosure rates. Here are some of the leading markets in that category, according to Local Market Monitor, a real estate information service: San Antonio, Dallas, Houston and Austin, Texas - Population growth in Texas is more than double the national average, thanks to ample job growth, climate and the energy-industry boom. Houston, San Antonio, Austin and Dallas-Fort Worth all ranked among the country's 10 fastest-growing cities, according to the Census Bureau. Homes in the Austin area, for example, have seen nearly 10 percent appreciation in the last three years and 4 percent in the last year, according to Local Market Monitor. The city has experienced almost 10 percent population growth in the last three years. Like many Texas markets, Austin wasn't impacted by the bubble and has low unemployment, of 5 percent. Provo, Utah - Provo's healthy economy is fueling job growth, which has risen 5 percent in the past year; the unemployment rate is 4 percent. That's translated into strong home price increases: The median home sales price for the area has climbed from about $167,000 last year to $185,000 during the past year through July 1, according to Movato.com, a property information service. Fayetteville, Arkansas - Benefiting from the nearby headquarters of Wal-Mart, job and population growth are strong. The short-term outlook is good as metro-area unemployment has trended well below national averages in recent years. The jobless rate was 5.4 percent in April, compared to 7.2 percent for the state, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. TROUBLED MARKETS Several markets are still struggling with high foreclosure rates, which depress prices. They are generally "older manufacturing towns with stagnant or shrinking population and continuing job losses," according to Ingo Winzer, president of Local Market Monitor. "Not surprisingly, home prices in these markets continue to fall." Some noteworthy laggards include: Providence, Rhode Island - Providence is suffering from no growth, no new jobs and an unemployment rate of 10 percent. As a result, both sales and average listing prices have dropped over the past year, reports Trulia.com, an online real estate service. The number of sales dropped nearly 20 percent year over year through June 19. Cleveland, Ohio, and Buffalo, New York - Decreasing populations and job losses in these rust-belt cities have hurt housing. These cities experienced several decades of plant closings, and lingering foreclosures hurt prices across the board. Buffalo's median sales price, for example, has dropped from around $80,000 a year ago, to about $63,000, according to Movato.com. Augusta, Georgia - Population is growing, but jobs are just barely being added. Georgia was a center of subprime lending, and more foreclosures are in store. Even though the number of sales has climbed almost 30 percent, the median sales price is down more than 6 percent through June 19, according to Trulia. While you may find some relative bargains in areas hardest hit by the housing crash, don't forget that employment and the general economy still play a major role. The housing rebound won't be sustainable if the U.S. lurches into another downturn, which is possible if the Fed's future moves trigger a slowdown. (The author is a Reuters columnist and the opinions expressed are his own. For more from John Wasik see http://link.reuters.com/syk97s) (Editing by Lauren Young and Leslie Adler)
m3nch13 via FlickrHome prices increased 12.6% YOY in May, the greatest increase since February 2006, according to CoreLogic. "It's been more than seven years since the housing market last experienced the increases that we saw in May," CoreLogic economist Mark Fleming said, "with indications that the summer months will continue to see significant gains. As we approach the half-way point of 2013, home prices continue to respond positively to the reductions in home inventory thus far." The firm adds home prices in the West are rising at a "torrid" pace. Indeed all the states that saw the biggest jumps were west of the Mississippi: CoreLogic
YouTube (Reuters) - Billionaire investor Carl Icahn asked for a meeting with Dell Inc's special board committee after lining up $5.2 billion in loan commitments to back up his bid for a leveraged recapitalization of the personal computer maker. Icahn, in an open letter to Dell shareholders, said that financing commitments included $1.6 billion from Jefferies Finance LLC, which will publicly file the papers after markets close on Monday. "With that we put an end to the unwarranted speculation by Dell that our money would not be available," Icahn†said in the letter. Obtaining the debt financing marks a critical step forward for Icahn's and Southeastern Asset Management's alternative bid for the company. Icahn and Southeastern are asking shareholders to tender 1.1 billion shares at $14 apiece. The tender offer compares with founder Michael Dell's and Silver Lake Partners' $24.4 billion buyout at $13.65 a share, a price Icahn said substantially undervalues the company. Dell's special board had recommended Michael†Dell's offer to shareholders. Ichan's effort at putting together a superior competing bid for Dell has been rebuffed so far by the special board committee. He asked for a face to face sit down meeting with the board to discuss the offer. A Dell spokesman was not immediately available for comment. Icahn was expected to have the financing ready by Monday, ahead of an ISS meeting that could take place as early as this week. ISS is a shareholder advisory group that is expected to publish its view on Dell's bid. A July 18 shareholder vote on Dell's take private plan will follow. The $5.2 billion financing includes a $2.2 billion, six-year term loan B-1 and a $3 billion, 3.5-year term loan B-2, sources told Thomson Reuters LPC. Pricing on the TLB-1 is set at LIB+400 with a 1 percent Libor floor, while pricing on the TLB-2 is set at LIB+350 with a 75 basis-point Libor floor. Both tranches are offered at a discount of 99.5 cents on the dollar and will carry 101 soft call protection for one year. The pricing, original issue discount and fee structure, as well as low leverage of 1.7 times, made the loan package attractive to investors, said sources evaluating the transaction. As an unusual perk, lenders will share in the profits if a different but higher bid prevails. Joint lead arrangers will earn 7.5 percent of the difference between the winning bid and Dell's current $13.65 per share offer times the roughly 227 million shares that Icahn and Southeastern jointly own. The loan also pays a 1.5 percent underwriting fee and a 2 percent arrangement fee. The six-year tranche will have standard 1 percent amortization, while the shorter-dated tranche amortizes at 10 percent per year. Icahn's proposed tender offer will be financed with $7.5 billion of cash on the balance sheet, the $5.2 billion credit facility and $2.9 billion from the sale of receivables. If Icahn's alternative proposal prevails, the loans would launch to a broader range of institutional investors before September 30, or the three-month commitment period of the $5.2 billion loans, according to sources. (Additional reporting by Poornima Gupta; Editing by Gerald E. McCormick, Caleb Frazier and Bernard Orr)
If you thought things have been ugly for gold, then you haven't paid attention to the gold miners, which have just been decimated. Check out this chart going back to 2004, which shows how badly gold-related equities have done during this time (both objectively, and relative to gold). Jefferies Despite the pain, Jefferies says the miners have more "carnage" ahead. As the price of gold declines further, gold will fall below the cost of production for these companies, resulting in years of negative cash flow. Gold has declined by 37% from its highs in 2011. Therefore, we believe the myth that gold is a low risk ìstore of valueî has been exposed for what it is to the latest generation of investors. Now, we fear that as understandably dissatisfied investors exit the market, selling could beget selling and send the gold price well below the cost of production. In our opinion, this risk is not discounted in gold equities valuations. In our opinion, an asset that declines by 37% in value doesnít qualify as a ìsafe havenî or ìstore of value.î And, it never should have. Gold is a commodity whose price can rise or fall.In conclusion, while weíd like to believe the carnage in the group is over, we donít. With short reserve lives, rising costs, rising political risks and a stagnant commodity price, we believe an argument could be made that gold equities should trade at valuation discounts to other resource equities. Instead, they continue to garner valuation premiums. In our opinion, that continues to make the risk/reward for the North American gold group unattractive. At a minimum, we remain confident there are better values within global metals and mining.
REUTERS/Brian SnyderYesterday, the world got a hearty laugh on news that the Winklevoss twins plan to launch a Bitcoin ETF. The Winklevoss twins are famous for their claim to have been co-founders of Facebook, resulting in a suit against the company that netted them a small windfall. Since then they've been pursuing various tech and investing opportunities, and it had been known that they were Bitcoin enthusiasts. There are so many reasons to LOL at this news, but the most devastating take comes from Macro Man, who argues that the proper way to think about this ETF is as an "IQ test": Someone on one of Team Macro Man's chats recently described this ETF as a Rorschach test of what people think of digital currencies. That is utterly wrong: it's an IQ test. Bitcoin is anonymous, untaxed (for now) and quite liquid in and of its own right despite all the complexities of a cryptocurrency. A bitcoin ETF is taxed, has fees, may or may not be liquid at all. So, this is really a test: do you want to facilitate the exit of the Winkelvii from an investment at inflated levels which they will soon be taxed upon or do you want to sit this hand out? Point. Set. Match. Read his whole post here ª
A lot of discussion this year has been about whether easy monetary policy is offsetting the drag from the sequester. But this is another factor that's serving as a tailwind for the consumer: dropping gasoline prices. From Bloomberg: The average U.S. retail gasolineprice fell to the lowest level since January as refineries increased output in the Midwest, easing supply fears. Gasoline prices averaged $3.496 a gallon today, down 8.1 cents from the previous week and the lowest level since Jan. 28, according to data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration. The average price is 14 cents higher than it was this time last year. Here's a 5-year chart which shows the general trend of lower and lower peaks, as well as the fact that gas prices are at their lowest level of the year. FRED
REUTERS/Asmaa WaguihAnti-Mursi protesters look up at a military helicopter over the area as protesters chant slogans at a massive protest for the second day at a main street in Alexandria, July 1, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.
Here's your headscratcher of the day. Despite gigantic protests and a possible coup, the Eyptian stock market is on a tear. The CASE 30 index is up 4.8%. Via Bloomberg: Bloomberg And it's not just today. The index has been rallying the last 4 days. Odd.
(Photo by Oli Scarff/Getty Images) BRUSSELS/ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece has three days to reassure Europe and the International Monetary Fund it can deliver on conditions attached to its international bailout in order to receive the next tranche of aid, four euro zone officials said on Tuesday. The lenders are unhappy with progress Greece has made towards reforming its public sector, a senior euro zone official involved in the negotiations said, while another said they might suspend an inspection visit they resumed on Monday. Athens, which has about 2.2 billion euros of bonds to redeem in August, needs the talks to conclude successfully. If they fail, the International Monetary Fund might have to withdraw from the 240-billion-euro bailout to avoid violating its own rules, which require a borrower to be financed a year ahead. That would heighten the risk that concerted efforts by policymakers over the past nine months to keep a lid on the euro zone crisis could unravel, at a time when tensions are rising in other countries on the region's periphery. Portugal's Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar, the architect of its austerity drive under an EU/IMF bailout, resigned on Monday in a potential blow to his country's planned exit from an EU-IMF rescue program. Political tension has also increased in Italy, where Prime Minister Enrico Letta called a government meeting after a coalition partner threatened to withdraw. Athens and its creditors resumed talks on Monday to unlock 8.1 billion euros ($10.6 billion) of rescue loans, after a two-week break during which the government almost collapsed over redundancies at state broadcaster ERT. "All agreed that Greece has to deliver (pledges) before the Eurogroup on Monday. That's why they must present again on Friday," a second source told Reuters. Euro zone finance ministers are scheduled to meet on July 8 and discuss the situation in Greece, which is in its sixth year of recession and has seen unemployment surge to record highs. "It is a very difficult negotiation," a senior Greek official participating in the talks said. "We're moving fast to wrap up as many issues as possible a soon as possible." But Greece's financial overseers - the IMF, the euro zone and the European Central Bank - were unlikely to be able to conclude their review in July and might need to suspend the visit and resume it in September, a senior euro zone official said on condition of anonymity. Representatives of the EU-IMF-ECB "troika" have been holding serial meetings with government ministers inAthens, struggling to agree on a host of outstanding issues. If talks are not concluded by the middle of month, Athens risked missing the installment, the Greek official added. Athens has missed a June deadline to place 12,500 state workers into a "mobility scheme", under which they are transferred or dismissed within a year. A shortfall of more than 1 billion euros has emerged at state-run health insurer EOPYY, meaning automatic spending cuts may have to be agreed to bring it back on an even keel. Athens and the troika are also at odds over an unpopular property tax and a sales tax for restaurants. The government plans to ask its creditors to lower this year's privatization target of 2.6 billion euros after failing tofind a buyer for natural gas company DEPA. (Full Story) The beleaguered government of Prime Minister Antonius Samaras has ruled out imposing any new austerity measures on a population that is going through the sixth year of recession. Unemployment has hit a record 27 percent and Greeks have lost about a third of their disposable income at an average as a result of bailout-imposed austerity policies. (Reporting by Reuters bureaus; Editing by John Stonestreet)
It started off as more of a green morning, but as time has gone on, things are breaking down more. US futures have gone closer to flat, and Europe is breaking down. Via Bloomberg, here's a chart of Germany's DAX index, which is now off over 1.2%. Bloomberg Italy is also near its lows of the morning, down around 1%.
Hamed Saber via Compfight ccThere's a pretty strong correlation between auto sales and job creation. It makes sense. Nobody is buying a car when they don't have a job. And having a car is a pre-requesite, in many cases, for attending a job. So monthly light vehicle sales numbers are an important thing to watch during jobs week. The jobs report comes out on Friday, but today we'll get the car numbers. From Michael Ward at Sterne Agee: U.S. light vehicle sales for June are expected to be released throughout the day on Tuesday, July 2. We expect U.S. light vehicle sales of 1.355 million units, up 6% from the year-earlier period, or 15.4 million unit SAAR versus a 14.3 million unit rate in the comparable period last year. On a daily rate basis sales are expected to improve 10%. U.S. light vehicle sales have totaled between 13.9 and 15.5 million units every month since the beginning of 2012. The numbers will come out throughout the day. Meanwhile, there's chatter about a weak report on Friday. From Ben White's Morning Money: WEAK JOBS REPORT AHEAD? ñ Fridayís June jobs number, critical for Fed action on quantitative easing, looks like it may be soft. The latest weak indicator came Monday in the employment portion of the ISM manufacturing index, which dropped to 48.7 from 50.1, the worst reading since the economic recovery began in 2009. Pantheonís Ian Shepherdson: ì[W]hile [the ISM figure] does not guarantee a soft payroll reading on Friday, it shortens the odds. The consensus looked quite high at 175K even before this report.î
REUTERS/StringerNothing instills confidence in the financial system like the government issuing a directive to media telling outlets to report that everything is just fine. Alas, that's exactly what China has done. The FT reports: In a directive written last week and transmitted over the past few days to newspapers and television stations, local propaganda departments of the Communist party instructed reporters to stop ‚Äúhyping the so-called cash crunch‚Äù and to spread the message that the country‚Äôs markets are well stocked with money. The second half of June was really consumed by the surge in SHIBOR (China's LIBOR-like interbank lending rate). The surging rate was apparently official government policy (the People's Bank of China let it run up as a message to banks to be prudent in their behavior) but it invited a lot of chatter about liquidity seizing up in the Chinese banking system, and of course other talk about China's massive debt pile, and the shaky financial products that are sold through the banking system. But anyway, at least in China, the word is to stop talking about it all.
I liked this piece by¬†Philippe Bacchetta and Eric van Wincoop at VOX regarding the causes of the global great recession. ¬† In it, they discuss the factors that led to the crisis and why it was so globally widespread. ¬†This section, in particular, jumped out at me: ‚ÄúThere were also several factors that made the global economy more sensitive to a global panic: The first three factors generate vulnerability to a self-fulfilling panic in general, while the last one generates particular vulnerability to a panic that is global in nature.‚Äù The interesting thing is that none of these factors have actually gone away. ¬†In fact, you could argue they they are all major constraints going forward. ¬†The private sector, although de-leveraging, is much more leveraged at present than it was in the early 2000‚Ä≤s when the seeds of the crisis were sowed. ¬†Second, central banks are already at the zero lower bound and have been for years. ¬†The arsenal to combat future problems is limited at present. ¬†Third, global debt to GDP has risen substantially in the last decade and remains a major political constraint with regards to expansion of future fiscal policy. ¬†And lastly, the global economy is only becoming more and more interconnected. ¬†And that means that a crisis in one country is much more likely to influence the global economy. Although we‚Äôve slipped out of the great recession one could easily argue that we‚Äôre more vulnerable to future crises than ever.
It's been fascinating to watch Japan's Nikkei index over the past year. Starting in the fall, the market went on a rocketship ride, thanks to the promises made by new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose "Abenomics" platform promised to revive the economy via aggressive monetary policy, fiscal policy, and structural reforms designed to jolt the Japanese economy to life. (Abe actually wrote a great LinkedIn post on Sunday summarizing how it's all supposed to work) Since then, the Nikkei has sort of been seen as a gauge of how well things are working. Whether it's fair to judge such a regime by the day-to-day swings (let alone month-to-month) of the stock market is an open question. But at first, the surging market was seen as a ringing endorsement. Then a crash in June made people say it was all a Ponzi or a bubble. Anyway, since then things have settled down, and the market is on a nice tear, without much chatter. Last night it gained 1.8%, crossing the 14,000 threshold once again. Via FinViz: FinViz
via Land VestThis is a strange week. On the one hand, it's going to be quieted by the holiday (July 4, coming up on Thursday). On the other hand, there's lots of data coming up, especially Friday's jobs report. But at the moment, things are pretty slow. Japan is back in rally mode, with the Nikkei passing 14,000 last night, on the back of a 1.8% rally. US futures are also higher. On the other hand, Europe is having a weak day, with Italy down 0.6%, and Germany down in a similar ballpark. All in all, not much speculator is happening.
