Business Insider"Political risk has entered our vocabulary," writes Ian Bremmer pointing to the fiscal cliff, the eurozone crisis, and the turmoil in the Middle East. Every year, Bremmer, the head of Eurasia Group, publishes a list of the top 10 risks the world faces.¬† He also includes a couple of red herrings of which we should be mindful. Believe it or not, Bremmer actually thinks that the world may be a little too worried about what's going on in geopolitics. "Looking to 2013, political risk in the developed world is now overstated," he writes. "Despite the chaos in Congress--which we'll surely see much more of in the coming year--concerns about the fiscal cliff in the United States have been overplayed. So too the fragmentation of the eurozone.¬† And the impact of continued zero growth in Japan." But this doesn't mean we should be dismissive of the risks. What follows are Bremmer's top 10 risks for 2013, key excerpts from his report, and a list of the red herrings. Follow the Eurasia Group on Twitter: @EurasiaGroup.

Big news from Sears. Hedge funder†Eddie Lampert is taking over as Sears Holdings CEO, starting on February 2. CEO Louis D'Ambrosio is stepping down, citing "family health matters." Lampert is the chairman of Sears, and the founder, chairman, and CEO of ESL Investments. During his tenure as Sears chairman, Lampert has been lambasted by pundits and his own former executives for failing to help turnaround Sears. He's also on the Forbes 400 list, coming in 367th in 2012 with a net worth of $3.1 billion. Here's the full press release from Sears: HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill., Jan. 7, 2013†ó Sears Holdings Corporation (Nasdaq: SHLD) today announced that Louis J. D'Ambrosio will step down as Chief Executive Officer for family health matters at the end of the company's fiscal year on February 2, 2013.† Edward S. Lampert will then assume the role of CEO of Sears Holdings, in addition to his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors.† Mr. D'Ambrosio will remain on the Board until the company's next Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in May 2013 and will be available to assist with a smooth transition. "The Board greatly appreciates Lou's strong leadership in accelerating the transformation of Sears Holdings, and we understand and respect his personal decision to step down," said Mr. Lampert.† "Lou has guided Sears Holdings during a time of rapid industry change to become a more customer and Member-focused company and positioned us to lead in Integrated Retail.† His contributions to our company have been significant, and the entire Sears Holdings family wishes Lou and his family the very best." Mr. Lampert added, "In light of Lou's decision to step down, the Board feels it is important that there is continuity of leadership during this important period of transformation and improvement at Sears Holdings.† I have agreed to assume these additional responsibilities in order to continue the company's recovery and sustain the momentum we are experiencing, as well as further the development of the management team under the distributed leadership model, which provides our business unit leaders with greater control, authority and autonomy.† Working closely with the Board, management and our dedicated associates, we will remain focused on executing our goals, improving operations and building sustainable long-term value for shareholders.† All of this starts with delivering great experiences to our Members." Mr. D'Ambrosio said, "It has been a true privilege to serve the customers, Members, shareholders and associates of Sears Holdings.† This was a very difficult decision, but necessary for family considerations.† Sears Holdings is a remarkable company going through an exciting transformation to serve its Members with excellence in Integrated Retail.† I wish both the company and our talented associates much success in completing the transformation of Sears Holdings and look forward to supporting Eddie and the rest of our management team during the transition."
There's been a Japan trade that's been ultra hot for really the past couple of months. Thanks to the new Japanese PM (who has promise aggressive monetary easing) the yen has been weak and the Nikkei has been super strong. Both have made violent moves. But that's pausing a bit this week. On Monday, the Nikkei fell and the yen strengthened. And that's happening again today. From Nikkei.com, here' the Nikkei  And here's the dollar weakening against the yen. 
Bloomberg via YouTubeDavid BiancoThe most popular and perhaps most trusted measure of stock market value is the Shiller PE, which is also known as the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio. In short, the Shiller PE is the price of the stock market divided by the average of ten years worth of earnings.¬† If the Shiller PE is above the long-term average, the stock market is considered expensive. Stock market investors respect the Shiller PE, which is name after Yale economist Robert Shiller, because it accounts for periods of huge volatility and smooths them out. However, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco thinks that the Shiller PE is still skewed and should be subject to further adjustments. In his latest note to clients, Bianco makes some adjustments, and finds that the stock market is more attractively valued than initially thought.¬† From his note: Shiller‚Äôs PE has 3 major pitfalls. It doesn‚Äôt capture huge shifts in dividend payout ratios; WWI EPS cycle skews history; GAAP EPS depressed by goodwill writedowns in 2000s. We address the pitfalls in Shiller‚Äôs PE by making an equity time value adjustment (EVTA) to historic EPS when calculating 10yr trailing average EPS. Our equity time value adjustment raises EPS from past periods by a nominal cost of equity estimate less the dividend yield for that period. On this basis the valuation of the S&amp;P 500 is still attractive versus the long-term average. We prefer comparing the PE on our 10yr trailing ETVA EPS to the 1960-2011 average to avoid skews from huge earlier period EPS cycles. Bianco currently expects the S&amp;P 500 to end 2013 at 1,575. Here's the chart from his note: Deutsche Bank
Encouraged by the rise of China and India in the past decade, investors and economic commentators have eagerly looked toward other emerging market nations in hopes of finding "The Next China" ñ or at least the next country to supply the raw materials that China needs for its construction-driven growth boom and bubble (which entails the building of empty cities to create economic growth). Furthermore, since the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, investors have sought to invest in emerging markets as a way of diversifying away from investments in the heavily-indebted and slow-growing American and European economies. Unfortunately, the vast ocean of "hot money" that has poured into emerging markets has created a massive economic bubble throughout nearly the entire emerging world, including overheating economies and property bubbles everywhere from Brazil to Indonesia to Turkey. Ballooning asset prices and easy money has led to "luxury fever" as emerging market nations copy the spendthrift ways that contributed to the Westís downfall just a few years earlier. The Emerging Markets Bubble is a derivative of the bubbles in China and commoditiesand will pop when they inevitably do. How the Emerging Markets Boom Started The emerging markets boom started in approximately 2001, when China was admitted to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and Goldman Sachís Jim OíNeill coined the acronym ìBRICî (Brazil, Russia, India, China) to describe the ìBig Fourî fast-growing emerging market economies that were expected to surpass the developed G7 economies in size by the 2020s. Each member of the BRIC nations had their own unique and complementary role: China was seen as the primary driver of growth with its rapidly developing manufacturing base, aggressive urbanization rate and extremely ambitious infrastructure development that occurred in the form of ìmega-projects.î India became the worldís offshoring and information technology services hot-spot and its booming middle class was seen as a new market for Western products. Natural resource-rich Russia and Brazilís role was to provide the raw materials needed for China and Indiaís fast-paced urbanization and development. As global commodities prices rose to unprecedented heights during the past decade, eventually becoming a bubble in their own right, other resource-rich emerging market nations from Indonesia to South Africa saw a powerful rise in their fortunes as well. BRIC and emerging markets became a popular investment theme in the mid-2000s and became even more popular after the violent Crash of 2008 and Global Financial Crisis shook investor confidence in American and European investments. Central banks in the United States and Japan reacted to the strongly deflationary 2008 meltdown by slashing and holding interest rates at nearly zero percent (a policy known as ZIRP or Zero Interest Rate Policy) and by pursuing an unconventional monetary policy called quantitative easing (which can be considered a form of "money printing"), driving even more global investment capital into higher-earning investments in rapidly-growing emerging market nations. How the Emerging Markets Bubble Inflated Though emerging market economies and assets had slightly deflated during the most acute phase of the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 and early 2009, they quickly rebounded due to the incredibly stimulative monetary policies of global central banks. Chinaís $586 billion stimulus program [1], an economic defense measure, led to a sharp surge in economic activity as the country built massive infrastructure "mega projects," opulent government buildings and scores of entirely empty cities to create economic growth [2, 3, 4]. The combination of stimulative global monetary policies and Chinaís construction-intensive (and thus natural resource-intensive) economic stimulus program caused commodities prices to roughly double from early-2009 until early-2011:Bar Chart Soaring commodities prices helped to boost the fortunes of resource-rich emerging market economies and cushioned them from a good portion of the Westís economic suffering. (Note: not all emerging market economies that are currently experiencing bubbles are commodities exporters.) In 2009 and 2010, emerging market asset bubbles began to strongly reinflate due to global carry trades in which investors borrowed capital from deflation-prone countries with low interest rates (like the U.S. and Japan) and deployed it into higher-yielding investments in non-deflation-prone economies such as those in emerging markets [5]. By late-2010, capital flows to emerging markets had risen to $825 billion ñ a level that exceeded the last peak in 2006-2007, while inflows to Asian economies rose 60% above their prior peak [6]. Dilma Rousseff, the President of Brazil and a trained economist, has frequently decried the large pool of speculative capital that has sought returns in emerging market assets, calling it a "liquidity tsunami" due to its ability to cause inflation, overheating and asset bubbles in emerging market economies [7]. The economic bubbles in Canada and Australia have inflated for similiar reasons (rising commodities prices &amp; carry trades) as the emerging markets bubble. The U.S. Federal Reserveís $600 billion Quantitative Easing 2 (QE2) program that began in the fall of 2010 caused commodities prices to surge and resulted in a new wave of fears over emerging market asset bubbles and economic overheating. In early 2011, the Bank of Englandís Andrew Haldane warned of emerging market asset bubbles due to capital inflows from advanced economies [8] and the IMF warned of "signs of overheating" in emerging market economies [9]. By the summer of 2011, emerging market economies were red-hot and The Economist magazine published a "temperature gauge" to show which emerging market economies were most overheated, with Argentina, Brazil, Hong Kong and India at the top of the list [10]. Around the same time, Joachim Fels, a top Morgan Stanley economist, warned that the BRIC nations faced an ìelevated risk of credit bubbles and rising defaultsî [11] and BRIC banks began to show the signs of a credit crisis [12]. Emerging market economies and their equity markets have cooled somewhat since the summer of 2011 due to another flare-up of the Eurozone crisis, the ending of the U.S.í QE2 program in June 2011, the U.S. debt ceiling debate and credit rating downgrade and Chinaís ongoing economic slowdown. Despite the slowdown in emerging market economies, their bonds and fixed income assets are still booming (along with their property markets) and attracting massive capital inflows [13], which is helping to fuel their explosive credit growth [14]. Now that emerging market central banks are pursuing looser monetary policies to boost economic growth (including the possibility of another Chinese stimulus package), it would not be surprising if economic overheating and stock market bubbles reared their ugly heads again in the future. There is an Epidemic of Emerging Market Property Bubbles The tsunami of global ìhot moneyî has created an epidemic of international emerging market property bubbles in hubristic defiance of the lessons that should have been learned from the calamitous American and European real estate crashes. Naive emerging market property investors are most likely justifying their investments with the famous last words, "this time is different!" (Note: the Emerging Markets Property Bubble is just one part of the "Post-2009 Global Housing Bubble" or "Housing Bubble 2.0" that I have identified. Other regions with major property bubbles are Australia, Canada and Northern &amp; Western Europe. Please click on the links to learn more about this very important global housing bubble.) Here are charts of just some (but not all) of the emerging market property bubbles: China's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Hong Kong's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Taiwan's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble South Korea's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble India's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Singapore's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Malaysia's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Indonesia's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble The Philippines' Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble South Africa's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Israel's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Russia's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Serbia's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Brazil's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Argentina's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Colombia's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Uruguay's Property Bubble The Bubble Bubble Cheap credit and soaring real estate prices have led to rampant "bubble drunk" behavior in emerging market countries. Singapore seems hell-bent on repeating the mistakes [15] made by Dubai during its mid-2000s bubble as it builds extraordinarily opulent vanity projects such as the Marina Bay Sands, the worldís most expensive standalone resort that looks like a cruise ship (and has a massive pool on top of it) [16], and an artificial forest comprised of 150-foot tall biometric "supertrees." [17] Singaporeís bubble economy is fueled by interest rates that are linked to the U.S.í ultra-low interest rates, which are far too low for Singaporeís fast-growing and inflation-prone economy [18]. South Korea, whose citizens were among the best savers in world as recently as the late-1990s, now has the lowest savings rate in the OECD as its consumers have been binging on debt and spending so much money that they are beating notoriously profligate Americans at their own game. The average South Korean adult has nearly five credit cards and the countryís household debt burden exceeds that of the U.S. before the Global Financial Crisis [19, 20]. Brazilians have recently been on debt-fueled international shopping spree for luxury-goods that has boosted the fortunes of Florida and New York City [21] (which is one of the many reasons why our post-2009 economic recovery is actually a "bubblecovery.") In India, where nearly 95% of the population lives on less than $2 per day, brand-addicted consumers are causing the luxury sector to boom [22] and Ferrari picked it as the country of choice to unveil its $687,000 FF four-seater [23]. While the West is mired in its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, the luxury sector has the emerging markets bubble to thank for its exploding sales, including a vigorous start in 2012 [24]. Very few people realize that Europeís economic situation would be far worse than it already is if it were not for the saving grace of booming luxury goods exports to emerging markets (another "bubblecovery" datapoint). When the emerging markets luxury bubble pops, the severity of Europeís economic crisis will greatly increase. Emerging market economies and investment assets are experiencing a bubble of enormous proportions as their investors and consumers make the very same mistakes that the West made just a few short years ago. The Emerging Markets Bubble will pop when the bubbles in China and commodities prices pop and may lead to a crisis like the 1997 Asian financial crisis in the best-case scenario and a global depression in the worst-case, but highly likely scenario. Singapore and Hong Kong, with their finance and real estate-heavy island economies, may experience a similar fate to Iceland and Ireland in the 2008 financial meltdown. This time isnít different.
Wikimedia CommonsChina's military budget has been exploding and could soon pass the US military budget in just over two decades. From a recent research note published by Societe Generale: Growing dispute with China and its neighbours...China‚Äôs military spending is expected to have increased from around $20 billion in 2002 to at least $120bn in 2011. According to the research institute SIPRI, the country could surpass the US in total military spending by 2035, raising concerns in the US and southeast Asian countries. Last year, conflict over disputed islands caused Japan‚Äôs exports to China to fall sharply (-14.5% in November), increasing Japan‚Äôs trade deficit. The election of a new government with a more nationalist position in Japan could put the Sino- Japanese relationship under further strain. With the US Pivot preventing any large military actions in the region, the conflicts could take the form of trade wars that would damage Japan‚Äôs weak economy. Societe Generale
Let's suppose the GOP doesn't raise the debt ceiling on time. And let's suppose the administration doesn't try any novel ideas, like invoking the 14th Amendment or using the Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin to get around the debt ceiling. The best hope, then, is that the Treasury "prioritizes" its payments, so that it honors some things like interest payments, while delaying payments on other stuff that's not so crucial. So what might that look like? A presentation from the Bipartisan Policy Center did a good job of looking at what we'd have to give up if we prioritized crucial things like interest payments, Social Security and defense. There are four slides here. Two sets of two. In each one, the first shows what we could keep spending on, and the second show what we would have to cut. Bipartisan Policy Center Bipartisan Policy Center Bipartisan Policy Center Bipartisan Policy Center For the full presentation on what happens if we don't hike the debt ceiling, see here &gt;
Morgan StanleyMorgan Stanley's tech analysts and retail analysts came together and published a big presentation on the eCommerce revolution. The Morgan Stanley team expects the eCommerce opportunity ‚Äì "retail sales disruption" ‚Äì to get even bigger in the next few years, and says global eCommerce sales could top $1 trillion by 2016. The presentation examines the five disruptive forces sweeping across the industry, breaks out the opportunities by region, highlights stock picks that stand to gain the most, and comes to five conclusions on where eCommerce is likely to go from here. Note: Thanks to Morgan Stanley for allowing us to feature these slides.

djjewelz / FlickrYum! Brands, the owner of KFC and Taco Bell, just warned that sales in its Chinese stores would fall short of expectations due to an From the company's 8-K filing with the SEC: Due to adverse publicity associated with a government review of China poultry supply - and the corresponding significant impact on KFC China sales during the last two weeks of December - we now expect China Division same-store sales to be -6% for the fourth quarter of 2012, versus our previous forecast of -4%. The Company expects full-year 2012 earnings per share, excluding Special Items, of approximately $3.24. We do not anticipate providing any further updates or commentary until our scheduled earnings release on February 4, 2013. The new EPS expectation is below analysts' forecast calling for $3.26 per share.
White House via FlickrPresident Barack Obama could announce this week his choice to nominate Jack Lew to be the next Treasury Secretary, Bloomberg's Hans Nichols is reporting. Lew, the current White House Chief of Staff, would replace Timothy Geithner in the role. Lew's appointment would also mean that Obama would need to find a new chief of staff to replace Lew in his second-term Cabinet. Nichols says that two possibilities for that role are¬†Denis McDonough, a¬†deputy national security adviser, and Ron Klain, who was¬†Vice President Joe Biden‚Äôs chief of staff. It has already been a busy week for Obama's Cabinet reshuffle. On Monday, he nominated former Republican Sen. Chuck Hagel to be the next Secretary of Defense and¬†John Brennan,¬†the White House homeland-security and counterterrorism adviser, to be the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Lew's first order of business will come on the issue of working with Congress to raise the debt ceiling, which needs to happen by the mid-February for the U.S. to continue to be able to borrow money to pay its bills. Lew is known as a skilled negotiator who played a major role in both the recent deal to avert the fiscal cliff and in negotiating with Republicans in the 2011 debt-ceiling talks. Geithner has said he plans to leave his post by the end of January, even if the debt-ceiling lift has not been resolved.
ChesapeakeThe EPA asked nine drillers to submit detailed information about their operations as part of the agency's years-long study of fracking's impact on drinking water. However, the companies deemed "a majority" of information they provided to the EPA's megastudy on fracking as confidential, which complicates the agency's ability to publish their findings. Just five companies submitted data that was not tagged proprietary or "confidential business information." The agency says it's trying to figure out how to resolve this dilemma: "As of September 2012, the EPA continues to clarify the†information reported and to work with the nine hydraulic fracturing service companies to release†information originally designated as CBI without compromising trade secrets." SEE MORE: Why Everyone Is Now Talking About 'Saudi America' &gt;
Wet Seal has hired long-time industry veteran, John Goodman, to be its new CEO. Most recently, he was chief apparel and home officer of Sears Holdings, overseeing both the Sears and Kmart brands. He started his job today.¬† And he has a lot of work to do. Wet Seal has been crushed lately. The previous CEO¬†was fired after just 11 months on the job. The company's stock had dropped¬†nearly 50 percent during her tenure and same-store sales declined every month. It also had the weakest sales of anything of the big retail chains over the holiday rush, with same-store sales plummeting 9.7 percent. Here's the full press release from Wet Seal: The Wet Seal, Inc. (Nasdaq: WTSLA) ("the Company"), a leading specialty retailer to young women, announced today it has entered into an employment contract with John D. Goodman to serve as its new Chief Executive Officer through January 30, 2016. Mr. Goodman will assume his position as Chief Executive Officer on January 7, 2013. He initially joined the Company as a member of the board of directors on September 18, 2012. Mr. Goodman is a well respected apparel industry executive with over 25 years of experience at well known companies such as Gap, Inc., Levi Strauss &amp; Co., Mervyn's, and Bloomingdale's. He brings proven success in junior specialty store retailing and is recognized as an engaging and versatile leader. From 2008 to 2009, while he led the turnaround at Charlotte Russe, a publicly traded junior retailer with sales of over $800 million, the stock price more than doubled. Most recently, Mr. Goodman served as Executive Vice President, Chief Apparel and Home Officer, Sears Holdings, overseeing both the Sears and Kmart brands. "I have always viewed Wet Seal as a pioneer in fast fashion and am thrilled to join the company as CEO," said Mr. Goodman. "I am honored to have this opportunity to work with the company's executives and associates in both merchandising and operations and return the brand to its roots and drive long-term success. I am delighted to work with our Board and the existing management team in restoring profitability while pursuing new avenues for growth and building overall shareholder value." A committee of the Company's board of directors oversaw the search for a new CEO. The committee was comprised of Mindy Meads, Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board, Dorrit Bern, Chairman of the Compensation Committee of the Board, Kenneth Reiss, Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board and Lynda Davey, the Company's Chairman of the Board. Ms. Davey commented, "The committee conducted an extensive search since assuming control of the process after installation of the new Board in October. We found John's energy and passion for the fashion industry and, in particular, his understanding of the junior customer perfectly aligned with the attributes we were seeking in a Chief Executive Officer. He is a team builder and has a proven record of success as a CEO; and expertise in the teen fashion apparel specialty business. As an active Wet Seal Director, John has already developed a strong working relationship with the executive team. We feel certain that this will expedite the improvement in operating performance and the prospects for profitable growth." The Company will disclose the details of Mr. Goodman's employment agreement in a Form 8-K filing later today.
APRep. Greg WaldenEarlier today, Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR) announced plans to introduce legislation to ban the Treasury from minting high-value platinum coins and using said coins to get around the debt ceiling. He says he does think that under current law such coins would allow the Treasury to circumvent the debt ceiling, but that he "couldn't believe" it is gaining traction as a serious proposal. "I'm not a lawyer, so let me start with that. But the gentleman who is promoting it is the top Democrat on the Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution," the Congressman told Business Insider in an interview, referring to the idea that has been floated most prominently by Rep. Jerry Nadler. "I assume that he has studied the legal ability to do this. But clearly if he chairs the Constitution Subcommittee, he's done his research. He's a smart man. And so therefore, I'm taking it at face value that the authority is there to allow the minting of a trillion-dollar coin, and that shouldn't be allowed." The idea of minting a trillion-dollar coin has picked up as an option that†would allow the Treasury to temporarily print money to pay the country's bills and work around the debt ceiling. It has turned into a Twitter campaign (#MintTheCoin), and supporters have created a petition urging the White House to mint it. Walden took interest in proposing legislation to ban the option because he thought the idea of minting a platinum coin to work around the debt ceiling was a particularly absurd idea that exemplified "the problem of people in Washington not understanding the reality" of the national debt.†Walden also thought that if the Treasury did mint the coin, it would lead to a "very inflationary" period.† "The notion that we could mint a trillion-dollar coin ... and all of a sudden, your debt issue is gone ó it's so absurd and laughable, except people were being serious," Walden said. "This just has to stop. So that's why we're drafting legislation today." What Walden is suggesting is not quite the issue ó Nadler and others in the media have proposed issuing the coin to continue paying the nation's bills in the case that the debt ceiling is not raised. It is not being floated as an option to rid the U.S. of its debt. There's also some debate over whether it would lead to a period of massive hyperinflation. Walden didn't get too specific when asked what he would demand from President Barack Obama and other Democrats in order to lift the debt ceiling. But he did say he subscribed to the so-called "Boehner rule" that demands one dollar in spending cuts for every dollar increase in the debt ceiling. One exchange he said he would not accept: banning the trillion-dollar coin in exchange for a permanent elimination of the debt ceiling so that it would be automatically raised. "It used to be done automatically without a vote, and that's part of why we have the debt level that we have ó Congress could just spend and never be held accountable," Walden said. "Now, we're making Congress and the administration take notice of what their spending habits have done to the country, and that's a good thing in terms of turning this thing around." SEE ALSO: 3 huge myths about the trillion dollar coin &gt;
That was 1987. This weekend, for the Daily Beast, Wolfe revisited the city and the neighborhood where his readers met Sherman McCoy, a bond trader with a perfect Park Avenue life, 25 years ago. But things had changed. Wolfe found no masters of the universe there. Instead he found 'Eunuchs of the Universe.' Wall Street's testosterone driven frat boys had been been replaced by nerds ‚Äî quants with their math moving faster than the speed of light. James Simmons of Renaissance Technologies, Edward Thorp of Princeton-Newport Partners... these are the new masters who mind the markets with machines, Wolfe found. The financial crisis had ravaged the Street, yes, but nothing was as transformative as this sea-change. The 'nerds' had come in with their high speed trading games and dominated. The trading floor was quiet. It was electronic. So, Wolfe muses, what would happen to Sherman McCoy today? Nothing. "He couldn't get arrested." His brain would be filled with cortisol (stress) from staring at screens all day, not testosterone from howling at his fellow masters. From The Daily Beast: We couldn‚Äôt get arrested! We don‚Äôt have the endocrines you need to go after pretty young things and pull off those dangerous rendezvous. We don‚Äôt have the testosterone, but we do have more than enough liters of cortisol to make sure we worry, worry worry the whole time. But suppose we did do something today in the Bronx that would have had an old white civil rights lawyer and a black race troller coming after us with raucous sham shows of anger in 1987. Today they wouldn‚Äôt bother. Today a Sherman McCoy couldn‚Äôt afford Park Avenue and would be hard to depict as a ruthless capitalist‚Äîand not worth suing in the first place (on behalf of the victim‚Äôs family and taking two thirds of the jury‚Äôs huge award, that being their scheme in 1987). Besides, today the trollers have closed down the shop. During the 2008 election campaign, President Obama never said, ‚ÄúRise up! Break your chains and take what‚Äôs rightfully yours!‚Äù No, having his head on straight he said, ‚ÄúWe must all carefully examine our own lives and see how we can improve them.‚Äù This so infuriated Reverend Jesse Jackson that during a commercial break in a Fox TV news show he said‚Äînot knowing there was an open microphone‚Äî‚ÄúI‚Äôd like to cut Obama‚Äôs nuts off.‚Äù But he quickly disavowed the statement, realized there was absolutely no percentage in his challenging the first black president. He has said nothing but friendly, polite things ever since. Reverend Al Sharpton got it right away and in effect joined the Obama administration as a minister without portfolio... Sherman McCoy held his tongue, but what he said to himself was, ‚ÄúOh, ye Eunuchs of the Universe.‚Äù Brutal.
Guest of a GuestPhilippe Delgrange's Le Bilboquet changed the restaurant game when it opened its doors back in the '90s. One part French bistro, one part trendy hotspot, the E. 63rd street establishment has done an exceptional job setting itself apart from many of the other UES restaurants that have come and gone in the past few years. With the help of nightlife aficionados, The Koch brothers and Aymeric Clemente, Le Bilboquet took the concept of typical NYC brunches a step further by introducing the Saturday brunch. The very Euro trend of nightlife-meets-daytime dining has since become a staple in some of the city's most popular spots. Now that the lease on the original Le Bilboquet location has run out, Delgrange has¬†officially¬†closed the doors of his intimate restaurant that had become such an UES fixture. Apart from the new NYC location set to open in early 2013, we also look forward to the two new Bilboquets, opening in Rio and Sao Paolo. Click through to remember our time spent at Le Bilboquet over the years &gt;
Jamie Squire/Getty ImagesThe mortgage settlements were the biggest news of the day. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,384.29, -50.92, -0.38%S&amp;P500: 1,461.89, -4.58, -0.31%NASDAQ: 3,098.81, -2.85, -0.09% And now the top stories: Don't Miss: JP Morgan's Complete Guide To The Markets &gt;
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Are Markets Getting Ahead Of Themselves? (Gluskin Sheff) Last week the Dow was up 3.8 percent, its best performance since December 2011, and at its Friday close, the S&amp;P 500 was just 99 points from its all time high. Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg thinks markets are "getting ahead of themselves"."Investor confidence reached such heights, in fact, that the VIX index plunged 39% to 13.8. One has to wonder if, in fact, this is more a story of complacency right now rather than merely confidence. But the stock market‚Äôs ability to climb the most recent wall of worry and do so in the face of sharply higher (to a five- month high and more attractive) Treasury yields and a rapid strengthening in the U.S. dollar, is impressive nonetheless.That said, the market looks overbought right now with 88% of the S&amp;P 500 now trading above their 50-day moving averages. Sentiment measures like Investors Intelligence are still flashing twice as many bulls than bears. And while several of the coincident economic indicators have recently surpassed expectations, forward-looking measures like ISM orders did not, nor did factory bookings for November which were released on Friday and came in flat. ‚Ä¶ECRI‚Äôs leading indicator slid to 126.4 in the latest week from 127.6 in the steepest decline since last May and the smoothed index fell to 4.9% from 5.1%. That is not in the direction of economic acceleration that would otherwise validate this move in Treasury yields to eight-month highs ‚Äî all the more so with the U.S. dollar firm and the CRB commodity index down fractionally to begin the year, which are hardly the hallmarks of an inflation resurrection." 8 Key Indicators Suggest A Stock Market Selloff Is Near (Credit Suisse) Credit Suisse's global equity strategist Andrew Garthwaite and his team are reducing their exposure to stocks after the recent run-up in the S&amp;P 500. Garthwaite points out that there has been a sudden increase in risk appetite in the last month, sentiment towards stocks has jumped to a two-year high, and financial advisors have turned bullish but insider selling continues. He warns, "many of our tactical indicators point to a consolidation phase in the equity markets, in the near-term".   The 10 Biggest Risks The World Faces In 2013 (Eurasia Group) Ian Bremmer, head of the Eurasia Group is out with his top 10 risks for global investors in 2013. He thinks political risks in the developed world are "overstated" but should not to be ignored either. These risks include dysfunctional American politics, geopolitics in Asia, the impact of Indian politics on its economy, and the growing unease between the Chinese government and its people that are better informed thanks to the internet.¬† Morgan Stanley Ordered To Pay $1 Million To Former Manager (The Wall Street Journal)Morgan Stanley Smith Barney was ordered to pay former manager Gregory Carl Torretta $1 million after he claimed he was unfairly forced to resign. In 2010, Torretta was about to fire a branch manger that worked under him, when the latter sent an email to Torretta's boss claiming that he was interviewing for a job at another company, and had said that he would bring the branch manager with him. Morgan Stanley then told Torretta he could resign or he would be fired. The award is short of the $8 million - $9 million Torretta was seeking. People Take One Look At This Chart And Conclude Stocks Are Due For A Big Plunge (Business Insider) This weekend we featured JP Morgan Funds' Q1 Guide To The Markets published by David Kelly. One key chart from the presentation shows that the stock market could be awaiting a big downward trend. JP Morgan Funds  Terrifying Presentation Shows What Would Really Happen If We Hit The Debt Ceiling (Bipartisan Policy Center) The Bipartisan Policy Center has put together a presentation called "The X Date," which lays out what would happen if we really hit the debt ceiling.¬† They argue that we would be in a situation of unprecedented legal and economic chaos.¬† Even if the Treasury could "prioritize" interest payments over other payments, we would have a massive technical and legal problem.
Business InsiderApologists for the GOP argue that using the debt ceiling as "leverage" to reshape fiscal policy isn't dangerous brinksmanship. They say that nobody is talking about "default" because even if the government couldn't borrow anymore, there would still be plenty of revenue coming in for the government to make sure that our interest payments were made on time, assuring the full faith and credit of the United States were maintained. But a new report from the Bipartisan Policy Center should make people think twice about being sanguine. The basic gist is: If we hit the "X Date" (as they call it), when there were no more special measures that the Treasury could use to avoid hitting the debt ceiling, we would be in a situation of unprecedented legal and economic chaos. Even if the Treasury could "prioritize" interest payments over other payments, you'd have a massive technical problem (you'd have about 100 million computerized payments that are scheduled to happen between February 15th and March 15th, you'd have a huge legal fight (various parties demanding that they get paid first) and you'd do huge economic damage, due to huge austerity and extreme financial market austerity. You can see the full presentation here, but we wanted to isolate the part specifically about hitting the "X Date".
The Federal Reserve made a splash last week with the release of the FOMC minutes from the central bank's mid-December monetary policy meeting. The minutes revealed that despite the dovish developments at the meeting ‚Äì namely, the introduction of the Evans rule, which ties interest rate guidance to employment and inflation thresholds as opposed to calendar dates ‚Äì several of the members of the Committee favored halting quantitative easing sometime in 2013. While not technically inconsistent, the announcement of the Evans rule and the hawkish tone toward asset purchases in the minutes from the same meeting seem to send the market conflicting signals regarding the Fed's current thinking: is the Committee dovish regarding future monetary policy, or is it hawkish? On Friday, in the wake of the confusion brought about by the FOMC minutes, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard brought some clarity to the matter when he hinted in an interview that the Fed might consider halting its bond buying when the unemployment rate fell near 7.1 percent. All of this has sparked a buzz among investors, who for the first time in a long while are talking about the Fed potentially removing the monetary stimulus "punchbowl" from the market. That's why the next two weeks are so important for Fed watchers attempting to uncover more insight into the Fed's latest policy communications. Brean Capital's Russ Certo noted a flurry of upcoming speeches from Federal Reserve board members that could provide additional clarity for investors. Below is a full schedule, with details provided by Bloomberg: Pay close attention for additional clues as to what may come next from the Fed.
PaganiDeliveries of the the long anticipated Pagani Huayra are finally beginning, and car lovers are thrilled, even if they are not among the very few drivers who will get behind the wheel of the next great supercar. The name "Huayra" comes from the Incan term for "God of the Winds," and Horacio Pagani, the carmaker Car &amp; Driver called a "maniacally obsessed perfectionist," says it was inspired by a jet barreling down the runway just before taking off. Pagani makes only about 40 vehicles a year, but it has already secured orders for 105 Huayras, including 18 in the United States. The cars Pagani does deliver will cost about $1.2 million each: a lot of money for a machine that can rarely be used to its full, 230 mph capacity, and maybe not at all in the U.S., where it has not even street-legal yet, according to CNBC. But apart from the six pieces of fitted luggage that come with the Huayra, there are plenty of ways to justify the sky high price tag.
Last week, RBC Capital Markets' Myles Zyblock upgraded the S&amp;P 500 to "overweight." One big reason for this was the upturn in manufacturing data. "[Last] week‚Äôs ISM Manufacturing and global PMI data showed improvement, with both moving above their breakeven level of 50," wrote Zyblock. "These developments suggest that S&amp;P 500 earnings growth, which has effectively flat-lined on a year-over-year basis, should pick up pace in the first half of the new year." Here's a cool chart that shows a tight correlation between global PMI and earnings revisions. RBC Capital Markets
WikimediaLots of people are questioning whether minting a trillion dollar coin could solve the country's debt ceiling crisis. Specifically, people are intrigued by a law which says that the Treasury has the ability to create coins of any denomination out of platinum, and use that to fund the government. The debate over the economics and legality of this option is being hotly debated. But let's take a step back. How do you literally create a new coin. We put together images from a Science Channel†and†History Channel special on how our coins get made. We hope you find it instructive.
Perhaps you know this, and perhaps you don't, but former Microsoft chief technical officer Nathan Myhrvold is extremely creative in the kitchen. Two years ago he wrote a 2,400 page cookbook called Modernist Cuisine: The Art and Science of Cooking with Maxime Billet that costs as much as some people's rent. Now the pair has scaled down the book in a volume called Modernist Cuisine at Home, and inside that book is one of the strangest methods of cooking steak we've ever heard of, Access Atlanta's John Kessler reports. First you need an incredibly high quality cut of meat. That's where all familiarity with this method ends. Myhrvold writes that you must freeze the meat for around an hour until it's hard. Meanwhile, you also heat a cast iron skillet until it's blazing, blazing hot. Then you sear the frozen solid meat until it gets to that perfect grilled steak color. The last step is to put your steak in the oven at a very low temperature ó like around 200 degrees, or on a† bread warming setting. You'll want to stick a thermometer in the meat so that you can monitor it and take the meat out of the oven when the thermometer reads 120 to 130 degrees. From Access Atlanta: I first tested this recipe with the kind of expensive steaks that Myhrvold designed it for. I took a 1º-inch-thick, 18-ounce prime rib eye and a nearly inch-thick 14-ounce prime New York strip and tried not to despair as I shuffled them into the freezer, next to the box of Popsicles. After half an hour, these well-marbled steaks were as stiff as boards. I then slipped them, one by one, into a cast-iron skillet filmed with oil that had spent five minutes heating over a high flame. My gas oven set to its lowest temperature of 150 degrees rarely registered below 168 degrees on the digital thermometer readout. But all the recipes said not to stress out over the exact temperature of the oven. After about an hour and 20 minutes, the internal temperature of the New York strip registered 126 degrees. After nearly two hours, it registered only 130 degrees. I was aiming for 133 degrees but, well, I wanted steak. I swished the steaks around in the pan I had seared them in with some butter, salt, cracked pepper and a dash of Worcestershire until they glistened like something on a laminated menu picture. The results? Pretty incredible. Both steaks came out just shy of medium rare, warm and tender. Kessler says that he then tried the method with mediocre grocery store steaks, and of course, the results weren't as impressive. But that doesn't surprise anyone.
According to an online survey of American consumers conducted by Accenture, "one-half of U.S. consumers are likely to make a small luxury purchase in the next six months." The survey found that while Millennials were more inclined to make luxury purchases than they were in the past, Baby Boomers indicated that their likelihood to purchase luxury good decreased in the past year. Here are the rest of the results of the survey, in an infographic from Accenture. Accenture
Though the euro crisis appears to have mostly faded from the headlines lately, the economic trouble in Europe isn't going anywhere. Perhaps one of the best illustrations of this is the array of staggering youth unemployment rates across the eurozone, many of which are at all-time highs.  In a note to clients today, Societe Generale's cross-asset strategists warn that given the high rates of youth unemployment, euro-area governments still face very real threats to stability: Social unrest still a concern...Economic crisis in developed countries have reinforced unemployment, especially with the youth. In 2013 southern economies plagued with large unemployment will remain in a recession marked by a lack of consumer confidence and greater poverty. With lower population support, large upheavals could threaten government stability. Greek finance minister recently said that Athens still faces "the possible risk" of exiting the single currency if political unrest blocks reforms. Social unrest is also looming in many¬†emerging markets, where income inequality has increased or remained high since the 1980s. Distribution inequalities and corruption are among the main concerns of the Chinese population according to recent surveys. It seems likely that this has the potential to re-emerge as a big story on the eurozone front in 2013.
Business InsiderThe state of New York is fast approaching its legal borrowing limit, state comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said today (via Capitol Confidential). In an analysis of the state's debt burden, DiNapoli projects the state will have just¬†$509 million of borrowing capacity by the end of SFY 2013-14. Albany enacted a debt ceiling in 2000, at¬†4 percent of New York State Personal Income. New York‚Äôs state-funded debt totaled $63.3 billion this year. DiNapoli says¬†weak¬†economic conditions have reduced personal income growth, which in turn has driven¬†down available borrowing capacity. DiNapoli proposes¬†raising all state-funded debt to 5 percent of personal income, with a nine-year phase-in of the cap and a¬†constitutional amendment to restrict the use of long-term debt to capital purposes. SEE MORE: Three Myths About The Trillion Dollar Coin &gt;
Today has been remarkably quiet. There was no economic data in the U.S. this morning. Earlier, the S&amp;P 500 was on track to trade in one of its narrowest intraday ranges in 17 years. Stocks took a bit of a dip around 11:40 in their first real move of the session, but are now rebounding up off their lows. Right now, the Dow is down around 75 points, and the S&amp;P 500 is down 0.5 percent: Thinkorswim The U.S. dollar index is sliding today as the euro appreciates against the dollar. The index is down 0.3 percent to 80.36 after hitting a high of 80.75 earlier. Stay tuned.
is0b3lpalm3rs0n via FlickrLast week, economic data indicated some progress on the unemployment crisis and the broader economic recovery underway in the United States. On Friday, nonfarm payrolls numbers came right in line with expectations, but private and manufacturing payrolls both surprised to the upside.¬†Later that day, ISM's monthly services index got an unexpected boost from the employment sub-component, which¬†surged to 56.3 from November's¬†50.3 reading. On Thursday,¬†ADP's monthly payrolls report blew by expectations.¬†ADP says 215K private-sector jobs were created in December, well above estimates of a 150K gain. The big question is what all of this means for the market. Last week's release of the FOMC minutes from the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy meeting in mid-December ‚Äì in which it was revealed that several members of the Committee favored ending quantitative easing sometime in 2013 ‚Äì has investors paying even closer attention to the employment data than before. Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna explained the new importance the employment statistics have taken on for markets in light of the revelations in the FOMC minutes. In a note to clients following the release of the minutes, he wrote,¬†"In other words, this should significantly amplify the financial market's sensitivity to upcoming economic data,¬†particularly if we witness a spell of robust economic reports which could bring into question the perception of the Fed's exit strategy." Now, just when investors and Fed-watchers are becoming laser-focused on labor market data, trying to glean clues as to the Fed's next move (i.e., when they will slow or stop asset purchases), the statistics may become a whole lot less reliable. In a note to clients this morning, Citi economist Steven Wieting highlights the seasonality effects on labor market data that have dogged investors at the beginning of every year for the past three years. Wieting suggests that exaggerations in the data over the coming months are likely to reignite the debate surrounding the economic recovery in the United States. That could be a major headache for investors trying to figure out when quantitative easing might end and what effect it will have on markets. Wieting writes: As a small background issue, we also suspect a dampened but still-evident pattern in which winter and spring employment data may prove a misleading guide to the strength of the expansion. Gross hiring and firing ‚Äî labor market turnover ‚Äî was recently still just 80% of the pre-downturn pace. While seasonal adjustment factors are adaptive, it‚Äôs a slower process than many understand. A recovering housing sector would suggest some return to higher ‚Äúseasonality‚Äù in employment patterns. However, some exaggeration of strength during seasonally weak months (January for example) and exaggerated weakness during the usually stronger unadjusted months (April) is still quite possible for a fourth year in 2013 in the keenly watched employment data. This has driven conflicting views of the strength of the recovery in each of the past three years, and suggests a straight line performance in stock and bond markets is unlikely this year as well (see figure 11). Below is the Citi Economic Surprise Index, which plots the difference between actual economic data and the consensus estimates for that data before it was released. When the index is above zero, economic data is coming in better than expected. The point about seasonality Wieting is making is illustrated in the chart. 2010, 2011, and 2012 all started the year positive before plunging into negative territory, meaning economic data began coming in weaker than expected.  If recent history is any guide, it might be a good idea to pay attention to these seasonality effects when interpreting the employment statistics in the coming months.
Michael Daniels, the man credited for masterminding IBM's uber successful services business, will retire on March 31, IBM announced in documents filed to the SEC. He'll be replaced by not one, but two IBM executives, Spencer Ante at Wall Street Journal reports, as IBM's chairman and CEO Ginny Rometty slowly assembles her hand-picked team. The two execs are Bridget van Kralingen, and Erich Clementi. This is van Kralingen's second promotion at IBM since Rometty took over. She previously ran IBM's Global Business Services, a 100,000-employee group responsible for consulting and other hands-on tasks for customers. Clementi previously ran IBM's outsourcing unit. Daniels had been at IBM for 36 years and was at one time considered the heir apparent to Sam Palmisano as Big Blue's next chief executive. He was passed over for Rometty before she took the job in October 2011, as was another top contender, head of IBM's software unit Steve Mills. Daniels role at IBM cannot be overstated. He lead IBM's massively lucrative services business and Rometty praised him in the email she sent to troops announcing his retirement, Ante reported: "Mike is a builder. He helped create our services business, which today generates more than half of IBM's revenue and employs more than half of our global workforce," Rometty's email said. Daniels fired thousands of employees to outsource jobs overseas to lower-cost regions like India, reports Bloomberg's Sarah Frier.†This shift to overseas workers is part of IBM's five-year plan to reach earnings per share of $20 by 2015 from from $13.44 in 2011. (The job cuts also cost Daniels some fans among IBM's rank and file, one former employee tells us.) Daniels retirement could soon be followed by more announcements from 30+-year top executives from Palmisano's inner circle, according internal scuttlebutt from IBM employees. We're hearing unconfirmed rumors that the the software unit's vice president of marketing, Buell Duncan and general manager for developer relations, Jim Corgel, might soon leave. We've reached out to IBM for comment on this speculation and we'll update the story if IBM responds. Don't miss: Guess When These 20 Sci-Fi Technologies Are Coming To Your Phone Or PC
StreetEasy.comPrivate equity guru Chris Flowers is probably best known for scoring the most profitable private equity deal of all time. So we bet that the co-op he just bought into for $20 million (according to the WSJ) is a really good deal. The 6 bedroom apartment boasts 6.5 bathrooms, a large library, gym, staff rooms, and wood burning fire places.  Kathy Sloane of Brown Harris Stevens had the listing.
Bloomberg BRIEF recently published its 2012 Review and 2013 Outlook Supplement. In the report, economist Joseph Brusuelas notes that the dwindling supply of housing is bullish for the continued recovery of the U.S. housing market.¬† He writes: Rising purchases of homes from cash buyers and investors reduced the monthly supply of existing homes on the market to 4.8 months in November from 6.4 months in January of 2012. Careful management of foreclosed properties by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the large banks contributed to the improved supply picture in the housing market. Here's his chart: Bloomberg Brusuelas acknowledges that negative equity positions pose a continuing threat to the housing market, since those homeowners are unable to take advantage of refinancing at low mortgage rates. However, he points to price gains in metropolitan areas that were devastated during the crisis, a strong year for housing starts, and the aforementioned lack of housing supply as drivers for a robust, well-performing U.S. housing market and the continued appreciation of home values. NOTE: Bloomberg is offering a free 2-month subscription to its Bloomberg BRIEFs newsletters.¬† Sign up here.
The campaign to get around the debt ceiling by using a Trillion Dollar Platinum Coin has reached a new level of intensity today. Earlier today, Paul Krugman hopped on board and said Obama must be ready to mint the coin if the GOP decides to try to force the country into defaulting on its obligations. And now a US Congressman has come out against the coin idea and is proposing a law to ban it (via Matthew O'Brien). Ironically, this action actually legitimizes the coin option. To take a step back, the US is about to hit the debt ceiling limit that Congress set in 2011, at which point it will be illegal for the country to issue more debt to pay its bills--unless the Congress agrees to hike the ceiling again. In the past, hiking the debt ceiling was pretty painless, but some in the GOP are staunchly opposed to doing it, raising the specter that the US will default on its obligations. It's because of this that some people are getting more excited about the "Platinum Option," which refers to a technical loophole in the law that allows the Treasury to create platinum coins in any denomination, theoretically up to a trillion and beyond. The "Platinum Option" would allow the Treasury to temporarily print money to pay the country's bills, thus getting around the debt ceiling. For obvious reasons, the GOP doesn't like this. And now Congressman Greg Walden of Oregon has introduced a law to prevent the Treasury from creating a platinum coin to pay the debt. We've posted his full press release below, but the key thing here is that the idea is now legitimized, as a GOP Congressman implicitly acknowledges that the coin idea is currently legal. Note that in his press release, the Congressman uses the flawed analogy of comparing the US government to a small business. Unlike governments, small businesses can't print money. And small businesses can't "deficit spend," the way governments can. ---------------------------- THE DALLES, Ore. ‚Äì U.S. Rep. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) today announced plans to introduce a bill to stop a proposal to mint high-value platinum coins to pay the federal government‚Äôs bills. ‚ÄúSome people are in denial about the need to reduce spending and balance the budget. This scheme to mint trillion dollar platinum coins is absurd and dangerous, and would be laughable if the proponents weren‚Äôt so serious about it as a solution. I‚Äôm introducing a bill to stop it in its tracks,‚Äù Rep. Walden said. ‚ÄúMy wife and I have owned and operated a small business since 1986. When it came time to pay the bills, we couldn‚Äôt just mint a coin to create more money out of thin air. We sat down and figured out how to balance the books. That‚Äôs what Washington needs to do as well. My bill will take the coin scheme off the table by disallowing the Treasury to mint platinum coins as a way to pay down the debt. We must reduce spending and get our fiscal house in order,‚Äù Rep. Walden said.¬† Within the last week, numerous media reports (example here) have suggested that the U.S. Mint could create trillion dollar platinum coins, which would then be deposited into the Federal Reserve to be used to pay the federal government‚Äôs bills or avoid hitting the debt ceiling. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, the ranking member of the Judiciary Committee‚Äôs Subcommittee on the Constitution, touted the proposal last week (story here). New York Times columnist and Princeton professor Paul Krugman suggested the idea in an article as well (click here). Other leaders in Washington, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, have urged the President to raise the debt limit unilaterally without permission from Congress. Representative Walden, a member of the House Republican leadership, represents the Second District of Oregon, which includes 20 counties in the southern, central and eastern regions of the state. --------------------------------------- And find out everything you need to know about the #MintTheCoin movement below: // <![CDATA[OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'JneHgyODoqPBi9tZHkMLUDIcABCBmU2s'); });// ]]> SEE ALSO: Paul Krugman endorses #MintTheCoin &gt;
The latest monthly national housing survey from Fannie Mae shows that a record 43 percent of those polled in December expect home prices to rise in 2013. However, 20 percent said they expect their personal financial situation to deteriorate in the next 12 months ‚Äî the highest level since 2011 ‚Äî and those who said the economy is on the right track fell by 5 percentage points. "...Combined with consumers‚Äô growing mortgage rate and rental price increase expectations, the positive home price outlook could incentivize those waiting on the sidelines of the housing market to buy a home sooner rather than later and thus support continued housing acceleration,‚Äù said Doug Duncan, senior vice president and chief economist of Fannie Mae in a press release. ‚ÄúDespite continued strengthening in the housing market, consumers‚Äô concerns over the fiscal cliff and debt ceiling have caused considerable volatility in their perceptions of the larger economy. This uncertainty seems to be prompting a growing share of consumers to expect their personal finances to worsen and may contribute to weaker near-term economic growth.‚Äù Here are some key charts: Fannie Mae ¬† Fannie Mae ¬† Fannie Mae
Credit SuisseCredit Suisse Global Equity Strategist Andrew Garthwaite and his team are taking a bit of stock market exposure off the table after the recent run-up in the S&amp;P 500 over the past month. Garthwaite warns clients in a new research note out this morning,¬†"Many of our tactical indicators point to a consolidation phase in the equity markets, in the near-term." In the note, Garthwaite highlights nine charts that show how, just as the stock market has taken a turn upward since mid-November, investor sentiment toward stocks has soared higher in that short amount of time. Many of the charts show sentiment indicators now at multi-year highs, suggesting elevated risk of a market selloff. Thanks to Credit Suisse for giving us permssion to feature these charts.
January isn't usually known as a time when Wall Streeters start passing around their resumes, but that's starting to change, and it's all because of bonus season. Since the financial crisis, bulge bracket Wall Street banks have been handing out smaller bonuses made up of less cash. Now when bankers aren't happy with what they've taken home at the end of the year, they start to look for options elsewhere. On Wall Street (especially in sales), bonuses are tied to team performance, not individual performance, so even if you personally rocked 2012, your team's performance could hurt your bonus prospects. That's where this January hiring shuffle comes from. "People who leave because of bonuses are having their positions filled quickly, and they (Wall Street banks) want someone good from a comparable firm." said Jesse Marrus, founder of Wall Street career search firm StreetID. "It's going to be a frenzy to fill those seats... You would think people would wait til the end of Q1 but they have a lot of pressure to keep things going." Marrus told Business Insider that these positions aren't highly publicized because the hiring is generally done through back channels and networking. And since Wall Streeters already knew that 2012's bonus season was going to be rough, they could've started the process of talking to friends and peers about their next moves months ago. Financial professionals don't just want to go to big banks either, they're considering smaller boutiques more than they used to. In December, Jefferies announced that it would be handing out cash bonuses. It was a way for the firm to signal to the Street that if top talent heads over, it will be compensated handsomely. So what are firms looking for? Marrus said he's noticing a lot of demand for individuals with experience in the European high yield and distressed debt space, and for wealth managers/financial advisors with a thick Rolodex. No one should be surprised that banks are interested in employees who know their way around Europe, Wall Street's been talking about that for months. As for why banks want wealth managers ‚Äî Skiddy von Stade, CEO of job financial search firm OneWire, explained that banks are loving that space because it's "sticky money." Once clients have given their money to a firm it takes a lot them to move it elsewhere. Another thing to keep in mind regarding this space is that the skill sets that Wall Street firms are looking for in wealth management can differ depending on the firm's size. "The thing with say, a Merrill is that you have an array of investment products that you can't get at a smaller shop," said von Stade. That's what really makes the difference. At bigger shops wealth managers are more like salespeople who need to understand each and every product and how it can work for their client. Wealth managers at smaller shops are more "in the weeds financial professionals who really breathe the market," von Stade added. Bottom line: The most important thing for firms is to find the perfect fit. If they can't do it fast enough through connections, Marrus says they're willing to pay a third party recruiter to find the perfect person for them, and that's encouraging for the industry as a whole.
Wikimedia CommonsGreat nugget here from Jonathan Krinsky of Miller Tabak about the lack of volatility seen so far today. 2 hours into trading, and the intra-day range for the SPY is only 0.27%. Should that hold, it would be the 4th narrowest intra-day range in the last 17 years. The only 3 narrower ranges were 12/24/12 (0.26%), 5/7/2007 (0.26%), and 12/29/2010 (0.24%). There is not much of a takeaway from that, other than it is a classic consolidation after big gains. However, we would all 3 times were within medium-term uptrends.
Since entering Brazil in 2011, Gap has become a major force, even threatening Hering, the biggest local retailer, according to Bloomberg.† Brazil is a key market because shoppers there have much more disposable income than ever before.† But all along Gap has faced a major obstacle: the southern hemisphere, which has the opposite seasons to most Gap stores. †That means that by the time its winter in Brazil, the seasonal trends at Gap's American stores have come and gone.† The opposite seasons aren't as much of a challenge to a fast-fashion retailer like Zara because its supply chain is faster, making it easier to adopt trends, Euromonitor International wrote when Gap opened in Brazil in 2011.† But Gap is producing its trendy basics on a much larger scale and is still adapting to the times. In order to woo Brazilians, it needed to keep an eagle-eye on merchandise and what was selling.† Gap first tested the waters by offering clothing to duty-free shops.† And now, Gap plans to open more many more stores, a Gap executive†told Bloomberg's†Christiana Sciaudone.† ìWe donít come to Brazil to open three stores,î said Stefan Laban, Gap's managing director of strategic alliances.†ìItís going to be many more than that.î DON'T MISS: How Tory Burch Became A Billionaire In Less Than A Decade &gt;
Business InsiderMorgan Stanley's internet and retail research teams led by Scott Devitt just published a big report on global eCommerce, which they project will be a $1 trillion market by 2016. eCommerce and retail are engaged in a zero-sum game: one company's gain in eCommerce is another's lost retail sales. As such, the team refers to eCommerce in the context of "retail sales disruption." The analysts made five conclusions: 1) Fulfillment infrastructure is critical.2) Some categories (e.g. groceries, personal care products) are resistant to change.3) Third-party marketplaces can prosper.¬† For example, Amazon's third-party volumes are growing faster than its first-party business.4) Mobile eCommerce is an untapped opportunity.5) Big players (e.g. Walmart, Amazon) will get bigger thanks to footprint and scale. The team estimates that eCommerce currently comprises about 6.5 percent of total retail sales globally, and expect that figure to rise to just under 10 percent by 2016. Morgan Stanley identified 16 companies best-positioned for this ongoing disruption.
As Congress prepares to enter into a debate over whether to pay the nation's bills and raise the debt ceiling, a new poll provides a glimpse into what could be some crucial points of Republican leverage in any negotiations. The poll,¬†from the Republican Winston Group, displays a mentality among the public that raising the debt ceiling is a bad idea ‚Äî even though Americans as a whole still have a gross general misunderstanding of the debt ceiling. Consider this question and its results: Winston Group That goes along with the general sentiment that hearing anything about "debt" ‚Äî let alone increasing it ‚Äî is a bad thing. But if Congress did not raise the debt ceiling, the U.S. would be caught in the bind of not being legally able to borrow the money to pay its bills but still being legally required to pay them in full. This would force drastic, basically overnight spending cuts. Or more likely, it would force the U.S. to default on its debt, see its credit rating downgraded and would ignite a financial crisis. The Winston Group's follow-up question, though, is even more interesting. It asks if respondents would be willing to accept "major reductions" in Medicare, defense, education and other government programs. Respondents still said they would be in favor of not increasing the debt ceiling: Winston Group This is where Republicans will have some leverage in any negotiations with President Barack Obama and Democrats. More practically, though, the Winston Group's last question on the debt ceiling is a good sign for Republicans who think they have the leverage to implement cuts in exchange for a debt-ceiling increase.¬† The question shows that the so-called "Boehner rule" ‚Äî every dollar in a debt ceiling increase must be matched with an equal amount of spending cuts ‚Äî polls well with Americans: Winston Group Now see why John Boehner thinks he actually has more leverage on a fight other than the debt ceiling &gt;
Stocks have started 2013 on a positive note, closing at a five-year high on Friday. So, are people feeling bullish? Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services Director of Floor Operations, is a tad skeptical. He points to some imbalances during end-of-day trading in this morning's "Cashin's Comments": Some On-Close Support For the ‚ÄúNew Money‚Äù Thesis ‚Äì As we have noted repeatedly during this New Year‚Äôs rally, several of us old fogeys believe most of the fuel for the move is likely coming from 'new money for the new year.‚Äô¬† We pointed to several supporting factors for that thesis, including the recent anomaly with the TRIN indicator. In Friday evening‚Äôs post-mortem, a few members of the FoF opened a discussion of the ‚Äúon-close‚Äù imbalances over the opening three sessions of the year.¬† On the first day, Wednesday, there was over $1.5 billion to buy on-balance.¬† On the second day, Thursday, there was $800 million (about half the prior day‚Äôs number).¬† On the third day, Friday, the number was about $400 million, again half the prior day.¬† The FoF contingent felt that pattern would be consistent with shoveling new money in ‚Äì a large chunk, followed by half and half again.¬† It would also be consistent with the old traders adage that calendar money is inserted in a three day process.¬† That could make this week interesting. When this "new money" evaporates, where will the buying support come from?
This weekend we featured¬†JP Morgan Funds' Q1 Guide To The Markets published by David Kelly. One chart that jumped out at us, showed the performance of stocks, bonds, cash, and commodities in various inflation environments. This chart acts as a reminder that inflation is good for stocks because everyone anticipates that corporate revenue will grow at the same pace as inflation. Notice when inflation is low and rising ‚Äî an inflation environment that has occurred seven times since 1972 ‚Äî stocks have seen returns rise 20 percent. And in a high and falling inflation environment, that has occurred six times since 1972, stocks have returned 23 percent. JP Morgan Funds
The fiscal cliff saga was just one round in larger debate the country is having about the size of the federal government and who should pay for it. This morning, hedge fund billionaire Cliff Asness through his two cents in with an op-ed in The American that would probably upset more than a few people. Asness says that if the U.S. wants to finance a "big European-style welfare state", the middle class is going to have to see its taxes increase ‚Äî the rich can't finance the whole project alone, and the poor simply don't have the funds. Spending cuts alone, he said, won't do it either. Those are two truths the government has to face. And to the first point, raising classes on the middle class is just easier and faster than raising them on the rich. From The American: ...it's easy to tax middle-class assets and transactions ‚Äî things like payrolls, sales, and real estate ‚Äî but soaking the rich means taxing investments. Investments are complicated and can be restructured to minimize taxes. Also, investments are the lifeblood of economic growth. Raising significantly more taxes from the rich also requires higher marginal tax rates ‚Äî and their rates are already quite high. High marginal rates distort the economy and yield less revenue than anticipated because they increase the rewards for legal and illegal tax avoidance. That's not to say it's impossible to get more money from the rich, but it's tricky and past attempts have typically been less effective than forecast and often counterproductive. Moreover, even under the most optimistic assumptions, taxes on the rich ‚Äî or taxes on businesses, financial transactions, or anything else aimed at the rich (and often hitting others) ‚Äî will still not cover a large fraction of the costs of a European-style welfare state. Ask the Europeans ‚Äî they‚Äôve tried it all and failed. Of course, this op-ed begs a few questions. Do Americans even want a big European style welfare state? Also, didn't the European style welfare state fail, in part, because some countries (i.e. Greece) were rife with tax evasion from all classes? It's a thought. For Asness' full argument head to The American&gt;
But all private-sector jobs are not alike, of course. One way to examine them is by determining which are the mostly the result of market forces and which are the result of debt-fueled government subsidies. Alan Tonelson of the U.S. Business and Industry Council: This morning‚Äôs jobs report shows that the economy‚Äôs subsidized private sector (industries like health care services that receive big government subsidies) is back as a major source of new hiring.¬† If a stronger but sustainable U.S. recovery depends on reinvigorating industries not heavily dependent on government largesse, then this hiring out-performance by the subsidized private sector is a bearish indicator. As Tonelson figures it, the subsidized private sector created 65,000 net new jobs in December nearly 40% of total private-sector job growth, about the same as throughout the recovery. But is that a lot or a little? Tonelson: Such subsidized private sector job creation represents major out-performance, since these industries‚Äô share of total nonfarm employment was only 15.32 percent in December. Certainly an interesting way of analyzing the health of the U.S. labor market, particularly the growth of jobs in unproductive, government influenced sectors such as healthcare and education. These numbers made me recall this bit from economist Tyler Cowen on the EconTalk podcast Consider our economy right now: about 17% of it is health care; about 6% in terms of GDP is education; and with some overlap, 15-20% is what we call government consumption‚Äìgovernment activity, not just transfers. At all levels of government, including state and local. Add those all up, take out the overlap, and it‚Äôs a pretty big chunk of the economy, like 20-30%. Those are all sectors where there are massive subsidies, massive distortions of incentives, a lot of bad policy; and it‚Äôs hard to measure value. This economic recovery has been weak, but is it sustainable even at this low level without more help from debt-strapped Washington? Is it even a recovery if you define one as private-sector led growth?
Bloomberg TV screenshotBill Ackman, the CEO of $11 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, revealed last month that he has an enormous short position on Herbalife.¬† According to Bloomberg News' Duane Stanford, the activist investor first looked into shorting Herbalife 18 months ago after receiving a phone call from former Bloomberg News reporter turned researcher, Christine Richard.¬† Bloomberg reports: Ackman began researching Herbalife after a call from Christine Richard, a former Bloomberg News reporter who by then was working for Indago Group, a New York-based boutique investigative research firm. Richard had just published ‚ÄúConfidence Game,‚Äù a book detailing how Ackman, warning of an impending bond-insurance market collapse in the runup to the recent recession, had shorted credit insurer MBIA Inc.¬† Richard declined to comment for the Bloomberg story. During a three-hour long presentation at a Sohn Conference event, Ackman said¬†the multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss and nutritional supplements is a pyramid scheme. ¬† Pershing Square has been shorting Herbalife for about eight months. ¬†The hedge fund is shorting more than 20 million shares and has a price target of zero. Since December 18, the trading session before Ackman confirmed his short position, shares of Herbalife are off 12%. ¬†At one point there were down more than 38%. Ackman has not covered any of his short, according to Bloomberg. ¬† That said, these things can take time. ¬†His MBIA short took six years to play out.¬† SEE ALSO: We Have Never Seen Anything Like Bill Ackman's Dizzying Takedown Of Herbalife &gt;
Bloomberg TVMohamed El-Erian, CEO of PIMCO, has penned a blistering op-ed for the Financial Times on the dangers of highly accommodative monetary policy ‚Äì or as he refers to it, the ‚Äòcentral bank put.‚Äô The central point of his argument lies in the notion that the Fed‚Äôs easy-money policies have divorced prices from market fundamentals. As a result, investors are not choosing an asset on the basis of fundamental analysis, but rather on its value relative to another asset as part of the search for yield. The higher appetite for risk has been spurred by expectations of persisting ultra-low interest rates and continued quantitative easing by the Fed. As central bank balance sheets swell, El-Erian believes that investors will soon refuse to accept investment vehicles, such as high yield corporate bonds, equities, and highly leveraged products, whose valuation is often indirectly influenced by the Fed‚Äôs asset purchases, and to a lesser extent, its forward policy guidance. The prices of these asset classes are divorced from their fundamentals, he explains, and ‚ÄúWith the weaker central bank impact, prices need to have greater consistency with the realities of balance sheets and income statements.‚Äù Here‚Äôs what El-Erian says will happen if and when the punch bowl of monetary easing runs dry, is removed, or investors decide to stop sipping from it: ‚Ä¶investors should expect security and sector selections to get repeatedly overwhelmed by macro correlations. Since a growing number of asset classes are now exposed in a material fashion to the belief that central banks will deliver macroeconomic as well as market outcomes, investors have assumed considerable macro-driven correlations across their holdings. Moreover, with seemingly endless liquidity injections, the scaling of such exposure can easily disconnect from the extent to which prices deviate from fundamentals. In other words, he predicts looming corrections in asset classes that have not been directly influenced by monetary accommodation and asset purchases, but have nonetheless been benefitted indirectly from central bank easing and relative cross-asset valuation. Read the whole op-ed at FT.com.
APThe most telling part from Stephen Moore's interview with John Boehner†in The Wall Street Journal†today is that the House Speaker views the coming spending cuts in the sequester ó not the debt ceiling ó as Republicans' main point of leverage in coming budget talks with President Barack Obama. The Republicans' stronger card, Mr. Boehner believes, will be the automatic spending sequester trigger that trims all discretionary programsódefense and domestic. It now appears that the president made a severe political miscalculation when he came up with the sequester idea in 2011. As Mr. Boehner tells the story: Mr. Obama was sure Republicans would call for ending the sequesteró the other "cliff" ó because it included deep defense cuts. But Republicans never raised the issue. "It wasn't until literally last week that the White House brought up replacing the sequester," Mr. Boehner says. "They said, 'We can't have the sequester.' They were always counting on†us†to bring this to the table." The sequester ó part of the Budget Control Act of 2011 ó trims the†non-war defense budget to $491 billion in 2013, which is down about 9 percent from 2012. Defense programs would see cuts up to 10 percent.† But where Boehner sees his leverage is in the other cuts of the sequester. In 2013 alone, the White House's Office of Management and Budget projects†that payments to Medicare providers will be reduced by 2 percent. Cuts to non-defense spending, such as some†elementary and secondary education programs, will be slashed either 8.2 percent or 7.4 percent. Boehner told the WSJ that he has Republican support for letting the sequester go into effect, even from defense hawks.†The cuts to entitlements, Boehner rationalizes, will bring Obama to the table because of pressure from the left.† "Think of it this way," Boehner said. "We already have an agreement [capping] discretionary spending for 10 years. And we're already in our second year of it. This whole discussion on the budget over the next several months is going to be about these entitlements." Obama's "severe political miscalculation," then, came when he assumed Republicans would blink on the defense cuts. At least publicly, Boehner is trying to create the impression that Democrats are going to be the party that blinks on the sequester's cuts. Boehner views the debt ceiling, meanwhile, as a lesser point of leverage. He suggested that because of his insistence on the so-called "Boehner rule" ó every dollar of a debt ceiling increase must coincide with a dollar of spending cuts ó there may be a series of month-by-month debt ceiling raises.
Google FinanceMarkets are a bit in the red this morning. There isn't much obvious news to explain what's going on here. However, it's worth noting that stocks closed at a five-year high on Friday. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Michael McDonough, an economist at Bloomberg BRIEF, took a look at the price-to-earnings ratios across 40 national MCSI indexes. It turns out that Ireland, Philippines and Colombia have the most expensive markets in the world, while Argentina, Egypt and Hungary have the cheapest. Check out these maps that McDonough created for Bloomberg BRIEF's 2012 Review and 2013 Outlook Supplement. NOTE: Bloomberg is offering a free 2-month subscription to its Bloomberg BRIEFs newsletters.† Sign up here.Bloomberg Bloomberg Bloomberg †Bloomberg
Getty Images/Jason Kempin/StaffMichael Corbat, who became CEO of Citigroup three months ago when Vikram Pandit suddenly resigned, has announced his management team, the bank said in a release.¬† The new co-presidents are Jamie Forese and Manuel Medina-Mora.¬† Here's Corbat's memo to employees:¬† Dear Colleagues, As has been the case throughout our history, Citi today is fortunate to have incredibly strong leaders. I'll be relying on their skills and experience as we navigate the challenges and opportunities ahead. Our unparalleled global network gives us a competitive advantage. We need to leverage that advantage throughout our organization and strike the right balance of authority and accountability between our businesses, regions and functions. To that end, I am pleased to share the roles and responsibilities of my direct reports on our management team effective today, as well as a new structure for Operations &amp; Technology. First, Jamie Forese and Manuel Medina-Mora will become Co-Presidents of our firm. Jamie will now be responsible for each of our Institutional businesses and Manuel will continue to oversee Global Consumer Banking and our franchise in Mexico. Manuel and Jamie have both been part of Citi and its predecessor companies for their entire careers. They are outstanding representatives of our culture and commitment to excellence. To help them achieve their business objectives, we will be reorganizing Operations &amp; Technology. Having made great progress in O&amp;T by running it as a centralized function focused on strengthening controls and managing expenses, the divisions supporting the Institutional and Consumer businesses will now report to Jamie and Manuel, respectively, while working closely with Don Callahan. This change will better align the priorities and strengthen accountability between our client-facing businesses and their support function as we continue our efforts to become a fully digital bank and improve efficiency through the organization. As Head of O&amp;T, Don will continue to directly manage our Enterprise O&amp;T function and be responsible for all shared infrastructure and for ensuring our systems are regulatory-compliant. Jim Cowles will become CEO of Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Jim is a Citi veteran who has spent much of his career in EMEA. Having worked with Jim very closely last year, I have great confidence in his ability to lead our businesses in the region. Bill Mills, in addition to serving as CEO of North America, will now oversee Community Development as well as International Franchise Management, in which role he will have responsibility for corporate governance in our 101 countries. He is uniquely suited for this role, given a career that has taken him across so many of our geographies. Francisco Aristeguieta, CEO of Latin America, and Stephen Bird, CEO of Asia Pacific, will continue in their current roles as we execute a strategy that leverages our unique footprint in the emerging markets. John Gerspach will continue to be our Chief Financial Officer, and I have asked him to spearhead our Expense Management, Enterprise Payments and Citi Ventures initiatives as well. Brian Leach will be taking on responsibility for additional functions which safeguard Citi's license to do business. As Head of Franchise Risk and Strategy, he will now oversee Audit, Compliance and Strategy. Brad Hu, currently Head of Risk for Asia Pacific, will become Citi's Chief Risk Officer and report to Brian. Gene McQuade will continue to serve as CEO of Citibank, N.A., while overseeing Citi Holdings and Japan. Over the past several years, Gene has greatly improved the oversight and controls of our largest depository vehicle, and I am pleased he has agreed to continue this critical work into next year. Ed Skyler, Head of Public Affairs, will oversee the Citi Foundation in addition to his current responsibilities, which include Branding &amp; Sponsorships, Communications, and Government Affairs. Paul McKinnon, Head of Human Resources, and Rohan Weerasinghe, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, will both continue to serve in their respective positions. Sara Wechter will serve as my Chief of Staff. Sara brings both banking and corporate governance experience to this role, and I will rely on her ability to think strategically while paying attention to the details as she manages key projects on my behalf. Finally, Vice Chairman Lew Kaden has informed me that, after more than seven years with the firm, he plans to retire in the coming weeks. Lew, who was previously our Chief Administrative Officer, helped guide Citi through some difficult times, while strengthening our relationships with clients and governments. We will miss his wise counsel. The three months I have been CEO have been memorable to say the least, and I am very proud of what we have done to prepare for 2013. We developed a budget which contained difficult but necessary choices. Today, we will submit our capital plan to the Federal Reserve. We have finalized the management team and are re-organizing O&amp;T. I know that I can count on each of you to support the entire management team and each other as we move forward. We will be tested in the year ahead. The environment remains very challenging from a variety of perspectives, and I am going to rely on every person in this company to make sure we are as successful as we possibly can be. Thank you for all that you do for our company. - Mike SEE ALSO: Citigroup Cutting Over 11,000 Jobs &gt;
Given how notorious Wall Streeters are for writing embarrassing e-mails that are later used against them in court (see: Libor scandal), they should really take note of this news. The FBI has developed new software that scans e-mails for buzz words and phrases that indicate the sender (and receiver) or said mail are up to no good, the FT reports. There are over 3,000 words and phrases that would raise a red flag in the program. Accounting firm Ernst and Young found out about this program after looking through evidence from corporate investigations in conjunction with the FBI. From the FT: ‚ÄúThe language, which is a mix of accounting phrases, personal motivations and attempts to conceal, are very revealing,‚Äù said Rashmi Joshi, Ernst &amp; Young‚Äôs director of fraud investigation and disputes services. He said that the monitoring of email traffic played almost no role in the compliance efforts of companies looking for possible problems. ‚ÄúWhile most organisations only focus on the numbers when investigating discrepancies, what we are seeing are ways of analyzing words ‚Äì emails, SMS or instant messaging ‚Äì to identify and isolate wrongdoing.‚Äù Linguistic analysis software, which initially protects employee anonymity, can flag uncharacteristic changes in tone and language in electronic conversations and can also be tailored for particular types of employees, especially traders. So phrases like, "nobody will find out," "call my mobile"," and "don't leave a trail" could now get you noticed. You've been warned.
Dealbook screengrabThe movement to mint a trillion dollar platinum coin gets its biggest backer yet: Paul Krugman. To back up for a moment, in case you're not familiar with the #MintTheCoin movement, the idea is that by using a technical loophole in the law, the Treasury could create a coin worth $1 trillion and deposit it in its bank account. In a new post up titled Be Ready To Mint The Coin he writes: It‚Äôs easy to make sententious remarks to the effect that we shouldn‚Äôt look for gimmicks, we should sit down like serious people and deal with our problems realistically. That may sound reasonable ‚Äî if you‚Äôve been living in a cave for the past four years.Given the realities of our political situation, and in particular the mixture of ruthlessness and craziness that now characterizes House Republicans, it‚Äôs just ridiculous ‚Äî far more ridiculous than the notion of the coin. This really is the crux of tha matter right here. Pretty much everyone slamming the #MintTheCoin movement for being unserious is not aware of how ridiculous things have gotten, where people are actually having a debate about whether we should default on our obligations. That we'd do anything that veers towards a default is far more silly than this idea. As for whose face goes on it, Krugman says it's obvious: This still leaves the question of whose face goes on the coin ‚Äî but that‚Äôs easy: John Boehner. Because without him and his colleagues, this wouldn‚Äôt be necessary. Greg Sargent at The Washington Post has a good interview with former NYPD hostage negotiator Scott Wagner, which explains why the platinum coin is so necessary. His advice: Obama must have a trump card in his back pocket that will resolve the situation without the GOP‚Äôs help, if necessary. One of the most important goals is getting the hostage taker to realize that ultimately, he‚Äôs not in control of the situation. There are two possible trump cards for Obama. One is the ‚Äúplatinum coin‚Äù option, in which the government mints a trillion-dollar coin and uses it to pay its debts, which is currently getting a lot of blogospheric love. (Josh Barro explains how this might work; Kevin Drum dissents.) There‚Äôs also the 14th Amendment option, which some legal observers believe empowers the President to ignore the debt ceiling. Meanwhile on Bloomberg TV this morning, Josh Barro and I were on discussing the idea.
Now that security software pioneer John McAfee is out of the grasps of the Belize government, he's come out and said that he was the ultimate spymaster.¬† McAfee has lied to the public in the past, and he went on TV to say he loves hoaxes, so you have to take EVERYTHING he¬†says with a grain of salt. He says that after Belize police raided his house in April, he sought revenge. So he says¬†bought 75 laptops, loaded them with keystroke monitoring software, and gave them as presents to government employees, police officers, and other powerful people in Belize. McAfee says he then hired 23 women and six men to be his "operatives." He says he trained them how to do things like access and load software onto someone's computer, and how to hack into someone's phone. He says some of those women were also "pillow talk" masters who used their seductive charm to get information out of employees at Belize's two national phone companies. Throughout his process, McAfee says he uncovered an "uncountable" number of sexual affairs, discovered that the Prime Minster personally ordered the murder of alled Belizean gang leader Arthur Young, and found a link between Belize and the Hezbollah terrorist organization. Read McAfee's full saga on his blog.
Getting your Masters in Business Administration is tough work and expensive to boot, which is why the question everyone asks about the degree is, "Is it worth it?" If the promise of higher pay after school is what you're looking for, new stats show that the answer to that question could be no, the WSJ reports. From WSJ: The M.B.A.'s lot is partly reflected in starting pay. While available figures vary by schools and employers, recruiters' expected median salary for newly hired M.B.A.s was essentially flat between 2008 and 2011, not adjusting for inflation, according to a survey by the Graduate Management Admission Council. For graduates with minimal experience‚Äîthree years or less‚Äîmedian pay was $53,900 in 2012, down 4.6% from 2007-08, according to an analysis conducted for The Wall Street Journal by PayScale.com. Pay fell at 62% of the 186 schools examined. Even for more seasoned grads the trend is similar, says Katie Bardaro, lead economist for PayScale.com. "In general, it seems that M.B.A. pay is either stagnant or falling," she says. Of course, the more prestigious your MBA program is, the more likely it is that you'll get paid better once you get out. The competition is fierce, though. In 2010-2011, the number of graduating MBAs was 74 percent higher than it was in 2000-2001. Not encouraging. For the full rundown on what's going on with MBA degrees, head to WSJ &gt;
AP Photo/Michael ProbstTwo economics professors analyzed the political contributions and stock holdings of U.S. mutual fund and hedge fund managers and found that the ones that contribute blue tend to underweight companies that are considered socially irresponsible. According to this study by Harrison Hong, professor of economics at Princeton, and Leonard Kostovetsky, asst. professor of finance at University of Rochester, Simon School of Business, this result holds true even for funds that are not explicitly SRI (socially responsible investing). "Managers who donate to Democrats underweight (relative to non-donors or Republican donors) stocks that are deemed socially irresponsible. (e.g., tobacco, guns and defense, natural resources, and firms with low KLD scores). This effect is approximately one-half of the underweighting observed for socially responsible (SRI) mutual funds." This is especially relevant now that the amount of money involved in SRI is growing. According to The Forum of Sustainable and Responsible Investment, "More than one out of every nine dollars under professional management in the United States today -- 11% of the $33.3 trillion in total assets under management tracked by Thomson Reuters Nelson--is involved in sustainable and responsible investing." The study proposed two possible reasons as to why left leaning investors might underweight socially irresponsible companies: "One possible reason for such portfolio decisions is that investors might derive utility from avoiding companies that are in conflict with their values. They might not want to see their savings invested in causes that they oppose, similar to a boycott of certain consumer products. An alternative...investors might think that companies inconsistent with their values will also be less profitable or more risky in the future." The study also pointed out that "institutional ownership of "sin" stocks, particularly among endowments and universities but also among mutual funds and hedge funds, is lower relative to other stocks," and that "ownership of sin stocks tends to be dispersed among individual investors." "It might simply be that institutions want to avoid the hassle of owning socially irresponsible stocks to the extent that such stocks face more litigation risk or bad press. But anecdotal evidence suggests that political values are also likely to be at play."
www.flickr.com(Reuters) - Bank of America Corp said it will pay $3.6 billion to Fannie Mae to settle claims related to residential mortgage loans for the nine years to the end of 2008. The bank also entered into agreements with Nationstar Mortgage Holdings LLC and Walter Investment Management Corp to sell about $306 billion of residential mortgage servicing rights. The rights allow banks to earn fees from mortgage investors in exchange for collecting home loan payments from borrowers. As part of the settlement with Fannie Mae, the bank will repurchase $6.75 billion of residential mortgage loans sold to the government agency. BofA said the settlement will reduce its fourth-quarter pretax income by about $2.7 billion. Reuters reported on Friday that the bank was in talks to sell collection rights on $300 billion of mortgages to lessen its exposure to huge losses from its acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp in 2008. "Together, these agreements are a significant step in resolving our remaining legacy mortgage issues, further streamlining and simplifying the company and reducing expenses over time," Chief Executive Brian Moynihan said in a statement. (Reporting by Tanya Agrawal in Bangalore; Editing by Supriya Kurane) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
Homeland, ShowtimeFactSet analyst John Butters is out with a report previewing the Q4 2012 earnings season, which unofficially kicks off tomorrow when Alcoa reports earnings after the closing bell. Earnings are currently expected to grow 2.4 percent this season, but Butters notes that this is down from the 9.2 percent growth that was expected at the beginning of Q4 on September 30. In the report, Butters discusses five key concerns headed into the upcoming reporting period: Alcoa reports earnings Tuesday after the closing bell to get things going. Follow the release LIVE on Money Game &gt;
Rolls-Royce has won another US military contract. Questor says buy. Rolls-Royce918pQuestor says: Buy Dispelling some concerns about global defence spending, on Friday Rolls-Royce won a $52.2m (¬£32.6m) contract with the US Marine Corps to repair and maintain engines. Of course, military spending is currently going through a squeeze, but budgets are unlikely to wither away completely. Rolls, which generated a fifth of its sales in 2011 from defence, should escape the worse of the cuts. The turbine maker provides critical equipment and benefits form long-term contracts to maintain the engines and replace their parts. Indeed, 53pc of group sales is generated by such recurring services. Demand for military engines over the next 20 years could be around $155bn, Rolls estimates, and for services and support equipment $260bn. However, civil aviation looks set to boom. According to data from the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), some 2.9bn people used air transport in 2012. The highest growth was seen in the Middle East and the ICAO expects the industry will see 6bn people flying each year by 2030. There should also be good growth in Rolls‚Äô marine business, where it makes systems for offshore oil and gas, merchant and naval vessels. Its power generation business, which designs and manufacturers turbines for nuclear, oil and gas power plants also has strong prospects. Rolls is currently facing a probe by the Serious Fraud Office looking into allegations of bribery in Asia. It is impossible to predict the outcome of any such investigation. It is something of which investors should be aware but it should eventually be resolved and Rolls is co-operating. The shares are trading on a December 2013 earning multiple of 14.2 falling to 13. The prospective yield is 2.4pc. The shares are a buy. 
Rolls-Royce is facing allegations that it paid bribes to an executive involved with two Chinese airlines, in the latest claims attached to a corruption probe at the aircraft engine maker. The latest allegations are contained in postings by a blogger operating under the pseudonym of "soaringdragon" and related to deals worth a total of $2bn (¬£1.25bn) with Air China in 2005 and China Eastern in 2010. They claim an executive who worked at both airlines, Chen Qin, accepted payments as an intermediary in those deals. Rolls-Royce revealed last month that the Serious Fraud Office had approached the company over allegations of malpractice in Indonesia and China, prompting the Derby-based manufacturer to conduct its own investigation through a law firm, Debevoise &amp; Plimpton. In a statement last month Rolls-Royce said the probe had found "matters of concern" in Indonesia and China and other unspecified markets, relating to "concerns about bribery and corruption involving intermediaries in overseas markets." Rolls-Royce, which is aware of the Soaringdragon postings, declined to comment on whether the blogger's allegations were included in the dossier passed to the SFO. However, the Sunday Times published a statement from China Eastern which appeared to confirm the blogger's claim that Chen Qin had been arrested by the Chinese authorities in 2011. It said: "Neither China Eastern nor Air China has any right to talk about Chen's case; only prosecutorial organs know the real background." The deals at the centre of the allegations boosted Rolls-Royce's presence in the rapidly growing Asian aviation market. In 2005 Rolls-Royce said it had received an order from Air China for Trent 700 engines, to power the Airbus A330, worth $800m. Then in 2010 Rolls-Royce said it had won an order from China Eastern worth $1.2bn for Trent 700 engines to power 16 A330 aircraft. The China Eastern deal was signed in the presence of David Cameron, in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, during an official trade mission to China. Rolls-Royce faces the threat of a multimillion-pound fine on both sides of the Atlantic if the allegations escalate into official investigations by authorities, although the SFO and the US Department of Justice have yet to announce whether they will proceed with formal probes. The Soaringdragon postings are the second set of allegations implicating Rolls-Royce in corruption to be posted on the internet. Dick Taylor, a former Rolls-Royce employee in Indonesia, had alleged via a series of online postings that Tommy Suharto, the son of the former Indonesian president, was paid $20m (¬£12m) by Rolls-Royce and given a Rolls-Royce car to persuade the Garuda airline to buy Trent 700 engines in 1990. Taylor has said he felt "cheated" by his experience at Rolls-Royce, the world's second largest aircraft engine maker, after he was warned that he risked redundancy when he raised concerns over a colleague's expenses claims. Taylor subsequently took early retirement in 2004 but claims that Rolls-Royce was still making payments to intermediaries in Indonesia in 2010. The Asia-Pacific region is a vital market for western aerospace companies targeting new customers amid stagnating demand at home. According to Airbus, the region will account for 35% of aircraft deliveries over the next 20 years, with China overtaking the US as the world's largest domestic airline market from 2031 onwards. As well as bringing opportunities for aircraft makers such as Airbus and Boeing, new jet sales also boost orders for engines. The front-runners for those orders are the likes of Rolls-Royce and its US rivals, General Electric and Pratt &amp; Whitney. Speaking in December, Rolls-Royce's chief executive, John Rishton, said the company would not tolerate "improper business conduct of any sort." "This is a company with exceptional prospects and I will not accept any behaviour that undermines its future success". The company also announced that it will appoint an "independent senior figure" to review its compliance process and report to the board's ethics committee. Rolls-Royce is one of Britain's blue-chip exporters and thus a key manufacturer in George Osborne's "march of the makers", posting revenues of ¬£11.3bn last year and a pre-tax profit of ¬£1.2bn, with its strong future prospects underlined by an order book worth ¬£62.2bn. Rolls-Royce has admitted that the disclosures could result in the "prosecution of individuals and the company." Legal experts have warned that Rolls-Royce's co-operation so far will not spare the business from a prosecution by the SFO. The organisation's new boss, David Green, has signalled that the SFO will eschew settlements in favour of prosecutions, tackling a perception that it had been keener in recent years to deal with cases outside the courtroom.  This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk 
Wall Street strategists publish targets for the markets as a whole from their big picture analysis (i.e top down analysis). Then there are the Wall Street's equity analysts who publish price targets on individual stocks based on their analyses of the companies they cover (i.e. bottom up analysis). Unfortunately, the combination of those stock pickers' targets don't jibe very well with the strategists' targets. According to†FactSet's John Butters, the strategists see the S&amp;P 500 heading to 1,452, whereas the analysts see it jumping to 1,603. (NOTE: Business Insider compiled strategists' forecast and found and average target of 1,534.) Here's Butters: At the start of the new year, industry analysts and market strategists are far apart in terms of their target price predictions for the S&amp;P 500 for 2013, with the industry analysts much more optimistic in their aggregate outlook than the market strategists. Industry analysts in aggregate predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 12.5% increase in price in 2013. This percentage is based on the difference between the bottom-up target price and the closing price for the index at the end of 2012. Aggregating the mean target price estimates (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) for all 500 companies in the index, the bottom-up target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 1603.96, which is 12.5% above the 2012 year-end price of 1426.19. Market strategists on average predict the S&amp;P 500 will see only a 1.8% increase in price in 2013. This percentage is based on the difference between the top down mean target price and the closing price for the index at the end of 2012. Taking the average of the six index-level target price estimates submitted to FactSet by market strategists, the top-down mean target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 1452.50, which is only 1.8% above the 2012 year-end price of 1426.19. It is interesting to note that one year ago, the industry analysts and market strategists were much closer in their target price predictions for the S&amp;P 500 for 2012, and both groups were fairly accurate in their projections. At the end of 2011, the bottom-up target price (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) was 1453.46, and the top-down mean target price (based on index-level estimates submitted by market strategists) was 1450.00. Compared to the closing price of the S&amp;P 500 at the end of 2012 of 1426.19, the industry analysts overestimated the price of the index by just 1.9% one year ago, while the market strategists overestimated the price of the index by just 1.7% one year ago. FactSet
Wikimedia CommonsGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Goldman Sachs may have been significantly off the mark on its call for a bumper rally in Chinese equities in 2012, but this year, the U.S. investment bank is confident that its upbeat outlook for the market will materialize. According to the bank's Chief China Equity Strategist, Helen Zhu, a pickup in earnings growth and the expectation of economic reforms by China's new government will lift the MSCI China Index 8 percent in 2013 from current levels. The index climbed 4 percent in the first week of the year. Goldman forecasts earnings growth of 9 percent in 2013, driven by an acceleration in gross domestic product (GDP) growth to 8.1 percent from an expected 7.7 percent last year. "Faster reform progress is the key upside risk," Zhu wrote in a note. "We see better returns heading into the second quarter on a pickup in exports and a kickoff of reforms." (Read More: 2013:The 'Break-Out' Year for China Stocks?) China's outgoing President Hu Jintao has signaled that financial reforms will be top the top priority for the new leadership, which officially takes over in March and will govern the country for the next decade. There has already been some evidence of reform efforts, with the country's foreign exchange regulator raising the limit for foreign sovereign wealth funds and central banks buying Chinese assets through the Qualified Institutional Investor Programme (QFII), in mid-December. (Read More: Can China's New Leaders 'Revolutionize' With Financial Reforms?) Zhu said that with expectations among domestic investors running low, the market is ripe for upside surprises this year. Local investors play a critical role in determining the direction of the market as they account for around 80 percent of the turnover at China's two stock exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen. "The cyclical recovery skepticism is gradually going away ‚Äì it has been accepted by offshore investors for a couple of months ‚Äì for onshore investors it's still starting to prove as more of an upside surprise, and that's part of the reason for the increased optimism in December," she told CNBC on Monday, referring to the 15 percent rise in the benchmark Shanghai Composite last month. Off the Mark At the start of 2012, Zhu had predicted Chinese stocks would have a bumper year, forecasting 30 percent upside for the China Securities Index (CSI) 300 ‚Äì which tracks 300 stocks traded on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges. The index, however, rose just 10 percent last year. Zhu was not alone in her optimism over the outlook for Chinese shares last year, with many strategists predicting a major breakout for the market. (Read More: China Equity Bulls Still Wait For Their Moment in the Sun) From a global perspective, Chinese stocks were among the biggest laggards in 2012, as concerns over China's economic slowdown prompted investors to flee the stock market. The Shanghai Composite ended last year just 3.2 percent higher. That compares with double-digit gains across most major Asian bourses and a rise of about 13 percent in the S&amp;P 500 stock index. Zhu said her failed prediction was a result of overly optimistic expectations for corporate earnings growth, which failed to materialize. At the start of 2012, the market consensus was for earnings growth in the low teens for Chinese firms, which in reality is likely to be flat, she said. "Earnings deceleration was far more than the Street had anticipated‚Ä¶ that stemmed from the fact that GDP decelerated from 9.3 percent the year before to probably just north of 7.5 percent last year," she said. Now that investors have already considered "every possible negative piece of news", there is less room for downside going forward, she added. "We see the fact that investor sentiment was so poor at the end of November as exactly the reason we would tell investors to get in, because there is no room for further downside surprises and indeed I think we've already started to see the beginning of that," she said.
The CBOE has a nice piece out noting this week‚Äôs VIX collapse of 39.1 percent was the largest weekly percent down move since the index was launched in January 1990.¬† The week also saw record volume days for the VIX futures. The move even exceeds the largest weekly down move on the VXO, the vol index on the S&amp;P 100, which was the market standard volatility measure prior to January 1990.¬†¬† The VXO fell 37.9 percent the following week of the of the October 1987 stock market crash. Since the March ‚Äô09 stock market bottom the VIX has only closed lower twice, on August 13 and 17, 2012.¬†¬†¬† Note the July VIX futures contract closed the week at 21.40, 53 percent above the cash index. MacroMon The upshot? Probably can‚Äôt extract much info from this move relative to the others given the rise of high frequency trading and short-term trader dominance of the markets.¬† It also happened during a major holiday shortened week with many of the big players still out and yet to begin their year. Nevertheless,¬† some believe stocks will only return 5 percent this year and given the huge move last week the gains for the year have already been had.¬† We don‚Äôt know with certainty but our priors are this year could be bubblicious and the central banks will see to it until they can‚Äôt. This could be the tipping point year where markets revolt against deficits and hyper lose monetary policy, or maybe not. ¬† For now, the markets enjoy the crack, the trend in equities is positive, and new highs are at hand. Given this week‚Äôs huge move, coupled with the fact earnings season really gets going next week,¬† it‚Äôs probably not a good entry here, however. We thought that about dollar/yen at 85, however, but it keeps repricing like an emerging market currency with high inflation.¬† Granted it was hugely oversold, but 12 percent since November 9th?¬† Tokyo is not Buenos Aires, Toto!¬† At least, not yet. We always worry when central banks print money to monetize deficits and fear that money demand could collapse as holders begin to lose confidence in its future purchasing power. ¬† We seen this happen, first hand, in many countries. Stocks will move higher and the currency lower as this begins. ¬† Though gold has been trading poorly and may have more downside on a technical basis, it should also begin to move as the printing presses begin to fire up.¬† Asset picking becomes more complicated when most of the hard (well not so hard) currency central banks are expanding their balance sheets on such a massive scale.¬† This is nitro when credit begins to expand. Though they lengthened the duration of their portfolio with Operation Twist, the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet has been stable since the end of QE2.¬† So this year should be interesting if Chairman Bernanke follows through with the announced trillion dollar asset purchase. ¬† Add that to the expected monetization the yen and Nikkei are pricing from the Bank of Japan and the potential for OMTs from the ECB with, say,¬† a Spanish or Italian intervention, which will surely not be completely sterilized. Furthermore,¬† credit markets are starting to heal and the monetary aggregates are growing at annual rate well in excess of nominal GDP growth.¬† That‚Äôs, more yield/return chasing liquidity.¬†¬† Could be wrong, but think we‚Äôre in for some Fireworks! MacroMon (click here if charts are not observable)  Read more posts on Global Macro Monitor ¬ª
Here's a cool chart from Bloomberg BRIEF's 2012 Review and 2013 Outlook Supplement. It tracks the moves in precious and base metals prices and annotates the moves with relevant news. Bloomberg BRIEF NOTE: Bloomberg is offering a free 2-month subscription to its Bloomberg BRIEFs newsletters.¬† Sign up here.
For those of you who are into patterns, this chart may be a bit jarring. It comes from an excellent presentation on the state of the markets published by JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly. From the looks of it, we're due for a big downward move in the stock market.¬† Last week, experts like¬†John Mauldin and Vitaly Katsenelson have forecasted that a downward move is coming for the current secular bear or sideways market. Click Here For The Whole Presentation &gt;JP Morgan Funds
This weekend we mentioned how banks got a big win from Basel, easing liquidity requirements more than expected. While most of the market is fairly flat today, banks are surging. Here's the European bank stock index, via Bloomberg: Bloomberg (HT: Alexandra Stevenson)
The chart to near left shows the countries expected to see the sharpest contractions. ¬†What is surprising is the with a couple of exceptions they are in the euro zone. ¬† The periphery is with the notable exception of Ireland. ¬†The Netherlands is the only core country that was included. ¬† The fact that Iran is on the right hand would suggest the sanctions are biting. ¬† It puts the Iranian government in a vulnerable position as the show down over its nuclear development approaches (March-April).¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
Robert Libetti / Business InsiderVERY quiet day so far. This follows a very quiet weekend, in which virtually nothing big happened. Markets are everywhere are basically flat. US futures are flat. Germany is down 0.26%. Italy is up 0.18%. Spain is doing okay, up 0.46%. Shanghai gained 0.37%. Mostly right now people are talking debt ceiling, but until it gets later in the game, people aren't going to care much.
