tHis1tRik4U / FlickrMarkets are mostly up in Asia follow a rally in the US that was fueled by positive economic data.† But Japan is the notable loser. Japan's Nikkei is down 0.8 percent. Korea's Kospi is up 0.2 percent. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 0.7 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.4 percent. China's Shanghai Composite is up 0.3 percent. Japan's sell-off is likely attributable to modest gains in the yen against other international currencies.† This makes the country's exports more expensive and it's the exact opposite of what its leaders want.
One of the few remaining hopes of the Apple bulls is that Apple will soon introduce a dazzling new smartwatch--the iWatch--that will instantly create a whole new must-have gadget category that Apple will dominate. After all, that's what Apple did with portable music players, smartphones, and tablets. And the years after Apple invented and then dominated those gadget categories were good years indeed. There is certainly a lot of evidence to suggest that Apple is about to introduce this iWatch. There are the non-stop reports that Apple's working on such a watch, for example. And there's the patent filing. And there's supply chain scuttlebutt. And so forth. So let's just go ahead and assume that Apple's going to launch the iWatch. And let's assume that the iWatch will do the following: And let's assume that Apple will charge, say, $199 for this watch. Are you really going to want one? Well, obviously, if you're an Apple zealot, you're going to want one. But if you're a normal person are you going to want one? Well, obviously we should reserve final judgement until we actually see the iWatch, but I have to say that, thus far, I don't feel any great desire to have one. Why not? Because I just don't think it's all that much of a burden to take out my smartphone. I love my smartphone (an iPhone). I'm so used to using it, it is basically a part of my hand by now. I don't consider it a burden at all to hold on to or operate my iPhone. And with the exception of the possible "fitness tracking," the iWatch just sounds like a smaller, more limited, more awkward smartphone. We presumably will not be able to type on our iWatches. We presumably won't really be able to use the Internet on our iWatches. We won't be able to watch movies on our iWatches. We won't be able to take good pictures with our iWatches (or, at least, we won't be able to take good pictures any more easily than we can with our iPhones). And if I'm going to have to carry my smartphone anyway, to give the iWatch Internet access, I can't imagine why I would also want to carry around another smaller, crappier version of my smartphone. Maybe the iWatch will just connect directly to cellular networks, thus alleviating the need to carry around a smartphone. That would make the iWatch more appealing for some people, presumably--the folks who rarely use the screens of their smartphones. But assuming the iWatch does need to be "paired" with a smartphone? Then it just doesn't seem all that useful. And it also seems expensive (Cell carriers aren't going to allow you to just connect to their networks for free, and multi-device plans are still being suppressed.) The ObserverSome iWatch concepts.The Wall Street Journal's gadget god Walt Mossberg just reviewed another smartwatch--the new "Pebble" smartwatch that the techochamber is all jazzed about. He didn't like it much. The Pebble watch didn't work very well when Walt used it, but presumably the Pebble folks will work the bugs out. More disturbing, at least for those who expect the iWatch to save Apple, is that the Pebble watch just didn't seem that useful. And then there's the price. Anything's possible, but it's hard to see how Apple could charge more than, say, $199 for a smartwatch--especially if it needs a smartphone to operate. And if Apple charges $199 for the iWatch, then Apple has to sell an absolute boatload of iWatches for the iWatch to really move Apple's revenue needle. So, although I confess that I'm excited by the possibility that Apple might soon launch a whole new product category, I'm skeptical about the near-term potential of the iWatch. It just doesn't sound that insanely great to me. SEE ALSO: All About The iWatch SEE ALSO: Apple Stock Tanks Again -- Getting Close To A New Low
The latest international nuclear spat is occurring between Sri Lanka and India over the latterís imminent completion of its Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. Indiaís government has dismissed as "baseless" the reports here about radiation leaks at the yet to be commissioned Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu, saying it has a robust regulatory mechanism to ensure safe operation, with an Indian High Commission statement stating, "These reports are totally baseless. There has been no radiation leak at the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant. It is reiterated that safety is accorded utmost attention in Nuclear Power Plants and encompasses the entire gamut of activities associated with these NPPs," adding that various works and commissioning tests and regulatory procedures are progressing, in line with oversight by Indiaís Atomic Energy Regulatory Board. The AERB reviews the various reports of performance tests and accords clearance for the next stage to ensure safe operation.Related article: Who will Pay for Nuclear Power Plant Cleanup?The facility is a poster child for Indiaís desperate efforts to ramp up its electrical generating facilities. India sees nuclear power as a shortcut to alleviating its energy shortages, adding Kudankulam to its current six NPPs, containing 20 reactors which generate 4,780 megawatts, with an additional seven NPPs expected to generate an additional 5,300 megawatts. The $2.5 billion, Kudankulam NPP in Tamil Nadu state will house six 1,200 megawatt and two 1,000 megawatt reactors. Kudankulam NPP has been controversial since its inception. Last August no less a personage than Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh questioned Indiaís Department of Atomic Energy about liability for the NPP and who will pay if there is a mishap at the Kudankulam NPP. Adding to the anxieties of Indian nuclear power proponents is the fact that Singh is also Indiaís Minister for Atomic Energy. The question of liability also extends to one of Indiaís closest trading partners, the Russian Federation, whose Atomstroieksport company constructed the NPP. When in 1988 an agreement for the Kudankulam NPP was signed between India and the (then) USSR for Kudankulamís number 1 and 2 reactors, India had yet to draft a Nuclear Liability Bill, so the contract maintained that the Indian side, as the operator, would be fully responsible for any damage caused by a nuclear incident. But the Nuclear Liability Bill legislation was passed in 2010 and provided that the supplier is also liable if the equipment is faulty. So, under the Nuclear Liability Bill, the operator, India, can claim damages from the supplier in such a case. The Russians have sought that the provisions of the pre-Nuclear Bill agreement of 2008 be extended to the next phases, unit 3 and 4, of the project as well and have brought this up at several high-level bilateral meetings, but Singh is resisting.Related article: Iran Announces Discovery of Huge Uranium DepositsBack to Sri Lanka. On 21 February the Indian High Commission in Colombo dismissed Sri Lankan media reports on leaks having developed in critical equipment of the Kudankulam NPP, stating, "The Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant is a state-of-the-art plant that is compliant with the highest safety standards available in the nuclear industry today. The safety measures instituted at the plant are of the highest order." India and Sri Lanka have an ongoing dialogue on cooperation in nuclear energy, issues including in the areas of isotope hydrology, radio-tracer studies and dam safety, and an Indian delegation is scheduled to visit Sri Lanka in the near future for the second round of dialogue on these and other areas of potential cooperation, including safety. So, obviously, nothing to see here ñ yet, move along.By. John C.K Daly of Oilprice.com Read more... Read more posts on OilPrice.com ª
Guang Niu/Getty ImagesChina is the world's second largest economy, yet it exercises tremendous capital control including restrictions on its currency, the renminbi.† Chinese officials have previously said that they want to make the currency fully convertible by 2015. Some, like Deutsche Bank's Alan Cloete, have made bolder claims. He expects the renminbi to become a major reserve currency in the next decade and that it could begin to threaten the greenback. And Berkley economist Barry Eichengreen has said it could account for 15 percent of global currency reserve holdings around the end of the decade. More conservative estimates say full convertibility is at least 10 ñ 15 years away. But China's currency has come a long way in the last two decades. The Use of FECs People screaming for the internationalization of the renminbi often forget that until the mid-1990s, foreigners in China could only purchase goods and services with foreign exchange certificates (FECs). These were denominated in yuan but sold at a premium and, as expected, led to a thriving black market. FECs were phased out in 1995 as Beijing began to open up. Once FEC's were phased out, China could open up its current account and use the renminbi to settle trade. "This opened the door for China to make the Renminbi convertible for current account (i.e., trade) transactions the following year," wrote Patrick Chovanec, professor at Tsinghua University. But China continued to exercise strict capital controls establishing 'B shares' that were denominated in U.S. dollars in Shanghai and Hong Kong dollars in Shenzhen, and that only foreigners could invest in until 2001. "In effect, the inability to freely buy and sell Renminbi was used as a firewall to insulate Chinaís financial markets from the outside world," writes Chovanec.
The following is an excerpt from today‚Äôs Professional Edition Fed Report, Market Liquidity Shortage Will End on March 1.¬† The FOMC minutes are propaganda which the Fed tailors to manipulate the markets in the direction it wants at the time of the release. In early January, it raised the specter of an early end of QE in the minutes of the December meeting. The Fed released its minutes of the January FOMC meeting last week. It played the same game in this release, highlighting a split among FOMC members on the issue of how and when to end QE. That‚Äôs a far cry from the QE that the market thought was open ended and would remain in force until employment came down to 6.5% or inflation rose above 2.5%. The Fed wanted to put the fear of god into speculators to keep them from buying commodities, particularly crude oil and the monetary metals. The tactic worked in spades last week as commodities got crushed (charts below). The release was fortuitously timed to coincide with huge Treasury issuance and the ECB‚Äôs LTRO repayment, both of which were going to require that dealers and banks liquidate some things anyway to raise the cash to buy the Treasuries and to repay the LTRO loans. It all came together in a mini-meltdown in most commodities. Bernanke and Co. must have been patting themselves on the back for their manipulative powers. The Chairman even bragged at today‚Äôs Senate hearing that he had the best record on inflation of any Fed Chairman ever (the lucky bastard- woe to his successor). This drop in commodities gave the Fed more breathing room to continue and even add to QE. Adding to QE is not a crazy thought that I just had. The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee (TBAC) had suggested that the Fed might increase QE in its February Report to the Secretary of the Treasury, due to the low inflation readings in conventional measures. Meanwhile the Fed is pretending that it might end QE perhaps as early as later this year. It can only proclaim this so many times before ‚Äúthe boy who cried wolf‚Äù syndrome creeps in to speculators‚Äô minds and they begin to ignore the warnings and buy anyway. ¬†But even when that happens, it will take a significant move up in commodity prices to put the Fed in a position where it would need to begin to tap the brakes. I think these threats to end QE are hollow for now. The pressure will really need to build to force the Fed to cut back. Charts below show price trend, and COT net positions reported by the CFTC.  Follow my comments on the markets and economy in real time @Lee_Adler¬†on Twitter! Stay up to date with the machinations of the Fed, Treasury, Primary Dealers and foreign central banks in the US market, along with regular updates of the US housing market, in the Fed Report in the Professional Edition, Money Liquidity, and Real Estate Package. Try it risk free for 30 days. Don‚Äôt miss another day. Get the research and analysis you need to understand these critical forces. Be prepared. Stay ahead of the herd.¬†Click this link and begin your risk free trial NOW!
Flickr/nateOneA few key U.S. and European economic indicators are scheduled for release tomorrow including French consumer confidence, UK's gross domestic product (GDP) and U.S. durable goods orders, to name a few. Several top U.S. companies, including Target and TJX Cos Inc. will be posting earnings before markets open tomorrow.  Here's what you need to know (all times ET, consensus estimates from Bloomberg): Below are the top companies that will be posting fourth-quarter earnings reports before markets open tomorrow, along with consensus estimates from Bloomberg:
If youíve taken a look lately at retail gasoline prices across the U.S. itís not terribly surprising to see high-tax states like New York and California with the most expensive gasoline in the country. But which states are paying the least? Wyoming. Montana. New Mexico. Utah. Colorado. Idaho. While these states have lower fuel taxes than many others, they are also among those with access to cheaper Canadian crude oil which sells at a discount to West Texas Intermediate.  Canadian crude can greatly benefit coastal cities --if there was a way to get it there. Particularly in the northeast, refineries have struggled in recent years and capacity is further reduced with the latest closing of the Hess facility in Port Reading, NJ. They are adversely impacted by exclusion from lower cost crudes and reliance on higher-priced Brent oil. Thatís why Sunoco recently closed its Marcus Hook, PA refinery and sold its 330,000 bpd refinery in Philadelphia.  While the U.S. gains from cheaper oil out of the Bakken oil fields of N. Dakota and Canadaís Alberta oil sands, east and west coast refineries cannot access it. Ironically, the presidentís stalling on approval for the Keystone Pipeline has given TransCanada Corp. time to plan a 3,000 mile pipeline east, to the Atlantic Coast where the Canadian crude can be taken by tankers to the Gulf of Mexico; its targeted destination. The eastern pipeline is among $22 billion in projects TransCanada has proposed or under construction, Bloomberg reported last week. CEO Russ Girling said the eastern pipeline would move as much as 900,000 bpd of western Canadian and U.S. crude to eastern refineries. He said, ìProduction from the oil sands and U.S. sources is expected to grow a couple million barrels a day which means that we need, as an industry, probably three Keystones to get that oil to market.î Itís important to note here that the only Keystone pipeline for which Girling has requested approval from President Obama, does not require one dollar of U.S. taxpayer money. Rigid adherence to the green energy orthodoxy may have served a purpose before Novemberís election but today itís simply counter-productive to the presidentís economic agenda, and inappropriate especially since the environmental protection argument has been nullified by Nebraskaís approval of a route change that takes the pipeline away from sensitive areas.  If you were hoping last night that the State of the Union address would offer an actual energy plan, or at least an indication of whether the president is closer to approving the Keystone pipeline, youíre undoubtedly disappointed today.  The president said his administration will ìkeep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits.  "...But I also want to work with this Congress to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even cleaner and protects our air and water.  Indeed, much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we, the public, own together. So tonight, I propose we use some of our oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good.î Is that really where federal revenue should go? Havenít we already seen what happens when the Dept. of Energy ìdoubles-downî with federally guaranteed loans on risky, green energy plays? Letís have a vote on that too.  This post was originally published on February 21, 2013.
APEven as Congress remains at a budget impasse, President Barack Obama continues to tout his plans to increase federal investment in the nation's ailing infrastructure, a $50 billion initiative that the White House claims will spur job creation and economic growth. What remains unclear, however, is how the Obama administration plans to pay for this and other infrastructure initiatives that the President outlined in his State of the Union speech last month. In a speech to the National Governors Association Monday, the President fleshed out additional details of the plan, announcing that his administration will create "regional teams" that will assist states in implementing infrastructure projects. "Weíre going to help the Pacific Northwest move faster on renewable energy projects," Obama said. "Weíre going to help the Northeast Corridor move faster on high-speed rail service...Weíre going to help states like North Dakota and South Dakota and Montana move faster on oil and gas production. All of these projects will get more Americans back to work faster." As with his earlier proposals, Obama did not say how the White House plans to pay for the regional team infrastructure program. Overall,†Obama's plan, which was fleshed out by the White House last week, call for an up-front investment of $50 billion, and includes three major initiatives that will likely require additional funding over time. Here are the basic details of the proposal: Republicans have mocked Obama for the proposal, which has been knocking around the White House for the past few years despite gaining little traction in Congress. Earlier this month,†House Speaker John Boehner accused Obama of acting like "Santa Claus"†for touting infrastructure plans without proposing how they would be funded. The irony here is that infrastructure spending enjoys broad support, even among Republicans. Infrastructure investments have substantial economic benefits, boosting state economies by two dollars for every federal dollar spent,†according to a recent study from the San Francisco Federal Reserve. And as Obama pointed out to the NGA Monday, investments in infrastructure actually save the government money, due to the high cost of deferred maintenance. Moreover, U.S. infrastructure repairs are badly needed. A report from the American Society of Civil Engineers last month found that†without a $2.7 trillion investment in infrastructure upgrades†by 2020, the U.S. will face massive job and income losses, higher retail prices, deteriorating traffic conditions, and increasingly frequent power outages. Despite these circumstances, however, it is unlikely that Congress will reach an agreement on infrastructure spending, at least for the foreseeable future. Republicans are loathe to accept anything that looks like a stimulus plan, and many are demanding that infrastructure investments be paid for by cuts to other programs, particularly entitlements. "If there is a need and a desire in the Democratic Party to spend money on infrastructure, what are they willing to do to enable the country to do that?" GOP communications strategist Brad Dayspring said in a recent interview with Business Insider. "So far, they've been unwilling to say."
Kap Su Seol, Research Analyst Japan‚Äôs biggest film studio, Toho Co. Ltd.‚Äôs Feb. 21 acquisition of Toho Real Estate Co., Ltd. offers a sneak preview of how battle lines are being drawn between the country‚Äôs corporate powers and governance advocates. Toho, owners of 58% of Toho Real Estate, bought the remaining shares for 16.6 billion yen. Toho turned its once-majority held affiliate into a wholly-owned unit for a bargain price. The parent‚Äôs own conservative appraisal put the value of the affiliate‚Äôs real-estate assets at 64 billion yen. Prospect Asset Management, a Tokyo-based activist fund which owned about 5.6% of Toho Real Estate, estimated the value of the unit‚Äôs top two assets alone at 93 billion yen. The activist fund protested the bid and failed. In Japan, there is little legal recourse for minority shareholders like Prospect Asset in this scenario. In the 1960-1980s, it was not unusual for Japanese conglomerates to spin off affiliates into public companies while still maintaining controlling ownership stakes. Though very inefficient, these arrangements, called keiretsu, or networks of affiliates, were quite lucrative. These affiliates not only operated as part of their parents‚Äô keiretsu networks, but also paid them high dividends. The keiretsu system, inherently susceptible to conflicts of interests, is a severe impediment to outside shareholder rights. The global Great Recession of 2008-2010 has heightened the already urgent need for Japan to restructure its economy. In response to this pressure, many Japanese corporate giants have begun to acquire affiliates to revamp their capital bases. According to Tokyo Stock Exchange, in 2010 alone, 37 of a total of 68 companies that were delisted were merged into their parents. In 2011, 28 out of the 52 delisted companies were absorbed into their parents, and in 2012, 21 out of 56. Prospect Asset‚Äôs failed protests were still meaningful because they openly challenged the keiretsu network within the broader context of corporate governance and minority shareholder rights. Prospect Asset was not alone. Since October 2012, other minority shareholders have banded together in opposition to a joint bid for Japan‚Äôs largest cable TV operator J: Com by KDDO Corporation and Sumitomo Corporation. The two companies together control about 70% of J: Com and have plans to turn it into a 50/50 joint venture after the purchase. It is likely that more and more minority shareholders will challenge the old-guard networks in Japan. Without a doubt, reforming the keiretsu system is pivotal to Japan‚Äôs broader national agenda to restructure its economy. Optimally, the country‚Äôs lawmakers and regulators would support activist owners by introducing new regulations that rigorously protect minority shareholders‚Äô rights. The post Keiretsu: Another Obstacle to Japan‚Äôs Comeback appeared first on GMI Ratings. Read more posts on GMI Ratings ¬ª
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. David Rubenstein Identifies Who Will Make A Fortune In The Next Two Or Three Years (Bloomberg TV)  David Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle Group told Bloomberg TV that interest rates can't be kept artificially low "forever" and the person who can spot when this will change will make a lot of money.¬† "As Herb Stein, a former chair of the Council of Economic Advisors once said, if something can't keep going on forever it won't. And low interest rates will not keep going on forever. At some point, they will rise and people have to anticipate that will happen. The greatest fortune to be made in the United States in the next two or three years is going to be made by somebody who determines when the interest rate rise will occur. If somebody will do what John Paulson did in effect in subprime debt, have is the perfect derivatives and take advantage of that. Market rates will go up at some point. As long as they are low I think it's an attractive opportunity to use those low interest rates to fuel growth and to make acquisitions, buyouts or other kinds of corporate M&amp;A." Sell Your Euros (Morgan Stanley) Morgan Stanley is telling its clients to sell their euros. In a new note titled 'Closing EUR longs' Ian Stannard, head of Morgan Stanley's European FX Strategy asks clients to "use any EURUSD rebounds over the coming days into the 1.3150 area to close this long position, and await clarification/stabilization of the political picture in Italy before re-entering bullish EUR strategies". Gold's Performance Under The Last Four Fed Chairmen (Bespoke Investment Group) Bespoke Investment Group ¬† Gary Shilling Has A Quartet Of Investment Advice (Forbes) Gary Shilling says he has a "quartet" on which he gives investment advice and they go back and forth depending on whether we're in a risk-on or risk-off mode. In a risk-on environment he says investors are bullish on stocks and bearish on Treasuries. In fact he says investors gravitate towards junk securities not Treasuries, and commodities and "they don‚Äôt care much about the dollar.""Now if you get to the risk-off, which I think would happen after a shock, and the grand disconnect gets reconnected, then it would be the opposite: long treasuries, short stocks, short commodities and long the dollars as a safe."  Advisors Leave Wells Fargo And Morgan Stanley For Baird (The Wall Street Journal) 5 advisors have joined Baird Private Wealth Management from Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo. Father and son duo Joseph and John Lipe, known as "the Lipe Group", according to The Wall Street Journal will join from Morgan Stanley's wealth management unit.¬† Kevin Phillips is joining from Wells Fargo, and Robert Glenn and Chad Schuman have already joined Baird from Wells Fargo.
Itís easy to forget this, especially when reading recent†raves†about the retailerís December í12 numbers (and the corresponding jump in stock price).† To wit: in early January, the†company†ìreported that December 2012 net sales increased 5 percent compared with last year,î up to $2.08B net sales from $1.98B from the five-week period ending December 31, 2012.† Most markedly, Old Navy (the North America division) posted a 13% increase in 2012 (vs. just 4% last year). Finally, the market†ìbelievesî†in the Gap story again, trading the stock at more than $33/share after a 52-week low of $21.15 (though down from a same-time high of $37.85). Despite positive Q4 earnings reports and the marketís confidence, however, Gap is still in trouble, still headed in the wrong direction.† Here are 3 reasons why you should (still) be betting against the retailer (and its purported ìturnaroundî): 1) Look from whence comes the growth:†As spiriting as Gapís numbers appear at the outset, the devil is in, as in all things retail, the details.† Most significantly, itís important to look at through which division this increase in revenue emerged this holiday season: more than the Gap or Banana Republic brands, Old Navy posted the highest same-store-sales increase over the holidays, and really, it all makes sense. Reflecting the global economic realities now hitting Americaís shoppersí wallets, ONís bump in sales drove revenue for Gap Inc., but at a ìprice:î the lowest-price point retailer in the Gap roster also posts the lowest margins, ergo demanding higher revenue and faster turns for the inexpensive chain (while simultaneously training Gap customers they can purchase clothing similar to the Gapís and BRís at a far more inexpensive price).† Consequently, while Gapís overall revenues increased, they did so at the ìlowest levelî of the margin chain, thereby squeezing profit margins and pushing the Gap brand ìup-market,î a market-space in which GAP has historically gained thorough†criticism†and lost traditionally-loyal†consumers. 2) GrowthÖin the wrong direction:†This brings us to Gapís recent†$130MM†acquisition of luxury-brand boutique Intermix Holdco, ìa†deal†that will give the mostly casual-clothes retailer an opening to the all-important luxury market.î While company executives explain that this is simply an ìextension†of the Gapís move into the multi-brand, premium arena initiated with its 2010 purchase of Piperlime.com,î the move is, in short, a disaster in strategy and demonstrates conclusively that Gap has lost its way.† Once the retail worldís†ìgo-toî†growth story, Gap has since floundered (the exception being†2012ís†stumbled-upon fashion must-have of†brightly-colored, light-fabric pants†that corresponded serendipitously with a historically-warm year), losing focus on the operational and financial discipline thatís necessary to manage a company thatís since peaked.† In short, by using Intermix to expand into the high-priced exclusive marketplace, Gap is essentially relegating its title brand to the retail sidelines.† Now, will some consumers hit BR and Intermix for higher-end, more durable product while others (like myself) frequent ON for less-expensive jewelry and variations on the t-shirt and jeans aesthetic? Yes, of course.† Gap owns these spaces ñ at the high and low end.† But therein lies the problem. As one consumer recently observed to me, ìI look at Banana Republic and think, ëIíd like to dress like that, but itís too expensive.í So I go to Gap, but see what looks like to me cheap, Banana Republic knock-offs at still too expensive prices.† So I just go to H&amp;M or Zara, because I know what Iím getting.î† And thatís the crux of the issue: by attempting to be all things to all people, Gap is doing a significant disservice to its titular brand, by driving customers who would traditionally and loyally shop at Gap to head over to its competitors, while spending fewer dollars at Gapís ìancillaryî stores/brands.† In short, by trying to be ìall things to all people,î Gap is training shoppers to avoid its ìcentralî brand, driving them to BR and ON (and, now, Intermix). 3) Europe failed, so letís try the BRICs!:†After executing an ill-fated, poorly-timed expansion into Europe in the mid-2000ís (a move the company followed up with further expansion in 2011), Gapís at the expansion game again, this time focusing in particular on†China and Brazil†ñ 2 countries of the BRIC ìcoalitionî which have posted some of the highest growth GDP†numbers†in†recent years.† As it did with its expansion into Europe, GAP has massively mis-timed this move, migrating into these markets just as theyíre set to contract.† To point: China faces significant economic and political risks and perils in the next few years, as the Eurozone (a significant trading partner) enters its 4th†year of crisis.† Furthermore, Chinaís debt bomb is set to†explode,†as ìíChinese banks†have rolled over at least three-quarters of all loans to local governments that were due to mature by the end of 2012.íî† In short, as China prepares itself for slower growth and an inevitable contraction within the next few years, fewer Yuan will be spent on discretionary retail goods, a fact thatís colliding immediately with Gapís China expansion plan. Furthermore, Brazil looks no better for Gapís growth aspirations.† 2013 will most likely be an†ugly year for the country, with the worldís 6th†largest economy facing electricity rations and liquidity pressures.† Furthermore, Brazilís GDP growth trends have been on the downslide for the past few years, dropping†from†7.5 per cent in 2010 to 1.5 percent last year, suggesting an economy on the brink of stagnation. In short, by jumping into one-half of the BRIC waters in 2013, Gap is grasping at the wilted straws of emerging market retail growth.† Look for this expansion plan to bleed profits from the retailer in 2013 and beyond. So there we have it.† Is Gap permanently doomed? No. But donít call this a comeback ñ or even a turnaround.† Gap still has a long way before it finds its way. Margaret Bogenrief is a partner with†ACM Partners, a boutique crisis†management and distressed investing firm serving companies and municipalities in financial distress.† She can be reached at margaret@acm-partners.com. †
Standard HotelsThe owners of New York's Standard Hotel in the Meatpacking district are thinking about selling the property in a deal that could be worth $300 million, according to Crain's New York Business. The hotel is reportedly being quietly shopped around by Dune Capital Management and Greenfield Partners who control a majority stake in the property. The Standard, which sits above the High Line park on NYC's far west side, has been a popular venue for celebrities, nightlife, and foodie culture in NYC since opening in 2009. And its floor-to-ceiling windows, which overlook the High Line, have caused a stir. Anyone who is thinking of buying the hotel would have a true party mecca on his hands.
We thought we recognized CNBC anchor Mandy Drury's dress that she's wearing today on "Fast Money"...† Exhibit 1: Mandy Drury CNBC screenshot Exhibit 2:†Captain Jean-Luc Picard Wikimedia Commons
This week is TED week ‚Äì when some of the most relevant minds in society, business, and culture congregate to give speeches 18 minutes long sharing their ideas about how to change the world. The series is important for a number of reasons, not least of which is that it gives us a fresh collective zeitgeist into which we can sink our minds, hopes, energies, and efforts ‚Äì wiping the slate clean of past problems and upgrading to more novel ones ‚Äì of sorts. For surely, the challenges that we face might be brought to light in a mere 18 minutes, but could take a lifetime or more to solve ‚Äì and for which there may never be a clear solution. Yet there is purpose in a cause greater than one‚Äôs self. TED is also important for its endurance. Many of the talks shared even years ago still resonate. Education, the area about which I‚Äôm most passionate, will forever be a mainstay in the panoply of discussion topics. Sir Ken Robinson‚Äôs talks from 2006 and 2010 are today more significantly yardsticks against which to measure what we still haven‚Äôt accomplished in the evolution of education than they are to measure what we have. While giving a TED talk is not on my agenda this year, if I had to prepare hypothetically for one, I would have picked right up where Sir Robinson left off and talked about my model for a new kind of school. Here goes. First, education is not a bureaucratic expedient to advance the economic interests of the incumbency. Education is about creating a better future and opening children‚Äôs eyes to the possibilities of life and the power they have within themselves to create positive change in their lives and the lives of others. Children need something to believe in, and what they most need to believe in is themselves. Good teachers help bring out the best in children in this way.¬† I see a few main problems with education today, namely that we teach children to obey, to sit, to behave, to study for long periods of time before they are asked to produce a product. We don‚Äôt teach doing, and the only results that count are the ones that can be measured because they have been completed. Teachers themselves must also be held to a higher standard. Therefore, the school I propose (grades 7-12) would be run as a business. I come from a finance background and would set my school up in two divisions linked closely together. The business division would handle the school‚Äôs monetary dealings and would be run similarly to a hedge fund model. The business would raise money that it would manage and use its fees and profits to subsidize the students‚Äô tuition and offer higher salaries for younger teachers.*  The managers would be held accountable for their results, with the primary goal being to fund the future of education rather than their own personal accounts, and the students would become aware at a younger age of the fundamental concepts of business: margin, inflows equaling and exceeding outflows, and the importance of return on investment. (No matter what field you go into, a working knowledge of business concepts is a pre-requisite for enduring success.) The second division would be the education division, which would handle the teaching of the students and curricula development. We would recruit teachers who are experienced educators with a proven track record of success, retired business and finance professionals, and young professionals with a resume of community involvement, leadership, achievement, and accountability.¬† One of the issues that education faces today is in finding good teachers, namely because of the pay scale. Young, bright people are often motivated to go into more lucrative industries such as law and finance where they can earn larger salaries, but where there tends to be a surfeit of supply. We need to recruit people that would otherwise go into these higher-paying fields into education using various incentives that they might be afforded in other industries.¬† The other issue is equitable remuneration to teachers for impact created. The results teachers produce are often viewed as intangible because the output is in the cultivation of students‚Äô character, self-esteem, and critical thinking abilities ‚Äì all things that are difficult to measure, but surely contribute to a student‚Äôs ability to create wealth.¬† In my model, I propose that my school would be entitled to a royalty on every dollar earned by our students over a certain threshold, and those dollars would essentially be distributed to teachers as bonuses for their contribution to students‚Äô earning potential ‚Äìsimilar to how an entrepreneur might be rewarded for selling a successful business a decade or two after he created it. In other words, the students would be required to pay a percentage of their income (over a certain amount) to the school to recycle that money back into the school in the form of a royalty or ‚Äúmanagement fee‚Äù of sorts for the education subsidy (in the form of tuition) and personal development that they received while matriculating.¬† My model solves a few main problems: First, the problem of business mentorship. Successful business types are often exclusively made available to MBA programs from which they graduated, but mentors need to be more readily built into the framework of the daily learning process. With teachers that are industry professionals and veterans, students would learn the fundamentals of business and have access to invaluable mentorship every day.¬† Recruiting top talent to the education field. By offering higher pay and greater incentives, my school could recruit some of the top young minds and offer them long-term career prospects for which they could develop youth while also continuing to build their business careers. Accountability. The school would only succeed if the investments made by the managers proved sound. Rather than invest with a mindset of leverage for mere personal profit, investments would be made with the school‚Äôs best interest in mind, thus inherently reducing risk and placing the priorities of education first and personal reward second.¬† Rewarding schools and teachers. A proper recycling of cash back into schools and a rewarding of teachers who often are the most influential people in all of our lives. Good schools and teachers are often largely responsible for students‚Äô future successes, but don‚Äôt always receive the credit they deserve. My system would reward the schools with a perpetual annuity on alumni income earned that would go towards funding the school‚Äôs endowment, and give teachers an ‚Äúequity claim‚Äù in the students they teach and the economic results those students achieve over the course of their careers.¬† Why is this model important? First, we need talented young people to invest their lives in developing the next generation of leaders and who can also continue to pursue their business interests in the context of their working environments. Let these young professionals, who would otherwise go onto an MBA program or Private Equity firm, teach students the skills they learned in their first few years of work while also learning from the portfolio managers who would be managing the business side of the school.¬† Moreover, we need to generate an increasing focus on the importance of ROI (return on investment) in all that we do. Results in the business world are measured through actions; the more value that each action produces, the greater the intrinsic worth of that action. By using a model of accountability with a focus on results, students will learn more about doing and will take action to produce results that actually matter: ones that are completed and thus can be measured for optimally efficient ROI. This school model is a system that sustains itself, rewards fairly those that are a part of it, and provides opportunity for growth. The more effectively that the teachers can teach their students about leadership and producing meaningful results, the more the school and the students are rewarded. The emphasis remains on education. Furthermore, students‚Äô talents are explored and developed earlier in life creating more evolved adults, thus increasing the lifetime value of their output and contribution to the economy and society. While there would be a focus on economics, leadership, athletics, and service, many of the right-brain disciplines such as art, music, and dance would certainly be taught for they stimulate our creative sides and aid in the building of problem-solving skills and fulfilling relationships, which often further lend to our ability to create economic success and cultivate creativity. The thing is, when kids are encouraged to produce bodies of work, whether they are paintings or a calculus problem set, they learn how to prepare to be wrong, which is where originality emanates. My school is not conscripting a cadre of academic mercenaries, but rather developing a student body that will learn what talents it has and put them to good use early in life.¬† The days of giving students a month to write a paper and grading them on a select cohort of prosaic criteria is neither serving our children nor the world. We need to cultivate a group of critical thinkers, problem solvers, civic-minded citizens, and doers who view failure as a necessary ‚Äì and welcome ‚Äì by-product of pursuing a worthy cause and who will measure their success not merely by the money they earn, but by the lives they touch along the way. Having a greater appreciation for teachers shall accomplish this shift in values.¬† My model is surely not foolproof, but much in the spirit of TED, it addresses concretely a model for a better education system and plants the seed that can germinate through further probing, harvesting, and, of course, taking action.¬† *Here‚Äôs some math backing my assumptions. If the fund were to raise $500,000,000 and earn 10% per year, that would be gross earnings of $50,000,000. If the school consisted of six classes, and each class comprised 100 students, that would make for 600 students in the school. That leaves $83,333 per student to cover tuition. If each student‚Äôs tuition cost $40,000, that‚Äôs a net overage of $26,000,000 (600 x $43,333.) If the school employed 100 teachers (one teacher for every six students) and paid each $100,000, that would still leave $16,000,000 left over for further investment. And these assumptions are just for the first year of operation and do not account for compound interest. Conversely, they do not account for losses.¬†
Rome, Italy ‚Äî It's my last night here in Italy, so I went out for one last meal, and while I was at the restaurant I glanced up at the TV to see a replay of an earlier interview with Beppe Grillo, the big winner in last night's election (he didn't win outright, but the populist, anti-elite comedian far exceeded anyone else's expectations). But the real lesson is in the caption. Joe Weisenthal, Business Insider On the nightly news ticker, it's a common sight to see what Italians calls "Lo Spread" or the difference between Italian borrowing costs and German borrowing costs. BTPs are Italian bonds, and Bunds are German bonds. After last night's election, "Lo Spread" is up to 344 basis points. In the same way that Americans might be familiar with there the Dow is at at a given time, Italians watch this number. I learned about the significance of this number within a few minutes of landing in Milan last week, when I met a group of bankers, who referred constantly to it. Italy has a staggering debt load, and it pays right now about 4.5% of its GDP every year to interest payments on the debt. Reducing its borrowing costs, potentially, could free up a lot of cash domestically. Furthermore, since the wide spread is seen as a reflection of Italy's semi-functional government, the daily changes in the spread are a constant referendum on government. As Mario Monti engaged in reforms throughout 2012, and the spread came down. people saw this as a sign of competence, and Italy getting its act together. The surging spread today is seen as a reflection of the clown show that just took place. Ultimately it's a very weird thing for there to be a national obsession about relative borrowing costs relative to Germany, but there is a logic to it. And it makes sense that the man getting all the camera time right now -- Grillo -- is the one who is most opposed to this current obsession with spreads and maintaining international credibility.
Ben Bernanke testified before the Senate Banking committee today, and for the most part, things proceeded as usual. Until Elizabeth Warren took the mic. Senator Warren grilled Bernanke on "too big to fail" and the subsidy economists have calculated big banks get from the American taxpayers through preferential borrowing costs. Here's what she said (via Bloomberg): "Now we have a double problem which is the big banks ... have gotten bigger and at the same time ... investors believe with too big to fail out there, that it's safer to put your money into the big banks and not the big banks, effectively creating an insurance policy for the big banks .... Last week Bloomberg did the math on it and came up with the number $83 billion, that the big banks get in what is essentially a free insurance policy... So I understand that we're all trying to get to the end of TBTF, but my question Mr. Chairman is, until we do, should those biggest financial institutions be paying the American tax payer that $83 billion subsidy they're getting." Bernanke responded that those subsidies are coming from the market's expectation that the government will bail out banks, when in reality, the government has figured out a way to wind them down. He also added that the government wiped out the shareholders at AIG. To which Warren countered, "excuse me Mr. Chairman, but you did not wipe out the shareholders at the big banks ... Whatever you say, Mr. Chairman, $83 billion says there will be a bailout for financial institutions." Eventually she pushed Bernanke until he said, "I think we should get rid of it." The Bloomberg calculation Warren was talking about was in an editorial from last week. Here's the bit you need to see. From Bloomberg: Lately, economists have tried to pin down exactly how much the subsidy lowers big banksí borrowing costs. In one relatively thorough effort, two researchers -- Kenichi Ueda of the International Monetary Fund and Beatrice Weder di Mauro of the University of Mainz -- put the number at about 0.8 percentage point. The discount applies to all their liabilities, including bonds and customer deposits. Small as it might sound, 0.8 percentage point makes a big difference. Multiplied by the total liabilities of the 10 largest U.S. banks by assets, it amounts to a taxpayer subsidy of $83 billion a year. To put the figure in perspective, itís tantamount to the government giving the banks about 3 cents of every tax dollar collected. The top five banks -- JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. - - account for $64 billion of the total subsidy, an amount roughly equal to their typical annual profits...In other words, the banks occupying the commanding heights of the U.S. financial industry -- with almost $9 trillion in assets, more than half the size of the U.S. economy -- would just about break even in the absence of corporate welfare... Very disconcerting. Obviously Warren isn't pleased. Watch her express that to Ben Bernanke in the video below (via Bloomberg):
shayhaas / FlickrAfter some swings, stocks ended up for the day. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,900, +115.9 pts, +0.8 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,496, +9.0 pts, +0.6 percentNASDAQ: 3,129, +13.4 pts, +0.4 percent And now the top stories:
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke continues to take a lot of heat for employing ultra-easy monetary policy in his efforts to address the Fed's dual mandate of keeping unemployment low and inflation moderate. "My inflation record is the best of any Federal Reserve chairman in the post-war period, or at least one of the best ‚Äî about 2 percent average inflation," said he said to Senator Bob Corker during his testimony this morning. CPI may be tame.¬† But this hasn't kept people from buying up gold, which some consider to be a proxy for deteriorating purchasing power. Of course this doesn't account for other factors like emerging market demand for gold.  Here's a chart from Bespoke Investment Group showing how gold performed under each of the last four Fed Chairmen: Bespoke Investment Group
CSPANBen Bernanke testified before the Senate Banking Committee this morning to discuss monetary policy and his outlook for the economy. But things got heated when Tennessee Senator Bob Corker when on the attack, calling him an uber-dove who was putting the Fed's balance sheet at risk. Bernanke, however, swiftly rebuked, and went on to defend his track record. Here's a transcript of the exchange: Sen. Corker: I†don't think there's any question that you would be the biggest dove, if you will, since World War II. I think that's something you're rather proud of...Do you all ever talk about the longer term degrading effect of these policies as we try to live for today? Chairman Bernanke: I†think one concern we have is the effect of long term unemployment and the people who haven't had jobs for years. That means they're never going to acquire skills for years and be a productive part of our workforce You called me a dove. Well maybe in some respects I am but on the other hand my inflation record is the best of any Federal Reserve chairman in the post-war period, or at least one of the best ó about 2 percent average inflation...† If we tried to raise interest rates to three, four or five percent while the economy is still weak, it could not be sustained. Our economy is not strong enough to sustain real high real returns to savers. If we tried to do that we would throw our economy back into recession and we would have low interest rates like the Japanese do.† The only way to get interest rates up for savers is to get a strong recovery. And the only way to get a strong recovery is to provide adequate support to the recovery. So I don't agree with that premise. CORKER: Yeah. Do you concern yourself with the whole notion of being perceived?† You know, we watch regulatory capture take place where basically the regulators end up working for the people that they regulate. We had TARP, which most people felt like that was a needed thing during a crisis. And then we had an easy money policy which really allowed the big institutions especially on Wall Street to reap tremendous benefits in the early stages without doing anything. And then you're getting ready, I guess, in a few years as you alluded to when interest rates rise to basically have to print money to sell securities at losses, and then pay† to sell secures at losses and the pay interest on reserves which†people have pointed out and I think you all talk about is going to be billions and billion of dollars going to these institutions that again you regulate. Do you concern yourself at all with the Fed being viewed as not as independent as it used to be?† BERNANKE: Well we're concerned about perceptions, that's true, but none of the things you've said is accurate. For example...† CORKER: Oh yes they are. BERNANKE: Well. So to take the case of paying interest on reserves in the exit, No.1, that is beneficial for the taxpayer because, on the lefthand side of the balance sheet is reserves, but on the right hand side is the securities that we hold, which pay a higher interest rate than the reserves. So by doing that we actually make a profit, which we remit to the treasury. We're not helping the banks. CORKER: When you exit, when you begin to draw the money supply in, it's going to be very very beneficial to these institutions BERNANKE: Why? CORKER: Oh, they're going to work by yielding huge returns on their reserves as you payÖ BERNANKE: We're going to be paying market rates. we're going to be paying exactly what you're getting on the repo market, the commercial paper market, anywhere else. There's no subsidy involved. † Watch the full exchange here.
APJPMorgan Chase's outspoken chief executive Jamie Dimon is speaking at the bank's Investor Day in Manhattan. Earlier, JPMorgan said it would eliminate 4,000 jobs in 2013 and another 13,000 in its mortgage business in 2014. "Obviously, that's a rough estimate," Dimon said at the conference. "No one at JPMorgan ever, ever worries about losing their job because they made a mistake," he said, adding, "Why would you work there?" He explained that some places there's a "hang 'em high, shoot 'em" mentality if someone loses money, which he added leaves a "bad attitude" where people try to make as much as they can before "you get shot in the back of the head."† "That is what destroys these companies," he added. Dimon also went on the explain that they do not pay people on performance metrics alone. † He said no one at JPMorgan has special compensation agreements. †There are no "special deals" he said, adding in a loud whisper "Zero!"
JPMorgan's CEO†Jamie Dimon just burned CLSA bank analyst Mike Mayo during the bank's Investor Day. Mayo is known for being a famously outspoken analyst when it comes to the banks. † This is what happened when Mayo was pressing Dimon about whether the bank would raise more capital than is required.† Here's the recap that we transcribed from the audio:† Mayo: UBS is required to have 10 percent common equity and they've chosen to have 13 percent common equity because they say it's a competitive advantage. Their customers appreciate that. So how much higher would you go above 9.5 percent? And would you view higher capital as a competitive advantage? Dimon:†You know, so here's a company I've run with higher capital my entire life. Ok so [when] we went into this crisis we were at 7 percent Basel I, which was higher than most other people. And I do this chart ... 7 percent quarter by quarter '08, '09, never went down. It was clearly adequate for us. The equivalent of that 7 today is 14. So 9.5 Basel 3 is the is equivalent to 14 under Basel 1. Double. I personally think it's plenty of capital. ... We have to meet the regulator requirement and we want you to be completely comfortable. I personally think they'd be comfortable the way we are today. Mayo:†I think what I hear UBS saying in the presentation is that if I'm an affluent customer I'll feel a lot better going to UBS if they have 13.5 capital ratio than another big bank with a 10 percent ratio. Do you agree with that?† Dimon: You would go to UBS and not JPMorgan? Mayo: I didn't say that. That's their argument.† Dimon: That's why I'm richer than you.† Everyone started laughing after that.†
Wikimedia CommonsSkiddy von Stade has been recruiting on the Street for thirty years. In that time, he's made friends with some of the biggest players in finance from investment banking to asset management. Last year, the CEO of sports recruiting firm Teamwork Online gave him an idea. She told him to leverage the decades-long relationships he's built on the Street to create content for OneWire, his firm. The idea was not just to set his firm apart, but to also help young clients understand what the Street is all about. Now the interviews are complete, the videos are going up, and the series is called Open Door. "The reason why I did it was because throughout my career I've tried to help people figure out what to do with their lives," von Stade told Business Insider. "Today I talk to young people and ask them why they want to go into Wall Street. They say they want to make money, but there's no guarantee they'll do that... No matter what you do in life it has to be something you're interested in and passionate about. If you go into a job just for the money, there's a 99% chance you won't be happy." The interviews will be released in clusters. The first three on the site feature Jimmy Dunne III, Co-founder &amp; Senior Managing Principal - Sandler O'Neill, Jeffrey Leeds, President &amp; Co-founder - Leeds Equity Partners, and Bill Comfort, Former Chairman at Citigroup Venture Capital. Not bad. Next on deck is Tony James, President and COO of Blackstone. Check out the interview with Bill Comfort below, and keep your eye out for more videos in the coming weeks. 
JCPenney CEO Ron Johnson acted like he was buds with Macy's CEO Terry Lundgren, while he really was preparing a ruthless business move, according to emails revealed in court.† After the newly-appointed Johnson revealed his turnaround plans to Wall Street last year, Lundgren wrote to congratulate him.† ìThank you, Terry. Your note means a ton to me,î Johnson replied in an email written January 27, 2012, according to the New York Post. ìI consider you a friend.î "At the same time, however, Johnson was trading snarky e-mails with colleagues about Macyísóincluding one in which the former Apple exec said Macyís management 'look asleep at the wheel," the Post reported.† JCPenney was also plotting to start a line with Martha Stewart, one of Macy's most important designers.† Johnson was plotting a harsh offensive against Macy's at the time, according to emails revealed in court yesterday and reported by Women's Wear Daily: † WWD Twitter  Executives began testifying yesterday in Manhattan's New York State Court in the dispute over Martha Stewart's planned line with JCPenney.† She's had a housewares line with competitor Macy's since 2007, and executives say her agreement with them was exclusive.† Johnson isn't the only friend-turned-foe for Lundgren.† He also said that he considered Stewart to be a friend before she went behind his back and made a deal with JCPenney.† Johnson will testify Friday, while Stewart is scheduled to appear sometime next week.†
Bloomberg TV screengrabDavid Tepper, the founder of $12 billion-distressed-debt hedge fund Appaloosa Management, is one of the most successful hedge fund managers in the world.† The billionaire fund manager had a great year with his flagship fund finishing up about 30 percent, according to†Forbes.† Last year, Tepper was the highest-earning hedge fund manager, taking home $2.2 billion, according to Forbes. Tepper grew up a shy, math-whiz-kid who went from a class clown/ theater star to, ultimately, one of the biggest names on the Street.†
Kevork Djansezian / Getty ImagesSequestration will hit each and every aspect of the U.S. government, but for the Bureau of Prisons, the impact could be horrifying.¬† According to the Attorney General's office, the federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) will have to handle a rising number of inmates with a major budget reduction, a cut of $338 million.¬† And while other agencies can find ways to do more with less ‚Äî for example, by reducing procurement, enacting hiring freezes or cutting services ‚Äî BOP has to maintain constant security at federal prisons around the country with even less money. The solutions will not be pretty.¬† In an email to Business Insider, a spokesperson from the Department of Justice said that they are "acutely concerned about staff and inmate safety should sequestration occur." The Department indicated that it may at times maintain a minimum level of staff for security purposes, and that lock-downs may be required.¬† The Bureau¬†oversees 188 facilities¬†and contracts 16 facilities out to private prison companies. Currently, there is a grand total of 217,249 inmates in the federal prison system, a number BOP ¬†expects to rise¬†to 229,300 by the end of 2013.¬†In 2012, the BOP had a budget of $6.6 billion, with 41,310 employees. Correctional officers make up around half of the staff, with 19,756 employees in 2012.¬† According to DOJ, the sequester budget cuts will result in 5 percent reduction in the Bureau's workforce, which will be achieved by freezing future hiring and furloughing 36,700 staff for an average of 12 days. This means that almost every employee will have to go home without pay for some time, leaving BOP to function at unnecessarily low security levels.¬† Attorney General Eric Holder indicated that this reduction in force would endanger the lives of staff and inmates.¬† According to the Attorney General, the BOP will have to implement full or partial lock downs across the board. In a letter to Senate Appropriations Chair Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Holder said "This would leave inmates idle, increasing the likelihood of inmate misconduct, violence, and other risks to correctional workers and inmates." Complicating all of this is the fact that the federal prison system is already severely overcapacity.  According to the 2012 Justice Department annual report, the system is 38 percent overcapacity, a problem that the Department has identified as a major weakness.  But efforts to find a solution will be thwarted by the sequester.¬† In 2013, the BOP was slated to activate 5 new prisons throughout the system, alleviating the crunch with 8,100 new beds. In addition to cuts in guards, those projects will have to be delayed, exacerbating the overcrowding problem further.¬† On top of these issues, Holder reported that the BOP will be forced to curtail or cancel some of the crucial rehabilitation programs that bring long term savings to the criminal justice system. He wrote:¬† Further, limiting or eliminating inmate programs such as drug treatment and vocational education would, in fact, lead to higher costs to taxpayers and communities as the lack of such inmate re-entry training makes it less likely that released inmates will be successful at reintegration into society upon their release. The Washington State Institute for Public Policy found that the Residential Drug Abuse Treatment Program (RDAP) cost an average of $3,100 per inmate but caused an average net cost savings of $5,230, a benefit of $2.69 for every $1 spent. The BOP found that offenders who participate in RDAP are 16 percent less likely to be re-arrested or return to prison and are 15 percent less likely to use drugs.¬† Prison Vocational Training, the WSIPP study found, cost $1,960 per inmate with a net cost savings of $12,017, bringing $7.13 in benefits for every $1 invested. Inmates who participate in Federal Prison Industries are 24 percent less likely to return to the system for as long as 12 years, and are 14 percent more likely to be employed within a year.¬† In short, crucial programs that bring economic and judicial benefit down the line are destined to be slashed as a result of sequestration.¬†. "I am acutely concerned about staff and inmate safety should cuts of the sequestration's magnitude hit BOP," Holder said in a letter. "To be blunt, sequestration means less money, not fewer inmates."  "This kind of dangerous situation is exactly why sequestration needs to be avoided."  Jesselyn McCurdy, an attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union who specializes in civil liberties in the criminal justice system, is very concerned about the impact that the cuts will have on inmates.¬†  ¬ì"Sequestration could result in disaster for people in federal prisons who already live in dangerously overcrowded conditions,¬î" McCurdy said. The private prison industry, which is largely dependent on federal contracts, is also worried about the cuts. Damon Hininger, CEO of¬†Corrections Corporation of America, one of the largest private prison companies, voiced these concerns on a February 14 call to investors.¬† "So, the potential sequestration scheduled for March of 2013 has created some uncertainty for the government," Hininger told investors, according to a transcript posted by Seeking Alpha. "While many believe that Congress will find a way to stop or delay sequestration in advance of April, we will continue obviously to monitor very closely."¬†
From the latest Fed Minutes: Private nonfarm employment expanded in December at about the same rate as in the fourth quarter as a whole, while government employment decreased. The unemployment rate was 7.8 percent in December, below its average in the third quarter, while the labor force participation rate was the same as its third-quarter average. The rate of long-duration unemployment and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged down in December, but both measures were still elevated. The rate of private-sector hiring, along with indicators of job openings and firms' hiring plans, was generally muted but remained consistent with continued moderate increases in employment in the coming months. Let's take these data points one at a time, and expand on the data where needed. The Bonddad Blog The top chart shows that while we've seen consistent job growth, we're still 3 million jobs below the total establishment job peak in 2008. The reason for this gap is the slow pace of growth, leading to the second chart showing the monthly gain in establishment job totals.¬† While there has been two years of growth, it's been weak growth with most months coming in below the 200,000 level. Before talking about the participation rate, let's properly define the term. According to the BLS glossary: The labor force includes all persons classified as employed or unemployed in accordance with the definitions contained in this glossary, while the labor force participation rate is "The labor force as a percent of the civilian non-institutional population." However, these numbers are also influenced by the underlying components of the population.¬† For example, we are currently at the front end of the massive baby boomer retirement wave, where 10,000 people per day are retiring.¬† While the drop in the LPR is not completely attributable to that demographic trend, the research on the issue seems to be coalescing around the fact that about half of the drop is the result of retirements.¬† That being said, here is are two views of the LPR: The Bonddad Blog The top chart shows the total data, where a clear expansion of the labor force is seen from the years from 1965 until 2000.¬† There are a number of reasons for this but the two biggest reasons are the baby boomers entering the workforce and women entering the work force.¬† The second chart shows the decline in the LPR from 2008 until now.¬† Overall, we see a drop of about 2.5%, of which about half is a result of the baby boomers retiring while the other half is the result of the great recession. The Bonddad Blog The above chart is perhaps the most troubling.¬† It shows the total number of people unemployed for 27 weeks or longer.¬† What it really shows is that if a person does not have a job after being unemployed 27 weeks, they stand a very poor chance of getting employed. The Bonddad Blog The above chart shows the total number of employees who are part time for economic reasons. Like the long-term unemployed, this number is incredibly high by historical standards. It also indicates that in the current environment, once you achieve this status it's very difficult to get out of this group. For those paying attention, the charts above will show nothing new: job growth has been weak. The long-term unemployed have been that way for a long time and probably won't find a job anytime soon. And while about half of the decline in the LPR can be attributed to the boomers retiring, the other half is the result of people leaving the labor force because they can't find a job.
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThis morning we saw two huge housing data points. Home prices posted their biggest gain since July 2006, while new home sales surged 15.6 percent month-over-month. However, the already tight housing supply is getting even tighter.  Bank of America economist Michelle Meyer tells us that while we are seeing an improvement in new home sales, today's data could be revised in coming months and that monthly data should be interpreted with caution since it can be very volatile. She also says that housing supply is very tight and if we don't see a greater supply in the housing market, it will have an upward pressure on home prices. BAML expects home prices to rise by 4.7 percent in 2013. ---------------------------------------------- BI: New home sales spiked 15.6 percent in January. What's behind those numbers? Michelle Meyer: The 15.6 percent increase was certainly above expectations, and it is an outsized gain even for this series which tends to be volatile. So we have to put that percentage gain into perspective and realize that with the data being quite volatile, particularly at this time of the year, we could see a revision or a partial payback in coming months. But that said, I do believe that the trend is still higher for new home sales and I think we should expect to see continued improvement, given the fact that inventory is low not just for new construction properties but also for existing properties, and that creates opportunities for building. BI: Can the rise be attributed to just a weaker base? Michelle Meyer: So December was down three percent but November was up eight percent. If you look at a monthly pattern it is very, very noisy ó it's what's called mean reverting. I tend to like to look at three- or six-month moving average; I think it moves out some of the noise, and when you do look at it on a moving-average basis we're certainly still seeing improvement. BI: In terms of the supply, the actual number of homes is flat on a monthly and annual basis. It's the spike in sales that is changing supply ... Michelle Meyer: I think what it's showing is that the number of homes in the market for sale ó that's remained as you've said pretty constant ó which means builders are looking, seemingly as of now, at keeping stocks low. As home sales continue to rise we'll bring down that months' supply figure which means that the current stock of homes for sale will be cleared even more quickly and that's really what months' supply is capturing. It's saying how many months does it take to clear inventory at the current sales pace, so the lower it is, obviously the faster the inventory will move through the system, which means that there's greater ability for builders to add to the housing stock and increase construction. BI: Is the market too tight at the moment? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Michelle Meyer: I think the market is tight, clearly by looking at these numbers, and again it's not just the new market which has arguably been tight for some time, it's also the existing market. So, if we don't see greater supply come into the market, it will continue to put upward pressure on home prices and limit the amount of turnover we see in the market. So, I think it would very much be appropriate in the environment to see inventory pick up, see building pick up. BI: You have previously said you're not concerned about overbuilding (see article here). One of the reasons you gave, was large homebuilders had downsized during the crisis and it would take time for projects to pick up again. Does that then worry you considering supply is already tight and homebuilding might not pick up at a fast enough pace? Michelle Meyer: I maintain the view that there's little reason to be concerned about overbuilding this year. We're starting from low inventory levels and I think there's some limit on capacity in the homebuilder space. The large public builders are gearing up for further increase in construction and we've seen it. The numbers coming out from the public builders have outpaced the Census Bureau numbers for some time now. So it means that either they're outperforming the rest of the market, which is possible, or it means that we're going to see a revision to the official data which is also quite possible. And we get that revision in a month or two, so that's something that could be interesting actually. ... Presumably, the inventory numbers, the month supply figures we're seeing, suggest that homebuilding is already lagging a bit relative to demand. But I think that builders are going to be reactive, and you can see from homebuilder sentiment ó homebuilder sentiment is quite strong, much stronger than what we're seeing from actual production. So builders are feeling more confident, and I think they're looking for opportunities, and if demand continues to do well and if prices continue to improve, I think builders will respond appropriately to increases in sales. BI: Is there anything else our readers should know? Michelle Meyer: I think the other factor you always want to think about is regional differences. And not only in terms of new home sales, but also it ties into pricing. One of the things that was clear from this report is home construction has increased, certainly in January the biggest gain was in the West, but that was off of low levels in December. But even if you look at a longer trend, the West has seen more considerable gains in housing construction and that also is consistent with the fact that the market there just simply looks better, inventory is lower, and home prices are rising there. So the turn seems to be happening a bit more quickly in the West than in other regions. BI: And what are you seeing in the East Coast, specifically in New York? Michelle Meyer: That's probably the slowest market to turn. In terms of the Case-Shiller numbers [see here] the New York metro area was the only one of the 20 cities surveyed that is still contracting on a year-over-year basis. And in terms of construction there has been some improvement but it has been pretty modest, so I think the Northeast is lagging a bit relative to other parts of the nation. BI: And do you expect it to continue to do so for a while? Michelle Meyer: The challenge in the Northeast is the foreclosure process. It has a very slow judicial process which means that foreclosures and distressed inventory are leaking into the market only gradually. That means we'll continue to see this pressure on the housing market and there's certainly areas for opportunity. I think multi-family construction has picked up if you listen to what Toll Brothers just said, there's opportunities for apartment construction obviously in parts of New York, so when you look at Manhattan you get a very different picture than when you look elsewhere in the New York metro area. Overall it seems like its a little bit slower to turn.†
CNNPresident Barack Obama gave a stark warning to a shipyard crowd in Newport News, Va., telling them that the coming cuts known as the sequester are a "dumb way to do things." "This work, along with hundreds of thousands of jobs, are currently in jeopardy because of politics in Washington," Obama said.† The cuts, which will total $1.2 trillion over a 10-year period, are set to begin kicking in on Friday. Obama's speech in Newport News comes in an area that will be disproportionately affected by the defense cuts of the sequester. Obama called the sequester a "pretty bad name" for the amount of harm they could inflict, warning that their effects could be "even worse" than the name. "I'm not interested in spin. I'm not interested in playing a blame game," Obama said. "At this point, all I'm interested in is solving problems." Obama told the crowd that the effects of the sequester won't be felt overnight, but they will become more real the longer they are allowed to stay in place. Obama warned the crowd that 90,000 workers might have to be furloughed if the sequester goes into effect, and he said it could cost more than 10,000 jobs in Virginia alone. Obama said that people are "rightly concerned" about the deficit and debt, but called the sequester not the right way to approach decreasing either. "There's a sensible way of doing things, and there's a dumb way of doing things," Obama said, adding that he's willing to negotiate and compromise on programs that include Medicare. Obama touted Republican Rep. Scott Rigell, who made the trip with him to Virginia. Rigell has called for Republicans to consider new revenues in a deal to avert the sequester. "I've got to give Scott Rigell credit," he said, noting it's "not always healthy" for a Republican to be with him. "There are too many Republicans ... who won't compromise an inch when it comes to closing tax loopholes and deductions," Obama said. Obama's comments came as he faced criticism from House Speaker John Boehner and other Republican leaders for "campaigning" rather than negotiating with them to avert the cuts.† Earlier Tuesday morning, Boehner lashed out at the Democratic-controlled Senate, telling them to "get off their ass" and do something about the sequester. He also charged Obama with using servicemembers as "props."
Google FinanceStocks are making a big comeback after making some early swings. This morning, we learned that U.S. home prices climbed by 6.8 percent year-over-year in December.¬† This was higher than the 6.6 percent gain expected. "Since most people have their wealth tied up in their home, rising home prices make consumers more confident, more credit worthy and more willing to spend acquired income," said BTIG's Dan Greenhaus to MarketWatch. At 10:00 AM ET, we learned that consumer confidence surged, the Richmond Fed Manufacturing index unexpected turned positive, and new home sales destroyed expectations. All great news.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testified before the Senate banking committee.¬† According to his prepared remarks, is looks like he's maintaining his dovish slant.¬†  Here's TD Securities Eric Green on Bernanke's remarks: Bernanke is staying on message. He mentions that the Fed has the tools for exit and that distortions may arise from QE, but that is merely stating the obvious within a policy that few, including Bernanke, fully understand. We also suspect that it is intended to soothe anxiety among some that see persistent QE has more cost than benefits. Bernanke argues just the opposite. Further easing benefits outweigh the costs, and the tone of his remarks indicate that it remains far too premature to contemplate the end of asset purchases. It's worth noting that Bernanke said he didn't think stocks were overvalued.¬† This was in response to a question. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 216 points yesterday. Click Here For Updates &gt;
Host of CNBC's Mad Money, a daily hour-long show, Jim Cramer tells his viewers which stocks to buy, hold and sell, often in elaborate costume. Known for his zany on-screen antics and for yelling "Boo-yeah!," Cramer has dispensed stock market advice dressed as a baby, an executioner, and more recently, a hipster, complete with yellow pants and a fedora. But he's had his critics, and he's made his share of bad calls. Cramer told people to buy the now-defunct Bear Stearns before it collapsed, and not too long after that, The Daily Show's Jon Stewart lambasted him for being a Wall Street cheerleader. What all that comes down to, though, is that Jim Cramer is still a man whom everyone is watching. Here's how he got that way.
William Thomas Cain/Getty ImagesThis morning we saw two positive housing data points. Home prices increased at their fastest pace since July 2006, and new home sales data showed that housing supply continues to be tight. And tight housing supply is expected to push home prices higher this year. This has helped push homebuilder stocks higher today. Here is a look at what some of them are doing: Toll Brothers is up 3 percent. DR Horton America's largest homebuilder is up 3.5 percent. Beazer Homes is up 2.3 percent. PulteGroup is up 4.5 percent. Standard Pacific Corp which builds single-family attached and detached homes is up nearly 7 percent.
During Ben Bernanke‚Äôs Senate testimony this morning, Republicans again lambasted the Fed chairman for worrying too little about the inflationary potential of his low interest rate/quantitative easing monetary policy.¬†From the WSJ: A testy exchange between Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn) and Bernanke. Corker says Bernanke has sparked a global currency war and created ‚Äúfaux‚Äù wealth. Bernanke says he‚Äôs not engaged in a currency war or targeting the currency. Corker says Bernanke is the biggest monetary ‚Äòdove‚Äô since World War II,¬†proud of it and degrading society. Bernanke shoots back that he‚Äôs got the best inflation track record among Fed chairman since World War II. Corker says Bernanke is punishing savers with his low interest rate policies and throwing seniors under the bus.¬†Bernanke says he‚Äôs looking out for long-term unemployed and that¬†the stronger recovery he seeks will help savers. Following Corker‚Äôs advice, he adds, would throw the economy back into recession. This chart of various inflation measures sure doesn‚Äôt make Bernanke look too dovish: James Pethokoukis/AEI Oh, and¬†Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland¬†reports that its latest estimate of 10-year expected inflation is a skimpy 1.53%.¬†Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon ‚Äî but not everywhere and always a big problem. What the GOP should be hammering Bernanke about is the poor growth performance of the economy as measured by nominal GDP as the next chart shows: James Pethokoukis/AEI Slow NGDP growth contributes to higher unemployment ‚Äî the jobless rate is currently close to 8% ‚Äî and makes it harder for borrowers to service their debts. Yet Republicans are pushing legislation to tighten the Fed‚Äôs dual unemployment-inflation to put more emphasis on price stability. That seems completely off point and wrong-headed in the current macroeconomic environment.
Four of HP's board members, including chairman Ray Lane, met with about 20 of its biggest investors yesterday in the hopes of calming an investor revolt, the Wall Street Journal reports. The meeting seemed to be spurred, at least in part, by a campaign lead by activist shareholder Richard Clayton, research director of CtW Investment Group, which advises union pension funds. He wants HP's shareholders to take action against the board, possibly replacing chairman Ray Lane and one or two other directors at the company's annual shareholder's meeting next month. Clayton is concerned that auditor Ernst &amp; Young may have a conflict of interest because of the non-audit fees it earns from HP. He's also concerned about the $16.8 billion in write-offs HP has taken on its two largest acquisitions, EDS and Autonomy, and HP's accusations that Autonomy cooked its books. He's not alone.†HP is already facing 10 shareholder lawsuits. While it's not unusual for board members to meet with big shareholders, four of them attending a meeting of this size indicates that HP is taking its investors' concerns to heart. But HP isn't worried about an ouster. A spokesperson told us: ìWe had a productive meeting and appreciate the opportunity to answer questions for our investors. We feel we have the right board in place to turn HP around.î Here's the letter that CtW Investment Group sent to the board that got the board's attention. Letter from CtW to HP Board by  
With less than a week to go until the sequester kicks in, the White House¬†is warning of the effects that the automatic, across-the-board cuts will have on individual states. Here, we've compiled a list of 11 states that will be hit the hardest by the cuts. For some, the pain will come in the form of military job loss and readiness. For others, it will come from educational programs like Head Start. Certain programs like nutritional assistance for seniors and funding for clean air and water projects will also be subject to the axe.
Today, New York's Office of the Comptroller put out its annual Wall Street compensation report for 2012. It's an important report because it gives the state and city and understanding of what kind of tax revenue they can expect from some of the city's highest earners. Think of it this way: In 2011, the securities industry accounted for 23 percent of all private sector wages paid in New York City. That's a huge chunk, and that makes sense, as Wall Streeters are paid an average salary of $362,900 including bonuses. That's higher than any other industry in the state. How much higher? "The disparity between the average salary in the securities industry and the rest of New York City‚Äôs private sector narrowed slightly in 2011, but it remained wide, at 5.3 times more than the rest of the private sector ($67,900)," said the report. Bottom line: Wall Street jobs are hard to get, but they're good work if you can get them.
AP ImagesMorgan Stanley agriculture analyst Bennett Meier hammers the USDA's 2013 corn crop outlook today, saying the agency's late-winter corn call is almost always wrong. Given asymmetric yield risk, USDAís first forecasts are overly optimistic in our view. USDA based its 163.6 bu/acre corn yield forecast on a weather-adjusted trend model, assuming ìnormalî early-season plantings and June/July weather. Good weather during the growing season could produce such an outcome, but we view the USDA yield outlook as more of a bull case than a base case.  The USDA has a history of being too optimistic early in the marketing year, with final yields coming in below initial estimates in 5 of the past 6 years. Moreover, the ongoing drought in the US plains presents significant downside risk in the event of a dry summer. Meier is calling for yields of 155 bushels per acre and 13.8 billion total bushels of production, compared with the USDA's 163.6 bu/acre and 14.5 billion figure. As it happens, Maier's projections still represent an improvement over last year's figures of†123.4 yield and 10.7 billion bushels of production.
In New York City, securities industry bonuses are forecasted to rise 8% to $20 billion, according to the report. This is better than DiNapoli's office projected in October, but it in no way tells the whole story of what's going on with compensation. There are a couple of factors as work here. First off, this number doesn't reflect how much of what is being paid out in 2012 is part of deferred compensation from other years. Since the financial crisis, more banks have been deferring compensation for up to three years in order to better tie banker pay with performance. Morgan Stanley, for one, announced that 100% of this year's compensation for "top earners" would be deferred for three years. "Top earner," in this case, means anyone making more than $350,000 with a bonus of more than $50,000. Then there's the fact that some banks paid out bonuses earlier than they'd planned to. "In response to the fiscal cliff, a larger share of bonuses were paid in December 2012 to avoid higher federal tax rates scheduled to take effect in 2013," said the report. So we'll see how that impacts 2013's numbers. The average cash bonus rose by an estimated 9 percent to almost $121,900 per person, but† that's because the entire pool is being shared between fewer people. From the report: The Comptroller estimates that the securities industry in New York City lost 28,300 jobs during the financial crisis and has added only 8,500 so far during the recovery, a net loss of 19,800 jobs. Employment totaled 169,700 jobs as of December 2012 -- 1,000 fewer jobs than one year earlier. DiNapoli believes the industry will continue to restructure and downsize until a new business paradigm is established. "Restructure" and "downsize" are words the Street has become all too familiar with, and everyone knows they don't bode well for compensation.
Bloomberg TV screencapThis post originally appeared on LinkedIn. Follow Sallie on LinkedIn// <![CDATA[secure: 1// ]]>¬† I have often said that working on Wall Street was never as tough as attending an all-girls middle school in the south. I had Coke-bottle glasses, braces, unfortunate hair and committed the sin of getting good grades and being clumsy. If I wasn‚Äôt the last girl in the class chosen for sides on a sports team, I was pretty close to it. I ate lunch most days on my own. One day, after some petty humiliation, I came home in tears. My mother sat me down and told me, in a voice that I thought of as her ‚Äútelephone voice‚Äù (meaning, reserved for grown-ups), that I should ignore the girls; the only reason they were treating me poorly was because they were jealous of me. Therefore I should ignore the chattering crowds and set my own course. In hindsight, of course, she wasn‚Äôt being fully truthful with me (ok, or at all truthful); looking back at my cringe-worthy school pictures, it‚Äôs hard to imagine that anyone was remotely jealous. But that message ‚Äì along with the family mantra that ‚Äúyou can do anything you put your mind to‚Äù ‚Äì made all the difference. And coming from my mother, who had chosen the then-traditional path in life of southern homemaker, her implicit permission for me to stand away from the crowd packed a punch. I drew on this advice when I was a new research analyst and published less-than-rosy recommendations, when most of Wall Street was bullish and left me feeling exposed. I drew on it when senior executives of a couple of the companies I covered tried to have my boss fire me because they didn‚Äôt like that research. I drew on it when I was named Director of Research and we decided to take ourselves out of the investment banking business because we believed the client conflicts were too meaningful. And I drew on it in the recent market downturn, when my then-company and I disagreed on how to treat individual investors who had suffered investment losses from our products. Those were important. But its greatest impact may have been in less-public ways. Early on, this advice enabled me to ‚Äúfind my voice.‚Äù There is plenty of research that shows women are less likely than men to speak up in business meetings or state their opinions; many report that it is because their upbringing conditioned them to not stand out and to wait their turn. But sometimes the meeting is over before their turn comes. Having the confidence that standing out need not be a point of shame ‚Äì but indeed can be a point of pride, particularly for the right reasons ‚Äì can make the world of difference‚Ä¶.perhaps especially for us southern females.
Best Buy is cutting 400 jobs at its headquarters in Richfield, MN., the company announced today. When new CEO Hubert Joly took over late last year, he promised to cut $725 million in annual costs, and job cuts were part of that plan. Best Buy said that this is the "first phase" of that initiative. The "Blue Shirt" store employees aren't part of these cuts, so they're all safe for now. The statement from Best Buy ‚Äî from Tom Webb at the Pioneer Press: Best Buy today confirmed that it has, as part of its Renew Blue transformation efforts, eliminated approximately $150 million in SG&amp;A (administrative expenses), including an approximate 400-person reduction in employee head count in its headquarters. Best Buy's Q4 earnings hit this Thursday, so we should learn more about the company's plans shortly. Work for Best Buy? Email me at kbhasin@businessinsider.com.
Getty Images/Chip SomodevillaEight more states have joined a lawsuit aimed at challenging the constitutionality of parts of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, including the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.The CFPB was created in the wake of the financial crisis to protect consumers from predatory, unfair and abusive financial practices and has already taken action on many issues of concern, some of which contributed directly to the financial crisis. If the CFPB is ruled unconstitutional and dismantled, it is highly likely all the consumer protections it enacted would be dismantled along with it.The suit originated in Texas, and was filed on behalf of a Texas-based community bank named State National Bank of Big Spring and two conservative political groups. It contends that both Dodd-Frank and the CFPB give too much power to federal officials, allowing unelected bureaucrats to "unilaterally liquidate financial institutions in which the state invests taxpayer dollars ... [therefore depriving states] of basic due process rights and [placing] taxpayers' resources at risk."It was¬†announced on Wednesday¬†that the state of Texas officially joined the suit along with Alabama, Georgia, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Ohio, and West Virginia. Oklahoma, South Carolina, and Michigan were the first states to sign on. Just for good measure, the suit also names Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke as one of the defendants.Ending Predatory Financial PracticesThe¬†CFPB's stated mission¬†is "to make markets for consumer financial products and services work for Americans -- whether they are applying for a mortgage, choosing among credit cards, or using any number of other consumer financial products." In its short lifespan, the agency already has a remarkable list of accomplishments under its belt, including: But the best known and perhaps most important of the CFPB's consumer-protection accomplishments is new mortgage-writing guidelines that protect prospective homeowners from the kind of predatory lending practiced in the years leading up to the crash.The new rules would incentivize banks to write mortgages fairly and squarely -- offering them some measure of protection from consumer lawsuits as long as they follow a set of common-sense guidelines, which include checking such basic items as current income, current employment status, current debt obligations, credit history, and the projected ability of the borrower to make his or her monthly mortgage payment.Believe It or Not, Everybody WinsAs crazy as it sounds, these kinds of underwriting basics were ignored on a massive scale by many banks in the years leading up to the financial crash. At the extreme end of the predation spectrum, some consumers were on the receiving end of no-income, no-job, no-asset loans (known in finance industry slang as "NINJA loans") and got into homes they were never going to be able to afford.Such predatory home-lending practices fueled the housing bubble that eventually crashed Wall Street and then the rest of the economy when it burst. It, of course, also crashed an untold number of personal finances along with it -- personal tragedies people across the country are still recovering from.If large parts of Dodd-Frank are ruled unconstitutional, including the CFPB, Americans will be back to square one when it comes to basic financial protections that we're already beginning to take for granted. The banks were actually happy when the above-mentioned home-lending reforms were agreed to: They got protection from consumer lawsuits just for doing their due diligence on loans, which of course would also be better for them in the long run.No bank wants bad loans on its books, and no consumer wants or needs to get into a mortgage, student loan, or credit card agreement that harms them in the short run and potentially the economy in the long run. As rare as it is in our polarized political world, with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, everyone actually wins.
AP Photo/Matt YorkMoments before, we saw that January new home sales were up 15.6 percent month-over-month (MoM). And significantly, supply decreased to 4.1 months supply at current sales pace compared with 4.8 months in December, and 5.3 months a year ago. The months' supply figure was down 14.6 percent MoM, and 22.6 percent year-over-year (YoY). The number of homes however stayed flat at 150,000 in January, and was up from 149,000 a year ago. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics writes that today's data shows that "supply conditions are extremely tight" and that home price gains should pick up this year. "Indeed, taking new and existing homes together, the relationship between the monthsí supply of unsold homes and house prices points to an acceleration in the pace of house prices gains in the year ahead." Capital Economics Bill McBride at Calculated Risk, takes a longer term look and writes that new housing supply is now in the "normal range": Calculated Risk America's largest homebuilder D.R. Horton has previously said that it will "thrive" as the housing market sees limited supply, according to Reuters.  Meanwhile, a decline in inventory (both new homes and existing) was one of the key reasons that Bank of America's Michelle Meyer hiked up her 2012 home price projection to 6.4 percent, and raised her 2013 projections to 4.7 percent. This along with the S&amp;P Case-Shiller home price report that came out earlier today shows that the U.S. housing market is looking at a good year.
Speaker.govHouse Speaker John Boehner got a bit unplugged during his weekly press conference today, pointedly telling the Senate to "get off their ass and do something" to find a way to avert the sequester. Boehner pushed a familiar refrain during a nearly 10-minute press conference: The House has twice passed legislation to replace the sequester's spending cuts. Now, the Senate must act. "We should not have to move a third bill before the Senate gets off their ass and begins to do something," Boehner said.† "The House has done its job," Boehner added. The across-the-board cuts of the sequester are set to begin kicking in at the end of this week. Boehner and other Republicans are locked in a battle with President Barack Obama and Democrats over how to avert those cuts. Obama is set to take his message to Newport News, Va., today to warn about the cuts. The bills passed by the House expired with the end of last Congress. But Boehner said that wasn't an excuse for the Senate. "It's time for the Senate to act. We've acted," Boehner said, in a pointed tone. He said that if the Senate acts, the House would be prepared to act "quickly." Here's video of Boehner's warning, courtesy of NowThis News: 
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesJanuary new home sales surged 15.6 percent month-over-month, to an annual rate of 437K. This crushed expectations for a 3 percent rise, to an annual rate of 380K. Click here to refresh &gt; The median sales price of new homes in January was $226, 400. The seasonally adjusted estimate of new homes for sale at the end of January was 150,000. It would take 4.1 months to sell the supply at the current sales pace. Meanwhile, last month's reading was revised up to reflect -3.8 percent month-over-month decline to an annual rate of 378K. This compares with the initial reading of 7.3 percent decline to 369K. The time taken to clear supply in December was 4.8 months at the current sales pace. This indicator measures the number of newly constructed homes with a committed sale during the month. It offers insight into the broader economy since new homes often have a ripple effect on the economy, and consumer spending. It also gives us a broader picture of housing demand.
Vince Caligiuri / Getty Images Sport With much of the country and world still recoiling at the horror of having horse meat discovered in their "beef," cries for closer monitoring of our food production are deafening. And to the extent that the flesh of animals that aren't cows is finding its way into food advertised as cow, that's fine. It's fair to want to know what we're eating. But there's a larger question here. Why don't Americans eat horses? Americans eat cows. We eat chickens. We eat buffaloes. We eat pigs, which are supposedly smarter than dogs (another animal we don't eat). We eat ducks. We eat fish. We eat squirrels. We eat all sorts of other animals. Wikimedia CommonsHorse meat.So why are we so horrified by the idea of eating horses? Is it because we have horses as pets? French people, who are known around the world for being uber-civilized, have horses as pets--and they still eat horses. In fact, the recent horse meat scandal has reminded a lot of French folks that horse meat is delicious, so they're lining up to buy it. Is it because we have pastimes like thoroughbred racing (Seabiscuit, Secretariat), equestrian events, etc.? Certainly possible. But don't other countries have those? Is it because the horse is an iconic American animal, having helped the iconic American marlboro man conquer the wild west and starred in books like Flicka and Black Beauty? Didn't horses help out folks in other countries? Don't other countries have books like that? I've never intentionally eaten horse, but I gather some folks consider it delicious. So why don't we eat horses? Should we? Please share thoughts, insights, and links below. We'll get to the bottom of this! SEE ALSO: People Are Lining Up To Buy Horse Meat In France
DPA MoscowThe dow is up over 120 points. There are four big pieces of news Oh and there's some subsiding of the Italian panic.
Billionaire hedge fund manager Steve Cohen, the founder of $14 billion SAC Capital, earned more than twice as much in 2012 than he did in 2011. Forbes has just released its 40 highest earning hedge fund managers list. Overall, Cohen ranked No. 3 on the magazine's list.¬† For 2012, Cohen took home an estimated¬†$1.3 billion¬†compared to¬†$600 million in 2011, the list shows. SAC Capital had returns of 25% last year, according to Forbes. What's more is about 40% of SAC's assets under management come from outside investors with the rest belonging to Cohen and SAC employees, according to the New York Times.¬† Cohen has attracted a lot of unwanted attention lately because he has been¬†identified in several media reports as "Portfolio Manager A"¬†in the latest insider trading case against former CR Intrinsic (a subsidiary of SAC) portfolio manager Mathew Martoma. ¬† It's known that Cohen is the ultimate target of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.¬† Still, he has not been charged with any wrongdoing and he may never be charged.¬† SEE ALSO: The Fabulous Life Of Steve Cohen &gt;
Merlijn Hoek / FlickrConsumer confidence surged to 69.6 in February, up from 58.4 in January. This was much higher than the 62.0 forecasted by economists. "Consumer Confidence rebounded in February as the shock effect caused by the fiscal cliff uncertainty and payroll tax cuts appears to have abated," said Lynn Franco of the Conference Board. From the Conference Board: New York, February 26, 2013‚Ä¶The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had declined in January, rebounded in February. The Index now stands at 69.6 (1985=100), up from 58.4 in January. The Present Situation Index increased to 63.3 from 56.2. The Expectations Index improved to 73.8 from 59.9 last month.¬†¬†¬†¬†¬† The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was February 14. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence rebounded in February as the shock effect caused by the fiscal cliff uncertainty and payroll tax cuts appears to have abated. Consumers‚Äô assessment of current business and labor market conditions is more positive than last month. Looking ahead, consumers are cautiously optimistic about the outlook for business and labor market conditions. Income expectations, which had turned rather negative last month, have improved modestly.‚Äù¬†¬† Consumers‚Äô assessment of present day conditions improved in February. Those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù rose to 18.1 percent from 16.1 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 27.8 percent from 28.4 percent. Consumers‚Äô appraisal of the labor market was mixed. Those saying jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù increased to 10.5 percent from 8.5 percent, while those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù edged up to 37.0 percent from 36.6 percent. Consumers were more optimistic about the short-term outlook this month. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months increased to 18.9 percent from 15.6 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen declined to 16.5 percent from 20.4 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was more positive. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead improved to 16.7 percent from 14.4 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs decreased to 21.5 percent from 26.7 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase rose to 15.7 percent from 13.5 percent, while those anticipating a decrease fell to 19.6 percent from 23.3 percent.¬†
Comedy CentralThe Daily Show's Jon Stewart began preparing for doom as the across-the-board cuts known as the sequester are set to begin kicking in this week, donning a hazmat suit and warning of the cuts. Stewart played news clips that outline some of the cuts ó to national parks, to Department of Defense workers, to meal programs to seniors, to meat inspection, and to vaccinations for children.† "Holy [expletive]!" Stewart said, reappearing on screen in the hazmat suit. "We're doomed! Students without financial aid are going to have to get jobs feeding sick children to old people!" Is there still time to fix things? Stewart asked. Not really, a clip confirmed ó there are only now three more days until the cuts start to kick in. "Four days? That's not enough time to do anything. We can't even tow a cruise ship full of diarrhea to Alabama in four days," Stewart said. Watch the clip below, courtesy of Comedy Central: The Daily Show with Jon StewartGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,Political Humor &amp; Satire Blog,The Daily Show on Facebook
Courtesy of CSPANFederal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke†gave his semi-annual "Humphrey Hawkins" testimony on monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee this morning. Market participants were listening closely for a dovish tone from Bernanke. The first big headline from his prepared testimony hit the tape at 10 AM (via Bloomberg): "FED'S BERNANKE SAYS BENEFITS OF FED ASSET PURCHASES, POLICY ACCOMMODATION ARE CLEAR; OUTWEIGH POTENTIAL COSTS AT THIS POINT" The testimony also stated that the Fed has the tools to tighten monetary policy, but that the job market remains generally weak (full text below). All-in-all, the tone was dovish. Many other Federal Reserve Board members have been out in public this month discussing concerns over the costs and consequences of quantitative easing. On Friday, though, Bloomberg reported that Bernanke sought to downplay those concerns ñ related to asset bubbles or other dangers from continued asset purchases ñ in a meeting with Wall Street banks in early February. While Bernanke's prepared testimony provided confirmation that the Fed's QE program is firmly in place for now, it did not provide the impetus for further market gains. When asked during the Q&amp;A about whether contractionary fiscal policy was working against expansionary monetary policy, Bernanke told senators, "I just think that to some extent the fiscal decisions being made are mismatched with the timing of the problem." In response to a question about Italy, Bernanke described the American financial system's exposure to Italian debt as moderate. "It would be meaningful, but a writedown would not inflict serious damage on our financial institutions." Bernanke sought to play down accusations that the Fed is involved in "currency wars" by debasing the U.S. dollar to boost U.S. exports. "This is not a beggar-thy-neighbor policy; it's something that stimulates our trading partners," he said in reference to expansionary monetary policy. He also told senators that "stock prices don't appear overvalued," and said†he doesn't see much risk of an equity bubble because earnings are high. He also cited the equity risk premium, which remains elevated. When asked whether he considered himself a dove, Bernanke said that in some respects he was a dove, but that his†record on inflation is the "best of any Federal Reserve chairman in the post-war period." On normalizing the balance sheet, Bernanke told senators the Fed could exit without ever selling into the market by letting its bond holdings run off and increasing the interest it pays on excess reserves. He also said that the Fed plans to tighten slowly and provide plenty of notice. In response to a question from Senator Liz Warren about implicit subsidies provided to "too-big-to-fail" banks, Bernanke said,†"That's the expectation of markets, but that doesn't mean we have to do it." Below are Bernanke's full prepared remarks. -------------------------------------------------------------- Chairman Johnson, Ranking Member Crapo, and other members of the Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve's semiannual†Monetary Policy Report. I will begin with a short summary of current economic conditions and then discuss aspects of monetary and fiscal policy. Current Economic Conditions Since I last reported to this Committee in mid-2012, economic activity in the United States has continued to expand at a moderate if somewhat uneven pace. In particular, real gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated to have risen at an annual rate of about 3 percent in the third quarter but to have been essentially flat in the fourth quarter.1†The pause in real GDP growth last quarter does not appear to reflect a stalling-out of the recovery. Rather, economic activity was temporarily restrained by weather-related disruptions and by transitory declines in a few volatile categories of spending, even as demand by U.S. households and businesses continued to expand. Available information suggests that economic growth has picked up again this year. Consistent with the moderate pace of economic growth, conditions in the labor market have been improving gradually. Since July, nonfarm payroll employment has increased by 175,000 jobs per month on average, and the unemployment rate declined 0.3 percentage point to 7.9 percent over the same period. Cumulatively, private-sector payrolls have now grown by about 6.1 million jobs since their low point in early 2010, and the unemployment rate has fallen a bit more than 2 percentage points since its cyclical peak in late 2009. Despite these gains, however, the job market remains generally weak, with the unemployment rate well above its longer-run normal level. About 4.7 million of the unemployed have been without a job for six months or more, and millions more would like full-time employment but are able to find only part-time work. High unemployment has substantial costs, including not only the hardship faced by the unemployed and their families, but also the harm done to the vitality and productive potential of our economy as a whole. Lengthy periods of unemployment and underemployment can erode workers' skills and attachment to the labor force or prevent young people from gaining skills and experience in the first place--developments that could significantly reduce their productivity and earnings in the longer term. The loss of output and earnings associated with high unemployment also reduces government revenues and increases spending, thereby leading to larger deficits and higher levels of debt. The recent increase in gasoline prices, which reflects both higher crude oil prices and wider refining margins, is hitting family budgets. However, overall inflation remains low. Over the second half of 2012, the price index for personal consumption expenditures rose at an annual rate of 1-1/2 percent, similar to the rate of increase in the first half of the year. Measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained in the narrow ranges seen over the past several years. Against this backdrop, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) anticipates that inflation over the medium term likely will run at or below its 2 percent objective. Monetary Policy With unemployment well above normal levels and inflation subdued, progress toward the Federal Reserve's mandated objectives of maximum employment and price stability has required a highly accommodative monetary policy. Under normal circumstances, policy accommodation would be provided through reductions in the FOMC's target for the federal funds rate--the interest rate on overnight loans between banks. However, as this rate has been close to zero since December 2008, the Federal Reserve has had to use alternative policy tools. These alternative tools have fallen into two categories. The first is "forward guidance" regarding the FOMC's anticipated path for the federal funds rate. Since longer-term interest rates reflect market expectations for shorter-term rates over time, our guidance influences longer-term rates and thus supports a stronger recovery. The formulation of this guidance has evolved over time. Between August 2011 and December 2012, the Committee used calendar dates to indicate how long it expected economic conditions to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate. At its December 2012 meeting, the FOMC agreed to shift to providing more explicit guidance on how it expects the policy rate to respond to economic developments. Specifically, the December postmeeting statement indicated that the current exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate "will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored."2†An advantage of the new formulation, relative to the previous date-based guidance, is that it allows market participants and the public to update their monetary policy expectations more accurately in response to new information about the economic outlook. The new guidance also serves to underscore the Committee's intention to maintain accommodation as long as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery with stable prices.3 The second type of nontraditional policy tool employed by the FOMC is large-scale purchases of longer-term securities, which, like our forward guidance, are intended to support economic growth by putting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates. The Federal Reserve has engaged in several rounds of such purchases since late 2008. Last September the FOMC announced that it would purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month, and in December the Committee stated that, in addition, beginning in January it would purchase longer-term Treasury securities at an initial pace of $45 billion per month.4†These additional purchases of longer-term Treasury securities replace the purchases we were conducting under our now-completed maturity extension program, which lengthened the maturity of our securities portfolio without increasing its size. The FOMC has indicated that it will continue purchases until it observes a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market in a context of price stability. The Committee also stated that in determining the size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, it will take appropriate account of their likely efficacy and costs. In other words, as with all of its policy decisions, the Committee continues to assess its program of asset purchases within a cost-benefit framework. In the current economic environment, the benefits of asset purchases, and of policy accommodation more generally, are clear: Monetary policy is providing important support to the recovery while keeping inflation close to the FOMC's 2 percent objective. Notably, keeping longer-term interest rates low has helped spark recovery in the housing market and led to increased sales and production of automobiles and other durable goods. By raising employment and household wealth--for example, through higher home prices--these developments have in turn supported consumer sentiment and spending. Highly accommodative monetary policy also has several potential costs and risks, which the Committee is monitoring closely. For example, if further expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet were to undermine public confidence in our ability to exit smoothly from our accommodative policies at the appropriate time, inflation expectations could rise, putting the FOMC's price-stability objective at risk. However, the Committee remains confident that it has the tools necessary to tighten monetary policy when the time comes to do so. As I noted, inflation is currently subdued, and inflation expectations appear well anchored; neither the FOMC nor private forecasters are projecting the development of significant inflation pressures. Another potential cost that the Committee takes very seriously is the possibility that very low interest rates, if maintained for a considerable time, could impair financial stability. For example, portfolio managers dissatisfied with low returns may "reach for yield" by taking on more credit risk, duration risk, or leverage. On the other hand, some risk-taking--such as when an entrepreneur takes out a loan to start a new business or an existing firm expands capacity--is a necessary element of a healthy economic recovery. Moreover, although accommodative monetary policies may increase certain types of risk-taking, in the present circumstances they also serve in some ways to reduce risk in the system, most importantly by strengthening the overall economy, but also by encouraging firms to rely more on longer-term funding, and by reducing debt service costs for households and businesses. In any case, the Federal Reserve is responding actively to financial stability concerns through substantially expanded monitoring of emerging risks in the financial system, an approach to the supervision of financial firms that takes a more systemic perspective, and the ongoing implementation of reforms to make the financial system more transparent and resilient. Although a long period of low rates could encourage excessive risk-taking, and continued close attention to such developments is certainly warranted, to this point we do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of promoting a stronger economic recovery and more-rapid job creation.5 Another aspect of the Federal Reserve's policies that has been discussed is their implications for the federal budget. The Federal Reserve earns substantial interest on the assets it holds in its portfolio, and, other than the amount needed to fund our cost of operations, all net income is remitted to the Treasury. With the expansion of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, yearly remittances have roughly tripled in recent years, with payments to the Treasury totaling approximately $290 billion between 2009 and 2012.6However, if the economy continues to strengthen, as we anticipate, and policy accommodation is accordingly reduced, these remittances would likely decline in coming years. Federal Reserve analysis shows that remittances to the Treasury could be quite low for a time in some scenarios, particularly if interest rates were to rise quickly.7†However, even in such scenarios, it is highly likely that average annual remittances over the period affected by the Federal Reserve's purchases will remain higher than the pre-crisis norm, perhaps substantially so. Moreover, to the extent that monetary policy promotes growth and job creation, the resulting reduction in the federal deficit would dwarf any variation in the Federal Reserve's remittances to the Treasury. Thoughts on Fiscal Policy Although monetary policy is working to promote a more robust recovery, it cannot carry the entire burden of ensuring a speedier return to economic health. The economy's performance both over the near term and in the longer run will depend importantly on the course of fiscal policy. The challenge for the Congress and the Administration is to put the federal budget on a sustainable long-run path that promotes economic growth and stability without unnecessarily impeding the current recovery. Significant progress has been made recently toward reducing the federal budget deficit over the next few years. The projections released earlier this month by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) indicate that, under current law, the federal deficit will narrow from 7 percent of GDP last year to 2-1/2 percent in fiscal year 2015.8†As a result, the federal debt held by the public (including that held by the Federal Reserve) is projected to remain roughly 75 percent of GDP through much of the current decade. However, a substantial portion of the recent progress in lowering the deficit has been concentrated in near-term budget changes, which, taken together, could create a significant headwind for the economic recovery. The CBO estimates that deficit-reduction policies in current law will slow the pace of real GDP growth by about 1-1/2 percentage points this year, relative to what it would have been otherwise. A significant portion of this effect is related to the automatic spending sequestration that is scheduled to begin on March 1, which, according to the CBO's estimates, will contribute about 0.6 percentage point to the fiscal drag on economic growth this year. Given the still-moderate underlying pace of economic growth, this additional near-term burden on the recovery is significant. Moreover, besides having adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower recovery would lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short run for any given set of fiscal actions. At the same time, and despite progress in reducing near-term budget deficits, the difficult process of addressing longer-term fiscal imbalances has only begun. Indeed, the CBO projects that the federal deficit and debt as a percentage of GDP will begin rising again in the latter part of this decade, reflecting in large part the aging of the population and fast-rising health-care costs. To promote economic growth in the longer term, and to preserve economic and financial stability, fiscal policymakers will have to put the federal budget on a sustainable long-run path that first stabilizes the ratio of federal debt to GDP and, given the current elevated level of debt, eventually places that ratio on a downward trajectory. Between 1960 and the onset of the financial crisis, federal debt averaged less than 40 percent of GDP. This relatively low level of debt provided the nation much-needed flexibility to meet the economic challenges of the past few years. Replenishing this fiscal capacity will give future Congresses and Administrations greater scope to deal with unforeseen events. To address both the near- and longer-term issues, the Congress and the Administration should consider replacing the sharp, frontloaded spending cuts required by the sequestration with policies that reduce the federal deficit more gradually in the near term but more substantially in the longer run. Such an approach could lessen the near-term fiscal headwinds facing the recovery while more effectively addressing the longer-term imbalances in the federal budget. The sizes of deficits and debt matter, of course, but not all tax and spending programs are created equal with respect to their effects on the economy. To the greatest extent possible, in their efforts to achieve sound public finances, fiscal policymakers should not lose sight of the need for federal tax and spending policies that increase incentives to work and save, encourage investments in workforce skills, advance private capital formation, promote research and development, and provide necessary and productive public infrastructure. Although economic growth alone cannot eliminate federal budget imbalances, in either the short or longer term, a more rapidly expanding economic pie will ease the difficult choices we face.
Yahoo Finance Apple stock fell another 2% yesterday to close at $442. It's down again this morning. The stock is now closing in on its lowest closing price since it peaked just above $700 in September. Apple is now down almost 40% from its peak. Apple's market value has now lost about $250 billion. Thanks to Apple's massive size, that's more money than investors in Hewlett-Packard and Research In Motion have ever lost in those two stocks combined. Of course, Apple has only fallen to a level that it first breached in January last year. So long-term Apple investors are still in the money.¬† At least for now. (For the first time in forever, though, anyone who has bought Apple in the past year and held it has lost money on it). What's going on with Apple's stock?¬† How low could it go? On the first question, there are several things going on with Apple's stock. Some are fundamental, having to do with changes in Apple's business. ApplePretty. But expensive.Others are related to sentiment and changes in Apple's shareholder base ("Momentum" and "growth" investors are dumping the stock, on the theory that Apple's growth days are over. And as they dump it, the only folks willing to buy it are "value" investors who care deeply about price). One of the things that is not happening with Apple's stock anymore, which many people thought was a big reason for Apple's collapse at the end of last year, is tax-related selling. Tax rates have already gone up. So anyone selling Apple now is selling it for reasons other than trying to lock in a low capital gains rate. Here are some of the issues with Apple's stock: All of these factors are likely weighing on Apple's stock. But here's the good news: The stock is now cheap. Apple is now trading at 10X trailing earnings per share. That's not screamingly cheap. Apple could certainly get "cheaper," especially if its earnings continue to decline. In the old days (mid-1990s and earlier), hardware stocks used to trade between 8X-12X earnings, and Dell, HP, and other companies are actually trading at even lower multiples than that now. (Dell is going private at about 8X earnings. HP is trading at 5X next year's estimated EPS). But unlike HP, Dell, et al, Apple is still a healthy company, so if Apple ever gets to 8X earnings, it will be screamingly cheap. At 10X earnings, Apple is just cheap--cheaper, for example, than the stock market as a whole. And Apple also has $137 billion of cash. Factor out that cash, and the value of the business itself is actually getting close to the Dell level. What will Apple's stock do from here? No one knows, so don't get fooled into thinking that there's some guru out there who can tell you definitively. Apple may release some exciting new products later this year that will get investors buzzing and cause them to pay, say, 14X for Apple's earnings instead of 10X. And that will produce a nice jump in the stock. Or Apple may be in the early innings of a long secular decline in which it eventually becomes the equivalent of Dell (or, worse, Nokia. Or Digital Equipment Corporation.) That depressing future is entirely possible, so don't delude yourself into thinking that it isn't. One thing we can say, though, is that, at 10X earnings, Apple looks cheap and is still in robust financial health. That means that even modest unexpected good news may drive the stock significantly higher. (I don't buy individual stocks these days, but if Apple were to double its dividend to a 4%+ yield, I might find that irresistible. Even if Apple is in the midst of a secular decline, it will likely be able to keep paying those dividends for a good long time.) SEE ALSO: APPLE MARGIN SQUEEZE: Carriers Refusing To Pay Up For The iPhone
flickr / Hartwig HKDAccording to UBS commodity strategist Julien Garran, the gold market is approaching "High Noon." That's the moment closer to the middle of 2013 when investors are going to have to make a decision on what they think the Federal Reserve is going to do with regard to quantitative easing in the second half of the year. Garran writes in a new report on commodities that at that point, "the outlook for the rest of the year depends critically on whether the Fed 'blinks†first' and stops QE, or whether the global economy 'blinks' and we see a†slowdown in global growth momentum into 3Q13 while QE3 is continuing." For his part, Garran thinks the latter scenario ñ slowing global growth and continued QE ñ will win out. "That sets up a major gold rally in Q3," he writes in the report. The call is predicated on higher oil prices and bond yields by mid-year, squeezing the U.S. consumer. At the same time, a synchronized global restocking cycle should be coming to an end. Couple those factors with the potential for Chinese authorities to tighten in order to combat rising house prices and inflation, and you have your global slowdown. In the report, Garran writes: Markets will see slowing growth &amp; deflationary pressure in markets ñ and they will start to think that QE needs to be larger, and to last for longer. And our view on gold is that it predicts whether we will see reflation or dis/de-flation in six months time. Gold corrected from September 2012 to now because a recovering US economy reduced the need for extended QE. A slowdown in Q3 would raise the need again. It would put us in the bottom left quadrant of our gold investment clock ñ when gold rallies when most other risk assets correct. Below is the "gold investment clock." UBS Research Garran admits that his team has been too bullish on gold recently, and that crucially, this call hinges on both continued QE from the Fed and a global slowdown in the second half of 2013. "But for the reasons we set out above ñ from where we stand," Garran writes, "the most likely outcome of ëHigh Nooní towards mid-2013, is that markets and cyclical beta will sell off after a good run, and gold will run hard in its place."
Dealbook screengrabPaul Krugman has a great little post up analyzing the situation in Europe. He hints that this is the beginning of the end for Europe, and that if the Eurocrats don't get the lesson that people need growth -- not just austere stability -- then it's all over. This is the way the euro ends: not with the banks but with bunga-bunga. OK, the euro isn‚Äôt doomed ‚Äî yet. But the Italian election signals that the eurocrats, who never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity, are getting very close to the edge. The fundamental fact is that a policy of austerity for all ‚Äî incredibly harsh austerity in debtor nations, but some austerity in the European core too, and not a hint of expansionary policy anywhere ‚Äî is a complete failure. None of the nations under Brussels/Berlin-imposed austerity has shown even a hint of economic recovery; unemployment is at society-destroying levels. For our explanation of why voters in Italy staged a "rebellion" see here &gt;
APAmericans are expecting to get slammed from the cuts known as the sequester, and most are set to blame Congressional Republicans if the cuts go into effect, according to a new poll from the Pew Research Center. The poll shows why many Democrats and President Barack Obama believe they have the upper hand in the battle over the sequester. Across party lines, most people expect that the sequester cuts will have a "mostly negative" effect on the economy ‚Äî 62 percent thought so.¬† And by a 45-32 margin, respondents to the poll said they would blame Congressional Republicans over Obama. That's less of an advantage than the President had on the fiscal cliff, but it's still considerable.¬† The poll also found that 70 percent of respondents thought the sequester would have at least a minor effect on their personal finances. Obama and Republicans have ramped up the fight in recent weeks, with the President taking his message on the road. Obama appeared last week with first responders at the White House, and he is traveling to Newport News, Va., today to warn of the effects of the cuts.¬† Here's the key chart from the Pew poll: Pew Research Center

Courtesy of AirPanoThe Case-Shiller home price index for December was up 6.84 percent year-over-year (YoY), slightly above expectations for a 6.62 percent rise. This was the biggest gain since July 2006. On a month-over-month basis, 20-city prices were up 0.88 percent, above expectations for a 0.65 percent rise. Click here to refresh &gt; November year-over-year home prices were revised down to a 5.44 percent YoY rise, from 5.52 percent. The monthly number was however revised up to 0.65 percent, from 0.63 percent. 19 of the 20 cities posted an annual rise in home prices, only New York saw a decline. Here is a look at the trajectory of home prices since 1988: S&P Case Shiller ¬†Here is a breakdown of home prices for each of the 20 cities: S&P Case Shiller While some analysts are looking for a gradual rise in home prices. Bank of America's Michelle Meyer projects that home prices were up 6.4 percent in 2012, and will rise 4.7 percent in 2013. Meanwhile, Quinn W Eddins at RadarLogic writes that home prices will rise in a "saw-tooth pattern for a number of years". He says for a meaningful rise, we need home prices to be driven by job growth and consumer confidence.
Fox NewsSen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) said that John Boehner's role as Speaker of the House could be in jeopardy if he allows more revenues to be part of a deal to avert the sequester, giving a sense of how far Republicans are willing to go to stick to their positions in the latest federal budget battle. "I don't quite honestly think that Speaker Boehner would be Speaker if that happens," Johnson†told Fox News†in a report from White House correspondent Ed Henry that aired Monday evening. "I think he would lose his speakership." Speaking to Business Insider on Monday in New York, Johnson doubled down.† "If you cave and delay, then absolutely he could lose his speakership," Johnson said. "The reason that he got a deal on the [sequester] extension in the first place is because there was a stark guarantee that the cuts would go into effect. We have to maintain that hammer." Boehner was re-elected as the House Speaker in January, just two days after the parties agreed to a deal to avert the fiscal cliff that included higher tax rates. This time, both parties say they want to avert the sequester, the set of $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts over 10 years set to begin kicking in on Friday. But they disagree on how to do that. Boehner and Republicans want different, targeted spending cuts in entitlements and social programs. President Barack Obama and Democrats want to include revenue from closing tax loopholes.† Boehner also faced pressure from Sen. Rand Paul on Monday, who criticized GOP leadership in New York City on Monday. In a press conference on Monday, however, Boehner showed no signs of hedging on the GOP's position this time. "Mr. President, you got your tax increase," he said. Watch the clip of Johnson's comments below (they come around the 3:15 mark): (h/t Huffington Post)
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York State's top financial officer will release estimates of Wall Street 2012 cash bonuses on Tuesday as public scrutiny of bankers' pay continues unabated. New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli will release the closely-watched report on Wall Street compensation and its impact on the city and state at a news conference in Lower Manhattan on Tuesday morning. DiNapoli said in October that Wall Street bonuses likely fell for a second year running in 2012, dipping below an estimated $19.7 billion for 2011 as the financial industry faces leaner times and tighter regulation In 2011, Wall Street bonuses fell to their lowest in three years as volatile trading and stiffer regulations took a toll on profits. The overall bonus pool was down 13.5 percent from 2010 and the average cash bonus was $121,150, according to DiNapoli's report for that year. The last time the bonus pool shrank for two years in a row was in 2007 and 2008 at the start of the financial crisis, the Comptroller's office said. Wall Street is an important source of tax revenue for New York. About 14 percent of New York State tax revenues came from Wall Street in 2011, down from 20 percent before the financial crisis, while the industry's contribution to New York City's tax take fell from 13 percent to less than 7 percent. Other estimates suggest compensation remained flat or grew modestly in 2012 compared with the year before. Johnson Associates expects that bonuses among senior management at financial industry firms expanded 0 to 10 percent last year. The Comptroller's estimate is based on personal income tax trends. It reflects cash bonuses and deferred pay for which taxes have been withheld. The estimate does not include stock options or other forms of deferred compensation. (Reporting by Edward Krudy. Editing by Andre Grenon) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions 
When investing in gold, I often say diverse opinions promote critical thinking and a healthy market. I believe elevated groups of buyers and sellers create a competitive tug-of-war in the bid and ask price of the precious metal. Last week, we saw the gold bears growling louder and gaining strength, as the world‚Äôs largest gold-backed ETF, the SPDR Gold Trust, experienced its largest one-day outflows since August 2011. The Fear Trade fled the sector following the Federal Reserve‚Äôs meeting that revealed a growing dissension among some of its members over the central bank‚Äôs bond-buying program. Despite the discord, the Fed is continuing its course to purchase $85 billion of bonds every month and keep interest rates near zero. Ben Bernanke‚Äôs plan bloating the balance sheet to more than $3 trillion has been keeping the Fear Trade coming back for more metal. For good reason, too, as the correlation between the Fed‚Äôs balance sheet and the price of gold has historically been very high, at 0.93, according to Macquarie Research. The firm found that for every $300 billion expansion in the balance sheet of the U.S. government, there was a $100 an ounce increase in the price of gold. When you factor in the Fed‚Äôs current bond purchases totaling $85 billion per month for the next nine months, the central bank will be adding $765 billion in new assets. ‚ÄúUsing the previous ratio, this would compute to a $255 an ounce increase in the gold price,‚Äù says Macquarie. By this measure alone, gold would rise approximately 16 percent over the next several months.  On Bloomberg‚Äôs Taking Stock with Pimm Fox on February 22, I said that Bernanke will likely keep liquidity high for quite some time, in his effort to meet his goal of lowering the unemployment rate. If the Fed did take its foot off the bond-buying pedal sooner than planned, such a move is apt to shake the resolve of some gold buyers. It‚Äôs easy to be confident in gold in times of extreme fear; when the economy improves, one may no longer feel that gold stands on solid ground. Take another period characterized by extreme volatility and fear, when there was conflict in the Middle East, oil-related inflation shocks, declining value in the U.S. dollar, rising U.S. unemployment and a strong resolve from the Fed to act aggressively. This was four decades ago, after President Richard Nixon removed the gold standard, and the yellow metal climbed to a peak of $850 by January 1980. Back then, India and China had little financial footing in global markets; gold demand from these areas of the world was about 15 percent of total demand. Since then, we‚Äôve seen a rapid increase in GDP and incomes, resulting in a dramatic rise in gold demand. According to the World Gold Council (WGC), there‚Äôs now an ‚Äúincreasing relevance of emerging markets in the gold market, particularly over the past 12 years.‚Äù In 2011, you can see that emerging markets accounted for 74 percent of total bar and coin, jewelry and ETFs gold demand. India and China alone make up 50 percent, and together with Turkey, Vietnam, and Southeast Asia, these countries‚Äô residents clearly ‚Äúhave a cultural affinity to gold,‚Äù says the WGC.  To help investors analyze whether gold continues to be a wise investment, I like to refer to the book The Wisdom of Crowds by James Surowiecki. There are four factors to consider whether a crowd is suffering from groupthink or is making wise decisions: Read Evaluating the Wisdom of Buying Gold to see a summary of each factor for your reference. I believe you‚Äôll find these factors continue to be valid for gold. Ultimately, the key to gold is moderation. As I said in my book, The Goldwatcher, and often reiterate to investors when I speak at conferences, gold is a volatile asset class and the daily price can be more dramatic than blue-chip stocks. We have always advocated that investors hold a modest 5 to 10 percent weighting in gold and gold stocks. In other words, we feel strongly that an investor should not try to get rich from the metal. Marc Faber expressed a similar idea in this month‚Äôs Gloom Boom and Doom Market Commentary. Instead of selling his gold when the price is falling and buying it back at a lower price, he says he doesn‚Äôt stray from his asset allocation approach. He holds a 25 percent allocation to gold, which is much higher than we recommend, and believes that if the price of gold declined, it is likely that his financial assets would increase. In his closing, Faber reminds readers of the English Proverb: ‚ÄúWhen we have gold, we are in fear; When we have none, we are in danger.‚Äù If the proverb were written today, it might be revised to say, ‚ÄúWhen we have gold, we are in love.‚Äù U.S. Global Investors, Inc. is an investment management firm specializing in gold, natural resources, emerging markets and global infrastructure opportunities around the world. The company, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, manages 13 no-load mutual funds in the U.S. Global Investors fund family, as well as funds for international clients. For more updates on global investing from Frank and the rest of the U.S. Global Investors team, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/USFunds or like us on Facebook at www.facebook.com/USFunds. You can also watch exclusive videos on what our research overseas has turned up on our YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/USFunds. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The following security mentioned was held by one or more of U.S. Global Investors Funds as of 12/31/12: SPDR Gold Trust ETF.
JPMorgan Chase is holding its investor day in Manhattan today. ¬† The bank's CEO Jamie Dimon is slated to speak and open up for Q&amp;A this early afternoon. In the Firm Overview JPMorgan released, the bank said it expects to have expense reduction of $1 billion and about 4,000 in job cuts.¬† Check it out: JP Morgan (Hat Tip: CNBC) ¬†
Getty Images EntertainmentGood morning. Here's what you need to know.

HUDLast night's election in Italy is resulting in remarkable market gyrations all around the world. So why does an election in Italy have this kind of huge impact? To understand that, you need to understand the essence of the Euro crisis, and how it's been addressed by Eurozone leaders over the last year. In a nutshell the Eurozone crisis started in late 2009, when investors in the bonds of peripheral countries (Greece, Spain, Italy, etc.) started to wonder whether those governments were "good for it" so to speak. The brutal recession combined with the massive banking bailouts required some countries to seriously stretch their national balance sheets. And since no individual Eurozone country has their own printing press, there's actually the chance that they could run out of cash and default. The initial attempt to address the crisis was via austerity and limited bailouts. But they didn't work. Austerity only aggravated the economies, further expanding the deficits. And the bailouts weren't enough to address the core problem. The crisis only began to get "solved" in late 2011 when the one entity with unlimited money, the European Central Bank, began flexing its muscle. First it backstopped European banks. Then in mid-2012, ECB chief Mario Draghi offered a deal: The ECB would purchase the debt of any country, provided said country agreed to various structural reforms (reforming labor, reducing spending, reducing pensions, etc.). Just as in the U.S., there's a big thirst among elites for structural reforms to reduce long-term deficits. This promise made by Draghi ó which was called the OMT program ó was incredibly powerful. Just the knowledge that the ECB stood ready to buy the debt of struggling countries has dramatically reduced the borrowing costs of all the peripheral nations. Italy has seen a HUGE reduction in its borrowing costs. Here's a 1-year chart of the yield on the Italian 10-year bond. That peak last July occurred right when Mario Draghi first hinted at his new program. Ever since then, national borrowing costs have been dropping nicely, even though the ECB hasn't actually purchased a dime of Italian debt using the program. Bloomberg So the essence of the new European stability comes down to this promise: The ECB says it will buy government's debt, provided that said government engages in various reforms that the ECB wants to see. There's only one catch. Voters hate austerity. And voters hate when their own politicians are taking their cues from an institution like the European Central Bank, rather than basing decisions on domestic needs. And that's the phenomenon that came home to roost last night. The political parties seen as continuing along the existing ECB-preferred path did badly. The rebellion voters (Silvio Berlusconi and populist Beppe Grillo) did much better than expected. And this has the potential to undermine all of the progress made in Europe over the past several months. As Morgan Stanley explained in a research note this morning: In order to activate the OMT, political authorities will have to apply and accept additional conditionality. This is what Italyís electorate appears to have rejected. (By "conditionality" they mean, the quid-pro-quo whereby the ECB bailout comes with austerity conditions.) Italy is Europe's single largest debt market. Its debt-to-GDP is a staggering 120 percent. Banks around Europe are loaded to the gills with Italian debt. Suddenly, the debt backstop that everyone thought was there (the OMT program) may not be usable, because the voters just gave a huge rejection of pro-austerity politicians. So now banks around the world are tanking because of their exposure to Italian debt, or because of their exposure to other financial institutions that are exposed to Italian debt. Or maybe they're exposed to Irish, Spanish, French, and Portuguese debt, where politicians might be looking at what just happened in Italy, and thinking: If pro-austerity politicians can get shellacked like that, then maybe we need to rethink and renegotiate our current programs. And when you have financials taking a beating like this, pretty much everything goes down everywhere. Even in Japan, things took a beating since there was a huge flight-to-safety bid for the Japanese Yen, and since so much of the Nikkei rally lately has been associated with a weakening yen, a strengthening yen caused stocks to crumble. As for what happens now? We'll learn more in the next few days. The word everyone is tossing about is "ungovernable," which is a dramatic way of saying that no coalition can be formed (because no allied parties got enough seats), thus requiring new elections in a matter of weeks or months. At a minimum, this period of uncertainty will cause any further reform/austerity progress to come to a screeching halt. It is possible that a government could be formed (perhaps even an alliance between the leftist Pier Luigi Bersani and Silvio Berlusconi) and that things will settle down. But the key idea is that voters just went dead against the core deal in Europe, which is an ECB backstop in exchange for austerity. Strike at that, and you create the conditions for a new wave of the European crisis that extends beyond Italian borders. SEE ALSO: Why European voters just staged their first rebellion &gt;
Andres Rueda / FlickrMorgan Stanley is out with a simple note titled: Closing EUR longs. That translates to English as: Dump your euros. In the wake of the Italian election, Ian Stannard, head of Morgan Stanley's European FX Strategy, says to use any rebounds in the euro as a chance to sell. ...the surprising Italian election results, which have increased the political uncertainty in Italy, will have broader implications for the EUR and currency markets generally, in our view. Hence, we would now look to use any EURUSD rebounds over the coming days into the 1.3150 area to close this long position, and await clarification/stabilisation of the political picture in Italy before re-entering bullish EUR strategies. So what specifically is the issue? Stannard puts it nicely. Essentially what's kept Europe so calm over the last several months has been the ECB's OMT program, which is a promise to buy peripheral bonds (and reduce national borrowing costs) provided said countries request the purchases and agree to structural reforms. No country has actually requested the OMT be activated on their behalf yet, but just the knowledge that it's there as a failsafe has been very powerful. But the Italian election puts that at risk. In order to activate the OMT, political authorities will have to apply and accept additional conditionality. This is what Italy‚Äôs electorate appears to have rejected. Other peripheral nations may also be concerned about contagion effects. Subsequently, bond spreads could widen, pushing the EUR lower. As for why Italy voted the way it did, see here &gt;
The straightforward strategy of buying companies that have recently been spun off from their parent has generated very good results.† Here's the performance of the Bloomberg Spin-Off index (BNSPIN Index) since 2003. As you can see, it's pretty good, a 15% annualized return vs a 6% for the S&amp;P500 over that period. Volatility was higher but not extremely so (20% vs. 15%), while the beta was pretty close to 1.0. Eric Falkenstein Is this a crazy recent phenomenon? No. In 2003 McConnell and Ovtchinikov looked at 311 spinoffs undertaken by 267 parents between January 1965 and December 2000. On average, subsidiaries outperformed their benchmark companies by over 20% over the first three years following the spinoffs, with most of the excess returns within the first 12 months of trading. They found the parent company outperformed as well, but not by a robust amount.  I don't think there's a rational explanation for this. I remember at Moody's when they just spun off from Dunn &amp;Bradstreet, it was really liberating. For years D&amp;B had used the considerable Moody's cashflow to fund their dumb ideas to extend D&amp;B, which really ran the executive board while Moody's made all the money.† It was a classic waste of shareholder money, and so when the spin-off finally happened in 2000, Moody's (MCO) stopped burning its cash and investors reaped the windfall (32% return, annualized, from 2000-present). It's amazing how much money is wasted via such politics, but it's a classic case of a bad incentives and difficult monitoring.†  It makes one wonder about the value potential in Citi (C). If someone could force it to sell itself into pieces, I bet everyone with defensible interests would hit a home run.† Letting a $120B company underperform is really painful to behold. The only people such behemoths serve now are a select bunch of executives and politicians, not shareholders, consumers, or 99.99% of Citi employees.
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderSpokesman for leftist party declaring that voters have staged a "rebellion."The most dramatic moment in last night's Italian election came from the second in command in the center-left PD party. He announced to a room of reporters that voters had staged a "rebellion" and that the country would likely be ungovernable. That "rebellion" was ultimately against outside powers (Angela Merkel, the ECB, the markets even) who have pushed austerity on Italy. And the rebellion took the shape of big support in favor of protest candidates. One weird thing is that it didn't happen sooner. Specifically: Why didn't a rebellion vote emerge in Greece last summer, when the economy was much more dire, and the steps being taken were seen as far more draconian? There are a few quick reasons why the dam finally burst. -- Last year's Greek election was clearly cast as a referendum on the eurozone. Voters were told that a vote for left-wing candidate Alexis Tsipras was a vote to leave the euro. Tsipras denied that this was his intention, but that prospect scared off a lot of voters (maybe leaving the euro would have been the right move, but that's beside the point). Those stakes weren't really there in this election. -- Italy is seen as having been ruled by a puppet for more than a year. Since November 2011, Italy has had an unelected Prime Minister (Mario Monti) that was widely despised for both his austerity and for seen as being a tool of Angela Merkel and the ECB. Democratic countries don't like puppets. This is a reason for people to get angry. -- The screwy voting system. The fact of the matter is that the leftist candidate Bersani (who was the candidate of stability) did win the most votes in both the lower house of parliament and the Senate. To understand the Italian system, imagine if the US elected its government using an electoral college and the popular vote. Normally that works fine, but in a freak year like 2000, that would create chaos. That's what happened now. The lower house of parliament is based on popular number. The Senate is based on a weird apportionment of seats by region. In this case, the two bodies are clashing. In a more normal system, this might have been seen as a close victory for Bersani (maybe). Bottom line: This was a rejection of outside forces, due to anger at austerity, a lack of stakes over the Eurozone departure, with an odd electoral system thrown in. For more on last night's election, see here &gt;
APThe uncertainty caused by the Italian election is hitting all markets. But in particular, bank stocks are getting cracked. A quick look at some names today: And in case you missed it, during yesterday's trading Morgan Stanley fell 6%.
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderAfter yesterday's big moves in markets, today we get a big day for economic events. Via Bill McBride at Calculated Risk, here they are:
see lots of people discussing how ‚Äúsuccessful‚Äù Japan‚Äôs strategic decimation of the Yen has been so far. ¬†They mainly just cite the Nikkei‚Äôs enormous rally as ‚Äúproof‚Äù that all‚Äôs well that begins well. ¬†Of course, that‚Äôs not always the case when you‚Äôre using a nominal wealth metric to describe how the real economy is responding. ¬†Remember, the stock market is not the economy. ¬†It is essentially the guesses of a group of semi-intelligent half apes who all think they‚Äôre smarter than one another. Anyhow, the more important point to understand is that a currency war will likely end up with no winners. ¬†This isn‚Äôt a poker table where one central bank happens to be much better at the game than all other central banks. ¬†This is a poker table with a whole punch of very powerful silver backs who are all on relatively equal footing in aggregate. Let‚Äôs just take a look at how this could all unfold for instance. ¬†So, Japan has been talking down the Yen and everyone sees how well that‚Äôs working. ¬†Then the ECB decides they also want to stimulate their economy by driving the Euro down. ¬†So the dollar goes up relative to the Yen AND the Euro. ¬†And the Fed looks around and sees the economy weakening and says ‚Äúwait just a minute here fellas‚Äù. ¬†And then the Chinese start seeing the RMB rise relative to the Euro and say something like ‚Äúwe would like to ‚Äòhelp‚Äô the European people out with their debt crisis so we will stabilize their currency‚Äù. You can see the merry-go-round at work here. ¬†Everyone can‚Äôt devalue. ¬†So, this works great for Japan so long as everyone else lets them just sit around and have their way with the currency. ¬†But a currency war won‚Äôt end well for anyone. ¬†But if you have to sit at the table with the other apes you might have no choice but to engage them in their fruitless battle‚Ä¶.
APWe just noted that the Italian market is plunging today -- down nearly 5% -- after an election that seems virtually guaranteed to lead to a hung parliament or an unstable coalition incapable of doing anything. The vote was not only a rejection of the current "reform" path, it was a big rejection of the EU/Merkel/the ECB/etc. Anyway, the fallout isn't limited to Italian stocks. Spain is down 3.4%, and its borrowing costs are spiking to. Meanwhile, Germany is down 2%. France is down 2.59%. For more on the Italian wreck, see here &gt;
It is a very rough start for Italian markets, following last night's shock elections, which are likely to result in a hung government. The benchmark FTSE MIB stock market, based in Milan, is in complete free-fall. FTSE MIB And borrowing costs on the Italian 10-year are shooting up. From Bloomberg: Bloomberg This follows an election that seems destined to end with a hung parliament, or a very unstable coalition at best. The significance is that Italy -- which is Europe's largest sovereign debt market -- may be ungovernable, raising the risk of a disruption to the progress that has brought borrowing costs down across the periphery over the last several months. Furthermore, the election is a gigantic slap in the face to Brussels/German/Etc., as the big victors (Silvio Berlusconi and populist Beppe Grillo) ran on explicitly anti-Brussels campaigns.
Bloomberg"Once upon a time, the Federal Reserve Chairman‚Äôs Semiannual testimony in fulfillment of the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act (aka ‚ÄúHumphrey Hawkins‚Äù) was a marquee event for markets," says Vincent Reinhart, Morgan Stanley's Chief U.S. Economist and a former Federal Reserve insider. Reinhart is referring to the two-day testimony which Ben Bernanke will begin giving to the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday. "Humphrey Hawkins was also a major risk event as investors placed importance on an event the Fed deemed important," Reinhart continues.¬† "That was then, this is now." As you can tell from the tone, Reinhart expects the testimony, which includes economic forecasts, to be pretty uneventful. If there's one topic anyone's interested in, it's the Fed's process for rate normalization.¬† In other words, we all want to know how the Fed plans to scale back easy monetary policy and allow interest rates to rise again. Here's Reinhart on the subject and why Bernanke won't reveal anything [from a note published on Friday]: There is no easy answer, but a discussion from the chairman would be helpful. But do not expect one. Chairman Bernanke operates as a more democratic chairman than his predecessors. He typically shuns the spotlight. He does not talk about unsettled issues because it would give the appearance of front-running his committee. In his appearance next week, he will not even have a new forecast to talk about. Last month‚Äôs FOMC conclave was one of the four orphan meetings of the eight per year that neither include a survey of their economic projections nor end with a press conference. As a result, the economic rundown will most likely be based on submissions from late November. If there is any drama, it will be from a mistake during the question-and-answer period. And Ben Bernanke seldom makes those. Perhaps he'll make a mistake.¬† Business Insider will be covering the testimony live, so we'll let you know if that happens.
