The rally cry of the gold bug has never been louder thanks to the aggressive monetary policies of central banks around the world. To meet demand, traditional miners crush tons of rock for specks of gold. Meanwhile, most of us just throw away gold without knowing it. Here's an interesting infographic from GoldAndSilverBuyers.com that shows how much gold is in our garbage. GoldAndSilverBuyers
More and more, we're hearing about U.S. housing markets that are heating up.¬† Florida is apparently "on fire" and California is seeing buying frenzies. Economist Robert Shiller often says Phoenix and Las Vegas are experiencing homebuyer exuberance. Professor Mark Perry of the Carpe Diem blog points us to data from real estate firm Redfin, which has identified housing markets where homes are selling in under 24 hours. "Some people take more time to decide on a new pair of shoes," they write. "Redfin has coined the term ‚ÄúReal Estate Flash Sales‚Äù to describe homes that go under contract not within days, but hours of their debut." Here is Redfin's top 15: Redfin
Reporting from Sovereign Valley Farm, Chile To anyone paying attention, reality is now painfully obvious. These bankrupt, insolvent governments have just about run out of fingers to plug the dikes. And history shows that, once this happens, governments fall back on a very limited playbook: As Cyprus showed us, bankrupt governments are quite happy to plunder people‚Äôs bank accounts, especially if it‚Äôs a wealthy minority. Aside from bank levies, though, this also includes things like seizing retirement accounts (Argentina), increases in civil asset forfeiture (United States), and gold criminalization. Just another form of confiscation, taxation plunders the hard work and talent of the citizenry. But thanks to decades of brainwashing, it‚Äôs more socially acceptable. We‚Äôve come to regard taxes as a ‚Äònecessary evil,‚Äô not realizing that the country existed for decades, even centuries, without an income tax. Yet when bankrupt governments get desperate enough, they begin imposing new taxes‚Ä¶ primarily WEALTH taxes (Argentina) or windfall profits taxes (United States in the 1970s). This is indirect confiscation‚Äì the slow, gradual plundering of people‚Äôs savings. Again, governments have been quite successful at inculcating a belief that inflation is also a necessary evil. They‚Äôre also adept at fooling people with phony inflation statistics. Governments can, do, and will restrict the free-flow of capital across borders. They‚Äôll prevent you from moving your own money to a safer jurisdiction, forcing you to keep your hard earned savings at home where it can be plundered and devalued. We‚Äôre seeing this everywhere in the developed world‚Ä¶ from withdrawal limits in Europe to cash-sniffing dogs at border checkpoints. And it certainly doesn‚Äôt help when everyone from the IMF to Nobel laureate Paul Krugman argue in favor of Capital Controls. When even the lowest common denominator in society realizes that prices are getting higher, governments step in and ‚Äòfix‚Äô things by imposing price controls. Occasionally this also includes wage controls‚Ä¶ though wage increases tend to be vastly outpaced by price increases. Of course, as any basic economics textbook can illustrate, price controls never work and typically lead to shortages and massive misallocations. When the first round of price controls don‚Äôt work, the next step is to impose severe penalties for not abiding by the terms. In the days of Diocletian‚Äôs Edict on Prices in the 4th century AD, any Roman caught violating the price controls was put to death. In post-revolutionary France, shopkeepers who violated the ‚ÄúLaw of Maximum‚Äù were fleeced of their private property‚Ä¶ and a national spy system was put into place to enforce the measures. Despite being completely broke, governments will dramatically expand their ranks in a last desperate gasp to envelop the problem in sheer size. In the early 1920s, for example, the number of bureaucratic officials in the Weimar Republic increased 242%, even though the country was flat broke from its Great War reparation payments and hyperinflation episode. The increase in both regulations and government officials criminalizes and/or controls almost every aspect of our existence‚Ä¶ from what we can/cannot put in our bodies to how we are allowed to raise our own children. When all else fails, just invade another country. Pick a fight. Keep people distracted by work them into a frenzy over men in caves‚Ä¶ or some completely irrelevant island. Read more posts on Sovereign Man ¬ª
It's not that dramatic of a decline, but Japanese stocks are marginally red in the early going. Nikkei The only interesting thing is that a couple weeks ago we were seeing regular 2% up days in the Nikkei, and the yen was constantly weakening. That's stalled out a bit. The Yen has strengthened over the last couple weeks and the Nikkei has stopped gaining. Important? It's interesting to pay attention to for now.
Wikimedia CommonsHousing data released Tuesday was mixed, showing home prices jumped while new home sales dropped, prompting renowned economist Robert Shiller to call the housing recovery positive in the short-term, but not without many headwinds. There might even be a bubble, he said. "One thing that makes it very hard to forecast home prices right now is that we're living in a totally artificial real estate economy," said Shiller, co-creator of the Standard &amp; Poor's/Case-Shiller Index, a widely followed measure of housing prices. Shiller pointed to the Federal Reserve, which last week reaffirmed its policies on bond purchases and record-low interest rates. In September, the Fed launched a third round of quantitative easing (QE), in which it has bought $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities per month, primarily in mortgage-backed bonds. Meanwhile, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two largest U.S. home funding sources, remain in government conservatorship as Congress looks for ways to raise new tax revenues, Shiller noted. "All of these things are weighing on the futures of housing," Shiller said on CNBC's "Futures Now," adding the recovery might even be a bubble. "One thing you learn from history is that bubbles can occur at any time." The Case-Shiller Index on Tuesday soared 8.1 percent compared to a year ago, kicking off the year with the biggest year-over-year increase since 2006. Home prices in the 20 major U.S. cities tracked by the index gained 1 percent in January versus the month prior, topping estimates for a gain of 0.9 percent. (Read More: Home Prices Up, Best Yearly Increase Since 2006) To Shiller, the Phoenix and Las Vegas housing markets have grown incredibly fast, suggesting the recovery might be a little frothy. Both markets joined the housing bubble in 2004, he noted, only to later crash by 50 percent. Today, home prices in both cities are rising "with some exuberance," which troubles Shiller. Nevertheless, Shiller thinks a full housing recovery is a long way off. He thinks it could take 40 years before home prices rise to pre-2007 levels. David Blitzer, chairman of the S&amp;P 500 Index Committee, took a more bullish view on the housing recovery. "We seem to be cranking at all cylinders," said Blitzer, adding the rise in home prices is "clearly buoyant" thanks to improved economic data, such as a 5.7 percent rise in durable goods orders in February as demand for transportation equipment rebounded. Economists polled by Reuters had expected orders to rise 3.8 percent after a 4.9 percent decline in January. (Read More: February US Durables Soar, Bolstered by Transportation) Blitzer acknowledged that real estate investors are driving some sales, but contested a "The Wall Street Journal" article on Monday that reported that cash buyers, largely investors, make up about 32 percent of sales nationally. "That sounds very high, except for maybe in one or two spots," Blitzer said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "But this clearly is picking up the market. It's probably pulling a lot of houses that are under water or in some state of foreclosure off the market or helping renovate them to help the neighborhoods look better. So all of that is a plus." Lending to Shiller's skepticism, though, new home sales declined 4.6 percent in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 411,000 units, according to the Commerce Department, missing estimates for a reading of 422,000. Last month's decline followed a 13.1 percent jump in January. (Read More: US New Home Sales Drop as Prices Rise) From the pits of the New York Mercantile Exchange, professional trader Anthony Grisanti expressed optimism over housing. In turn, he plans to buy the E-mini S&amp;P futures contract for June at $1,550 with a stop of $1,531 and a target of $1,585, which is just shy of its high at $1,586. From a technical standpoint, pro trader Rich Ilczyszyn likes Grisanti's trade, but worries institutional traders will likely shore up their positions ahead of the long holiday weekend. Instead of buying the E-mini at current levels, he suggests waiting for a correction.
The Eyes of New York / Creative CommonsAn unidentified 17-year-old was hit by a 2 train at a station on the Upper West Side, according to police. Police say that the teen was struck as he was trying to cross the tracks, NBC New York reported. They've shut down service on 1, 2, and 3 trains between Times Square and 96th Street for the police investigation. New York City has been trying to figure out ways to stop people from getting killed on its subway tracks, but there hasn't been much progress made on a solution.
The drought of 2012 devastated farms across America. By one count, it was the second most expensive "weather event" ever. Now we have the "spring freezing," which has seen much of the U.S. flirting with record-low temperatures. While Midwestern states will probably emerge unscathed, early crop plantings in the southern U.S. are already getting wiped out. Florida sweet corn growers have already lost as much as 45 percent of their early production, according to Greenbook. Oklahoma growers are also getting hit, Mark Hodges, the executive director of Plains Grains Inc.†told Bloomberg's Tony Dreibus: "We didnít have that many tillers to start with,î Hodges said. ìWe didnít come into the spring with the crop we wouldíve liked, and we didnít have the root system we wanted to have. We needed every tiller we could get, and I suspect several areas lost some. Iím not suggesting we lost the entire crop, but we did lose some." Allen Meissner, a farmer in Central Texas, Tweeted this photo of his frozen corn field: Twitter † Meissner told us "100 percent" of his early crops were going to be wiped out. For what it's worth, NOAA just forecast weather should return to normal by June.†

The ambitious Keystone XL Pipeline is expected to carry 830,000 barrels of oil per day from Canada down through the middle of the U.S.¬† However, the project has attracted tons of controversy. Transcanada, the Calgary-based firm behind the project, recently¬†released its annual report. We pulled the company's natural gas pipeline map, which turns out to be far more extensive than its oil pipelines. Transcanada What's notable is that a not insignificant number of systems are longer than the Keystone XL (1,179 miles long if it's ever built) For instance, the Gas Transmission Northwest ‚Äî #7 ‚Äî which transports gas from Northwest Canada down the Pacific Coast, is a 1,353 miles long. And the Great Lakes ‚Äî #8 ‚Äî which transports gas from Manitoba to eastern Canada and the upper Midwest of the U.S., is¬†the 2,115 miles long. Meanwhile, all gas pipelines currently under construction are in Mexico...
APIn his latest for the New York Times, Paul Krugman weighs in on whether Cyprus would be better off without the euro. Krugman says he's been challenged by someone he respects to take a position on the issue. Thus, he writes: So here it is: yes, Cyprus should leave the euro. Now. The reason is straightforward: staying in the euro means an incredibly severe depression, which will last for many years while Cyprus tries to build a new export sector. Leaving the euro, and letting the new currency fall sharply, would greatly accelerate that rebuilding. If you look at Cyprusís trade profile, you see just how much damage the country is about to sustain. This is a highly open economy with just two major exports, banking services and tourism ó and one of them just disappeared. This would lead to a severe slump on its own. On top of that, the troika is demanding major new austerity, even though the country supposedly has rough primary (non-interest) budget balance. I wouldnít be surprised to see a 20 percent fall in real GDP. Krugman's argument is similar to that made by Moody's on Sunday night, when the credit rating agency said Cyprus was still at risk of defaulting on its public debt and leaving the common currency. The chart below from Moody's shows just how integral to Cypriot economic growth the banking sector there has become. Eurostat, Moody's calculations Krugman points out that since capital controls are already in place in Cyprus ñ as the country braces to re-open its banks and commence a run on deposits ñ there's not much left to lose on that front. "So if I were dictator, Iíd just extend the bank holiday long enough to prepare for the new currency," says Krugman. Read his full take at the New York Times &gt;
REUTERS/Yves Herman If you've been following the Cyprus bailout story at all, you're probably familiar by now with Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Dutch Finance Minister who became President of the Eurogroup of euro zone finance ministers in January. As President of the Eurogroup, Dijsselbloem has one extremely important job: communicating to the public the decisions taken by the group. After all, he is the figurehead. And for all of the fear that the Cyprus bank bailout deal ñ which, per the Eurogroup's wishes, forces haircuts on uninsured depositors ñ has caused elsewhere in Europe in recent days, Dijsselbloem really hasn't been doing too well on that front. It's important for European leaders to portray Cyprus as a "special case." Otherwise, depositors at other banks in Europe could get spooked, thinking they might be next to take a hit. The same goes for bank bondholders. So, European leaders have done their best to stress that the Cypriot bank bailout is just that: a special case. That is, except for Dijsselbloem, who has basically spent the first two days of this week, following the inking of the Cyprus deal on Sunday night, going on and on about how this is not, in fact, a special case. Yesterday, in a bombshell interview with Reuters and the FT, Dijsselbloem essentially said Europeans can count on a similar fate for uninsured deposits elsewhere in the euro zone if their banking systems need to be restructured in the future. "If there is a risk in a bank, our first question should be 'Okay, what are you in the bank going to do about that? What can you do to recapitalise yourself?'" said Dijsselbloem in the interview. "If the bank can't do it, then we'll talk to the shareholders and the bondholders, we'll ask them to contribute in recapitalising the bank, and if necessary the uninsured deposit holders." Yikes. FT Alphaville editor Paul Murphy called for Dijsselbloem's firing for making those comments. Several others have lashed out at Dijsselbloem for his apparent ineptitude. The market reaction (bank stocks tanked) even caused the Eurogroup to issue a two-sentence clarification of what Dijsselbloem said. However, the Eurogroup statement didn't really refute anything he actually said. Instead, it seemed to be an attempt to combat the use of the word "template" in describing the Cyprus deal, which is how Reuters played it in the lede. And when you look at the full transcript of the interview, which the FT published online today, it's clear that Dijsselbloem absolutely meant what he said. In fact, Dijsselbloem's comments seemed to anticipate and perhaps even invite the negative market reaction that ensued and later caused the Eurogroup to issue a clarification. "If I finance a bank and I know if the bank will get in trouble, I will be hit and I will lose money, I will put a price on that," said Dijsselbloem in the interview. "I think it is a sound economic principle. And having cheap money because the risk will be covered by the government, and I will always get my money back, is not leading to the right decisions in the financial sector." The man is clearly trying to stress the "free market" approach. For most people, whether they agree with Dijsselbloem on that is a political issue. One thing is for sure, though ñ the "free market" approach also happens to be the exact opposite of what investors in Europe are counting on right now, so talking about it is definitely frowned upon. Thus, one might expect Dijsselbloem to keep quiet about scaring European depositors after yesterday's somewhat humiliating turn of events. But Dijsselbloem won't give it up! The soundbites today were almost laughable, given how yesterday went down. He went before the Dutch parliament today and told them that a levy on wealth like the one considered in Cyprus was defensible in principle. Really, Dijsselbloem? Why would you say something like that? Credit Suisse analyst William Porter ruminated on the problem Dijsselbloem seems to be having lately in a recent note, the title of which posed a very simple question: "What if they're not stupid?" "With one or two exceptions, comment and 'analysis' of the Cyprus situation have had a theme that authorities are 'stupid' and 'have shot themselves in the foot'," writes Porter. But Porter isn't buying it. "An immediate corollary of ruling out the ìstupidityî assumption is that if we can see something, the authorities can see it too," says Porter. "We try to be quicker, and they might not all see it at once. But we have to assume they see it." Here is the key point, from Porter, though: "And what we see (the difference from the authorities is we can also say it) is a†situation well short of its defining moment ...†we still see a banking system in deep†disequilibrium, with a large number of banks making no money and with no prospect of†doing so. We see the Cyprus bank holiday as a foreshock." What does that mean? It means more bail-ins for Europe. It means everybody knows it has to be done in the long run, but nobody wants to say it in the short run. And of all people, it's certainly not Dijsselbloem's job to say it. So, instead of keeping things on an even keel ñ as a Eurogroup president would probably be well-advised to do in this situation ñ Dijsselbloem has given us a glimpse of the "end game" in Europe. BofA analyst Hans Mikkelsen explained what that means in a note to clients this morning: The initial market reaction to the bailout crisis for Cyprus highlighted the eventual end game of the handover of credit risk from sovereigns back to the private market. Recall the big theme of the financial crisis, where sovereigns from the US to Europe absorbed credit risk from the private sector through explicit bailouts and implicit guarantees. The bail-in of senior bondholders and depositors in Cyprus represents one of few examples of the reversal, where credit risk has been handed back to the private sector. A key focus in the markets has been the extent to which the situation of such a small country sets a precedent for the rest of the Eurozone. Thus in response to Cyprus - from March 15th to early this morning - Italian and Spanish sovereign bond spreads had tightened about 10bps while senior bank CDS spreads in the two countries had widened 20-35 basis points. Of course through the day the market became increasingly concerned about the systemic implications of this development ñ without sufficient underlying fundamental improvement - and both sovereign and bank spreads widened significantly. Clearly the US banking sector, with most major banks having completed the necessary balance sheet repairs after the financials crisis and an improving economy, are much better positioned as new regulation does away with ìtoo-big-to-failî. It's clear that there is little appetite in the chambers of Brussels for saddling already heavily-indebted euro area member states with more public debt, which is what bailouts that don't contain some kind of "bail-in" (like from depositors, in the case of Cyprus) necessarily do. So, while they can't really talk about it, there should be little doubt about where they want to take the European banking system going forward.
George IordanouUK-based security firm G4S will be guarding banks in Cyprus when they open tomorrow, the Telegraph reports. You may remember the firm from last summer, when it received a $355 million contract for services at the London Olympics and failed to find and/or train enough people to fulfill that contract. In the end the UK government ended up deploying 17,000 military personnel to London in a last minute bid to keep order, prompting the G4S CEO to explain to Parliament that the situation was a "humiliating shambles". In Cyprus, G4S will be guarding branches of Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank and have apparently been working overnight to ensure cash machines are stocked. However the firm is†already running into problems ó licensing rules have prevented the firm from hiring extra staff for the crisis. "Demand is greater than we can provide... We haven't closed since the crisis started,"†John Arghyrou, managing director of the Cyprus business for G4S, told Reuters. "I've never seen anything like it in terms of what is going on from a security perspective. I would say the workload has quadrupled because the whole system has changed." The company's Cyprus website is still looking for people to "become part of the G4S team".
Andy Kropa/Getty ImagesJames Chanos speaks at the 2011 New-York Historical Society History Makers Awards at The Waldorf Astoria Starlight Roof on November 7, 2011 in New York City.Last November Jim Chanos spoke about his "two favorite shorts" at London's Ira Sohn Value Investing Conference, both were Brazilian companies. Today we'll just talk about one óPetrobras, Brazil's state oil company. This month it's getting negative attention from journalists and investors alike. But first, Chanos' thesis (in case you don't remember). He said that state management was suffocating Petrobras' profitability. Basically, the company is drilling expensive oil fields with expensive machinery and hiring workers while the government suppresses oil prices. It almost sounds like he wrote the profile of Petrobras in today's New York Times (from NYT): Saddled with a nationalist mandate to buy ships, oil platforms and other equipment from lethargic Brazilian companies, the oil giant is now facing soaring debt, major projects mired in delays and older fields, once prodigious, that are yielding less oil. The undersea bounty in its grasp also remains devilishly complex to exploit. Now, instead of symbolizing Brazilís rise as a global powerhouse, Petrobras embodies the sluggishness of the nationís economy itself... Until recently, Petrobras was second in value only to ExxonMobil among publicly traded energy companies. But its fortunes have tumbled to the point that it is now worth less than Colombiaís national oil company. That fall has accentuated an increasingly bitter debate here over President Dilma Rousseffís attempts to use Petrobras to shield the Brazilian population from the nationís economic slowdown. Yahoo FinanceChanos put it more colorfully in November saying, ìPeople worried that Lula was a socialist, well, Dilma is a socialist." Since then the stock has fallen 22%. Political leanings aside, Petrobras' performance is obviously hurting investors. One Sao Paulo newspaper, Fohla De S. Paulo, calculated just how much. According to calculations, provided to Folha, from the financial information company Comdinheiro, people who invested 10,000 reais (US $ 4,968.7) 12 months ago in the most traded stock (preferred shares, without voting rights) from the state-owned company, by March 19 of this year have 7,912.18 reais (US $ 3,931.2), considering already earnings (dividends, interest on company capital and income). People who invested the same amount in common share (less traded, with voting rights) had more losses: the balance decreased to 7,021.70 reais US $ 3,448.5). Shares fell during this period pressured by investors distrust in government interference in the company, which prevented, for example, the adjustment of gasoline prices due to inflation. All this considered, it shouldn't surprise anyone that Petrobras announced this month that it is trying to raise $9.9 billion through divestments. Fohla estimates that the company could get $200 million for each natural gas plant it sells ó the company has 11. So right again, Chanos. †
Wikimedia CommonsThis relentless bull market inched closer to its all-time high despite a horrible reading on consumer confidence. First the scoreboard: Dow: 14,559, +111.9 pts, +0.7 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,563, +12.0 pts, +0.7 percentNASDAQ: 3,252, +17.1 pts, +0.5 percent And now the top stories:
REUTERS/Michael Buholzer Some conservatives are showing evolution on the matter of monetary policy. For example, Larry Kudlow recently admitted that, contrary to what he expected, Ben Bernanke's easing measures haven't created huge inflation or dollar debasement, and that he might actually be on the right track. But others in the party continue to bang the hard money drum. In a WSJ op-ed, New York Sun editor Seth Lipsky argues that Obama's and Bernanke's policies have debased the dollar, and that a proper reform of the Fed would involve having a single mandate, and a requirement to watch the price of gold. Lipsky writes: The monetary crisis of the era abated in the 1980s under the combination of Chairman Paul Volcker's tight money and President Reagan's supply-side fiscal measures. Over time, value flowed back into the dollar, which had soared to a 265th of an ounce of gold on the day George W. Bush was sworn in as president in January 2001. Yet by the time President Obama took the oath of office in January 2009, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and profligate spending by Congress had driven the value of the dollar down to less than a third of its worth when Mr. Bush was sworn in. Its value has been halved again under Mr. Obama, to less than a 1,600th of an ounce of gold. It's true that gold has had a great run over the past several years, but here's the real question: who cares? Is the average person who has to buy bread, milk, go to the doctor, and pay rent affected by the doubling of gold? Other than gold traders and jewelery makers and the small slice of industry that uses gold for industrial purposes, the price of gold doesn't matter to anyone. What matters to people is the cost of real stuff, and in recent years that's been pretty subdued. Here's the year over year change in core CPI. The prices that matter to real people aren't accelerating at nearly the pace that they were not long ago. FRED The Fed has a mandate to watch employment and watch inflation, and on the latter things are just fine in the only measure that matters to real people (the Fed doesn't use CPI, but other inflation measures are similarly subdued). This is not to say that the price of gold doesn't reflect actual underlying economic changes. For example, gold tends to surge when there's volatility. And gold also does well when real interest rates are very low, although you don't need gold to tell you when either of these conditions are in place. But for real people and policy makers whose job it is to care about real people, gold is irrelevant.
CNBCs latest All-America Economic Survey of 800 Americans, showed that gold is the most preferred asset class among investors.¬† 35 percent think gold is the best investment as of March 2013, down from 37 percent last year. Real estate and stocks came in second and third respectively.¬† But CNBC broke the data down further to see who the gold bugs are.¬† This showed that those with underwater homes (when homeowners owe more on their mortgages than their home is worth), those with a high school education or less, those with under $50,000 invested, and the white working class were at about 40 percent.¬† Tea party supporters were at 45 percent, and those who expect home values to decrease further were at 50 percent. Watch the video at CNBC: 
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. U.S. Advisors Are Paying Attention To The Stock Market Rally In Japan (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors in the U.S. are closely watching the Japanese stock market rally. The Nikkei is up 20.7 percent year-to-date.¬† With prime minister Shinzo Abe's government promising looser fiscal and monetary policy, stocks are expected to go higher.¬† Some say money moving into stock funds centered on Japan is a short-term trade for some quick potential gains. Others like Paul Winter at Five Seasons Financial Planning LLC told the WSJ that they are buying Japanese stocks to diversify into assets with low correlation to the U.S. Global REITs And Real Estate ETFs Are A Good Bet For Those Chasing Yield (FA Mag) Investors chasing yield have loaded up on American real estate investment trusts (REITs), but some are saying they should look at global REITs. Global real estate ETFs also offer better returns than those focused on the U.S. While Europe's housing market has some way to go before it recovers, Jeremy Schwartz at WisdomTree says emerging markets might be a better place to look. Some global real estate ETFs include SPDR Dow Jones International Real Estate (RWX), iShares FTSE EPRA/NAREIT Developed Real Estate ex-US (IFGL), and Vanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETF (VNQI). Global Financial Stress Is Rising And This Doesn't Bode Well For Stocks (Bank of America)  Global financial stress is rising because of the situation in Cyprus. Bank of America's Global Financial Stress Index has been turned inverted to show how it correlates with global equities.¬† "The Cyprus bailout story caused most measures to increase last week. In fact, only 5 measures registered a decrease in stress. Unsurprisingly, 4 of these were non-European," write BAML analysts in a note to clients. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg 10 Indicators To Watch For A Spring Stock Market Slide (LPL Financial) There are 10 indicators that Jeff Kleintop watches to see if we can expect a stock market slide in spring. These signs include 1. Fed stimulus which isn't expected to wind down till the end of the year. 2. Economic surprises, via the Citigroup Economic Surprise Index. 3. Consumer confidence, which is beginning to fall from highs. 4. Earnings estimates haven't risen as much as in the past. 5. Yield curve - " we will be watching to see if the yield curve flattens further after peaking in mid-March." 6. Energy prices. 7. The LPL Financial Current Conditions Index which hasn't shown signs of weakening. 8. The VIX which suggests that investors have become complacent. 9. Initial jobless claims which should increase in April. 10. Inflation expectations haven't increased.¬†¬†¬† Kleintop expects a smaller decline of 5 percent or so, compared with a 10 - 19 percent slide in previous years. Europe's Banking Sector, Not Cyprus,¬†Is The Really Worry (iShares Blog)  Cyprus isn't the biggest cause of concern in Europe, writes Blackrock's Russ Koesterich. While Cyprus and the EU have agreed to a bailout of the island nation's banking sector, the problems in Europe's banking sector are ongoing. "Cyprus itself still faces a significant recession and Europe‚Äôs banking system as a whole remains under-capitalized and vulnerable to shocks. While the EU has technically agreed on tighter banking integration, implementation has been slow. Unfortunately, with German elections pending in September, we are unlikely to see much compromise on this politically contentious topic until late this year or early next. "In the meantime, Cyprus will probably muddle through. But European banks will probably remain a source of systematic risk for the rest of the year."
America may be adding millionaires at a rapid clip, but currently there are only 400 people who've achieved the ever-elusive billionaire status.† We couldn't help but ask ourselves ññ what does someone do with that much cash?  "If you had a million dollars of investable assets, you're concerned with making the money last," said†Tom Orrechio,†a principal at Modera Wealth Management in Westwood, N.J. "If you have a billion, that's not an issue." Orrechio has been working in wealth management for more than 20 years and served a year as chairman of the National Association of Personal Financial Advisors. His main clients are millionaires and the firm serves about 500 families. But Modera handles more than $1 billion in total assets and Orrechio is familiar with the process many billionaires use to manage their 10-figure sums. Turns out a few zeroes make a huge difference. Bllionaires require a fleet of financial specialists to make sure their finances are up to snuff.† They don't just hire financial planners. They hire financial officers.  A millionaire might start by hiring a wealth management firm to handle their investments and sticky issues like estate planning and taxes, but billionaires need help deciding how†they'll pass on their fortune to their children, how to skirt around taxes, shelter their assets from creditors, orchestrate their charitable contributions, and help diversify their property and other investments. Hiring a financial management officer is top priority. A billionaire often hires several people to work directly for them in a "home office," doing everything from paying monthly bills to handling travel expenses, Orrechio said. It's like a mini-corporation and one-stop concierge service all in one.† "If you're a billionaire, you might be making large gifts. You have more sophisticated estate/tax planning, [and might manage] multiple legal entities," he added. "You have different individuals to handle those entities." People who fall in the middle of the millionaire and billionaire range often hire a financial team to cover several families in their income bracket. "The Rockefellers are a good example," Orecchio said. "What a lot of these wealthy families decide to do, they have the scale and infrastructure costs covered, so they can open up to multi-family office."
CNBCJefferies Sean Darby reigned as the most bullish strategist on Wall Street for two weeks with his year end target on the S&amp;P 500 at 1,673. Today, that title has been seized by Canaccord's Tony Dwyer, who today cranked up his year end target to 1,760 from 1,650. "We believe the combination of (1) fewer signs of systemic risk, (2) reduced policy valuation constraints and (3) better than expected economic and corporate profit trends should allow for continued valuation expansion," wrote Dwyer in a note to clients this morning. "We now expect investors to pay 16x our 2013 SPX operating EPS estimate of $110 vs. our prior target of 15x." Dwyer believes we could see some pullbacks, but he thinks those would represent buying opportunities. "In our view, the more important discussion should surround what to do with any weakness toward SPX 1500, rather than trying to trade it," he wrote.† "The ìwhat to doî is driven by our high conviction level in our bullish view driven by low core inflation and real interest rates, ìsweet spotî fundamental data, upside surprise in EPS results and continuation of the already expanding market multiple." The acknowledgment of expanding multiples have separated the strategist who have been write from those who have been wrong about this rally.
Shadow inventory fell 18 percent year-over-year in January to 2.2 million units, according to CoreLogic's latest report. This represents nine months' supply. It was down 28 percent from its 2010 peak of 3 million units. The value of shadow inventory stood at $350 billion, down from $402 billion a year ago. ‚ÄúThe shadow inventory continued to drop at double the rate in January from prior-year levels. At this point in the recovery, we are seeing healthy reductions across much of the nation,‚Äù said Anand Nallathambi, president and CEO of CoreLogic in a press release. Here are some details from the report: Here's a look at months' supply of shadow inventory ‚Äì time taken to clear inventory at current sales pace: CoreLogic
Now that the Cyprus bank bailout deal has been inked with the EU, everyone is looking at Slovenia. Government bond yields there are spiking in the wake of the crisis in Cyprus. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The country, another relative newcomer to the euro, is struggling with its own banking problems. The IMF expects Slovenia will have to recapitalize its three largest banks this year, which could cost a billion euros. That will increase Slovenia's budget deficit, which is bad news because the country is already having trouble selling sovereign bonds on the open market in order to finance the government. So, the question is whether Slovenia will be the next EU member state to need a bailout. Slovenia's top central banker, Marjo Kranjec ‚Äì who also sits on the ECB Governing Council ‚Äì says it's not going to happen. Reuters correspondent Marja Novak reports: Asked by Reuters at a¬†business¬†conference on Friday whether Slovenia could avoid a bailout, Kranjec said "Yes". "I am very sure that we (Slovenia) will not get into such a situation (as Cyprus)," Kranjec, who is also the Bank of Slovenia governor, told reporters on the sidelines of the conference. However, the market may be starting to bet otherwise.
Wikimedia CommonsWealthy Moscow residents are reportedly hiring "ambulance-taxis" to beat the city's terrible traffic jams, The National Post reports. The vehicles,¬†which can cost more than $200 an hour and have been advertised on the internet, supposedly use their sirens to glide through standstill traffic. Now police are on the lookout for such vehicles, according to the National Post. The paper reports: A law enforcement source told Izvestiya newspaper that one such vehicle had already been identified. ‚ÄúDuring a patrol, a medical car was stopped because it was breaking traffic rules,‚Äù said the source. ‚ÄúThe driver appeared strange, and did not resemble an ambulance driver at all. ‚ÄúPolice officers opened the automobile to check it and saw that the interior was fitted out like a high-class limousine with comfortable seats for transporting VIP passengers.‚Äù The traffic in Moscow is notoriously bad. In 2011, officials attempted to double the size of the city to deal with traffic snarls and overcrowding. And this winter, hundreds of cars were stuck in a 120-mile-long jam, some for as long as three days, after heavy snow hit the city.
APWarren Buffett is about to become one of Goldman Sachs' biggest shareholders come October, Bloomberg reports. Back in 2008 when the world was falling apart, Warren Buffett gave Goldman Sachs a nice injection of capital. For his trouble, the bank gave Berkshire Hathaway warrants to buy 43.5 million Goldman Sachs common shares at $115. They expire in October 1st. Right now GS stock is at $145.99. So yet again, Buffett made a very nice deal. And that's not even to mention the $500 million Berkshire made from GS preferred stock dividends the company also picked up in the 2008 deal. Those were redeemed in 2011. So all together, according to Reuters, Buffett has amassed 9.6 million shares of Goldman Sachs and is now the 9th largest shareholder in the firm. Here's Goldman Sachs' release: NEW YORK, March 26, 2013 -- The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) today announced that it has amended its warrant agreement with Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Berkshire Hathaway) from cash settlement to net share settlement. "We intend to hold a significant investment in Goldman Sachs, a firm that I did my first transaction with more than 50 years ago," said Warren Buffett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire Hathaway. "I have been privileged to have known and admired Goldman's executive leadership team since my first meeting with Sidney Weinberg in 1940." "We are pleased that Berkshire Hathaway intends to remain a long-term investor in Goldman Sachs," said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs. The warrant had provided Berkshire Hathaway the right to purchase 43,478,260 shares of Goldman Sachs' common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at an exercise price of $115 at any time until October 1, 2013. Under the amended agreement, Goldman Sachs will deliver to Berkshire Hathaway the number of shares of common stock equal in value to the difference between the average closing price over the 10 trading days preceding October 1, 2013 and the exercise price of $115 multiplied by the number of shares of common stock covered by the warrant (43,478,260). The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world.
Striking Photography by BoTax refund season has gotten off to a slow start this year.† Washington's fiscal brinksmanship during the "fiscal cliff" dealings forced the IRS to delay the beginning of the tax filing season by two weeks.† As a result, Americans are getting their tax refunds on a lag. While consumer spending has been resilient, UBS's economics team believe consumer spending is actually lagging a bit. Indeed, spending is very sensitive to refunds. As UBS' Maury Harris points out, the good news is that once refunds do start rolling in, they'll provide a nice boost to the economy.† Harris considers the last time refunds were late: In March 1985, the IRS temporarily fell behind on refund issuance due to computer problems. By May of 1985, the IRS caught up on their refund issuance. It appears that the initial response by the consumer from the delayed refunds was to stop spending and reduce savings. However, once consumers then received their refunds, there was a jump in spending, as well as an increase the saving rate. Here's the chart from 1985 showing what he's talking about:† UBS This year's refunds could affect spending even more than temporary swings in tax rates and gasoline prices, Harris argues: ...tax refunds represent a substantial source of liquidity for the American population. Last year Federal income tax refunds totaled $310 billionóalmost three times this yearís Social Security payroll tax hike and well over the approximately $10 billion per annum consumer expense rise for each dime jump in retail gasoline prices. Harris says the IRS expects to receive more than 147 million individual tax returns this year. Of these, approximately three-fourths probably will receive refund checks. This bodes well for the Spring shopping season.
AP ImagesBillionaire energy magnate William Koch has filed a federal lawsuit against Internet entrepreneur Eric Greenberg for allegedly selling a set of fake wines that taste like vinegar, the New York Daily News reports.  Koch, who has an estimated net-worth of $4 billion, purchased a set of wines from Greenberg, who owns†Imperial Cellar, for $300,000 through Zachys Wine Auctions in 2004 and 2005, according to the NYDN. Now, Koch, who claims the wines are fakes and taste like vinegar, wants his money back.† Greenberg says he bought the wines "as is" under the terms of the auction and that he didn't knowingly sell Koch fakes, the report said. † Koch alleges that 24 bottles of wine he purchased from Greenberg are fakes.† (@KatyaWachtel via GrubStreet)
koadmunkee / FlickrNevermind a silver spoon, one Chinese mother has bought a $6.5 million (¬£4.3 million) flat in Manhattan for her toddler. Kevin Brown, a senior vice president at Sotheby's International who specialises in selling New York's most prestigious property, said the unnamed woman had snapped up the flat in preparation for when her child eventually becomes a student. "We were running around the city looking at things and I finally said: 'Well why are you buying?'" Mr Brown said to CCTV, the Chinese state broadcaster. "And she said, well, her daughter was going to go to Columbia, or NYU or maybe Harvard and so she needed to be in the centre of the city and that was why she was picking this one particular apartment. So I said: 'Oh, how old is your daughter?' and she said: 'Well she's two'. And I was just shocked." The apartment is in the One57 tower, a 90-floor glass skyscraper on 57th street between Sixth and Seventh avenues and overlooking Central Park. The building, which is still unfinished, was designed by a Pritzker prize-winning architect and boasts a library with a pool table and 24ft aquarium, a private concert hall, and a "pet wash room". It will be managed by the Park Hyatt hotel brand. At least one other Chinese billionaire, Silas KF Chou of Hong Kong, has also bought a $50 million apartment in the block, according to the New York Times and the two penthouses in the block have both been sold for $90 million, making them the most expensive single properties in Manhattan. Mr Brown said Chinese buyers now make up a quarter of his business, in dollar terms. "What is more interesting is that two years ago, it was only 15 per cent. And before that it was five per cent," he said. "Most Chinese want to be by Central Park, but they are not interested in the park view. They want a southern exposure." While foreigners only account for two to three per cent of the houses sold in New York, around 11 per cent of that market is now made up by Chinese, who spent $9 billion on property in the United States last year. The news of the purchase inevitably raised eyebrows in China, with most on the internet curious about where the money had come from. Several comments left on Weibo, China's version of Twitter, suggested that the woman must have been related to a corrupt government official.
I monitor the Treasury's daily data on federal tax receipts and deposits for individual and payroll taxes as well as for corporate income taxes. The daily data obviously are very volatile so I smooth them out with 260-day moving sums, which closely track the Treasury‚Äôs monthly data on a 12-month sum basis. The Treasury‚Äôs deposits of withheld income and employment taxes rose to a new record high on March 22. Corporate income tax receipts are the highest since February 2009. ¬†Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Decoupled. (1) The end has been postponed. (2) The moments after the Cyprus Moment. (3) Mr. Dijsselbloem's little fiasco. (4) Draghi to the rescue again. (5) Scrounging for good news in Europe. (6) More happy indicators in the US. (7) PMI down in Europe, up in US. (8) Houses are selling lickety-split. (9) Federal tax revenues are on the rise. (10) Earnings are still breaking records. (More for subscribers.)
YouTube / Margin Call trailerIf you're considering going to Wall Street, you should really know what you're getting into. Yes, you will get paid better than average people all over the world. Yes, you will get to learn new things constantly, and yes, you will be involved in important transactions (well, hopefully) and meet interesting clients. However, there is a downside, and it's generally all in your head. A Wall Street veteran, who will remain anonymous, gave us a laundry list of ways working on the Street can actually ruin your life. Wall Streeters have to deal with a distorted sense of money, questions about self-worth, arrested development and most importantly, the fact that they never ever have enough time. They can try and pay for it, but that only gets you so much. The point is ‚Äî you better love finance if you're getting into this business, because it's going to take over your life.
ReutersCiti's Seth Kleinman has a pretty sweeping note today, titled "The End Is Nigh," in which he argues crude oil demand ó and with it, prices ó are is set to fall dramatically in the coming decade thanks to the†rise of natural gas and more advanced fuel economies. † And the trend is worldwide. Kleinman on gas: One of the many unforeseen ripple effects of the US shale revolution is a push to substitute natural gas for oil. This is set to accelerate with LNG already challenging dieselís 13 mb/d heavy duty truck use globally but especially in China, bunkerís 3.7 mb/d seaborne market, and CNG and propane set for exponential growth not only in markets such as Brazil, Egypt, Iran and India, but in Russia and the US as well. ... Oil-based power generation is increasingly being replaced by gas-fired generation. As much as 2 mb/d of power generation demand in the Middle East in total could be switched to natural gas by the end of the decade, and the increasing availability of LNG towards end-decade could back out other oil for power generation needs in India and Latin America amongst others. And on fuel economy: Higher prices, the removal of many fuel subsidies and rising fuel economy mandates have dramatically improved the outlook for fuel efficiency in global automotive and truck fleets. Citiís automobiles team estimates that new car fuel efficiency is now improving by 3-4% p.a., with trucks managing 1-2%. As cars make up ò60% of the total global road fleet we conservatively estimate that new vehicles (cars and trucks combined) fuel economy increases by 2.5% p.a. Here's the key chart showing global demand forecasts. Citi Kleinman concludes that the oil price spikes of the late '00s were basically a fluke: The structural bull market of the previous decade was a result of surging global oil demand and consistently disappointing non-OPEC supply growth, compounded by a collapse in Iraqi and Venezuelan production. The outlook for each of these factors has now reversed, reinforcing Citi Researchís long term view that by the end of the decade Brent prices are likely to hover within a range of $80-90/bbl. The shale boom's effects are still rippling across the globe.†
Many European officials had recently been congratulating themselves that the European crisis had passed. ¬†The Outright Market Operation facility, brandished but not triggered, and forbearance by EU officials appeared to have turned the corner. ¬† Yet this was just another swing of the European pendulum. ¬†Each time unresolved issues flare up, officials put it out and in doing so think they have put the fire out. ¬†They have not.¬† After relatively easily absorbing the inconclusive Italian elections and the rejection of the terms of the first aid offer to Cyprus and the brokering of another deal, the markets had a more dramatic reaction to the suggestion that Cyprus may be a template for future aid packages. ¬† This spooked market participants who sent Italian and Spanish equities, and especially bank shares, sharply lower. ¬†European peripheral bond markets sold off. ¬†The euro fell to new five month lows against the dollar. 1. ¬†Many observers continue to under-estimate the political will of the European elite for EMU to succeed. ¬† As Fed Chairman Bernanke observed, there are no ideologues in a crisis. ¬†European officials are willing to sacrifice many sacred cows on the alter of EMU. ¬† It is an evolving situation, and as more institutional capacity is innovated, the range of the policy response can be enlarged. ¬† There remains among the commentariat class a profound skepticism of the EMU's viability, especially it seems in the Anglo-American traditional and social media. ¬†Many thought Greece was going to be jettisoned in 2011 and 2012. ¬† ¬†Some gave it weeks or months to survive a year ago. ¬†They greet each problem and official misstep with a cry that the end is nigh. ¬† Yet there is no Plan B and without a compelling alternative vision, Plan A persists. ¬† 2. ¬†In order for EMU to survive, it will be shaped by the most powerful interest, which is Germany. ¬†As the US pivots toward Asia and the UK threatens to leave the EU, the centuries-old balance-of-power politics is giving way to a German-led block. ¬†Its ideology of ordo-liberlism advocates a strong state and strong markets, as opposed to the Anglo-American neo-liberalism, which allows for a smaller role for the state. ¬† There is a sense in some of the local press that Germany is fatigue of aid and it is not coincidental that the Bundesbank just made public a report that has been available to several weeks showing that, due to home ownership rates, many European, include Spaniards on average, are richer than Germans. ¬†Of course, political sensibilities are running high as the national election draws nearer (in September), and the first German party to officially advocate leaving EMU, has been launched. ¬†At the same time, the cost to Germany has thus far been quite limited and what de minimis funds it has had to raise has been more than offset by the lowering government's lowering borrowing costs and interest on its loans. ¬† ¬† 3. ¬†We have arguing for some time that the Troika is not the united front previously was. ¬†The Cypriot crisis has brought this issue to the surface and many now share our insight ¬†The EC would seemingly be content for Europe to deal with the issue alone, which is ease enough after the IMF has generally assumed the funding of roughly a third of the aid packages. ¬†Germany, which initially did not want to include the IMF, now see it as an ally. ¬†The ECB has shown itself to be willing to use the leverage it has (such as granting Emergency Lending Aid by the national central banks and definition of acceptable collateral) to pursue its interests. ¬† 4. ¬†Germany and the IMF have long wanted to increase the private sector burden sharing when aid is needed. ¬†Brussels has been a reluctant party. ¬†Germany and the IMF are winning that fight. ¬†There is an established order of seniority (in practice if not in law) for cases of insolvency. ¬†In Cyprus, the initial plan, proposed by the newly elected Cypriot President, and agreed to by the Troika and Germany, was a violation of this by taxing small depositors while equity investors and unsecured creditors were kept whole. ¬†However, the new plan exempts small depositors and hits shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors. ¬† European officials seem to have greater confidence increasing the role of the private sector aid programs. ¬† 5. ¬†It is not yet clear the extent or duration of the capital controls. ¬†Some observers are arguing that capital controls are a violation of the governing treaties, and because one cannot take unlimited amount of funds out of Cyprus at the moment, it means that this marks the end of the monetary union. ¬†They suggest that now the euro in Cyprus worth less than the euro elsewhere. ¬†We do not find that logic compelling, based on what we currently know about the controls. ¬†We accept that there may be unintended consequences, and the situation can evolve into something different, but presently, we do not see these administrative measures, as inconvenient as they are, to be tantamount to the introduction of Cypriot euro. ¬† 6. ¬†Cyprus is going to face a deep and prolonged adjustment process. ¬†In the global division of labor it was a entrepot, providing commercial and financial services. ¬†Broadly understood to include finance and insurance (9.2% of GDP), real estate and construction (17.8%) and wholesale and retail trade (23.2%), it accounted for nearly half of the Cypriot economy in 2012. ¬†Manufacturing only counted for 5.9% of the value-added of the economy, which is down from 9.5% in 2000 and 7.2% before the financial crisis. ¬†It simply does not that manufacturing capacity to export its way to growth. ¬†This suggests that whether inside EMU or out, there is a painful restructuring process ahead. ¬†What ails Cyprus is not that its currency is too high. ¬†It is that its developmental model, which leaves aside whether it is a low tax jurisdiction (complying with the global standard for tax cooperation and fully aligned with Code of Conduct for Business Taxation of the EU and the OECD) or a tax haven, as the German narrative suggests. ¬†¬† 7. ¬†As has been the case since the crisis first erupted, European officials, the IMF (and many private sector economists) have over-estimated growth in the stricken countries. ¬† This has serious implications for trying to stabilize the debt/GDP ratio, which seems the official goal--putting countries back on sustainable fiscal trajectories. ¬†The risk is that adjustment in the Cypriot economy ¬†is so severe that the economy contracts sharper than officials forecast. ¬†The bottom line is the downside risks to the economy mean that this aid package may not be the last for Cyprus. ¬† 8. ¬†What appears to be large natural gas and oil fields on its continental shelf suggests the way forward. ¬†However, this may prove more mirage than reality for years to come. ¬†The problem is arguably more about politics than economics. ¬†One of the strategic errors of European officials was allowing Cyprus to join its clubs (EU and EMU) without united the island. ¬†That should have been one of the prerequisites but that would have forced European officials into compromising with Turkey, perhaps over EU membership, which it was not prepared to do. ¬†In addition, getting the gas to market is more difficult and costly (relative to the size of the Cypriot economy) than often acknowledged. ¬† 9. ¬† Cyprus 2.0 was constructed in a way that allows an end-run around parliament. ¬†This is a shame and ultimately counter-productive. ¬†The lack of democratic legitimacy means that it will always taste¬†like foreign imposition. ¬†It means that parliament will not take ownership for the program. ¬†It also shows that European officials to be still tone deaf, seemingly failing to realize monetary union is a elitist project and without strong public support is vulnerable to various populist movements from both the right and left.¬†¬† Read more posts on Marc to Market ¬ª
An EU law maker has said the European Parliament will push for uninsured deposits to face "bail-ins" (like they did in the Cyprus deal) as part of a new law outlining how to resolve banks in the EU going forward. The euro fell sharply when the comments hit the wires. Reuters correspondent John O'Donnell has the scoop: "You need to be able to do the bail-in as well with deposits," said Gunnar Hokmark, an influential member of the European Parliament, who is leading negotiations with EU countries to finalize a law for winding up problem banks. The European Parliament has an equal say alongside EU countries when deciding who must bear the brunt of future bank failures such as those now being seen on Cyprus. "Deposits below 100,000 euros are protected ... deposits above 100,000 euros are not protected and shall be treated as part of the capital that can be bailed in," Hokmark told Reuters, adding that he was confident a majority of his peers in the parliament backed this line. These comments echo the controversial interview that Eurogroup President and Dutch Finance Minister Joeren Dijsselbloem gave to Reuters and the FT yesterday, in which he essentially said the Cyprus deal could be viewed as a template for future bank restructurings in the euro area. Of course, faced with a negative market reaction, Dijsselbloem issued something of a "retraction" later that day. The euro turned sharply lower against the U.S. dollar on this latest report from Reuters, but has since recovered all of its losses. Thinkorswim
DeloitteThe sustainability of historically high corporate profit margins is one of the top debates in the economy and financial markets. Deloitte recent published the findings of its most recent quarterly survey of America's Chief Financial Officers (CFO).† And the CFOs seem to agree: margins are heading higher. "Companies believe they can squeeze further savings for their bottom line ñ in fact this trend is increasing as the gap between earnings and sales growth projections has increased over the past 24 months," writes Deloitte. Here are the bullets from Deloitte's study (verbatim): Sales*:Sales growth expectations are positive and above 3Q12 survey lows, but they are still below the long-term average: Earnings*: Earnings growth expectations continued to rebound off 3Q12 lows and are now just below their long-term averages: For the full study, head to Deloitte.com.
Yesterday, Cyprus' Laiki Bank, which had basically run out of money, was dissolved. Part of it ó "the good bank" ó was folded into the Bank of Cyprus. But however "good" the assets are, the arrangement is not sitting well with Bank of Cyprus employees. George Iordanou, a native Cypriot and PhD Candidate at the Department of Politics and International Studies of the University of Warwick, took photos of the tense scene†this morning as BoC workers gathered outside their own headquarters to plan a demonstration outside the Central Bank. Here was the scene outside the Bank of Cyprus as they organized the protest... George Iordanou George Iordanou And the scene outside the Central Bank: George Iordanou There's also a rumor the Bank's president has submitted his resignation. And here's George's assessment: Twitter
Reuters/Mike BlakeNew home sales fell 4.6 percent month-over-month in February, to an annual rate of 411,000. Click here to refresh &gt; This was worse than expectations for a 3.9 percent fall to an annual rate of 420,000. But new home sales were up 12.3 percent on a year-over-year basis. Last month's reading was revised down to show a 13.1 percent rise to an annual rate of 431,000. Moreover, the median sales price of new homes was $246,800, up from $226,400 the previous month. This compares with an initial reading of a 15.6 percent rise to an annual rate of 437,000. The seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of February was 152,000. It would take 4.4 months to sell the supply at the current sales pace. This follows on 9.6 percent rise in existing homes supply to 4.7 months, from 4.3 months in January. While overall housing supply continues to stay tight, declining inventory had helped drive home prices through 2012. So this is a number that investors will be watching closely. Bank of America's Michelle Meyer had previously told Business Insider that the month-over-month number tends to be extremely noisy and that we should expect downward revisions to January's number. She prefers to track the three or six-month moving average because it tends to move out the noise. Economists also watch the new home sales number to get an insight into housing supply, because tight supply helps support home prices.
TheRealMichaelMoore / FlickrThe Conference Board's March consumer confidence survey is out. The headline index plummeted to 59.7 from a downwardly-revised 68.0 last month. Economists were expecting a smaller drop to 67.5 (from a reading of 69.6 last month before the revision to 68.0). Via CNBC's Steve Leisman, Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors Chief Economist Ian Shepherdson called the number "horrible": Shepherdson on consumer confidence: In a word: horrible. The actual number is a bit below even our miserable expectation NEW YORK, March 26, 2013‚Ä¶The Conference Board¬†Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had improved in February, declined in March. The Index now stands at 59.7 (1985=100), down from 68.0 in February. The Present Situation Index decreased to 57.9 from 61.4. The Expectations Index declined to 60.9 from 72.4 last month. The monthly¬†Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was March 14. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence fell sharply in March, following February‚Äôs uptick. This month‚Äôs retreat was driven primarily by a sharp decline in expectations, although consumers were also more pessimistic in their assessment of current conditions. The loss of confidence, particularly expectations, mirrors the losses experienced this past December and January. The recent sequester has created uncertainty regarding the economic outlook and as a result, consumers are less confident.‚Äù ¬† Consumers‚Äô appraisal of current conditions declined in March. Those saying business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù decreased to 16.0 percent from 17.6 percent, while those stating business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù increased to 29.3 percent from 28.2 percent. Consumers‚Äô assessment of the labor market was mixed. Those claiming jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù decreased to 9.4 percent from 10.1 percent, but those claiming jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù edged down to 36.2 percent from 36.9 percent. Consumers are once again pessimistic about the short-term outlook. Those expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months decreased to 14.4 percent from 18.0 percent, while those anticipating business conditions to worsen increased to 18.3 percent from 16.6 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market was also less favorable. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead declined to 12.3 percent from 16.1 percent, while those expecting fewer jobs increased to 26.6 percent from 22.1 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase fell to 13.7 percent from 15.8 percent, while those expecting a decrease edged down to 18.0 percent from 19.3 percent. Click here for the full release &gt;
The immediate banking crisis in Cyprus looks very close to reaching resolution but, as Felix Salmon notes, this isn't the end of Cyprus's troubles or the geopolitical contest over Cyprus's future. Felix writes: In the Europe vs Russia poker game, the Europeans have played the most aggressive move they can, essentially forcing Russian depositors to contribute maximally to the bailout against their will. If this is how the game ends, it's an unambiguous loss for Russia, and a win for the EU‚Ä¶. Of course, the game does not end here. It's unlikely that Russia will appear bearing a better deal at some point in the next 24 hours, but the hit to Cyprus's GDP is going to be so enormous that staying in the euro over the long term, absent another round or two of massive debt relief, is going to be extremely difficult. This deserves more attention. In the first place, the Europeans may be playing poker but the Russians are not. The Russians are playing something closer to preferans, which was very nearly the Russian national card game in the 19th century and is still quite popular there. Preferans  resembles bridge, in which players make bids or contracts for how many tricks they will take. The other players then try to win tricks away from the top bidder, hoping to make him come up short on his contract. But sometimes in preferans every player passes during the bidding segment and no one claims the contract. The situation is known raspasy. At this point the goal of the game changes: players need to avoid tricks and try to force other to take them. It seems to me that we have just gone through a round of raspasy in Cyprus. Neither the European Union nor the Russians really wanted to win this trick. But the Russians played their hand very carefully and the trick went to the Europeans. What penalty will the Europeans pay for winning this trick? Well, for one thing, they may find themselves responsible if the financial health of Cyprus continues to deteriorate. "By stepping back from the turmoil, Russia can now watch European leaders struggle with what promises to become an even bigger money pit. Having helped break the banking system in Cyprus, Europe now owns it," NBC's John Schoen writes. The costs for Europe could be even more extreme than this. Because of the way the deal was structured, the Cyprian political class will largely be able to avoid taking responsibility for the deal. The Parliament is not even voting on it. But the European Union, through its various institutions, has put its stamp on it. With some predicting the Cyprian GDP could drop by 23 percent or more in quite short order on the back of this deal, there's substantial room for political backlash against this deal. The Cypriots will be angry at the Europeans who they will, quite accurately, think foisted this deal upon them without their consent. This will be the trick that Russia wants to win. A Cyprus in rebellion against the European Union would not doubt find an excellent friend in Russia, which wants a new strategic Mediterranean ally (Syria isn't cutting it these days) as well as a way to prevent the EU from supplying more of its own natural gas. That's the long game for Russia. It didn't want this trick. And, fortunately for the Russians, the Europeans didn't even understand what game was being played.
 A pretty meh number. Richmond Fed manufacturing came in at 3 vs. expectations of 6. Last month was 6. Still, anything above zero is growth, so it's not a total disaster. Markets remain higher.
One year ago, we provided our list of the 10 indicators to watch that seemed to precede the stock market declines in 2010 and 2011 and accurately warned of another spring slide in 2012. We again look to these indicators for signs of a potential spring slide in the stock market this year. In early 2010, 2011, and 2012, run-ups in the stock market, similar to this year, pushed stocks up about 10% for the year as April began. Specifically, on April 23, 2010, April 29, 2011, and April 2, 2012, the S&amp;P 500 made peaks that were followed by 10‚Äì19% losses that were not recouped for more than five months. This recurring phenomenon is often referred to by the old adage ‚Äúsell in May and go away.‚Äù Now that it is around the time the prior slides have begun, it is time to revisit the status of our indicators. Currently, only two of the 10 indicators are waving a red flag, while three are yellow for caution, and the other five are green. On balance the indicators do not point to a significant risk of a repeat of the 10‚Äì19% spring slides in the stock market this year. However, a smaller decline of about 5% or so is far from out of the question and remains our most likely scenario, as presented in recent¬†Weekly Market Commentaries. We will continue to monitor these indicators closely in the coming weeks. 1.¬†¬†¬†¬†Fed stimulus¬†‚Äì¬†In 2010 and 2011, Federal Reserve (Fed) stimulus programs known as QE1 &amp; QE2 came to an end in the spring or summer, and stocks began to slide until the next program was announced. Operation Twist was announced on September 12, 2011 and was scheduled to conclude at the end of June 2012, helping to prompt a market slide before it was extended at the end of June 2012. This year, the current program is unlikely to be slowed or stopped until much later this year. Therefore,¬†this is unlikely to be a driver of a slide in stocks this spring. 2.¬†¬†¬†¬†Economic surprises¬†‚Äì The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index¬†[Figure 1]¬†measures how economic data fares compared with economists‚Äô expectations and has marked the spring peaks in both economic and market momentum in recent years. While the latest readings have not surged up near the 50-level that marked the peaks of recent years, the weakening trend does suggest expectations may have become too high. Turning points typically have coincided with a falling stock market relative to the safe haven of 10-year Treasuries. LPL Financial 3.¬†¬†¬†¬†Consumer confidence¬†‚Äì In the past few years, early in the year the daily tracking of consumer confidence measured by Rasmussen¬†[Figure 2]¬†rose to highs just before the stock market collapse as the financial crisis erupted. The peak in optimism gave way to a sell-off as buying faded. Investor net purchases of domestic equity mutual funds began to plunge and turned sharply negative in the following months. This measure of confidence is once again beginning to fall from the highs. LPL Financial 4.¬†¬†¬†¬†Earnings revisions¬†‚Äì The earnings estimates moved higher heading into the first quarter earnings season of each of the past few years, only to begin a decline that lasted the remainder of the year as guidance disappointed analysts and investors. This year, earnings expectations have not risen as much as in prior years, which may limit the disappointment. In addition, last week saw disappointing reports from bellwethers such as Oracle and FedEx, among others. It is too early to say whether this indicator is flashing a warning sign. We will be watching to see if estimates begin to taper off. LPL Financial 5.¬†¬†¬†¬†Yield curve¬†‚Äì In general, the greater the difference between the yield on the 2-year and the 10-year U.S. Treasury notes, the more growth the market is pricing into the economy. This yield spread, sometimes called the yield curve because of how steep or flat it looks when the yield for each maturity is plotted on a chart, peaked in February of 2010 and 2011, and March of 2012. Then the curve started to flatten, suggesting a gradually increasing concern about the economy, as the yield on the 10-year moved down. Although not as steep as in prior years, this year we will be watching to see if the yield curve flattens further after peaking in mid-March. 6.¬†¬†¬†¬†Energy prices¬†‚Äì¬†In 2010, 2011, and 2012, oil prices rose about $15‚Äì20 from around the start of February, two months before the stock market began to decline. This year, oil prices rose to $98 at the start of February and have eased slightly since then, suggesting less risk to consumers already struggling with higher taxes. However, the national average retail gasoline price has risen 50 cents this year, similar to the average rise from the beginning of the year through March over the past three years. With prices starting to ease along with crude oil the risk is fading, but a further surge in prices at the pump would make this indicator more worrisome. 7.¬†¬†¬†¬†The LPL Financial Current Conditions Index¬†(CCI)¬†‚Äì In 2010 and 2011, our index of 10 real-time economic and market conditions peaked around the 240‚Äì250 level in April and began to fall by over 50 points. It may still be early, but this year, the CCI recently reached 253‚Äîin line with the post-recession highs with no signs yet of weakening. 8.¬†¬†¬†¬†The VIX¬†‚Äì In each of the past three years the VIX, an options-based measure of the forecast for volatility in the stock market, fell to the low of the year in the low-to-mid teens in April before ultimately spiking up over the summer. In recent weeks, the VIX has declined once again to the lows of the year. This suggests investors have again become complacent and risk being surprised by a negative event or data.¬† LPL Financial 9.¬†¬†¬†¬†Initial jobless claims¬†‚Äì It was evident that first-time filings for unemployment benefits had halted their improvement by early April 2010, and beginning in early April 2011, they deteriorated sharply. In 2012, April again led to deterioration in initial jobless claims as they jumped by about 30,000. While claims have fallen to post-recession lows this year as the labor market has improved, we will again be watching for a move higher in April that would echo the spike seen in recent years. (See this week‚Äôs¬†Weekly Economic Commentary¬†for what the Fed is watching in the labor market.) 10.¬†¬†Inflation expectations¬†‚Äì¬†The University of Michigan consumer survey reflected a rise in inflation expectations in March or April of the past three years. In fact, in 2011, the one-year inflation outlook rose to 4.6% in both March and April from 3% at the start of the year. This year, there has been almost no rise in inflation expectations, as they remain about 3.3%.¬† Finally, one issue not addressed specifically in the indicators, but important in the markets, is the surge in European stresses‚Äîevident in the spring of each of the past few years.¬†The weakening economic data in Europe‚Äôs core countries such as Germany and France¬†(seen most recently in last week‚Äôs German manufacturing and sentiment data),¬†combined with financial stresses in peripheral countries such as Cyprus pose a risk to global markets if too little is done to address the key issues.¬†Europe continues to focus on capping banker bonuses and financial transactions taxes rather than core issues. This could risk a bond market sell-off that could negatively affect stocks here in the United States, similar to the spring slides in recent years. While this list may seem incomplete, it is notable that¬†many of the most widely watched indicators of economic activity¬†such as manufacturing (the Institute for Supply Management Purchasing Managers‚Äô Index known as the PMI or the ISM), job growth, and retail sales, among others,¬†did not deteriorate¬†ahead¬†of the market decline, but¬†along with it.¬†It is not that they are not important; it is just that they did not serve as useful warnings of the slide to come, while the above indicators did. Shorter Slide? While it is possible we will experience another spring slide this year, there are factors that may mitigate any decline short of the 10‚Äì19% seen in the past few years. Looking back, in 2010 the negative environment that helped fuel the decline included the uncertainty around the impact of the Dodd-Frank legislation, the Eurozone debt problems and bailouts, central bank rate hikes, and the end of the homebuyer tax credit. In 2011, it was the Japan earthquake and nuclear disaster that disrupted global supply chains and pulled Japan into a recession, the Arab Spring erupted pushing up oil prices, the budget debacle and related downgrade of U.S. Treasuries, rising inflation, and central bank rate hikes that contributed to the decline. In 2012, the Eurozone debt problems coming to a head, China‚Äôs slowdown, the European recession, the election uncertainty, and anticipation of the 2013 budget bombshell of tax hikes and spending cuts weighed on markets. Some of these challenges presented in prior years are repeated again this year‚Äìpotential for flare-ups over European problems and the debt ceiling come to mind.¬† However, there are some positives this year that may help offset some of the negatives making for a potential decline that may be less steep than those of recent years. First, job growth finally appears to be reaccelerating with three of the past four months posting more than 200,000 in net job creation. Second, the housing rebound is now well-entrenched, supporting economic activity and household confidence. Finally, business spending growth appears to be reaccelerating and likely to support manufacturing activity, which had fallen in May through July of the past few years and contributed to the market decline. Given this year‚Äôs nearly double-digit gain in the S&amp;P 500 and the possibility of another spring slide for the stock market, investors may want to watch these indicators closely for signs of a pullback despite the current upward momentum in the stock market and solid economic growth.
Global financial stress, a coincident indicator for global stock prices, is flaring up again in the wake of the crisis in Cyprus. The blue line on the chart below shows BofA Merrill Lynch's Global Financial Stress Index turned upside down to illustrate how it correlates with global equities, proxied by the MSCI All Country World Index (the red line). While global equities have started to roll over a bit, global financial stress has spiked upward pretty forcefully in the past few weeks. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The chart below offers a look at the sub-components underlying BAML's index as of Friday, March 22. As one might expect, most of the biggest changes in financial stress recently have been driven by Europe-related factors. "The Cyprus bailout story caused most measures to increase last week. In fact, only 5 measures registered a decrease in stress. Unsurprisingly, 4 of these were non-European," write BAML analysts in a note to clients. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge (h/t @Dutch_Book)
Global financial stress, a coincident indicator for global stock prices, is flaring up again in the wake of the crisis in Cyprus. The blue line on the chart below shows BofA Merrill Lynch's Global Financial Stress Index turned upside down to illustrate how it correlates with global equities, proxied by the MSCI All Country World Index (the red line). While global equities have started to roll over a bit, global financial stress has spiked upward pretty forcefully in the past few weeks. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler, data from Bloomberg The chart below offers a look at the sub-components underlying BAML's index as of Friday, March 22. As one might expect, most of the biggest changes in financial stress recently have been driven by Europe-related factors. "The Cyprus bailout story caused most measures to increase last week. In fact, only 5 measures registered a decrease in stress. Unsurprisingly, 4 of these were non-European," write BAML analysts in a note to clients. BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchClick to enlarge (h/t @Dutch_Book)
This beautiful chart from today's Case-Shiller house price report shows that housing has made a comeback. Not only were prices around the country up over 8%, but the year-over-year improvement continues to accelerate nicely. Both the 10 and 20-city composite indices had their highest increases since summer 2006. "This marks the highest increase since the housing bubble burst," according to David Blitzer Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices. While declining inventory has helped support home prices, housing analysts have said housing is also seeing a "positive feedback loop" i.e. when people think home prices are rising, they believe they will keep doing so, and credit conditions will improve, and this increases demand for homes. Of course some warn, that home prices are being driven by investor demand and not by more traditional homebuyers, and that the rise in home prices can't be sustained. Read more on the details of the report, see here. S&P
Wikimedia CommonsThe S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index for January was up 8.08 percent year-over-year. This beat expectations for a 7.85 percent rise. Click here to refresh &gt; On a month-over-month basis, home prices were up 1.02 percent, beating expectations of a 0.8 percent rise. The December number was reading was revised up to 0.92 percent, from the initial reading of a 0.88 percent MoM rise. Both the 10 and 20-city composite indices had their highest increases since summer 2006. "This marks the highest increase since the housing bubble burst," according to David Blitzer Chairman of the Index Committee at S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices. Economists have been cranking up their home price forecasts. Bank of America and Capital Economics now expect home prices to rise 8 percent in 2013.  Bank of America's Michelle Meyer and Justin Borst say that a "positive feedback loop has begun". They argue that when people think home prices are rising, they think they will keep doing so and credit conditions will improve, and this increases demand for homes. Here is the trajectory of home prices since 1988: S&P Case Shiller
Reuters/ Steve MarcusBillionaire hedge fund manager has bought the Picasso painting billionaire casino mogul Steve Wynn famously put his elbow through,¬†Page Six reports.¬† Cohen, who runs S.A.C. Capital, secretly bought "Le Reve," a portrait of Picasso's mistress Marie-Therese Walter for $155 million, the report said. A rep for Cohen declined to comment on the Post's report. ¬† This painting has a fascinating story behind it. Wynn purchased the Picasso for $48 million back in 1997. ¬†In 2006, he agreed to sell it to Cohen, who has an extensive art collection.¬† However, at a get together with some friends, Wynn accidentally put his elbow through the painting when he was showing it off. Oof!¬† Wynn's vision problems were blamed for the incident.¬† Anyway, it resulted in about $45 million in damage and it didn't sell to Cohen at the time.¬† It worked out in the end, though. The painting has a memorable story behind it and it sold for $16 million more than it would have in 2006.¬† Here's what the painting looks like:¬† Wikipedia
Milkos / ShutterstockFebruary durable goods orders data are out. Total orders rose 5.7 percent, versus expectations of a 3.9 percent rise. Last month's number was revised up to -3.8 percent from -5.2 percent. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft and parts, however, declined 2.7 percent, versus expectations of a drop of only 1.1 percent. Last month's figure was revised up to 6.7 percent growth from 6.3 percent. Below is the full text from the release: New Orders New orders for manufactured durable goods in¬†February increased $12.4 billion or 5.7 percent to $232.1¬†billion, the U.S. Census Bureau announced today. This¬†increase, up five of the last six months, followed a 3.8¬†percent January decrease. Excluding transportation, new¬†orders decreased 0.5 percent. Excluding defense, new¬†orders increased 4.5 percent. Transportation equipment, up two of the last three¬†months, drove the increase, $13.3 billion or 21.7 percent¬†to $74.4 billion. This was led by nondefense aircraft and¬†parts, which increased $9.0 billion. Shipments Shipments of manufactured durable goods in February,¬†up five of the last six months, increased $2.2 billion or¬†1.0 percent to $229.3 billion. This followed a 0.7¬†percent January decrease. Transportation equipment, up three of the last four¬†months, had the largest increase, $1.0 billion or 1.6¬†percent to $66.0 billion. This followed a 1.9 percent¬†January decrease. Unfilled Orders Unfilled ordersfor manufactured durable goods in¬†February, up five of the last six months, increased $9.4¬†billion or 0.9 percent to $999.8 billion. This increase¬†followed a 0.1 percent January decrease. Transportation equipment, also up five of the last six¬†months, led the increase, $8.4 billion or 1.4 percent to¬†$592.3 billion. Inventories Inventories of manufactured durable goods in¬†February, up sixteen of the last seventeen months,¬†increased $1.6 billion or 0.4 percent to $376.9 billion.¬†This was at the highest level since the series was first¬†published on a NAICS basis in 1992 and followed a 0.3¬†percent January increase. Transportation equipment, up thirty-one consecutive¬†months, drove the increase, $1.8 billion or 1.6 percent to¬†$118.0 billion. Capital Goods Nondefense new orders for capital goods in February¬†increased $7.4 billion or 10.0 percent to $80.8 billion.¬†This was the largest increase in five months. Shipments¬†increased $0.1 billion or 0.2 percent to $70.8 billion. Unfilled orders increased $10.0 billion or 1.7 percent to¬†$596.9 billion. Inventories increased $1.1 billion or 0.6¬†percent to $175.5 billion. Defense new orders for capital goods in February¬†increased $3.3 billion or 68.0 percent to $8.1 billion. Shipments increased $0.4 billion or 4.8 percent to $8.4¬†billion. Unfilled orders decreased $0.2 billion or 0.1¬†percent to $167.8 billion. Inventories increased $0.6¬†billion or 2.8 percent to $22.2 billion. Revised January Data Revised seasonally adjusted January figures for all¬†manufacturing industries were: new orders, $475.2¬†billion (revised from $472.9 billion); shipments, $482.6¬†billion (revised from $481.8 billion); unfilled orders,¬†$990.4 billion (revised from $988.9 billion); and total¬†inventories, $618.8 billion (revised from $618.4 billion). Click here for the full release &gt; ---------------- ORIGINAL:¬†Heads up! We are just minutes away from the first big economic data release of the day in the United States: February durable goods orders data, due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict total orders expanded 3.9 percent in February after falling 4.9 percent in January. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft and parts (a.k.a. "core capex") are expected to have fallen 1.1 percent in February after rising 7.2 percent in January. We will have all of the data LIVE at 8:30 AM ET. Click here to refresh for the latest &gt;
Europe is creaking again. European banks are particularly weak. And Italy is leading the way down again. The Milan stock market is down 1.1%. FTSE MIB Greece is off 4.7%. Pretty much everyone is still talking about the comments yesterday from Eurogroup chief Jeroen Dijsselbloem about how Cyprus could be a template for bailins when banks fail in the future.
Markets tanked in Europe yesterday after Dutch Finance Minister and Eurogroup Chief Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that Cyprus could be used as a template for future bank resolutions. Suddenly¬† markets got spooked. Wasn't Cyprus supposed to be a one off? Later in the day the Eurogroup had to put out a statement saying that Cyprus was unique. Anyway, Dijsselbloem made a funny excuse yesterday on Dutch TV. On Dutch TV last night: "Dijselbloem said he didn‚Äôt even know the English word ‚Äútemplate‚Äù so he maintains he couldn‚Äôt have used it".
Although most markets are fine, Greece is getting massacred today, as the implications of the Cypriot crisis continue to be sorted out. Here's an intraday of the Athens market, down over 4%. Bloomberg
ShutterstockGood morning. Here's what you need to know.
Peter Kurdulija / FlickrYesterday we brought you some commentary from various economists and pundits who were arguing that in a sense, Cyprus has just left the Eurozone. The reasoning with this: In order to reopen Cypriot banks (tentatively scheduled for Thursday) Cyprus will need to impose strict capital controls to prevent a bank run. In other words, there will be limits on how much money you can take out, move to another bank, etc. What this means is that a euro in a Cypriot bank just isn't worth what a euro in a German bank is, since the latter has far more mobility. There are now multiple euros. In a note, Morgan Stanley's Daniele Antonucci makes the same point: On the probability of eurozone exit: In turn, this has implications for the probability of a eurozone exit. It looks like the eurozone policymakers are keen to keep Cyprus in the eurozone, even though, as a result of these capital controls, Cyprus is effectively no longer a full member of the eurozone. In other words, while it formally stays within the currency union, a euro in a bank deposit in Cyprus is not the same as a euro in another member country. Only once all capital controls are lifted again will Cyprus‚Äô full euro membership be restored. Just to make a parallel, in the case of Greece at the worst of the crisis after the first, inconclusive political election last year, we roughly estimated the probability of a eurozone exit at around 30%. As we said yesterday, the question of how and when Cyprus opens its banks, and then what kind of withdrawals and capital controls we see (and for how long) is the next big story here. This story obviously has implications for Cyprus, but also the rest of the Eurozone. Cyprus has set some disturbing precedents already, and those could be exacerbated if leaders can't get a grip on next stages.
When it comes to crises, growth heals all. Growth helps banks avoid losses. It brings much-needed tax revenue to governments. And it makes politics easier, as fringe candidates don't do as well. Unfortunately, Europe is getting the opposite of that. *S&amp;P SEES EUROZONE GDP DECLINING 0.5% IN '13, HAD SEEN DOWN 0.1% Data from across the Eurozone (including Germany) has been surprisingly bad lately. With no end in sight, and no real action being taken to address the growth problem, crises will keep popping up.
Nomura economist Jacques Cailloux is out with a fantastic note assessing Europe's leadership and how well they do with handling banking crises. There's a widespread feeling that they're not very good at it, and Cailloux agrees. First, he disputes the idea that Cyprus is too small to be systemic. It's not about size, but rather precedents and response. And Cailloux identifies three things that leaders need to be doing: Regarding how to regain control, at the risk of sounding repetitive, we would like to stress the importance of a number of conditions that need to be met to restore confidence in depositors following bank runs: 1) eradicate doubts that losses on deposits will occur by giving the impression that 100% of deposits are safe and cash is safer in banks than under the mattress; 2) the provision of a credible regime shifting policy response; and 3) that policy makers speak in unison. Even more importantly, we found that size is not the main driver and that a small shock can have a significant impact on the rest of the system, as illustrated by bank runs in the US during 1932 and 1933. The first one is obviously already something of a failure. We just saw depositor haircuts, and even though the tax on uninsured depositors never went through, the fact that it was entertained and agreed to by other Eurozone finance ministers was shocking. On the latter two, yesterday was a good example of where Eurozone leadership has been falling down, both inside and outside Cyprus. Inside Cyprus there's the pointless own goal of continually changing when the banks are going to reopen. First the plan was to reopen them today. Now the plan is for some kind of reopening on Thursday. Everytime this type of thing is done, the system grows more fragile. And then of course there were the comments yesterday from Eurogroup chief and Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem. First he said that the Cyprus bailin (creditor haircuts) would likely be used as a template in the future. Then the Eurogroup put out a statement saying Cyprus was not a template. Cailloux's take is basically that Dijsselbloem was expressing the standard Dutch view of these things, which has been to favor a harder line on creditors. The problem was it wasn't clear for whom he was speaking, and certainly although this may have been his view, it wasn't the view of all Eurozone finance minister, among whom he is the current leader. And so here's the problem with Europe. It's not Cyprus per se, but what what Cyprus revealed. We already knew that the monetary structure was flawed. Now we're seeing new cracks forming in the political structure.
SocGen's Wei Yao is out with an interesting note about Chinese housing. Despite various warnings over the years, the market remains red hot. SocGen This is a major concern to the government, which is worried about an eventual collapse, but also the social implications of housing getting so expensive so fast. The strength of the Chinese housing market comes despite the occasional slew of regulations aimed at cooling the market. So far no dice. Per the note, China has two "nuclear weapons" left for this fight.. On the surface, policymakers seem to be running out of tools to cap property prices. However, we think they are well aware that there are still two nuclear weapons left. It is a matter to what extent they should use them. On the supply side, the policy that could materially increase supply and put downward pressure on home prices in the short term is a tax on property ownership ñ the kind that Shanghai and Chongqing has started in a trial. Although the number of vacant apartments in China is still debatable, with estimates ranging from 3.8m to 200m, it is well known that a group of people own an unreasonable number of properties. Since the initiation of the anti-corruption campaign in late 2012, numerous cases have been reported in which some civil servants have more than 10 (often high-end) properties in their name. The other solution: credit tightening. On the demand side, the ultimate tool is credit tightening. Chinaís experience since 2009 shows that its housing inflation is particularly sensitive to monetary easing. The suffering of Wenzhou city and the infamous ghost town of Ordos are cases in point. Home prices rose sharply due to rampant underground banking, followed by a painful and prolonged price correction when credit dried up. The problem there is, it's hard to just focus on housing without slowing growth generally.
Is the huge rally stalling out? Dan Greenhaus at BTIG observes: ¬†We‚Äôre increasingly turning our focus towards earnings although first we must get through next week‚Äôs central bank meetings and nonfarm payroll report in the U.S. FDX is acting terribly after its report (down 11% since the 15th) and ORCL is down another 3.25% since falling nearly 10% after reporting. What was a relentless march higher for equities has clearly hit a rough patch and to repeat, while we expect higher prices, the near term could be tough as this rally just appears tired. We're just talking about a few weak stocks and a handful of days of going nowhere. Tired is probably a good way to put it. And it's not just stocks. The rally in the Nikkei and the down move in the Japanese yen had been big parts of the story, but the yen decline has stalled out. Here's a look at dollar vs. yen. It looked like the dollar was zooming straight to 100 against the yen, but it's weakened a bit, as the yen has strengthened. FinViz This is not a big worrisome development or anything, just a note that some big recent trends have halted outside of the S&amp;P 500, as well.
Flickr / I'm Robert BrownKyrenia, CyprusWell, things are getting quiet again. At least for the moment. Yesterday we saw the big swing from post-Cyprus excitement to hangover, as parts of the European market ended up getting clobbered on the day, despite the bailout. Today, nothing is going on. Markets are basically flat. US futures are barely up. The Euro is heading lower. The banks in Cyprus were originally set to reopen today, but will now be later in the week. In Asia, stocks fell, with Japan losing 0.6%, and Shanghai ending down over 1%.
