REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonChinese GDP slowed to 7.5% in the second quarter, confirming fears of an economic slowdown. But Chinese premier Li Keqiang helped calm markets this week by saying that 7.5% is the growth floor for 2013. China is trying to support sectors of the economy that will drive growth. Most recently China's industry minister announced that sectors like steel, aluminum, cement and other sectors that are burdened by excess capacity, will be restructured.  Lu points out that these measures are "a small stimulus with both Keynesian measures to increase aggregate demand and supply-side measures such as cutting tax and red tape." He also points out that this time around we're not seeing massive monetary easing, and that the spending is focused on areas that need investment.
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. For more visit Business Insider's new Wealth Advisor vertical. Tackling Questions About Religion Can Be Difficult But Should Be Done (FA Mag) Broaching the subject of religion with clients is always difficult for financial advisors. In a new FA Mag column, Robert Laura president of SYNEGOS Financial Group writes that this is however something that needs to be addressed.† "I personally have relieved some of the stress and anxiety that can come when mixing business with religion by adding a couple of questions to our risk tolerance/investment policy statement. ...I simply ask new clients if there are any personal or religious beliefs that they want us to consider when selecting investments for them. That opens the door to reducing conflicts between their religious beliefs and our normal planning process." The 5 Myths To Retirement Planning That Everyone Should Know About (Charles Schwab) Conventional wisdom about retirement planning is often wrong, writes Rande Spiegelman of Charles Schwab. He identifies the five biggest myths about retirement planning. 1. "You'll only need 70%ñ80% of your pre-retirement income." 2. "When you retire, you'll be in a lower tax bracket." 3. "You can always just keep working." 4. "The stock market will save you." 5. "There's always Social Security." How Financial Advisors Can Serve Clients With Videos (The Wall Street Journal) Financial advisors are increasingly turning to social media to better engage with clients and bring in new ones. In a new WSJ column, C. Andrew Millard, president of North Carolina-based Millard &amp; Co. talks about the benefits of serving clients through videos. The idea is to keep the videos short and focus on one point. He also recommends shooting a video at the office to personalize it, rather than filming in front of a black or white screen.† "Producing videos consistently is also important for your clients. You can't just do one video and then wait three months to do another one. You've got to be consistent in your messaging. You want to create a product that your clients can expect on a schedule and one that they look forward to getting. Another benefit: Over time, your videos will become a body of work that prospective clients can review online to get a sense of who you are before they even come in." Peter Schiff Launches A Gold Mutual Fund (Investment News) Gold bull Peter Schiff has launched The EuroPac Gold Fund that will largely invest in gold-mining companies. "We've been moving clients from physical gold into gold-mining companies,î Schiff told Investment News. "The stocks have just been crushed. ÖI've never seen sentiment this bad, and you have to love a market everyone hates." Gold took a beating this year that started in mid-April but gold prices have recover since and are above the $1,300 mark now.
REUTERS/Lehtikuva LehtikuvaEurope's new purchasing managers index (PMI) figures paint a rosier picture of the beleaguered continent's economy. With French manufacturing output reaching a two year high and German Flash PMI beating expectations, business confidence in Europe is on the rise. From new analysis from Societe Generale: All in all, the PMIs developments since April have been impressive in the euro area. The PMI composite of the euro area has increased from 46.9 in April to 48.7 in June and 50.4 in July. In July, the manufacturing index rose to 50.1 from 48.1 while the services index increased to 49.6 from 48.3 It seems that PMIs indexes were too low during the spring when compared to hard data and that business sentiment has been catching up for the last three months. SocGenCredit conditions are another story though, with banks continuing to tighten.  "Although details are not available for each country yet, this survey suggests that financial fragmentation remains a major headwind for the region as a whole, and prevents the monetary conditions set by the ECB to pass through the real economy," according to the report. But the rate of tightening is slowing.¬† And this is reason to be optimistic. "In prior surveys, banks had remained cautious, mainly as they were still concerned about the economy and loan losses," said JPMorgan's Greg Fuzesi. "Economic data suggest that the Euro area economy is finally emerging from recession." SocGen
NEW YORK¬†(Reuters) - Federal prosecutors are continuing to look for ways to build a criminal case against billionaire trader¬†Steven A. Cohen¬†at the same time as they prepare to announce criminal charges against his hedge fund, said people familiar with the investigation. Charges of securities fraud and wire fraud expected to be filed against the company on Thursday, according to a source familiar with the investigation. The charges against Cohen's $15 billion¬†SAC Capital¬†Advisors come after nearly seven years of investigations of his firm on allegations of insider trading. Authorities do not plan to charge Cohen with any criminal wrongdoing, said the source. A spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara declined to comment as did a spokesman for the¬†Federal Bureau of Investigation. A spokesman for¬†SAC Capital¬†also declined to comment. The filing of a criminal charge against¬†SAC Capital¬†could be a death-knell for the¬†Stamford, Conn.-based firm that employs nearly 1,000 people and made billions for the 57-year-old Cohen. It is likely that Wall Street firms that lend money and trade with¬†SAC Capital¬†would stop doing so after a criminal charge is filed. However, since more than $15 billion of the firm's assets represents money for Cohen and his employees,¬†SAC Capital¬†has substantial resources to continue functioning. But even as federal authorities plan to move against Cohen's business, they are continuing to investigate the activities of some of his former employees, including former technology stock trader Dipak Patel, said the source familiar with the matter. Patel, who once managed up to $1 billion for Cohen and left¬†SAC Capital¬†in 2011, was implicated in potentially improper trading by former¬†SAC Capital¬†analyst¬†Wesley Wang, who pleaded guilty last July and became a cooperating witness for federal authorities. Federal authorities have wiretapped communications involving Patel and have been considering criminal charges against the Merrick, N.Y. resident, said another person who has been briefed on the investigation. Neither Patel nor his attorney, Tai Park, returned phone calls seeking comment. Federal prosecutors have debated filing a criminal charge against Cohen's 21-year-old hedge fund, one of the industry's most successful, for many months. The fund is one of the largest payers of commissions on Wall Street, generating more than $300 million a year in trading fees alone for Wall Street brokerages. Several legal experts, including former federal prosecutors, said the decision to charge the hedge fund, but not Cohen, with wrongdoing would be a tacit admission that the nearly seven-year investigation failed to find sufficient evidence of trading on illicit inside information by Cohen. A criminal charge against¬†SAC Capital¬†would be one of the most high-profile corporate cases since U.S. prosecutors indicted accounting firm¬†Arthur Andersen¬†for its role in the¬†Enron¬†scandal, a move that effectively forced the audit firm to go out of business. Some legal experts have questioned whether it is appropriate for prosecutors to charge¬†SAC Capitalwith criminal wrongdoing but not charge the firm's founder and leader. "It's part of an overall level of frustration about this whole enterprise, and so they're trying to come at it from every possible angle to destroy this guy's business," said C. Evan Stewart, a defense lawyer and a partner¬†Zuckerman Spaeder. "When the government gets an individual or company in its sights and decides that person's not worth doing business, it's going to use every tool." If prosecutors do criminally charge¬†SAC Capital, it will come after the¬†U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission¬†similarly decided it had insufficient evidence to file civil fraud charges against Cohen. Instead, the SEC on July 19 filed an administrative order against Cohen charging him with failing to supervise his employees and spotting potential "red flags" involving allegations of insider trading by two of his employees. An SAC spokesman said on Friday Cohen will vigorously defend the failure to supervise charge. A 46-page "white paper" prepared by¬†SAC Capital's lawyer says Cohen is often too busy to read emails and never saw an email that regulators contend included a reference to inside information about computer company¬†Dell Inc.'s earnings in summer 2008. Federal authorities began looking into the possibility of filing a criminal charge against¬†SAC Capital¬†after former portfolio manager¬†Jon Horvath¬†pleaded guilty to passing on inside information about Dell during the summer of 2008 to his supervisor¬†Michael Steinberg¬†and traders at other hedge funds. Earlier this year, prosecutors charged Steinberg with insider trading involving shares of Dell. Steinberg has pleaded not guilty. To date, nine former and current¬†SAC Capital¬†employees have been implicated or charged with wrongful trading while at the firm. For now, Wall Street appears to be shrugging at news reports that federal prosecutors are getting closer to filing criminal charges against¬†SAC Capital. Wall Street firms are continuing to trade with the fund as usual, according to several market sources. A headhunter said in the past several weeks she had gotten more resumes from employees of¬†SAC Capital, but "not a flood" of resumes. Several investment firms that have money with¬†SAC Capital, but submitted redemption notices in June to pull their dollars by year's end declined to comment.¬†SAC Capital¬†has said it plans to return more than $4 billion in outside investor money by year's end. One outside investor voiced support for Cohen and¬†SAC Capital, despite the firm's growing regulatory woes. Ed Butowsky, managing director at Chapwood Capital Investment Management, which has several million dollars invested with¬†SAC Capital, said: "I don't believe that criminal charges against the firm would impact Steve Cohen's traders and their ability to make money." (Reporting by Matthew Goldstein and Emily Flitter, additional reporting by Katya Wachtel, Jennifer Ablan and Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Leslie Gevirtz)
APBill Thompson (left) and Anthony WeinerSince he entered the New York City Mayor's race two months ago, Anthony Weiner has dislodged City Council Speaker Christine Quinn from the lead in the Democratic primary polls. But if the latest revelations about Weiner's lewd online activity end up derailing his candidacy, the biggest benefactor won't be Quinn, but an opponent with a lower profile: former city Comptroller Bill Thompson.¬† According to a new Quinnipiac University poll¬†released Wednesday, which was mostly conducted before the new scandal broke, Weiner leads the Democratic primary field, with Thompson and Quinn tying for second place and the other candidates far behind.¬† But in a potential subsequent runoff election, which is required when no primary candidate receives 40% of the vote, Thompson would beat either of his potential opponents. He leads Quinn by a 51-42 margin, and Weiner by 52-41.¬† "After the new flood of stories about Congressman Anthony Weiner, we must look at the likelihood of a runoff between Council Speaker Christine Quinn and former Comptroller William Thompson," said Quinnipiac polling director Maurice Carroll. "As of today, these numbers show Thompson ahead in that race." For Thompson, the key becomes finishing in one of the top-two slots in the primary. If Weiner does drop out of the race, as newspaper editorial boards and some candidates have demanded, Thompson would be well on his way.¬† In a twist, it actually benefits Quinn to have Weiner stay in the race and remain strong. Her clearest path to victory appears to be a runoff between her and Weiner ‚Äî she led in that potential race, 46-44, and would probably poll even better against Weiner post-scandal. That may be why Quinn, unlike some of her opponents, hasn't called on Weiner to exit the race. Thompson was the Democratic nominee for mayor in 2009, and served as President of the New York City Board of Education before his time as Comptroller. Yet just half of likely Democratic primary voters told Quinnipiac that they knew "a great deal" or even "a good amount" about Thompson. About three-quarters of likely voters said they knew at least that much about both Quinn and Weiner. The reason for Thompson's advantage is that, in many cases, voters haven't liked what they've seen.
Itís been three years almost to the day since Vladimir Putin (left), then Russian Prime Minister, visited the Gremyachinskoye potash mine in southwestern Volgograd region. The mine, the newest in construction in Russia, with one of the countryís largest potash reserves, and one of the most costly ever to be built, is owned by Eurochem. This nitrogen, phosphorus and potash fertilizer company is already, the companyís website proclaims, number-1 in Russia, number-3 in Europe, and number-10 in the world. According to its owner, Eurochem aims to be number-5 in the world once Gremyachinskoye starts operating. Eurochem is 92.2% owned by Andrei Melnichenko (right), who is also chairman of the company board. But Melnichenko was nowhere to be seen when Putin visited his property. Instead, Putin was hosted by Eurochemís chief executive Dmitry Strezhnev. He is Melnichenkoís placeman. Strezhnev owns 7.8% of the Eurochem shares through an offshore equity and trade proceeds scheme which Melnichenko controls in Cyprus, the British Virgin Islands, and Switzerland. Eurochem issued its†press release†on Putinís visit without mentioning names. Putinís press service published photographs and text showing that Strezhnev, but not Melnichenko, was the host for the visit. A similar display ñ Strezhnev present, Melnichenko absent ñ was revealed when Putin visited a Eurochem phosphate refinery at Novomoskovsk, in the Tula region inSeptember 2009. For an oligarch to miss the opportunity of squiring Putin around his property is not only unprecedented in Russian protocol. It suggests that Melnichenko was unwelcome to the Kremlin. At least that, sources familiar with the matter claim, is how Putin feels. Why then, even before his newest Russian mining projects have started producing, would Melnichenko dare to announce last week a $1.5 billion project in the US state of Louisiana? Last year Putin explicitly warned against ìoffshorizationî of the countryís capital. He has underlined the domestic priority for investment repeatedly, making certain that Victor Rashnikovís attempt to build a billion-dollar iron-ore mine in Australia didnít materialize; that an attempt by Roman Abramovich to buy a new South African steelmaking company was aborted; and that Severstalís Alexei Mordashov sticks to his promise of not buying more foreign steelmills and selling out of his Liberian iron-ore mine before he must spend $1.2 billion to develop it. According to Eurochemís press release, the new project will convert locally produced natural gas into ammonia and urea. Again, Strezhnev was on the spot at the Governorís Mansion with the Louisiana Governor, Bobby Jindal, to explain that after exporting Russian-refined nitrogenous fertilizers to the US, Eurochem sees the ìnext logical step to establish our production closer to our customers. Louisiana brings together all the right ingredients, from its favorable political and economic environment, to the availability of energy, labor, infrastructure, and logistics, to fulfill our strategic vision in one of the worldís largest agricultural markets.î Thereís no mention of Melnichenkoís name in the governorís†announcement. Heísmissing†from the photographs too; that is Strezhnev to the right, Governor Jindal to the left. The Kremlin indicates that Melnichenko has not consulted with Putin in advance of the Louisiana move. Melnichenkoís only trip to the Kremlin for a public one-on-one meeting was a chin-wag with then-President Dmitry Medvedev. That was on October 23, 2008, when the bottom was falling out of the potash market and Russiaís commodity export revenues were plummeting. As they did so, the state bailout bank VEB was ordered to save Abramovich and Mordashov from defaulting on the international loans they had run up buying US assets. Medvedev asked Melnichenko about the ìliquidity crisis. Has the crisis nevertheless affected you and, if so, to what extent?î Melnichenko admitted that exports were falling, along with domestic consumption. Asked then by Medvedev ìdespite these difficulties what major projects do you have?î Melnichenko mentioned the Gremyachinskoye project ñ ìthis is something that has not been done either in Russia or abroad over the past 20 to 25 years. Our work is in full swing.î Then he told Medvedev that Eurochem was planning to spend $2.5 billion over six years in Kazakhstan developing a new phosphate mine in the Karatau region. ìIn general we will focus primarily on the CIS marketsî, Melnichenko told Medvedev. The latter said heapproved: ìGood. Large projects are certainly useful, both for us and for Kazakhstan. Thank you.î In fact, Eurochem has done next to nothing in Kazakhstan since it bought its mining licences there. When asked to explain the reason, the company†replies†through a London spokesman: ìIn terms of its activity in Kazakhstan, EuroChem is working through the various regulatory and legal requirements necessary to ensure that its operations conform with Kazakh legislation. Investment has been made into social projects there, with USD 5 million already committed. Further than that, Iím afraid we cannot comment.î Melnichenkoís spokesman in Moscow, Vladimir Torin, describes that report as ìdreadfulî and refuses to respond directly to further questions. So what is Melnichenko doing switching Eurochemís priorities from Kazakhstan, where he has committed $5 million, to Louisiana where he is now promising $1.5 billion? Is the US to be the new destination for the Rb20 billion ($646 million) Melnichenko hasborrowed†from Sberbank with what Eurochem claimed at the time was a programme of investment in nitrogen fertilizer projects? What reason does Melnichenko have for investing Russian state bank loan funds on products likely to substitute for Russian imports on the domestic US market, and compete against Russian exports elsewhere in the world? If Putin wasnít warned about the Louisiana switch, what about Credit Committee at Sberbank, which helped underwrite Eurochemís most recent fund-raising, a $750 million sale of loan†participation notes? This prospectus was dated December 7, 2012. According to Strezhnev and Louisiana officials, ìthe state began meeting with EuroChem about a potential Louisiana manufacturing and distribution project in August 2012.î Five months later, not a word of the idea of investing $1.5 billion in the US appears in the prospectus. All the prospectus says is that ìEuroChem will use the proceeds of the Loan for general corporate purposes.î In the Risks section, it is noted that Eurochem ìcompetes with a number of domestic and foreign producers, including state owned and government-subsidised entitiesî; it acknowledges that ìGovernment policies beneficial for the Group in those and other countries could change in a manner adverse to the Groupís businessî. On the global map of Eurochemís operations, the American continent doesnít even feature: †Eurochem via Dances With Bears When Melnichenko described his market strategy for Eurochem in April of 2012, he mentioned his phosphate mining plan for Kazakhstan and his key sales markets ñ ìRussia, Ukraine, Belarus and Europe.î†Not a word†about the US. The Kremlin indicates that Putin has not met Melnichenko. Reportedly, Putin avoided Melnichenko when he was a target of investigation on the part of bank regulators, prosecutors and the Federal Security Service (FSB). The investigation, sources familiar with what happened say, was of asset looting from the Ministry of Nuclear Industry (Minatom). A source who worked closely with Melnichenko at MDM Bank describes him as ìone of the most cynical persons I have seen, so [for him] no tricks [are] barred. Bluff is also within the pattern.î The ratings agency Fitch implies something similar, if less adverse, when it reported in a December 2012 rating of Eurochem, the ìshareholderís opportunistic strategyî. Another way of describing the same characteristics was that of a well-known oligarch who competed with Melnichenko in several asset contests in the Russian metals sector. That source described Melnichenko as a ìpunkî; by this he meant that Melnichenko was aggressive, brash, unpredictable. By Russian oligarch standards, these characteristics, if Melnichenko has them, are survival aids. But can the brash, opportunistic bluffer be serious in challenging the Kremlin? Or is the Louisiana project a ploy, intended to give Melnichenko more leverage to retain his Russian assets free of the pressure to swap, share or sell which he has reportedly been under for several years? The story of those pressures began in 2000 when Melnichenko arranged to take over Conversbank, when it was the property of the federal Ministry of Nuclear Industry and Yevgeny Adamov was the minister in charge. Adamov has the distinction of being one of a very small number of ministers of state to have been fired by Putin for corruption; he is the only one to have done prison time, first in Switzerland where he was held on a US arrest and extradition warrant, and then in Russia after he was convicted by a Moscow court on bigger charges than the US ones. Investigations by the Central Bank, the Accounting Chamber and the General Prosecutor reportedly sought to reverse Melnichenkoís Conversbank takeover. But Melnichenko was neither charged with an offence, nor MDM forced to return the Conversbank shares to the state. A source at MDM claims that for a time Melnichenko was interrogated by government agents and an arrangement reached, obliging him to sell out of his stakes in MDM Bank, TMK the pipemaker, the Siberian Coal and Energy Company (SUEK), and Eurochem. The deal purportedly allowed Melnichenko time and flexibility to achieve the best price for his assets as possible, on the usual Russian terms for such transactions. But there was a threat of sanctions if he failed to implement the agreement by a deadline. If the sourceís tale is true, the terms and the deal have proved to be flexible indeed because Melnichenko continues, almost a decade later, to hold control shareholdings in SUEK and Eurochem. Melnichenkoís version of the episodes in which he was under pressure to sell or merge SUEK and Eurochem with Gazprom is different. He is simply biding his time, he says, before he starts†spinning off†businesses in separate initial public offerings. The Gazprom takeover transactions have been disclosed by a source close to Melnichenko himself when he thought his boss wanted him to talk; and when Melnichenko believed Medvedevís influence on the Gazprom board would boost the sale value of his stakes. Then in March 2008 Eurochem described the Gazprom takeover as ì a rootless rumor, that is harmful for the companyís reputationî. Melnichenko issued a statement: ìI have no knowledge regarding any alleged investigation of my activities. I have never had any undertakings to sell my assets in Russia, and quite the opposite is true ñ I have actively invested and will continue to invest in Eurochemís development.î Asked in April of 2012 to explain why he and his long-time partner Sergei Popov split their assets, and he sold out of MDM, Melnichenko†told†a Moscow newspaper: ìA necessary condition for the success of any major activity is the availability of simple and intuitive decision-making algorithms. If the algorithm is complex, issues are not resolved and development slows down.î In parallel, Melnichenko was negotiating with Gazprom for a merger of SUEK, boasting of the closeness of his relationship with Medvedev, according to one of his rivals who heard him. The SUEK takeover was reported publicly between 2007 and 2008 as a merger of equals in a reorganized SUEK ó 50% plus one share for Gazprom, 50% less one share for SUEK. The consensus of bank analysts who did their own asset valuations at the time was that there was a gaping discrepancy in Gazpromís favour. The total capitalization of the merged company was to be $11.6 billion, of which Gazpromís stake was an attributable $6.1 billion. The valuation remaining for Melnichenko implied a 50% to 60% discount for SUEKís coal assets. By June 2008, however, Gazprom withdrew, and Melnichenko was saved. But has he been saving himself for the benefit of Louisiana? The December 2012 Fitch rating†report†suggests that Eurochemís consolidated debt is about $3.2 billion, including $1.3 billion in pre-export financing and $750 million in 5-year Eurobonds (2012-2017). The bond issue carries a covenant restricting Eurochemís debt to earnings (Ebitda) ratio of 3.5x. Fitch wasnít aware that Melnichenko was planning to borrow for the $1.5 billion charge of the new Louisiana plant. The Fitch report also warns that thereís a risk of self-dealing by Melnichenko. This is potentially negative for the rating of his bonds, Fitch claims. The trigger, according to Fitch, is ìshareholders distributions or shareholder-friendly actions detrimental to debt creditors or resulting in sustained increase in FFO [funds from operations] net leverage above 2.5x.î Eurochem reports that as of March 31, 2013, its debt to Ebitda ratio is 1.75x; that is up from 1.53x as of December 31, 2012. The debt profile for 2012, as reported†here†ñ page 13 ñ indicates the pre-export financing (PFX) of $1.3 billion; the 2017 Eurobonds of $750 million; bank loans of $94.1 million; rouble bonds of Rb9.97 billion; export credit agency facilities of $109.5 million and Ä35.9 million. The sum of gross debt is Rb98.96 billion ($3.1 billion); net debt Rb. 79.44 billion ($2.5 billion). Eurochemís loan timing shows repayment pressure in 2015, but not yet. Eurochem calls its position: ìcomfortable debt structure and maturity profile, remote refinancing risk.î That was before the Louisiana Purchase, although as the company described it last week ìEuroChem expects to finalize its decision on the parameters and location of the facility within the next year.î I n Kremlin politics, a year is a very long time, so Dmitry Peskov, Putinís spokesman, was asked: ìMr. Putinís policy aims at the deoffshorization of Russian capital and does not favour massive investment in the US or elsewhere when this investment is needed in Russia. Is that correct?î Peskovís staff replied that he needs more time to answer. Governor Jindal was asked if he has met Melnichenko for talks on the new project, and whether Eurochem has said it has received Kremlin permission for the proposed investment. Jindalís spokesman, Sean Lansing, refused to reply.
Some of the most important numbers people are talking about: EPS was $0.19 and revenue was $1.81 billion. Both beat Wall Street's expectations. Mobile stats were solid too. Facebook says it has 819 million monthly active users on mobile. Now for the real mind-melter: 41% of Facebook's ad revenue came from mobile ads. That's about $656 million from mobile ads alone. For the previous quarter, Facebook brought in $375 million from mobile ads. That's some impressive growth.
At the height of the housing crisis, the federal government came to homeowners' rescue with the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). It was meant to help make home loan payments cheaper for some 4 million homeowners, but a new report confirms experts' fears that the program has fallen far short of its goals. Only 1.2 million HAMP mortgage modifications have been completed since the program hit the scene in 2009. Of that pool, more than 306,000 ñ one in four homeowners ñ have re-defaulted on their loans, according to a quarterly report by the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP). Another nearly 90,000 homeowners from that pool are on the brink of default. "Treasury data shows that the longer homeowners remain in HAMP, the greater the chance that they will redefault out of the program," writes Special Inspector Christy Romero. "Homeowners with HAMP modifications from 2009 are redefaulting at an alarming rate of 46%, 38% for 2010 modifications." Taxpayers have lost $815 million in TARP funds used as incentives for HAMP mortgage modifications for some 163,811 homeowners who later re-defaulted, according to the report. How did a program meant to help so many homeowners fail so badly? The consensus from TARP is that the homeowners who enrolled in HAMP were already in too deep with financial issues. HAMP modifications were meant to reduce homeowners' debt:income ratio to 31% so that their mortgage payments were no more than 31% of their gross income. But if homeowners were already underwater on their mortgages, had bad credit or carried high debt loads when their loans were modified, they were at greater risk of default. Still, there is another side to the story. SIGTARP has fielded "thousands of calls from the public" complaining about trouble dealing with their mortgage servicer during the modification process. Consumers complained about payment credit errors, problems due to mortgage ownership transfers, lost paperwork and dual tracking (when one arm of a lender forecloses on a home while another arm tries to modify their loan). In one example in the report, a Paso Robles, Calif. couple says they lost their home to foreclosure even after they were approved for HAMP because their bank couldn't get their paperwork straight: ìEach time we have contacted [our servicer] via the phone numbers they have given us. Each time the representative answering the phone has stated that we were delinquent; however, after stating that we have a loan modification agreement and we are actually current, they replied that the computer agrees with us; they stated that they will research the bankís error; and that someone will get back in touch with us. [Our servicer] has never returned any of our numerous calls or answered our inquiries.î Despite the obvious hiccups, HAMP is here to stay, at least for another two years. It still has about $15 billion worth of its original $19.1 million allotment left to spend on modifications. The official recommendation from the report is to work on mortgage servicer relations to be sure the loan modification process is a lot smoother for consumers. Part of that could be an ìearly warning systemî lenders would use to identify and reach out to homeowners that may be at risk of re-defaulting on a HAMP mortgage modification. That would give lenders time to arrange counseling and other assistance options. The majority (91%) of homeowners in HAMP are dealing with only 10 mortgage servicers (chart below). SIGTARP
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoA model of a power shovel is seen as visitors climb on a mining truck as they attend "Expomin 2012", a Chilean mining fair in Santiago.Bad news out of China was offset by good news out of Europe. Meanwhile, the U.S. continues to hum along. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories:
Facebook's Q2 2013 earnings have blown away expectations on both topline revenues and bottom line earnings per share. The beat came on a massive increase in mobile advertising, which was ~$656 million in Q2, up from $375 million in Q1. Going forward, that big increase in mobile is going to give Facebook harder comparable numbers to beat in the coming quarters. Mobile wasn't part of the mix last year. CEO Mark Zuckerberg played up the growth of Instagram on the call, and also underlined his belief that the U.S. simply doesn't produce enough engineers to fuel tech company hiring. He also denied the accusation that teens are getting bored of Facebook. Lastly, COO Sheryl Sandberg confirmed our report from yesterday that Facebook's video ad product is NOT yet ready for prime time. She declined to say when it might appear. More details on the financials are at the bottom of this post. EPS: 19 cents (expectation was 14 cents). Total Revenue: $1.81 billion (expectations were $1.62 billion). Facebook's earnings call has begun! Here's our live blog of the call: CEO Mark Zuckerberg is speaking now ... "we now have more daily actives on mobile than on desktop ... soon we'll have more revenue on mobile than on desktop." "Our mission is to reach the next 5 billion people." Added 45 million monthly actives, he says. 700 million people worldwide use FB daily, he says. "People are spending more time on Facebook than ever before." (Because of mobile.) Teens are NOT abandoning Facebook: "That just isn't true." Zuck says he's done the research and the numbers bear him out. On to Instagram. Video is a success, he says. (When he mentions "Kevin," he's presumably referring to Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom.) FB now has 1 million active advertisers. They're still satisfied with ROI, Zuck says. "This quarter marks the end of our first year as a public company." Happy IPO anniversary, everyone! COO Sheryl Sandberg is now speaking ... "E-commerce companies increased their spend significantly."¬† Spend doubled in the second quarter. They have high click-thru rates. She mentions mobile app install ads, as well. (My take: This is part of Facebook's push to position itself as a direct-response medium with robust ROI analytics.) "Every night 88-100 million people are using Facebook during the nightime hours while watching TV." (Sandberg seems to be addressing Twitter's moves into the social media/TV ad market here.) Custom audiences clients more than doubled, she said. (Those are the advertisers who use their own lists to target customers. It's one of Facebook's key pushes to demonstrate that ads on FB actually work.) "We have one of, if not THE, most effective mobile ad product." CFO David Ebersam is now speaking ... On Instagram: "There are 130 million actives using the service." Average price per ad on FB is up 13%. No. of impressions served is up, too. "We were pleased to see King's rapid growth in Q2." (Note that the maker of Candy Crush Saga gets the first shout out ‚Äî Zynga has yet to be mentioned! Ouch!) Questions from analysts! ... Question 1 is about effectiveness of ads in the news feed. Sheryl: "All four marketer segments are growing ... increased supply and increase in demand." Question 2: Mobile app install ads. Sheryl: "All four segments are growing.¬†Mobile app install ads are small but they're important and they're growing rapidly." Question 3 is on custom audiences. Sheryl: (Long answer about targeting. Bit dry, frankly.) Question 4 is on monetization of Instagram! Zuckerberg: "Kevin has always been clear that we're building Instagram as a business. ... probably through advertising." ...focus will be to increase footprint of Instagram. Not at advertising point yet. Sheryl: Says she wants to increase share of CPG marketers. Question 5 is on growth of ad sales force and ad ops, particularly outside US. Sheryl: "Our growth was very strong across regions. ... we're up to over 40 offices, we have sales teams on the ground in 40 offices." ... [strong in Asia.] Question 6 is on programmatic selling (that's FB's ad exchange, FBX). Sheryl: "FBX ... is actually a very small part of our business and sometimes people don't understand that." (My take: Ouch! Hundreds of real-time bidding adtech execs just died a little inside. Previously, people thought this was worth hundreds of millions or maybe billions of dollars a year, eventually.) Question 7 is on impression-based selling v. performance selling. Sheryl: "Advertisers are looking for discovery. ... We have a big brand opportunity ... up to 100 million engaged during primetime hours. ... T-Mobile did a campaign ... used offer ads ... they had a 20X return on adspend. That's what we can do with impressions, taking it all the way through the funnel." Ebersam is talking about cap-ex. Not too dramatic. Question 8 is on mobile. Why so lumpy? Ebersam: ... News feed ad integration was a big, smooth success. Ad prices held up even tho more inventory was supplied. ... clicks in system is still increasing, increasing supply, but cost per clicks for news feed ads increased anyway, Q-Q. Question 9 is on mobile news feed ads, again. He wants a breakdown of how growth pricing works. Ebersam: "We're trying to find the right balance for each user." Wants better creative so ads are more engaging. Everything contributed. Supply, demand, cost per click all went up. "A nice balanced contribution from the variables." Question 10: Video ads! Finally! What are the hurdles? Sheryl: "We have a current video ad product, because advertisers can embed a video in a page post ... demand is there ... we are exploring how to expand that but we don't have anything new to announce today." (My take: Reports back in April that a video ad product was on its way were premature.) Question 11: Platform strategy ... Zuck: We've found the¬†mobile app install ads work. People like them. Question 12: Big picture question for Zuck, views on long-term aspirations. Zuck: Yeh, I think we're early. ... reaching a billion people was this big rallying cry for the company for a long time. ... no one had ever built a service that had a billion people signed in ... the real goal is to connect everyone in the world ... Question 13 is on 40% increase on y-o-y price per ad: please call out one of two enhancements that were contribs to that; challenging comps in second half of year? Ebersam: Pricing is really strong all over. Comps: if you're looking at the percentage growth rates, last year the quarter didn't have much mobile revenue attached to it. Comps will get harder because old numbers had no mobile revenue in them. Sheryl: E-commerce doubled year over year. Mobile app install ads saw a lot of growth. (Sandberg is really hammering on those two areas.) Question 14 is on e-commerce spend doubling. What drove it? Sheryl: We've made a major investment in helping DR marketers measure returns. ... "their budgets are flexible around ROI." ... "They adjust to their budgets." Question 15 is on hiring, are there pressures on finding talent? Also, what are the mix of advertisers and how are they growing? Zuck: "Hiring great people is one of the biggest challenges that any tech company has. We're doing really well ... but there's a systemic issue where our country doesn't produce the volume of engineers that companies want to hire. ... we have a strong program on colleges ... it's really important." (My take: Zuck has barely restrained himself from going into a diatribe about immigration reform ‚Äî he wants it relaxed so he can increase hiring of foreign engineers.) Sheryl: "CPG, gaming, retail, these are categories where we're really strong." She calls out GE's Instagram work. Question 16: On adoption / targeting / programmatic. Sheryl: We like having an ecosystem of PMDs and 3rd party sellers ... we'd like to see all sales channels continue to grow and thrive. Question 17 is on Graph Search and Facebook Home. What have you learned? Zuck: [He's taking a long run-up to answer the question] ... "Instagram video is doing really well, it fits really naturally ... things like Home and GS are new use cases. ... I think of it more as a seed we're planting that will create a new pillar of the ecosystem" ... [long term bets] ... That's it! +++ The stock took a big leap after the numbers came out, up 15% in seconds. FB has been trading around $26.30 all day. It's now above $30 for the first time in weeks. Investor slides: see them here. Here are the highlights from the press release: The revenue gain came after Facebook for the first time signed up 1 million-plus active advertisers. Ad revenue was $1.6 billion. Mobile ad revenue is now 41% of Facebook's ad revenue. Payments revenue was $214 million. (Payments is turning out to be a not-very-interesting business for Facebook.) Facebook for Every Phone passed 100 million users. FEP is Facebook's feature phone app, which is popular in developing countries. There are also now 100,000 Facebook apps available for users. User numbers: Here's a snapshot of the top and bottom lines: Facebook Here was the context going into the call: Facebook appears to have delayed its introduction of video ads, and the report that some agencies reduced their adspend on the platform turned out to be a red herring, as we suggested. Disclosure: The author owns Facebook stock.
Zulily SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Zulily hired investment banks in recent weeks to advise the fast-growing e-commerce company on a possible initial public offering, according to two people familiar with the situation. Zulily, a "flash sales" company founded by former Blue Nile executives Mark Vadon and Darrell Cavens, tapped Goldman Sachs, Citigroup's investment bank and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, for the IPO push, according to one of the people. Zulily is one of the first of a new crop of e-commerce companies to try to go public. Other e-commerce start-ups eyed for potential IPOs by bankers include Etsy, Gilt and Wayfair, according to the other person. The people requested anonymity because Zulily's plans are private. Zulily spokeswoman Laura Jones declined to comment. Spokesmen at the banks declined to comment. Zulily's move comes less than a year after the company raised $85 million in a deal led by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz that valued it at about $1 billion. Flash sales companies sell merchandise in short term, heavily discounted events each day. The sector grew fast after the 2008 financial crisis, but not all companies have thrived more recently. Amazon.com Inc, the world's largest Internet retailer, has its own flash sales business called MYHABIT, and investors are generally wary of other e-commerce companies because Amazon is so dominant. However, Zulily's focus on kids' apparel and mothers as shoppers has helped the company grow quickly. Founded in 2009, the company said late last year that it had 10 million members and featured 35 sales events daily. "We are impressed with Zulily's strategic positioning," Jeff Jordan, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz and former eBay executive, wrote in a November blog soon after the firm's investment in Zulily. "One reality in e-commerce today is that you want to avoid trying to compete directly with Amazon, who is hyper-aggressive in leveraging their enormous scale and cost advantage to offer the largest selection and lowest prices on the Internet," Jordan added. "Zulily does this by aggregating a long tail of talented designers who typically lack extensive national distribution." (Reporting by Alistair Barr and Sarah McBride in San Francisco; Editing by Gerald E. McCormick and Bob Burgdorfer)
Bow ties have gone from being an old-fashioned accessory to a must-have apparel item for many hip young trendsetters. But for many, tying a bow tie remains an old and lost art. David Goldberg, Founder and CEO of Freshneck.com (a Netflix-like subscription service for ties, bow ties, and other accessories) took us to the showroom of Alenford, an online retailer of fine Italian-made shirts, to learn how to properly tie a bow tie. Watch below for step by step instructions: Produced by Daniel Goodman
Meredith Whitney, Muni Cassandra emeritus (ae?), weighed in against Munis (FT) and used the Detroit default to say her version of ‚ÄúI told you so.‚Äù¬† Bloomberg reported both sides of the argument. Readers may seek Whitney‚Äôs positions and her history of Muni-forecasting on their own.¬† Our position is clear: do the research and buy the bonds that make sense.¬† There are many of them.¬† This is an idiosyncratic market of $3.8 trillion; painting it with a broad brush is a mistake. We took the position that the default history of the true AAA-rated tax-free municipal bond has the same default history as the US Treasury bond: neither has ever defaulted.¬† We offer many thanks to Bloomberg and especially Dave Wilson for picking up our story and for featuring a chart showing the upside-down relationship between tax-free Munis and Treasuries.¬† See Bloomberg.com, ‚ÄúMunicipals Seen as Cheap After Detroit Filing: Chart of the Day‚Äù¬†¬†http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-23/municipals-seen-as-cheap-after-detroit-filing-chart-of-the-day.html¬†. When the tax-free AAA bond has a higher yield than the taxable US government bond, it is not priced according to credit risk or the tax code; instead, it is priced by a dysfunctional market. We used the State of Utah and Yale University as examples of issuers of such bonds. Subsequently, our friends at Strategas Research Partners published a research note on July 22, 2013, articulating a similar concept. The source for their data is Moody‚Äôs Investor Service. We are subscribers to Moody‚Äôs, utilize Strategas Research, and find both of great value. The back-up information for our assertions comes from Moody‚Äôs. The AAA-rated (by Moody‚Äôs) tax-free US municipal bond has a 0.00% default rate one year after issuance, five years after issuance, and ten years after issuance. Historically, the bond has experienced zero defaults. There is no evidence that any true AAA-rated tax-free municipal bond has ever triggered a default in the state and local government debt sector in the US. Remember, we are referring to the natural rating of the bond. We are not referring to those bonds that were insured by various bond insurers and thus elevated to an AAA rating¬†because of the bond insurance. Bonds that were rated AAA only because of the insurance have defaulted, but the underlying ratings of those insured bonds always fell below AAA.¬† No true AAA credit ever needed bond insurance to sell a new issue. Readers may want to note that there is a slight default experience in AAA-rated corporate bonds. It is small, but it is there. The fact is that there is a difference between state and local government bonds and corporate bonds of the highest credit quality. In our discussions, we restricted our comments to state and local government bonds; we did NOT address corporate bonds. The bottom line is that the true AAA tax-free US municipal bond scale now offers bonds at yields that are higher than the corresponding Treasury bond. This is true at maturities throughout the yield curve, from the short end of 2 years to the long end of 30 years and at every stage in between. We reiterate our conclusion of yesterday. We continue to favor the high-quality tax-free municipal bond. We think such bonds are cheap.¬† We also note that the overall credit mix of state and local government is improving.¬† That happens when the economic recovery progresses. Joe Kalish of Ned Davis Research notes the improvement.¬† Using year-over-year data he cites that ‚ÄúTotal Tax Revenue‚Äù is up 5.1% to a new high of $1.421 trillion.¬† Property tax revenue is up 2.6%; Sales taxes up 4.9%; individual income taxes up 10.3%; corporate net income taxes up 1.3% and other taxes up 4.5%.¬† The ‚Äúother‚Äù means motor fuel, tobacco, alcohol, licenses, death and gift taxes, etc. Our bottom line: high grade, tax-free bonds are really cheap and their credit support is improving.¬† Score one for Munis; score zero for Detroit; score evenhandedness for Bloomberg media in reporting.¬† We will leave the Whitney scoring to our readers. Let me add a correction regarding another matter. Bloomberg has indicated it will cover the gathering in Maine, but it will not be broadcasting live on¬†Friday, August 2, 2013. There will be ample media coverage of the event by a number of sources. We are not sure if there will be live television coverage. We will keep readers posted of any changes.
The Economic Impacts of Tax Expenditures: Evidence from Spatial Variation Across the U.S.There's more to economic mobility than geography, but this map clearly shows some states are better off than others. If there has been one casualty of the Great Recession, it's the "American dream "‚Äì the idea that no matter where you come from, everyone has a fair shot at a good life. Study after study has painted a picture of a much different reality, but none has been as clear as a new report on income mobility out of Harvard University this week. In "The Economic Impacts of Tax Expenditures," researchers looked at how economic and social factors impacted the upward mobility of children raised in the 1980s and 1990s.¬† Above all, family life and the social structure offered by religious beliefs played the most pivotal role in children's outcomes. "For instance, high upward mobility areas tended to have higher fractions of¬†religious individuals and fewer children raised by single parents," ¬†the researchers write. "Each of these correlations remained ¬†strong even after controlling for measures of tax expenditures."¬† There were other factors contributing positively to upward mobility. In areas where poor people were segregated from the middle class, researchers found children had a lesser chance of moving up the income ladder, the found.¬† A good school system also helped. Wherever school children scored highest on standardized testing and school districts spent more per student, dropout rates were lower and children had higher rates of income mobility. On the flip side, they found that tax credits for the poor and higher taxes on the wealthy actually played a much smaller role in improving the lives of their children over time.¬† The researchers downplayed the role of geography in dictating upward mobility, but there were some regional trends. Regions in the Southeast and Midwest were found to be toughest for upward mobility, including cities like Atlanta, Charlotte and Cincinnati (see map above).¬†Kids living in Northeast and Western cities like New York, Boston and Seattle had better odds of moving up.¬† The Economic Impacts of Tax Expenditures: Evidence from Spatial Variation Across the U.S.Moving zip codes matters less as children pass the age of 13.So where do we go from here? If you're an Atlanta parent with teenagers at home, moving them to another city or state won't really do much good. The researchers found that after the age of 13, moving didn't do much to improve children's chances at higher income mobility. And switching neighborhoods matters significantly less as children get older, as well. The researchers signed off on the study with this big fat disclaimer: "We caution that all of the findings in this study are correlational and cannot be interpreted as¬†causal effects.¬†What is clear from this research is¬†that there is substantial variation in the United States in the prospects for escaping poverty...Understanding the features of these areas ‚Äì and how we can improve mobility in areas that ¬†currently have lower rates of mobility ‚Äì is an important question for future research that we and other¬†social scientists are exploring." They're being a little humble here. Study after study has seemed to confirm their findings over the last decade or so. Most recently, a telling report¬† by¬†Washington, D.C.-based think tank, The Hamilton Project,¬†highlighted economic data¬†that showed how income inequality¬†factored deeply into children's' social mobility in America. ¬†In that report, they drove home the notion that access to education and a sound family structure also gave children the best shot at winding up better off than their parents.¬†
APNew York City mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner addressed new revelations about his lewd online activity on Wednesday, telling supporters that he regretted not being forthcoming about the full scope and timeline of his interaction with women online. Nightlife website The Dirty posted interactions between Weiner and a 22-year-old woman on Tuesday. Weiner¬†later admitted that some of those interactions came as late as last summer. "Before and after announcing my run for Mayor, I repeatedly answered every question about these mistakes. I was clear that these relationships took place over an extended period of time with more than one person. I regret not saying explicitly when these exchanges happened," Weiner said in an email that was sent to his supporters. "But the bottom line is that the 'news' today is about my past life." Here's the full email:¬† When I decided to run for mayor this year I knew it would be tough. I knew that the mistakes of my personal life would make things difficult for me and for my family. From the very beginning, some people insisted that I shouldn't even be allowed to run. I believe that question should be left to the voters. This fight is too important to leave New Yorkers without a choice. And I want to give them the power to decide who their Mayor will be. I have waged a campaign focused on fighting for the middle class and those struggling to make it there.¬†I published a book of 64 ideas on everything from lowering taxes on New York families to creating the first ever single-payer health care plan for our city. Day after day, I've visited citizens who have been hungry for a voice after years of feeling marginalized or ignored. New Yorkers responded in resounding ways. They volunteered for our campaign. They submitted their own ideas. They made thousands of small donations. And they showed up on street corners, subway stations and community centers to say hello or give me a piece of their mind. Now, with 47 days left until the primary, some powerful voices are making it clear that they still don't want me to run. Yesterday's news has given them fresh fodder. I owe it to you to try to explain.¬† Sending these embarrassing messages to women online, whom I never met, was a personal failing that was hurtful to my wife and a part of my life that Huma and I have put behind us.¬†These things I did, as you have read in the papers, didn't happen once. It was a terrible mistake that I unfortunately returned to during a rough time in our marriage.¬†After a lot of reflection, some professional help, and a general reorientation of my life, Huma has given me a second chance. I will never stop being grateful for that. Before and after announcing my run for Mayor, I repeatedly answered every question about these mistakes. I was clear that these relationships took place over an extended period of time with more than one person. I regret not saying explicitly when these exchanges happened.¬† But the bottom line is that the "news" today is about my past life. Some people may find my personal life reason not to listen to me. I completely understand that some may not ever even consider voting for me. But I'm going to keep trying to bring them around and earn their support. This fight is too important to give up, because I've had embarrassing personal things become public. This campaign isn't about me. It's about a great city that is beginning to lose its mantle as the Capital of the Middle Class. It's about the challenge of finding affordable housing, a good job with benefits and a public school that attracts the greatest teachers and produces the smartest kids.¬†This race for Mayor isn‚Äôt about me. It's about you. And I'll never lose sight of that. New Yorkers don't quit, and I'll never quit on you.¬† Sincerely,¬† Anthony
APPresident Barack Obama kicked off a series of speeches on the economy Wednesday at Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., in what the White House billed as a major speech with historic elements. "Today, five years after the start of that Great Recession, we fought our way back," Obama said in the speech, which lasted more than an hour.† The site of the speech is the same as a 2005 address that aides consider one of the then-Sen. Obama's best. However, it is light on any new, hard policy proposals, and House Speaker John Boehner snarked today that it's like an "Easter egg with no candy." Obama used the speech to preview fights with Republicans over a couple of important fall deadlines ó the "continuing resolution" bill to avoid a government shutdown, and a hike in the debt ceiling to avoid default. "Weíve seen a sizable group of Republican lawmakers suggest they wouldnít vote to pay the very bills that Congress rang up ñ a fiasco that harmed a fragile recovery in 2011, and one we canít afford to repeat," Obama said. We'll be covering the speech live. Check back here for frequent updates. Here's the full text of his prepared remarks (it's a long one): Eight years ago, I came here to deliver the commencement address for the class of 2005.† Things were a little different back then.† I didnít have any gray hair, for example.† Or a motorcade.† I didnít even have a teleprompter.† It was my first big speech as your newest senator, and I spent my time talking about what a changing economy was doing to the middle class ñ and what we, as a country, needed to do to give every American a chance to get ahead in the 21st†century. You see, Iíd just spent a year traveling this state and listening to your stories ñ of proud Maytag workers losing their jobs when their plant moved down to Mexico; of teachers whose salaries werenít keeping up with the rising cost of groceries; of young people who had the drive but not the money to afford a college education.† They were the stories of families who worked hard and believed in the American Dream, but felt that the odds were increasingly stacked against them.† And they were right.† In the period after World War II, a growing middle class was the engine of our prosperity.† Whether you owned a company, swept its floors, or worked anywhere in between, this country offered you a basic bargain ñ a sense that your hard work would be rewarded with fair wages and benefits, the chance to buy a home, to save for retirement, and, above all, to hand down a better life for your kids. But over time, that engine began to stall.† That bargain began to fray.† Technology made some jobs obsolete.† Global competition sent others overseas.† It became harder for unions to fight for the middle class. Washington doled out bigger tax cuts to the rich and smaller minimum wage increases for the working poor. The link between higher productivity and peopleís wages and salaries was severed ñ the income of the top 1% nearly quadrupled from 1979 to 2007, while the typical familyís barely budged. Towards the end of those three decades, a housing bubble, credit cards, and a churning financial sector kept the economy artificially juiced up.† But by the time I took office in 2009, the bubble had burst, costing millions of Americans their jobs, their homes, and their savings.† The decades-long erosion of middle-class security was laid bare for all to see and feel. Today, five years after the start of that Great Recession, America has fought its way back. Together, we saved the auto industry, took on a broken health care system, and invested in new American technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil and double wind and solar power. Together, we put in place tough new rules on big banks, and protections that cracked down on the worst practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies.† We changed a tax code too skewed in favor of the wealthiest at the expense of working families, locking in tax cuts for 98% of Americans, and asking those at the top to pay a little more. Add it all up, and over the past 40 months, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs.† This year, we are off to our strongest private-sector job growth since 1999.† And because we bet on this country, foreign companies are, too.† Right now, more of Hondaís cars are made in America than anywhere else.† Airbus will build new planes in Alabama.† Companies like Ford are replacing outsourcing with insourcing and bringing more jobs home.† We sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before.† We now produce more natural gas than any country on Earth.† Weíre about to produce more of our own oil than we buy from abroad for the first time in nearly 20 years.† The cost of health care is growing at its slowest rate in 50 years.† And our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. Thanks to the grit and resilience of the American people, weíve cleared away the rubble from the financial crisis and begun to lay a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth.† In our personal lives, we tightened our belts, shed debt, and refocused on the things that really matter.† As a country, weíve recovered faster and gone further than most other advanced nations in the world. †With new American revolutions in energy, technology, manufacturing, and health care, we are actually poised to reverse the forces that have battered the middle class for so long, and rebuild an economy where everyone who works hard can get ahead. But Iím here today to tell you what you already know ñ weíre not there yet.† Even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits, nearly all the income gains of the past ten years have continued to flow to the top 1%.† The average CEO has gotten a raise of nearly 40% since 2009, but the average American earns less than he or she did in 1999.† And companies continue to hold back on hiring those who have been out of work for some time.† Today, more students are earning their degree, but soaring costs saddle them with unsustainable debt.† Health care costs are slowing, but many working families havenít seen the savings yet.† And while the stock market rebound has helped families get back much of what they lost in their 401ks, millions of Americans still have no idea how theyíll ever be able to retire.† In many ways, the trends that I spoke of here in 2005 ñ of a winner-take-all economy where a few do better and better, while everybody else just treads water ñ have been made worse by the recession. This growing inequality isnít just morally wrong; itís bad economics.† When middle-class families have less to spend, businesses have fewer customers. When wealth concentrates at the very top, it can inflate unstable bubbles that threaten the economy.† When the rungs on the ladder of opportunity grow farther apart, it undermines the very essence of this country. Thatís why reversing these trends must be Washingtonís highest priority.† Itís certainly my highest priority.† Unfortunately, over the past couple of years in particular, Washington hasnít just ignored the problem; too often, itís made things worse. Weíve seen a sizable group of Republican lawmakers suggest they wouldnít vote to pay the very bills that Congress rang up ñ a fiasco that harmed a fragile recovery in 2011, and one we canít afford to repeat.† Then, rather than reduce our deficits with a scalpel ñ by cutting programs we donít need, fixing ones we do, and making government more efficient ñ this same group has insisted on leaving in place a meat cleaver called the sequester that has cost jobs, harmed growth, hurt our military, and gutted investments in American education and scientific and medical research that we need to make this country a magnet for good jobs. Over the last six months, this gridlock has gotten worse.† A growing number of Republican Senators are trying to get things done, like an immigration bill that economists say will boost our economy by more than a trillion dollars.† But a faction of Republicans in the House wonít even give that bill a vote, and gutted a farm bill that Americaís farmers and most vulnerable children depend on.† If you ask some of these Republicans about their economic agenda, or how theyíd strengthen the middle class, theyíll shift the topic to ìout-of-controlî government spending ñ despite the fact that we have cut the deficit by nearly half as a share of the economy since I took office.† Or theyíll talk about government assistance for the poor, despite the fact that theyíve already cut early education for vulnerable kids and insurance for people whoíve lost their jobs through no fault of their own.† Or theyíll bring up Obamacare, despite the fact that our businesses have created nearly twice as many jobs in this recovery as they had at the same point in the last recovery, when there was no Obamacare.† With an endless parade of distractions, political posturing and phony scandals, Washington has taken its eye off the ball.† And I am here to say this needs to stop.† Short-term thinking and stale debates are not what this moment requires.† Our focus must be on the basic economic issues that the matter most to you ñ the people we represent.† And as Washington prepares to enter another budget debate, the stakes for our middle class could not be higher.† The countries that are passive in the face of a global economy will lose the competition for good jobs and high living standards.† Thatís why America has to make the investments necessary to promote long-term growth and shared prosperity.† Rebuilding our manufacturing base.† Educating our workforce.† Upgrading our transportation and information networks.† Thatís what we need to be talking about.† Thatís what Washington needs to be focused on.† And thatís why, over the next several weeks, in towns across this country, I will engage the American people in this debate.† I will lay out my ideas for how we build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America, and what it takes to work your way into the middle class in America.† Job security, with good wages and durable industries.† A good education.† A home to call your own.† Affordable health care when you get sick.† A secure retirement even if youíre not rich.† Reducing poverty and inequality.† Growing prosperity and opportunity.† Some of these ideas Iíve talked about before, and some will be new.† Some will require Congress, and some I will pursue on my own.† Some will benefit folks right away; some will take years to fully implement.† But the key is to break through the tendency in Washington to careen from crisis to crisis.† What we need isnít a three-month plan, or even a three-year plan, but a long-term American strategy, based on steady, persistent effort, to reverse the forces that have conspired against the middle class for decades. Of course, weíll keep pressing on other key priorities, like reducing gun violence, rebalancing our fight against al Qaeda, combating climate change, and standing up for civil rights and womenís rights.† But if we donít have a growing, thriving middle class, we wonít have the resources or the resolve; the optimism or sense of unity that we need to solve these other issues. In this effort, I will look to work with Republicans as well as Democrats wherever I can.† I believe there are members of both parties who understand whatís at stake, and I will welcome ideas from anyone, from across the political spectrum.† But I will not allow gridlock, inaction, or willful indifference to get in our way.† Whatever executive authority I have to help the middle class, Iíll use it.† Where I canít act on my own, Iíll pick up the phone and call CEOs, and philanthropists, and college presidents ñ anybody who can help ñ and enlist them in our efforts.† Because the choices that we, the people, make now will determine whether or not every American will have a fighting chance in the 21st†century. Let me give you a quick preview of what Iíll be fighting for and why. The first cornerstone of a strong and growing middle class has to be an economy that generates more good jobs in durable, growing industries.† Over the past four years, for the first time since the 1990s, the number of American manufacturing jobs hasnít gone down; theyíve gone up.† But we can do more.† So Iíll push new initiatives to help more manufacturers bring more jobs back to America.† Weíll continue to focus on strategies to create good jobs in wind, solar, and natural gas that are lowering energy costs and dangerous carbon pollution.† And Iíll push to open more manufacturing innovation institutes that turn regions left behind by global competition into global centers of cutting-edge jobs.† Letís tell the world that America is open for business ñ including an old site right here in Galesburg, over on Monmouth Boulevard. Tomorrow, Iíll also visit the port of Jacksonville, Florida to offer new ideas for doing what America has always done best: building things.† Weíve got ports that arenít ready for the new supertankers that will begin passing through the new Panama Canal in two yearsí time.† Weíve got more than 100,000 bridges that are old enough to qualify for Medicare.† Businesses depend on our transportation systems, our power grids, our communications networks ñ and rebuilding them creates good-paying jobs that canít be outsourced.† And yet, as a share of our economy, we invest less in our infrastructure than we did two decades ago.† Thatís inefficient at a time when itís as cheap as itís been since the 1950s.† Itís inexcusable at a time when so many of the workers who do this for a living sit idle.† The longer we put this off, the more expensive it will be, and the less competitive we will be.† The businesses of†tomorrow†wonít locate near old roads and outdated ports; theyíll relocate to places with high-speed internet; high-tech schools; systems that move air and auto traffic faster, not to mention get parents home to their kids faster.† We can watch that happen in other countries, or we can choose to make it happen right here, in America. In an age when jobs know no borders, companies will also seek out the country that boasts the most talented citizens, and reward them with good pay.† The days when the wages for a worker with a high-school degree could keep pace with the earnings of someone who got some higher education are over.† Technology and global competition arenít going away.† So we can either throw up our hands and resign ourselves to diminished living standards, or we can do what America has always done: adapt, pull together, fight back and win.† Which brings me to the second cornerstone of a strong middle class: an education that prepares our children and our workers for the global competition theyíll face. If you think education is expensive, wait until you see how much ignorance costs in the 21st†century.† If we donít make this investment, weíll put our kids, our workers, and our country at a competitive disadvantage for decades.† So we must begin in the earliest years.† Thatís why Iíll keep pushing to make high-quality preschool available to every four year-old in America ñ not just because we know it works for our kids, but because it provides a vital support system for working parents.† Iíll also take action to spur innovation in our schools that donít require Congress.† Today, for example, federal agencies are moving on my plan to connect 99% of Americaís students to high-speed internet over the next five years. And weíve begun meeting with business leaders, tech entrepreneurs, and innovative educators to identify the best ideas for redesigning our high schools so that they teach the skills required for a high-tech economy. Weíll also keep pushing new efforts to train workers for changing jobs. Here in Galesburg, many of the workers laid off at Maytag chose to enroll in retraining programs like the ones at Carl Sandburg College.† And while it didnít pay off for everyone, many who retrained found jobs that suited them even better and paid even more. Thatís why I asked Congress to start a Community College to Career initiative, so that workers can earn the skills that high-tech jobs demand without leaving their hometown.† And Iím challenging CEOs from some of Americaís best companies to hire more Americans whoíve got what it takes to fill that job opening, but have been laid off so long no one will give their resume an honest look.† Iím also going to use the power of my office over the next few months to highlight a topic thatís straining the budgets of just about every American family ñ the soaring cost of higher education.† Three years ago, I worked with Democrats to reform the student loan system so that taxpayer dollars stopped padding the pockets of big banks, and instead helped more kids afford college. I capped loan repayments at 10% of monthly income for responsible borrowers.† And this week, weíre working with both parties to reverse the doubling of student loan rates that occurred a few weeks ago because of Congressional inaction. Itís all a good start ñ but it isnít enough.† Families and taxpayers canít just keep paying more and more into an undisciplined system; weíve got to get more out of what we pay for.† Some colleges are testing new approaches to shorten the path to a degree, or blending teaching with online learning to help students master material and earn credits in less time.† Some states are testing new ways to fund college based not just on how many students enroll, but how well they do. This afternoon, Iíll visit the University of Central Missouri to highlight their efforts to deliver more bang for the buck.† And in the coming months, I will lay out an aggressive strategy to shake up the system, tackle rising costs, and improve value for middle-class students and their families. Now, if a good job and a good education have always been key stepping stones into the middle class, a home of your own has been the clearest expression of middle-class security.† That changed during the crisis, when millions of middle-class families saw their home values plummet.† Over the past four years, weíve helped more responsible homeowners stay in their homes, and today, sales are up, prices are up, and fewer Americans see their homes underwater.† But weíre not done yet.† The key now is to encourage homeownership that isnít based on bubbles, but is instead based on a solid foundation, where buyers and lenders play by the same set of rules, rules that are clear, transparent, and fair.† Already, Iíve asked Congress to pass a good, bipartisan idea ñ one that was championed by Mitt Romneyís economic advisor ñ to give every homeowner the chance to refinance their mortgage and save thousands of dollars a year.† Iím also acting on my own to cut red tape for responsible families who want to get a mortgage, but the bank says no.† And weíll work with both parties to turn the page on Fannie and Freddie, and build a housing finance system thatís rock-solid for future generations. Along with homeownership, the fourth cornerstone of what it means to be middle class in this country is a secure retirement.† Unfortunately, over the past decade, too many families watched their retirement recede from their grasp.† Today, a rising stock market has millions of retirement balances rising.† But we still live with an upside-down system where those at the top get generous tax incentives to save, while tens of millions of hardworking Americans get none at all. As we work to reform our tax code, we should find new ways to make it easier for workers to put money away, and free middle-class families from the fear that theyíll never be able to retire.† And if Congress is looking for a bipartisan place to get started, they donít have to look far: economists show that immigration reform that makes undocumented workers pay their full share of taxes would actually shore up Social Security for years. Fifth, I will keep focusing on health care, because middle-class families and small business owners deserve the security of knowing that neither illness nor accident should threaten the dreams youíve worked a lifetime to build.† As we speak, we are well on our way to fully implementing the Affordable Care Act.† If youíre one of the 85% of Americans who already have health insurance, youíve got new benefits and better protections you didnít have before, like free checkups and mammograms and discounted medicine on Medicare.† If you donít have health insurance, starting October 1st, private plans will actually compete for your business.† You can comparison shop in an online marketplace, just like you would for TVs or plane tickets, and buy the one that fits your budget and is right for you.† And if youíre in the up to half of all Americans whoíve been sick or have a preexisting condition, this law means that that beginning January 1st, insurance companies finally have to cover you, and at the same rates they charge everybody else. Now, I know there are folks out there who are actively working to make this law fail.† But despite a politically-motivated misinformation campaign, the states that have committed themselves to making this law work are finding that competition and choice are actually pushing costs down.† Just last week, New York announced that premiums for consumers who buy their insurance in these online marketplaces will be at least 50% less than what they pay today.† Thatís right ñ folksí premiums in the individual market will drop by 50%.† For them, and for the millions of Americans who have been able to cover their sick kids for the first time, or have been able to cover their employees more cheaply, or who will be getting tax breaks to afford insurance for the first time ñ you will have the security of knowing that everything youíve worked hard for is no longer one illness away from being wiped out.† Finally, as we work to strengthen these cornerstones of middle-class security, Iím going to make the case for why we need to rebuild ladders of opportunity for all those Americans still trapped in poverty.† Here in America, weíve never guaranteed success.† More than some other countries, we expect people to be self-reliant, and weíve tolerated a little more inequality for the sake of a more dynamic, more adaptable economy.† But thatís always been combined with a commitment to upward mobility ñ the idea that no matter how poor you started, you can make it with hard work and discipline.† Unfortunately, opportunities for upward mobility in America have gotten harder to find over the past 30 years.† Thatís a betrayal of the American idea.† And thatís why we have to do a lot more to give every American the chance to work their way into the middle class. The best defense against all of these forces ñ global competition and economic polarization ñ is the strength of community.† We need a new push to rebuild run-down neighborhoods.† We need new partnerships with some of the hardest-hit towns in America to get them back on their feet.† And because no one who works full-time in America should have to live in poverty, I will keep making the case that we need to raise a minimum wage that in real terms is lower than it was when Ronald Reagan took office.† We are not a people who allow chance of birth to decide lifeís big winners and losers; and after years in which weíve seen how easy it can be for any of us to fall on hard times, we cannot turn our backs when bad breaks hit any of our fellow citizens. Good jobs.† A better bargain for the middle class and folks working to join it.† An economy that grows from the middle-out.† This is where I will focus my energies ñ not just over the next few months, but for the remainder of my presidency.† These are the plans that I will lay out across this country.† But I wonít be able to do it alone, and Iíll be calling on all of us to take up this cause. Weíll need our businesses, the best in the world, to pressure Congress to invest in our future, and set an example by providing decent wages and salaries to their own employees.† And Iíll highlight the ones that do just that ñ companies like Costco, which pays good wages and offers good benefits; or the Container Store, which prides itself on training its workers and on employee satisfaction ñ because these companies prove that this isnít just good for their business, itís good for America.† Weíll need Democrats to question old assumptions, be willing to redesign or get rid of programs that no longer work, and embrace changes to cherished priorities so that they work better in this new age.† For if we believe that government can give the middle class a fair shot in this new century, we have an obligation to prove it. And weíll need Republicans in Congress to set aside short-term politics and work with me to find common ground.† The fact is, there are Republicans in Congress right now who privately agree with me on many of the ideas Iíll be proposing, but worry theyíll face swift political retaliation for saying so.† Others will dismiss every idea I put forward either because theyíre playing to their most strident supporters, or because they have a fundamentally different vision for America ñ one that says inequality is both inevitable and just; one that says an unfettered free market without any restraints inevitably produces the best outcomes, regardless of the pain and uncertainty imposed on ordinary families.† In either case, I say to these members of Congress: I am laying out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot.† Now itís time for you to lay out yours.† If youíre willing to work with me to strengthen American manufacturing and rebuild this countryís infrastructure, letís go.† If you have better ideas to bring down the cost of college for working families, letís hear them.† If you think you have a better plan for making sure every American has the security of quality, affordable health care, stop taking meaningless repeal votes and share your concrete ideas with the country.† If you are serious about a balanced, long-term fiscal plan that replaces the mindless cuts currently in place, or tax reform that closes corporate loopholes and gives working families a better deal, Iím ready to work ñ but know that I will not accept deals that do not meet the test of strengthening the prospects of hard-working families. Weíve come a long way since I first took office.† As a country, weíre older and weíre wiser.† And as long as Congress doesnít manufacture another crisis ñ as long as we donít shut down the government just as the economy is getting traction, or risk a U.S. default over paying bills weíve already racked up ñ we can probably muddle along without taking bold action.† Our economy will grow, though slower than it should; new businesses will form, and unemployment will keep ticking down.† Just by virtue of our size and our natural resources and the talent of our people, America will remain a world power, and the majority of us will figure out how to get by. But if thatís our choice ñ if we just stand by and do nothing in the face of immense change ñ understand that an essential part of our character will be lost.† Our founding precept about wide-open opportunity and each generation doing better than the last will be a myth, not reality. The position of the middle class will erode further.† Inequality will continue to increase, and moneyís power will distort our politics even more.† Social tensions will rise, as various groups fight to hold on to what they have, and the fundamental optimism that has always propelled us forward will give way to cynicism or nostalgia. Thatís not the vision I have for this country.† Thatís not the vision you have for this country.† That is not the America we know.† Thatís not a vision we should settle for, or pass on to our children.† I have now run my last campaign.† I do not intend to wait until the next one before tackling the issues that matter.† I care about one thing and one thing only, and thatís how to use every minute of the 1,276 days remaining in my term to make this country work for working Americans again.† Because I believe this is where America needs to go.† I believe this is where the American people want to go.† It may seem hard today, but if we are willing to take a few bold steps ñ if Washington will just shake off its complacency and set aside the kind of slash-and-burn partisanship weíve seen these past few years ñ our economy will be stronger a year from now.† And five years from now.† And ten years from now.† More Americans will know the pride of that first paycheck; the satisfaction of flipping the sign to ìOpenî on their own business; the joy of etching a childís height into the door of their brand new home.† After all, what makes us special has never been our ability to generate incredible wealth for the few, but our ability to give everyone a chance to pursue their own true measure of happiness. We havenít just wanted success for ourselves ñ weíve wanted it for our neighbors, too.† Thatís why we donít call it Johnís dream or Susieís dream or Barackís dream ñ we call it the American Dream. Thatís what makes this country special ñ the idea that no matter who you are, what you look like, where you come from or who you love ñ you can make it if you try. One of Americaís greatest writers, Carl Sandburg, was born right here in Galesburg over a century ago.† He saw the railroad bring the world to the prairie, and the prairie send its bounty to the world.† He saw the advent of bustling new industries and technologies; he watched populations shift; he saw fortunes made and lost.† He saw how change could be painful ñ how a new age could unsettle long-settled customs and ways of life.† But possessed with a frontier optimism, he saw something more on the horizon.† ìI speak of new cities and new people,î he wrote.† ìÖThe past is a bucket of ashesÖyesterday is a wind gone down, a sun dropped in the westÖthere isÖonly an ocean of tomorrows, a sky of tomorrows.î America, we have made it through the worst of yesterdayís winds.† And if we find the courage to keep moving forward; if we set our eyes on the horizon, we too will find an ocean of tomorrows, a sky of tomorrows ñ for Americaís people, and for this great country that we love.† Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

We've got another awesome OneWire video for you. This week, OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade sits down with Steve Ketchum, the Founder and CEO of Sound Point Capital.¬† Ketchum founded the credit-oriented alternative asset management firm after holding several roles at top firms including UBS, Bank of America, and Donaldson, Lufkin, &amp; Jenrette (DLJ).¬† In the interview, Ketchum talks about how he came to found his own firm, and points out what he thinks a lot of recent graduates he interviews are missing today ‚Äî the ability to think for themselves. When hiring, he explains, ‚ÄúI look for evidence that a candidate is able to fend for themselves‚Ä¶have an assignment and go off and figure it out, as opposed to needing feedback or oversight every minute of the day.¬† And frankly, I do think, having been in the business of hiring people for the last 15 years, I do see that skill set‚Äîthe ability to be a self-starter‚ÄîI see that on the wane‚Ä¶Today being able to show‚Ä¶a potential employer that you are a self-starter is hugely important.‚Äù Aside from being a self-starter, Ketchum also says any hire he makes has to be trustworthy and able to market themselves. ‚ÄúAs I look back‚Ä¶getting on the right career path is part art and part science.¬† The science part of it is creating a network and making it a numbers game‚Ä¶And the art is trying to figure out how to market yourself.‚Äù ¬†Check out the video below from financial career site, OneWire: 
Flickr/NASA Goddard Space FlightWhile startups might question the relevance of the MBA, it's hard to argue with the salary bump you get after graduating from a top school, or the fact that nearly 40% of Fortune 100 CEOs have the degree. Clearly, there's something that companies value about the degree. One of the core teaching methods, pioneered by Harvard Business School, is the case method. Some of the most difficult situations in business history are laid out for students, and they're expected to come up with a rigorous and well reasoned solution all on their own. It's the tried and true way to train students expected to be the top executives of the future.¬† We reached out to some of the country's top business professors and asked them to tell us which case studies they think are the most essential for future business leaders, and have broken out the key lessons here.¬† Thanks to Professor Jennifer Chatman of UC Berkeley's Haas School Of Business, Professor¬†Aaron Chatterji of Duke's Fuqua School of Business, Professor¬†Timothy Vogus of Vanderbilt's Owen School of Management, Professor Gautam Ahuja of Michigan's Ross School of Business, and Professor Laurence Capron of INSEAD for their input.¬†
China's economy is slowing. Among the many problems the country faces is unfavorable demographics. Specifically, its working-age population has been peaking, and it's projected to decline. "That demographics will cease to be a positive for China‚Äôs economic growth and start to have a negative impact is an issue of great concern to local analysts and economists and has sparked fears the nation will grow old before it grows rich," said Nomura Economist Richard Koo in a new note to clients. Indeed, adding to financial strains is the ever-increasing aging population, which puts pressure on the so-called dependency ratio.¬† The dependency ratio generally relates the number of people in the labor force to those who are too young or too old to work. The economists at Morgan Stanley note that demographic trends as measured by the dependency ratio have played a major role in the booms and busts of the big Asian economies: Positive demographic cycles have been one of the key components in the strong growth trends for a number of Asian countries. The decline in the ratio of the non-working (elderly and children) to working-age (15-64 years) population has coincided with periods of economic boom for various countries in Asia in the past 50 years. Throughout the region, there has been a virtuous cycle of falling age dependencies (a rising share of the working age population), improving saving (and investment) to GDP and long phases of strong GDP growth. Japan was the first in Asia to experience a positive demographic wave, followed by the former Tiger economies (i.e., Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and Korea) ‚Äì and then China. Note, demographics is a critical component but not necessarily a sufficient factor. The progress of various countries with favourable demographics in terms of per capita income levels has indeed been different depending on the nation‚Äôs ability to improve productivity. Morgan Stanley
11:31 am EST - July 24, 2013 By Enis   The technicals paint an interesting picture at this juncture. ¬†Here is the chart since January: It&#8217;s a bit crowded, but I want to make an important point about the repeated breakouts in TSLA ever since it broke its long-term resistance around $40 (which was the reasoning behind both of our trades in TSLA back in the spring). ¬†I&#8217;ve circled in green on the lower volume panel each &#8220;kick-off&#8221; move in the stock since it began its stellar run. ¬†I&#8217;ve included with a green line the prior high of TSLA stock before the breakout move indicated by the kick-off volume. The first 2 breakouts, in March (TSLA&#8217;s announcement that it would be profitable) and early May (earnings), never revisited the prior high (though TSLA almost touched $40 in April). ¬†The breakout in late May above $100 was not as strong, as it did sell off back below the prior high (around $97) for a few days, though it eventually made a new high on July 1st. ¬†After that last breakout above $115, TSLA had a nasty reversal day last week. Two things of note on the price action in the last month that might indicate a change of character: 1) ¬†The volume on the July 1st breakout was the weakest of the kick-off moves. 2) ¬†The volume on the July 16th reversal bar was the largest since May 14th. ¬†May 14th was only a minor reversal day, and it was quickly bought, but May 14th&#8217;s reversal came after 3 huge accumulation days. ¬†In addition, its reversal didn&#8217;t even breach the prior day&#8217;s low, so it did little technical damage. ¬†In contrast, the July 16th reversal bar dwarfed the prior 6 weeks of action in volume terms, and it also made a new low for the stock for the month of July, taking out 2 weeks of positive price action in one day. In this context, the July 16th reversal bar has done major technical damage to the stair-stepping uptrend in TSLA over the past 6 months. ¬†TSLA reports earnings on August 7th after the close. ¬†The price action leading up to that event will give a better sense of whether sellers have indeed become more aggressive than buyers for the first time all year. 			¬† 			Follow me on Twitter: @EnisTaner 			Email Me
@Carl_C_IcahnOkay, honestly, we don't know what to make of this. Carl Icahn has issued a statement after the 2nd postponement of the Dell shareholder vote (via MarketWatch). "A statement regarding my reaction to the Dell situation can be accessed on my Twitter account: @Carl_C_Icahn. Follow my Twitter account; other Tweets to follow. We will be issuing a comprehensive statement on the Dell situation later today." We're hoping for something with more of Icahn's characteristic dynamism later. He has a lot to be riled up about, after all ó it looks like the Dell committee may change voting rules in favor Michael Dell and Silver Lake if the latter up their offer for the company to $14 a share. In the meantime, if you don't have Twitter... get it?
API actually didn't initially gag at the idea that the sexting ex-Congressman Anthony Weiner would run for mayor of New York. After all, everyone makes mistakes. And, sometimes, people learn from them. And I'm a big believer in second chances. I thought the media would have its fun with Weiner jokes, and then everyone would get bored and move on. I thought that, when it came time for me to assess the candidates and determine my own vote, I might end up voting for Weiner.†And given the lack of recognizable competition, I even thought Weiner might win. But, now, I think he's cooked. And, regardless, even if he obstinately stays in the race, I'm no longer going to consider voting for him. Why not? It's actually not because of his obsession with sending pictures of his penis to young women. Given that we now know that Weiner continued this behavior even after it made him a national laughingstock, forced him to resign from Congress, and humiliated his wife, it's clear that he has some sort of psychological problem. As long as he acknowledges this problem and commits to dealing with it, I don't see why it would interfere with his ability to be a good mayor. People have acknowledged and dealt with alcohol, drug, and other addictions and gone on to do great things. So if I thought Weiner had really gotten a handle on whatever it is that makes him do this--and was committed to managing it--I'd be okay with it. My problem with Weiner is that the guy has now lied to me not once but twice. And, in so doing, he has made it clear that he will lie to me whenever he thinks he can get away with it--whenever he is not absolutely compelled to tell the truth. In the days after he mistakenly sent a picture of his penis to his entire Twitter follower list, you will recall, Weiner brazenly and repeatedly lied about it. He tried to say he'd been hacked. He tried the old "I'm not going to answer such stupid questions" thing. He lied directly, again and again, until the evidence became irrefutable. Then, finally, in a tearful press conference, he came clean. Two years later, the humbled Weiner launched his political comeback. He had learned his lesson, he said. His wife was standing by him. He was accepting responsibility for his earlier mistakes. He was ready to ask for--and deserve--a second chance. Weiner did say that, in the campaign ahead, more sexts would come out. †But he strongly implied that those sexts were from the years before Weiner had been taught a searing, humiliating, and devastating lesson about integrity and professional responsibility. Weiner obviously wanted me to believe that all the sexting and personal dishonesty had happened before he was forced out of Congress. If he hadn't wanted me to believe that--if he had wanted to be straight with me--he would have told me that the problem had continued even after his resignation. But Weiner didn't tell me that. Because he wanted to me to believe that he had long since gotten religion. Stupidly, I believed what Weiner wanted me to believe. And now I feel like a gullible jackass as a result.† If Weiner had come clean quickly and straightforwardly after his initial sexting incident, he might not have had to resign. More importantly, he would not have made it clear that, whenever it is convenient, he will lie to try to save his own skin. Similarly, if Weiner had come clean, completely and straightforwardly, when launching his political comeback, he might have demonstrated that he had actually learned his lesson. Alas, Weiner did neither of these things. Instead, he established that he is someone who still cannot--and should not--be trusted. Weiner's sexting problem is, as he suggests, between him and his wife. Weiner's honesty problem, however, is between him and me. As the saying goes, "Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me." I'm not going to be fooled by Anthony Weiner again.
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderHundreds of hedge fund professionals filled Gotham Hall in Midtown Manhattan last night for the 4th annual "Take 'Em To School" charity poker tournament.¬† This year's event raised funds for Education Reform Now, an advocacy organization that's committed to making sure all kids can access high-quality public education. ¬† The event was co-chaired by Michael Sabat, who works in¬†equity derivatives sales and trading at Sanford Bernstein, and Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital. Tilson is a leader in the education reform space. Those in attendance included David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, and pro-poker players Olivier Busquet, Andy Frankenberger and Erik Seidel. ¬†Former NBA shooting guard John Starks played poker, and former baseball pitcher Dwight Gooden played casino games and signed autographs. It cost $1,000 for a poker seat and $250 for a cocktails/casino games ticket.¬† Prizes for the tournament winners included a seat at the 2014 World Series of Poker Main Event, vacations, golf outings, and power lunches with Einhorn, Seth Klarman, Leon Cooperman and Bill Ackman. The tournament began around 7:15 p.m. ET and lasted until around 1 a.m. ET.¬† In case you missed it, we've included photo highlights in the slides that follow.¬† * Steven Perlberg contributed to this report.
The Chinese economy posted 7.5% GDP growth in the second quarter, confirming fears of an economic slowdown. The disappointing Flash PMI report only worsened these concerns. And worries of a hard landing, or a sudden drop to below 6% full-year growth, are coming back too. "China is a major source of global demand," with imports equivalent to 30% of GDP, Societe Generale Michala Marcussen points out in a new report. So a hard landing would have a major impact on economies that are reliant on China for their exports. "Drawing on different studies, mainly from the IMF and the OECD, we estimate that the impact of the trade channel from the type of hard landing in China described in the previous section would cut GDP growth by around 4.5pp in Taiwan, 2.5pp in South Korea and Malaysia, 1.2pp in Australia, 0.6pp in Japan, 0.2pp in the euro area and 0.1pp in the US. For the global economy ex-China, the trade channel effects would bring about a reduction of around 0.6pp to GDP growth." There's also the impact of the decline in investment, since "investment has significantly higher import content than consumption, most notably through commodities and machine tools." Here's a look at the countries that would be hit the hardest by a slowdown in China: Societe Generale
Earlier today, Dell Inc. founder Michael Dell and his partners at Silver Lake raised their offer for Dell shares to $13.75 from an earlier bid of $13.65. "This is our best and final proposal," they said. Icahn has been pushing for a deal that could potentially value the company at $15.50 to $18.00 per share. "I've been through a lot of these fights," said Icahn at CNBC's Delivering Alpha conference last week. "Most of these boards are pretty dysfunctional but I've never seen a board as bad as Dell's. They go out and scare the shareholders." Dell will be holding a vote on the buyout offer on August 2 at 9 a.m. Dallas time. Here's the tweet: All would be swell at Dell if Michael and the board bid farewell.
Iconic Upper East Side restaurant Daniel has consistently received four-star reviews from The New York Times. But this week, critic Pete Wells¬†knocked it down a star after seeing a discrepancy in how chef Daniel Boulud's famed dining room (which turned 20 this year) treats its famous and lesser known customers. Wells, who is flagged as a critic the moment he walks in the door, described how he had a completely different experience than a colleague who dined at Daniel on the same night and paid the same $195 for the tasting menu: The kitchen sent two amuse courses to my table. His got one. A few remaining sips of my wine, ordered by the glass, were topped off. His glass sat empty at times while he waited to be offered another. We both ate extraordinary fried lollipops of filleted frogs‚Äô legs on a long stick of bone, but only I was then brought a napkin-covered bowl of rosemary- and lemon-scented water for rinsing my fingers. Wells was pampered; his colleague, who was unknown to the wait staff, was not. Not that his friend complained about the experience ‚Äî¬†he had a perfectly nice time. But maybe the unknowns are exactly the people a top-notch restaurant like Daniel should be trying to impress. As Wells puts it: ... a restaurant can‚Äôt be blamed for trying to impress a critic. It can be faulted, though, for turning its best face away from the unknowns, the first-timers, the birthday splurgers, the tourists. They are precisely the people who would remember a little coddling at a place like Daniel for years. As Slate's L.V. Anderson notes, in the days of social media, it's nearly impossible for a restaurant critic to maintain anonymity. He calls for Wells to drop the charade and own up to the fact that he'll never be treated like an ordinary diner in the city's top restaurants: It‚Äôs great for Wells to acknowledge the truth about 21st-century restaurant criticism, but it would be better for him to go one step further, do away with the whole pretense of being an everyman, and go public with his real face. Wells should by all means continue to enlist nonfamous to get a sense of how restaurants treat the masses, but it‚Äôs time for him to stop pretending he blends in with the masses. As far as elite restaurateurs are concerned, he doesn‚Äôt. With Daniel off the list, there are now five restaurants in New York City with four-star reviews from The New York Times: Per Se, Del Posto, Eleven Madison Mark, Jean Georges, and Le Bernardin.
Rick Wilking/ReutersBerkshire Hathaway Vice Chairman Charlie Munger.Some surprising people, including the CEO of Exxon, think true American energy independence is actually a bad idea. Add Berkshire Hathaway Vice-Chairman Charlie Munger's name to that list. Munger recently spoke at the Committee of 100 U.S.-China relations conference (via¬†Farnam Street Blog's Shane Parrish notes and Tim Harford). The moderator asked Munger a basic question about which sectors Berkshire believes are ripe for growth. He responded by begging off that question and launched instead into a critique of America's energy policy, especially the continued insistence on independence. But unlike other commentators who've refuted the concept, Munger approached the question from a more apocalyptic angle: Here's Parrish's transcript: If energy independence was such a good thing, let‚Äôs just imagine that we go back to 1930 or something like that and we were hell bent to have total energy independence from all the foreigners. And we just drill and use every technique we can and we produce our hydrocarbon reserves which are absolutely certain to be limited. Well, by now have way less in reserve and are way less energy independent. In trying to get energy independence we would have destroyed our safety stock of oil within our own borders. Oil and gas are absolutely certain to become incredibly short and very high priced. And of course the United States has a problem and China has a worse problem. And China has the correct solution. Imported oil is not your enemy it‚Äôs your friend. Every barrel that you use up that comes from somebody else is a barrel of your precious oil which you‚Äôre going to need to feed your people and maintain your civilization. And what responsible people do with a Confucius ethos is they suffer now to benefit themselves, their families, and their countrymen later. And the way to do that is to go very slow on producing your own (domestic) oil. You want to produce just enough so that you keep up on all of the technology. And don‚Äôt mind at all paying prices that look ruinous for foreign oil. It‚Äôs going to get way worse later. Every barrel of foreign oil that you use up instead of using up your own ‚Äî you‚Äôre going to eventually realize you were doing the right thing. Energy is one of the unique areas, he continued, where free-market policies end up causing more problems than they solve. In the case of energy, he said, governments should step in and encourage imports (it should be noted, of course, that this situation already partially exists, since exporting U.S. crude has been banned since the '70s):¬† Why are the policy makers in both countries so stupid on this single issue because they are not stupid generally? I think that it‚Äôs partly the economists who have caused the problem. Because they have this theory that if people react in a free market that it‚Äôs much better than any type of government planning but there is a small class of problems where it‚Äôs better to think the things through in terms of the basic science and ignore these signals from the market. Now if I‚Äôm right in this, there are a whole lot of lessons that logically follow: (1) Foreign oil is your friend not your enemy; (2) You want to produce your own assets slow; ‚Ä¶ (3) The oil in the ground you‚Äôre not producing is a national treasure; ‚Ä¶ running out of hydrocarbons is like running out of civilization. All this trade, all these drugs, fertilizers, fungicides, etc. ‚Ä¶ which China needs to eat with a population so much, they all come from hydrocarbons. And it is not at all clear that there is any substitute. When the hydrocarbons are gone, I don‚Äôt think the chemists will be able to simply mix up a vat and there will be more hydrocarbons. It‚Äôs conceivable, of course, that they could but it‚Äôs not the way to bet. I think we should all be quite conservative and we should pay no attention to these silly economics and politicians that tell us to become energy independent. So what should we be doing instead? Munger believes we ned to shift resources away from producing whatever is left in the ground and save it for his purported day of reckoning. Rather, we should be investing in all the other forms of energy out there: We have a brain block on this issue. We should behave now to do on purpose what we did by accident: we conserved some of our oil because we were not aggressive enough and smart enough to get it out faster, that was accidentally doing the right thing. Now we should do on purpose what we formally did by accident. We should conserve and subsidize new forms of energy ‚Ä¶ we should suppose these big national grids. Here's the full clip. The energy part starts around 37 minutes: 
APThree of New York's flagship newspapers called on Anthony Weiner to drop out of the New York City mayoral race ó and the editor of a nightlife blog promised more revelations about Weiner's lewd online activity.† The editorial boards of both the Daily News and the Wall Street Journal joined the New York Times editorial board in calling for Weiner to pull out of the race, the day after he admitted to new lewd activity online that went past his 2011 resignation from Congress. Meanwhile,†Nik Richie ó the editor of The Dirty, the blog that first posted exchanges a 22-year-old woman and Weiner using the pseudonym "Carlos Danger" ó promised in an interview with the New York Times that†more information would trickle out. Both Richie and the woman, who has been identified in various online profiles as Sydney Elaine Leathers, did not respond to requests for comment.† Here's what Richie detailed to the Times: Mr. Richie said he first heard from the woman in April, but was unsure of her credibility. About a week ago, she told him that she had kept screenshots capturing her conversations with Mr. Weiner and asked how she could submit them to Mr. Richieís Web site. He said that he had no desire to hurt Mr. Weiner, whom he referred to, during the interview, as Carlos Danger, the nickname he used in exchanges with the woman. ìI have nothing against Carlos Danger,î Mr. Richie said. ìIím not trying to bring this guy down.î Richie also said that Weiner discussed his plans to run for mayor with her.† All of this led to the Wall Street Journal editorial board saying he should drop out because of what he has forced his wife, Huma Abedin, to endure. It said he was clearly "not a normal human being." The Daily News sent Weiner a message on its cover, telling him to "BEAT IT." And in an editorial, it bluntly said that he "cannot be mayor": He gave all indications of forging on through endless cringe-inducing moments with Abedin, shamelessly holding the mother of his child out as the ultimate endorsement of his trustworthiness. She believes in me after I lied to her and lied to her again, Weiner says, and therefore so should New Yorkers. No. No. No.
You would definitely flip out if this happened to you. A central Ohio woman came home from a two-week vacation to find that the bank had foreclosed on her house and taken all her stuff, local station 10TV reports (h/t Gawker). Apparently, First National Bank in Wellston had mistaken Katie Barnett's house for the house across the street. She had to crawl through the window to get inside. The worst part of this story may be that local police didn't help Barnett, and the bank President said he wouldn't pay her back in full either ó she presented the bank with an $18,000 estimate. From 10TV: ìHe got very firm with me and said, ëWeíre not paying you retail here, thatís just the way it is,íî Barnett said. ìI did not tell them to come in my house and make me an offer. They took my stuff and I want it back... ìNow, Iím just angry,î Barnett said. ìIt wouldnít be a big deal if they would step up and say ëIím sorry, we will replace your stuff.í Instead, Iím getting attitude from them. Theyíre sarcastic when they talk to me. They make it sound like Iím trying to rip the bank off. All I want is my stuff back.î Watch Barnett tell the story herself in the video below (from 10TV): 
Jay Yarow, Business InsiderIt wasn't long ago that Apple fans were slapping each other on the back and crowing about how, one day, Apple would be known as "the iPad company." The theory was that iPads were such a mega-hit new product category that iPad sales would continue to grow at astronomical rates until, eventually, they might even eclipse sales of the iPhone. You don't hear that theory much anymore. Why not? Because, despite the launch of a cheaper iPad last year--the iPad Mini--the growth of Apple's iPad sales has screeched to a halt. In the June quarter, Apple's iPad sales dropped a startling 14% year over year, to only 15 million units. Even after adjusting for channel inventory, iPad sales to consumers dropped 3% year over year. This in a tablet market that is projected to grow about 50% this year. So, what's going on? Well, part of the issue is a tough comparison with last year: The iPad with a retina screen launched in the June quarter last year, and this triggered a nice jump in iPad sales in that quarter--to 17 million units from 12 million in the prior quarter. That set a high bar for this year's June quarter. But that's not the whole problem. The larger problem, arguably, is that Apple is trying to maintain premium pricing in a market in which competitors are increasingly selling high-quality iPad alternatives for significantly lower prices. This quarter's lousy sales, it is important to note, come only a couple of quarters after Apple launched its iPad Mini--the smaller, cheaper tablet that was designed to allow Apple to compete with similar tablets from Google, Amazon, and others. We have not even anniversaried the launch of the Mini and iPad sales are still down. The iPad Mini and Apple's larger iPads are still arguably the best tablets of their kind on the market. But they're also some of the most expensive. Apple, which generates its profit from device sales, is trying to protect its profit margin by maintaining relatively high price points for its iPads. Amazon, Google, and other tablet manufacturers, meanwhile, are selling their tablets at lower price points, in part because they generate their profits from app and media sales rather than device sales. Apple says it wants to sell the "best" products, not the "most" products, so this pricing strategy is in keeping with that philosophy. BIIApple's tablet platform share is dropping fast...The trouble is that Apple is also trying to ensure that its mobile operating system, iOS, remains the dominant global mobile platform. And in platform markets--markets in which third-parties build apps and sell services on top of a platform--market share is crucial. By trying to maintain its premium pricing and high profit margin, Apple is likely losing sales that would otherwise help the company capture more of the mobile platform market. That tradeoff helps produce higher profits for Apple today, but it also likely weakens the long-term value of the iOS platform. If, instead of focusing on maximizing near-term profits, Apple were focused on trying to make iOS the dominant global mobile platform, it would likely reduce prices on its iPads and iPhones. This would hurt the company's profits today, but it would also likely lead to a stronger market position--and higher profits--several years from now. In other words, Apple is stuck with what can only be described as a high-quality problem. The company's profit margin is so high, and it is making so much money, that investors have made it one of the most valuable tech companies in the world. If Apple sacrifices its profit margin and profit to increase its mobile platform market share, investors will probably scream. (It is a slowdown in sales and drop in profits, after all, that has clobbered the stock over the past year.) If, on the other hand, Apple maximizes its current profit at the expense of market share, as it appears to be doing, it will likely weaken its market position long-term. Unless Apple believes that iOS can remain a dominant and sustainable mobile platform even with only niche market share, in which case market share losses don't matter, there's a right answer here. The right answer is for Apple to reinvest more of its gigantic profits by reducing the prices of its iPads and iPhones. Apple is so phenomenally profitable that it could reduce its iPad and iPhone prices significantly and still coin money. And, in doing so, it could also accelerate its unit growth and increase its global market share. Doing this, of course, would further reduce Apple's current profit and trigger additional declines in the stock price. But that doesn't mean it's the wrong decision for the long term. What Apple will not likely be able to do is have it both ways. The company will not likely be able to continue to own the dominant global mobile operating system while also trying to maintain its premium device pricing and profit margin. Gradually, as hardware competitors get better and operating systems like Android become more ubiquitous, iOS will become more of a niche player. Ultimately, if it becomes too much of a niche player, it will lose its value to developers and distributors. And if that happens, Apple is finished. If there's no clear reason for consumers and developers to pay up to be in "the iOS ecosystem," there will be no reason for consumers to pay up to buy Apple gadgets. The vicious cycle will feed on itself, and, ultimately, both Apple's profits and market share will collapse. So Apple investors (I'm one) and fans shouldn't just brush off this quarter's lousy iPad sales. Tablets are still a rapidly growing market, and Apple still has arguably the best products in the category. But Apple appears to be losing market share fast. And that is likely a direct result of its decision to try to maintain its premium prices and profit margin in a world in which talented competitors are producing high quality products and being ever more aggressive on price. SEE ALSO: And Now The Chinese Knockoffs Are Coming To Clobber Apple...
This is all happening really fast so pay attention. The Dell Committee says that it's willing to give Michael Dell and Silver Lake the changes they wish to see in the company's voting process if they're willing to up their offer for the company to $14 a share, according to Bloomberg. This after Michael Dell upped his offer for his company by $0.10 to $13.75, and asked that the company change its shareholder voting rules to improve their odds. The vote has already been postponed yet again to August 2nd. Carl Icahn most assuredly does not like this one bit.
Flickr/spablabU.S. beer sales declined in the first half of 2013 fueled by the payroll tax hike and a jump in unemployment among young men, according to research published on Tuesday. The beer market posted 1 percent growth in 2012, in-line with pre-recession averages, driving hopes that the worst was over for the industry. But beer sales dropped 3 percent in the three months to May 2013 and are down 2.6 percent in the year to date, Bernstein Research analysts said in a note. (Read more:¬†Beer and Baseball: Two San Francisco Anchors) "We believe that there has been a deterioration in the economic well-being of the lower income consumer, with the pay-roll tax hike having taken its toll and a marked up-tick in unemployment among young men," Bernstein said.¬† The firm said that it expects the trend to continue into the third quarter of this year, but "diminishing in magnitude" as improving economic conditions filter down to lower income consumers. Belgium brewer ABI and U.S.-based MillerCoors were two of the worst hit beer companies. ABI drink sales declined 3.3 percent in the three months to July, below the 2.5 percent industry average recorded by Nielsen grocery data. The growth of its Black Crown brand was offset heavily by tough year-on-year sales of Bud Light Platinum and weakness across the rest of its drink range. Sales of MillersCoors brands plunged 4 percent, according to the 3-monthly Nielsen data, fuelled by a decline in Miller Lite and Coors Light beer sales, which offset the growth of the Blue Moon and Leinenkugel's brands. (Read more:¬†Something Borrowed, Something Brew: Wedding Beer) Heineken USA bucked the industry trend, with sales volumes soaring 8 percent in the three months to July, driven by the brand's Mexican portfolio. Crown Imports, the company that imports beers from the Constellation Brands portfolio such as Corona, posted 6 per cent sales volume growth in the three months to July. Modelo Especial beer sales were up 21 percent and Corona Extra continued on its growth path, with a 5 percent boost in sales.
REUTERS/Gustau NacarinoChina's Sun Zhiyi slips and falls during his dive at the men's 1m springboard preliminary during the World Swimming Championships at the Montjuic municipal pool in Barcelona on July 20, 2013.China's policymakers are aggressively clamping down on what some experts are calling a credit bubble.† This comes as China's economy slows and incoming data continues to disappoint. All of this has economists upping their odds of a hard economic landing, a scenario where growth slows to a point that causes unemployment to spike. For SociÈtÈ GÈnÈrale's China Economist Wei Yao, it's not a matter of if China's massive credit misallocation and debt will lead to a bursting of the bubble, but when and how the unwind will take place. SocGen's core China scenario has the world's second largest economy seeing a bumpy landing, with growth slowing from 7.4% in 2013 to 6% in 2017. But what about a†"hard landing" where Chinese full-year real GDP growth rate plummets below 6%? It's possible, according to Yao. So what could trigger that scenario? "First, the experience of 2008 showed that the Chinese economy is vulnerable to trade shocks," Yao writes in a new letter to clients. "Second, a hard landing could be provoked by either insufficient public†investment from Beijing or an intended credit deleveraging going out of control." And how would that crisis evolve? Whatever the catalyst, the excess capacity in the manufacturing sector ñ estimated at 40% in 2011 by the IMF ñ would be exacerbated by a sharp growth slowdown. This would cut corporate margins sharply, making profits plunge, and triggering a downward spiral in domestic demand. Bankruptcies and unemployment would occur on a large scale, †endangering financial and social stability. One factor that cfuld accelerate the downward spiral is the high leverage of Chinaís corporate sector and local governments, which we estimate has reached 145-150% of GDP at end-2012. SocGen Yao also theorizes how the Chinese government might respond to a hard landing. The easier but more†dangerous choice would be for Beijing to repeat the post-Lehman package of massive state-driven lending and investment facilitated by ultra-low interest rates and ample liquidity.†However, such a solution would be less effective than in 2009 given the overhang in capacity,†and would increase corporate leverage even further. A more judicious response would†combine genuine tax cuts to lower the burden on the corporate sector, further liberalisation to give private enterprises new space to grow, more social spending to†anchor consumption, and selective state investment to prepare China better for future challenges. Here is one crisis scenario, where GDP drops to 3% and the government fails to stimulate the economy.SocGen China's imports are equivalent to 30% of its GDP, making it a huge driver of global demand. A hard landing would hit Asian economies the hardest, but could be felt everywhere. SocGen
Flickr / ayearineuropeJune new home sales data are out. Sales rose 8.3% last month to a 497,000 units annualized, well above expectations for a 1.7% advance to 484,000 units annualized. May new home sales were revised down to a 1.3% gain to 459,000 units from the previously reported 2.1% advance to 476,000 units. Click here for the full release &gt;


MarkitThe preliminary U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) report for July is out, and the numbers are encouraging. The headline number jumped to 53.2 from 51.9 in June. This was better than the 52.6 economists were looking for. Any number above 50 signals expansion. Here are the key points from Markit: Here's some commentary from Markit's Chris Williamson: ‚ÄúThe U.S. manufacturing sector picked up momentum again in July, with output, order books and employment all growing. The goods-producing sector acts as a bellwether of the wider economy, and the upturn in July therefore bodes well for the pace of GDP growth to have picked up again in the third quarter after a likely easing in the second quarter. ‚ÄúThe pace of manufacturing growth nevertheless remains well below that seen at the start of the year, in part reflecting weaker demand from many export markets, notably China and other emerging economies. Employment growth is disappointingly weak as a result, as firm focus on cost-cutting to boost competitiveness. ‚ÄúThe Fed will therefore be encouraged by signs that the sector is showing signs of reviving, but will no doubt remain cautious with regard to the longer- term outlook for the economy and the job market. It is likely that policymakers will generally need to see growth strengthen further before sounding more confident about the ability of the economy to withstand any tapering of stimulus.‚Äù PMI reports from earlier this morning showed that Europe was picking up while China was slowing down. Click Here For Live Updates ¬ª
It wasn't even a year ago that everyone was freaking out about the euro crisis.¬† At the time, China was seen as the global bright spot, supplying economic growth to all of its trading partners. Now the roles appear to have reversed. Earlier this morning, we learned from the regional PMI reports that manufacturing activity was expanding in the eurozone. Meanwhile, the slowdown in China just got worse. Reuters tweeted this chart showing China (green) crossing below the euro zone (purple).¬† For PMI, anything above 50 signals expansion and anything below 50 signals contraction: Reuters
The company is in the "wrong business in the wrong time," he said. Caterpillar supplies construction and mining machinery to China, an economy which Chanos is extremely bearish on. Earlier today, Caterpillar reported disappointing financial results and slashed its outlook for the global economy. "World economic growth slowed in the first half of the year, and we are revising our growth estimates downwards," said Caterpillar. "Although we expect some improvement in the second half, the improvement will be less than previously expected. Currently, we expect that world economic growth for 2013 will be a little over 2 percent, slightly slower than in 2012." And this comes hours after Chinese PMI data showed the economy's manufacturing sector continues to slow. Here's some of what Caterpillar said about China and the emerging markets: Shares are down by around 1% in premarket trading.
WikimediaThe drama over the fate of Dell Inc. continues. Dell just announced that Michael Dell and his partners at Silver Lake are boosting their offer for the company to $13.75 per share.¬† This is up from an earlier offer of $13.65. "This is our best and final proposal," they said. Dell will be holding a vote on the buyout offer on August 2 at 9 a.m. Dallas time. For months, legendary corporate raider Carl Icahn has been pushing Dell to repurchase shares for $14 and offer warrants. This is according to Bloomberg. Here's the full statement from Dell via Businesswire: ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Special Committee of the Board of Dell Inc. (DELL) announced today that it has received a revised proposal from Michael Dell and global technology investment firm Silver Lake under which they would increase the price at which they would acquire the company to $13.75 per share in cash, subject to certain conditions. In light of the revised proposal, which the Special Committee is evaluating with the assistance of its financial and legal advisors, the Special Meeting of Stockholders previously scheduled to be reconvened today at 5:00 p.m. Central Daylight Time at the Dell Round Rock Campus, 501 Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682 will be adjourned to August 2, 2013 at 9:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time at the same location. The proposal letter follows: July 23, 2013 Special Committee of the Board of Directors of Dell Inc.c/o Debevoise &amp; Plimpton LLP919 Third AvenueNew York, New York 10022Attention: Jeffrey J. Rosen Dear Members of the Special Committee: In light of the circumstances surrounding the Dell Inc. (the ‚ÄúCompany‚Äù) stockholders‚Äô consideration of the proposal to adopt the merger agreement between the Company and Denali Holding Inc. and certain of its affiliates, we propose amending the merger agreement as described below. We believe these amendments are fair and in the best interests of the Company‚Äôs unaffiliated stockholders and provide the best alternative available to the Special Committee to maximize stockholder value. Our proposed amendments to the merger agreement are as follows: 1. increase the merger consideration to $13.75 in cash per share of Company common stock, representing an increase in the consideration to be paid to unaffiliated stockholders of approximately $150 million; and 2. modify the ‚ÄúUnaffiliated Stockholder Approval‚Äù requirement in the merger agreement to provide that the voting requirement is the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares held by the unaffiliated stockholders that are present in person or by proxy and voting for or against approval of the merger agreement at the stockholder meeting. This is our best and final proposal. We are not willing to discuss any further increase in the merger consideration nor are we willing to increase the merger consideration to $13.75 per share without the change to the Unaffiliated Stockholder Approval requirement described above. If the Special Committee believes that it would be appropriate to reset the record date for the special meeting in connection with this change to the Unaffiliated Stockholder Approval requirement, we would be ready to accept a new record date so long as the resulting delay in the special meeting is the minimum required by law. We believe our proposed change to the Unaffiliated Stockholder Approval requirement is fair and reasonable to the Company‚Äôs unaffiliated stockholders, particularly in the context of our willingness to increase the merger consideration. There is simply no rational basis for shares that are not voted to count as votes against the merger agreement for purposes of the unaffiliated stockholder vote. If a majority of the shares held by unaffiliated stockholders who vote are voted in favor of the merger agreement, it would be unfair to deny these stockholders the merger consideration they wish to accept solely because shares not voting are counted as votes against the transaction. We welcome the opportunity to discuss this proposal with the Special Committee and its advisors as soon as possible. This proposal will automatically be withdrawn and terminate at 6:00 p.m. New York time on July 24, 2013, unless extended in writing by us in our sole discretion. No legally binding obligation will be created on any person with respect to this proposal unless and until a mutually acceptable definitive amendment to the merger agreement has been entered into by the parties. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, DENALI HOLDING INC. By:__/s/_____________________Name: Egon Durban By:__/s/_____________________Name: Michael S. Dell
Business Insider says "Traders Are Talking About A Gold Conspiracy Theory And There's Evidence To Back It Up" No discussion about gold is complete without a good conspiracy theory. While most theories are easily dismissed, some stay around for a while due to a confluence of circumstantial evidence surrounding it. Wall Street veteran Art Cashin addresses one such theory in this morningís Cashinís Comments. From Cashin: All That Glitters Is Not Arbitrage ñ Monday, spot gold spiked up $45 and the media pundits pointed to things from China to the FOMC. While all the cited may have been factors, veteran traders saw the bulk of the move resting in a conspiracy story. In my mid-day email to friends I had noted this: Gold soars as NYT story on metal warehouses fans flames of conspiracy theorists that gold warehouse stores have been ìlentî out. That theory also aided by backwardation (spot price far above near future)..... Unfortunately, we are not sophisticated enough to answer these questions.† But email us at moneygame@businessinsider.com if you can. Email is on the Way Consider what follows as my email to Business Insider and Cashin. People like conspiracy theories for two reasons: Simply put, if gold goes up, it's because it should (and the traders are brilliant for understanding that). If gold gold down, it must be a conspiracy (because the traders cannot possibly be wrong). Investigating Backwardation My friend Nick at Sharelynx Gold emailed me earlier today regarding the alleged backwardation in gold. Nick writes.... Gold Futures SpreadMish's Global Economic Trend Analysis click on any chart for sharper imageGold Chat Byron at Gold Chat posts the following amusing set of charts that may be easier to understand. Gold Futures SpreadMish's Global Economic Trend AnalysisOil Futures SpreadMish's Global Economic Trend AnalysisNow That's Backwardation!  Recall the definition of backwardation: Current price above future delivery price. There are many reasons this can happen with commodities, but the typical explanations are: temporary short-term supply shortage, expected future supply, or expected falling demand. Supposedly this can never happen with gold because "gold is money". Leaving aside the philosophical question as to whether or not gold is money, presume for a moment that it is. Using the above oil chart as a basis (assuming the gold chart were the same), backwardation implies that someone could borrow money today and pay it back in 2018 for 80 cents. Logically, that shouldn't happen. Acting Man Chimes In My friend Pater Tenebrarun at the Acting Man Blog (see his recent post Gold and Gold Stocks ñ More Signs of Life) chimed in with this email comment: There is no persistent and deep backwardation in gold, so it is definitely not something to get alarmed over just yet. However, it is still notable that the nearby futures repeatedly slip into slight backwardation versus spot. Moreover, the gold forward rate has recently turned negative. That means that people are now paying more interest for gold in a gold-dollar swap than for dollars. That happens only rarely. Of course all of this happens mainly because interest rates are so low. If interest rates were higher, then it would really be worth getting exercised over. Still, GOFO only rarely turns negative and it often marks a low when that happens. Philosophical Question The philosophical question regarding whether or not "gold is money" is an interesting one. If indeed "gold is money" (not an ordinary commodity like corn, copper, or oil), then severe backwardation implies skepticism as to whether future gold contracts will really be delivered. Thus, backwardation claims fuel all sorts of theories about gold shortages, gold leasing, and price suppression. However, the charts provided by Nick at Sharelynx and Byron at Gold Chat show that claims of backwardation are essentially nonsense.
Caterpillar's quarterly financial results are out, and the numbers don't look good for shareholders. Q2 earnings came in at $1.45 per share, missing analysts' estimates for $1.68 per share. Caterpillar is a global supplier of construction and mining machinery. As such, it's considered to be a reliable bellwether of global economic activity. In other words, what's bad for Caterpillar is good for almost no one. Among other things, management downgraded its forecast for global growth. "World economic growth slowed in the first half of the year, and we are revising our growth estimates downwards," they said. "Although we expect some improvement in the second half, the improvement will be less than previously expected. Currently, we expect that world economic growth for 2013 will be a little over 2 percent, slightly slower than in 2012." Here are some key bullet points from their comprehensive economic outlook:
He‚Äôd just been handed a gift: the ruling coalition, in winning the Upper House election, now controls both houses of parliament, giving Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wiggle room to push Abenomics deep into the system. Government deficits are already beyond control, and the accumulated debt, at an explosive 200% of GDP, is the highest in the developed world. Yet Abenomics includes cuts in corporate income taxes. But somebody has to pay more to fill the hole: consumers! So, Yonekura reminded the government that ‚Äústeady hikes in the consumption tax are indispensable.‚Äù This was echoed by Finance Minister Taro Aso. The national consumption tax of 5% is scheduled to be raised to 8% in April 2014, and to 10% in October 2015. The government would have to stick to the schedule, he told reporters. It would demonstrate to JGB buyers, the lifeblood of Japan‚Äôs crazy debt binge, that the government would eventually do something about the deficit and the debt, other than defaulting on it. Raising the consumption tax was a sign the government hadn‚Äôt completely abandoned any sense of responsibility. A delay would also violate the commitments Japan had made to the G-20 that it would be serious about fixing its fiscal fiasco, he said, though he used slicker verbiage. And if extracting more money from consumers would end up hurting the economy, Aso added, the government could ‚Äúconsider a supplementary budget‚Äù ‚Äì the Japanese term for periodic stimulus packages. They‚Äôre handed to Japan Inc. for a variety of smart projects, such as bridges to nowhere that end up adding, mathematically speaking, a few increments to GDP and a few more loads of manure on the reeking pile that is the national debt. The strategy of Abenomics is no secret: extract more money from consumers via higher prices on consumer items and via higher consumption taxes on those items, an extraordinary double-whammy, then hand that money to Japan Inc. to fill its coffers and perhaps jiggle GDP a little. It will be called a ‚Äúrecovery.‚Äù An elegant and internationally approved form of wealth redistribution. Yonekura wasn‚Äôt through. In addition to the ‚Äústeady hikes in the consumption tax,‚Äù he wanted to see ‚Äúa sustainable social security system.‚Äù So, consumers should expect higher contributions and lower benefits to prop up their teetering system. Needed? Certainly. On the principle of giving Japan Inc. and taking from consumers. That‚Äôs the promise of Abenomics. But Yonekura also wanted the government to accomplish something truly absurd, given reality: ‚Äúmaintain trust in the nation‚Äôs fiscal‚Äù position. This perhaps explains the lack of enthusiasm among my Japanese acquaintances during the election and after the results became known. They were grousing about a dearth of appealing alternatives, which manifested itself in relatively low voter turnout. Frustration with Abenomics did cause a flurry of activity on the margins: the Japanese Communist Party won 8 of the 121 seats up for election. With its 3 uncontested seats, it now has 11 seats, its most dazzling win since 1998, after having campaigned by relentlessly criticizing Abenomics, the LDP, and its support for the nuclear industry. Meanwhile, for the Bank of Japan, the election victory of Abenomics coincided with a nod from the G-20. The money-printing and bond-buying fury that BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has promised had come under attack by some members of the G-20, who‚Äôd wondered out loud if it wasn‚Äôt currency manipulation. Devaluing the yen to stimulate exports at the expense of other countries would be totally uncool, though doing the same to stimulate the domestic economy would be OK. And Kuroda has been on the defensive. But Saturday after the two-day G-20 meeting in Moscow, he claimed that he no longer felt any need to explain his policies; it seemed, everybody accepted the wisdom of his actions. He ‚Äúfelt such understanding has deepened even further.‚Äù The imprimatur of the G-20 and control of both houses of parliament! The prime minister must have been on cloud nine. And so was Japan Inc. ‚ÄúWe welcome the fact that a stable political administration of at least three years will be secured,‚Äù announced Yasuchika Hasegawa, CEO of Takeda Pharmaceutical and Chairman of the Japan Association of Corporate Executives. He too reminded the government to work hard on implementing various elements of Abenomics, such as addressing economic growth (printing money, stirring up inflation, and creating asset bubbles), restoring fiscal health (raising the consumption tax), reforming social security (raising contributions and cutting benefits), and dealing with energy policies (returning the nuclear industry to its former omnipotent glory). ¬†‚ÄúWe strongly hope the administration led by Mr. Abe will implement policies that will help (the steel industry) regain competitiveness,‚Äù said Hiroshi Tomono, President and COO of Nippon Steel &amp; Sumitomo Metal Corp. and Chairman of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation. By ‚Äúregain competitiveness,‚Äù he meant corporate tax cuts. ‚ÄúWe hope Prime Minister Abe will move ahead to resolve the problems that are still pending, both domestically and internationally,‚Äù said Tadashi Okamura, chairman of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and former Chairman of Toshiba Corporation, in a press release. He did have a word of warning: the government would need to ‚Äúmake all-out efforts to realize an economic recovery that reaches a broader level of small and mid-sized companies and local regions.‚Äù In early January 2013, all three of them ‚Äì Tadashi Okamura, Hiromasa Yonekura, and Yasuchika Hasegawa ‚Äì were shaking hands for a dour and corny photo taken during a news conference after a New Year‚Äôs party for Japan Inc., to celebrate the government‚Äôs announcement of a ¬•12 trillion ($120 billion) deficit-funded stimulus package, a huge handout to Japan Inc., borrowed from the future. All three should have been smiling thankfully, not just one of them! Be that as it may, Prime Minister Abe and his LDP did win both the upper and lower house elections. Japanese voters, even those who didn‚Äôt vote, can‚Äôt complain afterwards about what they themselves have wrought. That‚Äôs the benefit (or drawback) of ‚Äúlegitimate‚Äù elections. And what they have wrought is Abenomics. It addresses Japan‚Äôs most explosive problem, its national debt, by adding more debt even more rapidly. It extracts more money from consumers and workers via higher consumption taxes, higher prices on consumer goods, higher contributions to the welfare-state programs, and fewer benefits. And simultaneously, it hands the remaining crown jewels to Japan Inc. That‚Äôs more than a subtle shift for an extraordinary corporate and individual welfare state that no one has ever paid for. The triple meltdowns at Fukushima have shaken the omnipotent nuclear industry ‚Äì and government agencies that aided and abetted it. Yet they still obfuscate the consequences. Latest revelation: the number of workers at the plant with cancer-inducing radiation doses was eleven times higher than disclosed last December. Read.... ‚ÄúWho Could Trust Such A Company?‚Äù ‚Äì The Big Fat Lies About Radiation Exposure Of Workers At¬†Fukushima
BoeingBoeing's Q2 financial results are out, and the numbers look strong. Adjusted earnings per share came in at $1.67 per share, which was far ahead of the $1.58 expected. Revenue came in at $21.8 billion, which was stronger than the $20.7 billion expected. The stock is up 3% in pre-market trading. For the full year, management expects to earn $6.20-$6.40, up from a previous range of $6.10-$6.30.¬† This is on revenue of $83 billion to $86 billion, up from $82 billion to $85 billion. "Continued strong core operating performance drove higher earnings, revenue and operating cash flow during the quarter, and we returned significant value to shareholders through share repurchases and increased dividends," said CEO Jim McNerney. "We also further strengthened our market-leading position in commercial airplanes with the successful launch of the 787-10 and $40 billion of new orders, while our defense, space and security business delivered improved margins and market share in a tough market. Overall, our strong first-half performance and positive outlook allows us to raise our 2013 earnings and revenue guidance, and our team remains intensely focused on execution, productivity and quality to meet our customer commitments and further drive growth." More to come...
REUTERS/Rebecca CookWorkers hang a Ford Motor banner on the side of a building across from Cobo Center in advance of the media preview of the North American International Auto show in Detroit, Michigan January 11, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
Today Dell shareholders will gather to decide whether or not to take the ailing PC maker private at the wishes of founder Michael Dell, or go with notorious corporate agitator Carl Icahn's plan for the company. Dell, working with private equity firm Silver Lake, is offering $13.75 a share or $24.6 billion for the company. Icahn is offering warrants that could put the share price in the range of $15.50 and $18.00. Naturally, some of Dell's shareholders think that Icahn is bringing the sweeter deal ó others simply don't trust him. They may have reason to be wary. Icahn has a long track record of deals where he doesn't lose, but when CNBC's Scott Wapner asked him if this was one of them in an epic interview last week, Icahn said no. There is actually an Icahn nightmare scenario here. From the interview: "...we do have a great record, because we usually do win, but I will tell you, I could lose. I could lose. It would be a terrible situation for me as we go to proxy fight, I lose the proxy fight and I'm a minority holder and Dell runs it, who I think will get the job, and I would be a minority holder there. That would be a pretty bad situation in my mind, because I wouldn't want Dell running my company, so it wouldn't be good. You know, and I would have nothing to say. At least if I, you know, had something to say, you get a guy that's not so great, maybe if either he does well or you could hold him accountable. And if you don't have a board where the CEO is bad you hold him accountable and try to get rid of him when he doesn't do a good job, which happens." An Icahn with nothing to say would be very strange indeed, he went on: "If you look back on all these guys, you know, it really isn't a personal thing. And when I lose, I call them up and congratulate them, and say, hey, no matter what, no matter how I feel. If Dell wins the proxy fight, if it goes to the proxy fight and he wins, I don't know if he'll talk to me, but I will call him up and say congratulations, and I know I'm a big minority holder and I'm going to figure out how to get the hell out of this damn thing, but I will still say okay." Knowing Icahn, he'd probably find a way.
APFord's Q2 financial results are out, and the numbers look very strong. Earnings adjusted for non-recurring items came in at $0.45 per share, which blew away expectations for $0.37. "Our strong second quarter with improved results in every region around the world is another proof point that our One Ford plan is continuing to deliver and is building momentum," said CEO Alan Mulally. Ford's operating profit margin in North American expanded to 10.4% from 10.2% a year ago. Here's a look at Ford's outlook: Ford More to come...
Nicole BettsNicole BettsAt age 33, Nicole Betts was bringing home a six-figure pay packet as an expatriate property manager in Dubai. Three years on, sheís now earning $20/hour from odd jobs like buying a businessmanís birthday present for his daughter ñ and loving life. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics,†about 1 in 5 of Australian workers†were employed in casual jobs as of November. Workers unions have warned that casual workers have†little social and economic security†but for some, like Betts, casual work is a lifestyle decision. ìA few years ago, I went through a quarter-life crisis, where I felt that I was existing but not living my life,î Betts told Business Insider. ìI didnít hate my life; I just didnít love what I did.î When she decided to leave full-time employment in 2010, Betts had spent 15 years in the real estate industry, including 3 years as an expatriate with Asteco Property Management in Dubai. She worked an extra 6 months for a bit of a ìnest eggî to go travelling and returned to Australia late last year to study environments, landscape management and medical humanities at the University of Melbourne. ìThe life of an expat is very much a work hard, play hard kind of life,î Betts said. ìItís an artificial environment that was a really great experience for awhile. ìIt was really great to have stability and money, and itís a very opulent lifestyle. But I donít want to work 40-plus hours a week. I want to be able to do things that I enjoy.î Betts pays for her rent, expenses and stress-management start-up People Outside Walking by completing odd jobs on†tasks listing site Sidekicker. She charges $29/hour ñ of which Sidekicker takes a $9 cut ñ for completing jobs like making and handing out smoothies and being a ìbrand ambassadorî at marketing events. A growing market for task-based work Sites like Freelancer.com, Airtasker and Sidekicker have attracted a Australian following in recent years by offering to match up those in need of work and those in need of workers for ultra short-term tasks like administration and events. Earlier this month,†Airtasker struck a major partnership†with News Corpís CareerOne that will put Airtasker advertisements in front of some 1.3 million CareerOne job seekers a month. The deal was initiated by CareerOne: a sign that larger players have noticed a growing market for ultra short-term work. Jacqui Bull, who turned down an accounting job at Deloitte to co-found Sidekicker, said her site had attracted companies like retailers or event organisers that might otherwise have used temp agencies to fill vacancies during particularly busy times. ìWe have a one-hour minimum, so you donít have to go through the hassle of booking someone in for a few days. We also have a lower price point ñ $29 an hour is the minimum and standard, whereas temping is $38-$45,î she said. Sidekicker interviews all the casual staff it recommends to potential employers. Of the 100 or so ìsidekicksî currently active on the site, Bull said about 30% were non-Australian travellers ñ typically from the US or UK. A majority of sidekicks were aged between 22 and 30, and 95% either had university degrees or were working towards them, she said. ìWith the casualisation of the workforce, we kind of see [Sidekicker as] an interim source of income while [people] are focusing on getting their dream job,î she told Business Insider. ìThey donít want to settle [for a any old job], so they might need a couple of extra monthsí [casual] work. So many of our sidekicks work with us for 6 months, before getting a full-time job. Itís just a natural progression. ìNo one sacks an employee and gets sidekicks in; itís an additional resource for when they donít need a full-time person in the business but occasionally need a few extra hands on deck.î Former property manager Betts said doing odd jobs was a temporary measure for her, while she worked on getting her start-up off the ground. But in the long run, she said she would consider accepting the odd Sidekicker posting every once in awhile, ìThere are some Sidekicker jobs that I quite like and that are quite aligned to my values,î she said. ìEvery day is different now, and Iím constantly learning.î Now read:†In One Chart, Hereís How Many Australians Fall Into Gen X, Gen Y And Other Categories Follow Business Insider Australia on†Facebook†and†Twitter
ROUND ROCK, Texas (Reuters) -†Dell†Inc shareholders converge on Texas on Wednesday to vote on CEO Michael†Dell's $24.4 billion buyout offer for the company after a previous meeting was pushed back a week in the hope of convincing dubious investors to accept the deal. A meeting called last week at†Dell's headquarters†on the outskirts of†Austin†was adjourned within minutes after the company founder and his private equity partner, Silver Lake, failed to secure enough votes to take the No.3 PC maker private. Unless it is postponed again, Wednesday's vote could decide the fate of the struggling company. Founder MichaelDell†wants to take it private, arguing that a painful restructuring can best be performed away from Wall Street's scrutiny. In the week leading up to Wednesday's meeting, Michael†Dell, his advisers and proxy solicitors reached out to investors big and small to secure whatever votes they could get, according to investors who have knowledge of the meetings and calls. A crucial player was T.Rowe Price - a major shareholder with some 71 million shares according to latest public filings - which remained opposed, even as other institutional investors such as BlackRock, State Street and Vanguard switched sides at the last minute. One†Dell†shareholder told Reuters many investors feel the current offer of $13.65 a†share†is inadequate, but are leery of waiting for another buyer given the company's rapidly deteriorating prospects, or of letting the stock tank if the deal falls through. It is "the best of all evils," the source said on condition of anonymity. A ROCK, AND A HARD PLACE Investors remain divided over†Dell's prospects. Some are ready to cash out of a company increasingly vulnerable to a crumbling PC market. The company created by†Dell†in his dorm room in 1984, and which rapidly grew into a global market leader renowned for innovation, is a now shadow of its former self. Others, led by billionaire†Carl Icahn†and Southeastern Asset Management, are convinced the company can transform itself into a dominant provider of business computing services. In a last-ditch attempt to torpedo Michael†Dell, Icahn and Southeastern called a special board committee that was set up to consider the his buyout offer "unconscionable," saying it would cut off shareholders from the company's future. Icahn also accused the company of resorting to "scare tactics" by disclosing bad news and dismal forecasts.†Dell†reported a 79 percent drop in profit in its latest quarterly report. However, one source close to the buyout group warned that†Dell†shares would tank if the deal falls through. "The longer there is uncertainty, the worse it is for shareholders," said the source, who ask not to be named because he was not authorized to speak with the media. (Additional reporting by Soyoung Kim and Nadia Damouni in New York. Writing by Edwin Chan. Editing by Andre Grenon)
REUTERS/Jim YoungNEW YORK (Reuters) - Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader accused of secretly helping the hedge fund of billionaire John Paulson construct a $2 billion deal it could bet against in 2007, is set to testify Wednesday in his civil fraud trial. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has said it will call Tourre, 34, on the eighth day of what has become the highest-profile trial to come out of the agency's investigations of the 2008 financial crisis. He is not likely to be called before the afternoon. The trial is a chance for the SEC to show it can win big cases against individuals on Wall Street for wrongdoing that caused the financial crisis. SEC lawyers say Tourre was driven by "Wall Street greed" to mislead investors in the infamous investment called Abacus 2007-AC1. He denies any wrongdoing. His testimony comes three years after the SEC accused him and Goldman Sachs Group Inc of fraud over Abacus, a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. Goldman and Tourre did not tell potential investors that Paulson's hedge fund, Paulson &amp; Co Inc, helped select the mortgage-backed securities linked to Abacus and then went on to bet against it. Amid the outcry that followed, Tourre was called before a congressional committee. Goldman Sachs agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million to settle the claims against it without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Before that accord was announced, Tourre received a settlement offer but rejected it, a person familiar with the matter said. Tourre, who left Goldman in 2012, is now an economics doctoral student at the University of Chicago. He faces a fine and a lifetime ban from the securities industry if jurors find him liable. The SEC also contends Tourre misled a company brought on to help select the securities, ACA Capital Holdings Inc, into believing that Paulson was an equity investor in Abacus when in fact the hedge fund planned to bet against, or short, the deal. ACA, which was renamed Manifold Capital Corp in 2008, ultimately not only helped set up Abacus as the portfolio selection agent but also bought $42 million of securities in the deal and agreed to insure a $909 million slice of it via its then-subsidiary ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. The SEC cites in its complaint an email Tourre sent on January 23, 2007, to his girlfriend at the time, in which he said the "whole building is about to collapse anytime now" - a reference to the financial markets. The email continued: "Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab ... standing in the middle of all these complex, highly leveraged, exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all of the implications of those monstruosities!!!" When the securities in Abacus turned toxic amid the downturn in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, investors lost $1 billion, the SEC says. Paulson, who made $15 billion betting against the housing market, meanwhile made about $1 billion shorting the CDO, the SEC says. During testimony before the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcomittee on Investigations in 2010, Tourre said ACA and another investor in the deal, IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, had "significant resources and extensive experience in the CDO market." He denied telling ACA that Paulson was an equity investor, saying he recalled "informing ACA that Paulson's fund was expected to buy credit protection" on parts of the CDO deal, meaning it would be taking a short position. "Quite frankly, I am surprised that ACA could have believed that the Paulson fund was an equity or long investor in the deal," Tourre said then. The case is SEC v. Tourre, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 10-03229. (Reporting by Nate Raymond; Editing by Eddie Evans and Douglas Royalty)
WiseGEEK A series of stories recently help paint a picture of extravagance at the official level in China. First of all, China has announced a 5-year ban on the construction of any new government buildings. From Keith Bradsher at The New York Times: China issued a directive on Tuesday banning the construction of government buildings for the next five years, the latest in a series of initiatives by President Xi Jinping to discourage corruption and foster frugality at a time of broad popular resentment against high-living bureaucrats. Xi Jinping's attempt to crack down on opulent spending by government officials is well known. There were many reports about how the entire high end restaurant and banquet sectors of the economy went into freefall after a directive about cutting down on parties. Meanwhile, two stories in WantChinaTimes.com, a Taiwan-based outlet that reports on Chinese activities shed light on the public pecadillos of Chinese officials. This one is about breast milk orgies: A reporter working for China's official Xinhua news agency has blown the whistle on sex parties held by wealthy businessmen to bribe high-ranking government officials, revealing details of activities such as drinking human breast milk. Zhou Fang posted an article on his microblog on July 17 claiming knowledge of parties where officials would pay a 5,000 yuan (US$815) admission fee to engage in sex acts with young women and drink breast milk from young nursing mothers. And this one (via Blake Hounshell) is about the man with 140 mistresses: An official from Jiangsu province has set what is believed to be a record after authorities revealed that he had had more than 140 mistresses, including a mother and daughter, reports the Chinese-language Qingdao Financial Daily. The dubious honor goes to Xu Qiyao, the former director of the Jiangsu provincial construction department. One of his mistresses had asked Xu to help her daughter find a job after she graduated from school ‚Äî which he did, after a fashion. Xu allegedly once boasted about this fact to friends when drunk and compared the sexual abilities of the mother and daughter. Perhaps the most interesting part of that story is not the number of mistresses the official had, but rather the why: Jin Weizhi, a vice-ministerial-level official, was said to have told people that there is no official at his level who doesn't have at least a few lovers. "It's not just for biological needs, it's a reflection of your status," he is alleged to have said. "Otherwise people will look down on you." Mistresses have indeed in the past proved to be a test of an official's management skills and stamina. Meanwhile, the Chinese manufacturing sector just hit an 11-month low.
Earlier in the day, markets were pretty flat. But markets have caught a bit of a bid, perhaps thanks in part to some strong European data indicating that the recession is coming to an end. US futures are now green, and European stocks have extended their rally. Germany is up 0.6%, and Italy is up 0.7%, which is right at its highs of the day. FTSE MIB
Fung Global Institute In his latest note, Nomura economist Richard Koo turns his attention to China, which is probably the source of the most economic interest and mystery these days. Just last night we got more data confirming that the Chinese economy is slowing, and people are asking whether this is "it", the big hard landing that people have been predicting for years. The topic is so multi-faceted, that there's no one answer, let alone one question. But Koo, in his note, comes down clearly on the side that says China is in urgent need of real structural reform (a diagnosis he certainly isn't advising to the US, Europe, or Japan, where he famously argues for more fiscal stimulus). Koo says academics are referring to the last decade, under Hu Jintao, as China's "lost decade". Unlike Japan though, this is not the result of mediocre growth, but rather the lack of reform. One fascinating chart that Koo points to, which he says is ominous for China, looks at the rate of migration into Tokyo, from several decades ago, and the frequency of labor disputes (strikes). As the pace of migration into Tokyo began to slow, workers gained more bargaining power, and as such, the number of strikes exploded. Nomura Per Koo ‚Äî and many other economists ‚Äî China is seeing the same thing. The once endless supply of rural labor is coming to an end, and workers are gaining bargaining power. As such, China is likely to see the same surge in labor disputes as Japan saw (Korea had the same thing). This point, at which the supply of endless labor comes to an end, is called the "Lewis Turning Point" and it's something that a lot of people are talking about these days, including Paul Krugman. Thus the need for actual economic reforms is urgent, as otherwise China will be stuck with an old, broken model, and a lot of angry workers.
I know, we all hate to hear good news these days. ¬†If I were a smart attention grabbing writer I‚Äôd spend a lot more time trying to scare the hell out of you guys. ¬†But I just don‚Äôt see the fear that so many love to spread. ¬†I see a weak economy, but one that continues to grow modestly. ¬†It‚Äôs by no means an ideal situation, but it‚Äôs also not looking like an end of the world scenario. That said, one of the important indicators I track is the PMI reports that are released on a monthly basis. ¬†We‚Äôll get the next reading next week, but I wanted to just provide a quick update on the situation in the USA since China‚Äôs reading came out looking ugly today. The Richmond Fed came in very weak today at -11. ¬†But that was against the trend which has shown very strong readings in major economic hubs like Philly and NY which both came in with solid monthly figures. ¬†The Chicago Fed National Activity Index came in a little better this month and the industrial production numbers were okay. The updated real-time PMI index is still trending towards growth and is showing solid improvement over recent readings (via Orcam Investment Research): PragCap What‚Äôs it mean? ¬† Well, it means not much has changed. ¬†We‚Äôre still in this weak growth period. ¬†Nothing to write home about, but nothing to jump out of windows over either‚Ä¶..
As we stated earlier, it's clear that the European recession is coming to an end. The complete Eurozone Flash PMI report confirms that with beats and improvements on every number. Markit Markit
Bryn Lennon/Getty ImagesEurope's recession has either come to an end, or it's about to. It's clear from the data, that across key economies, a weak recovery is in place. This morning we got French manufacturing output hitting its highest level in over 2 years. The Flash PMI report out of Germany ‚Äî Europe's Engine ‚Äî was much stronger than expected, and its manufacturing numbers downright exploded higher. These datapoints follow yesterday's Spanish GDP report, which indicated that in Q2 the economy shrunk by less than expected. French industrial confidence is also on the rise. Outside of the Eurozone, a recovery in the UK appears to be taking hold as well. None of this will quickly alleviate the massively painful situation, especially the unemployment crisis. And there are political problems in Spain and Portugal, and there's even fresh issues arising in Greece. The overall Eurozone problem isn't over. But this particular economic phase is coming to an end. UPDATE: After writing this, Greg Fuzesi at JPMorgan had smilar thoughts, and even cought some more datapoints. Economic data suggest that the Euro area economy is finally emerging from recession. The output index of the composite PMI jumped much more than expected (+1.7pts to 50.4), with the periphery also improving noticeably. In addition, the ECB bank lending survey showed banks tightening their lending standards at a slower pace (more on this in another email). In prior surveys, banks had remained cautious, mainly as they were still concerned about the economy and loan losses. If these concerns were already fading before today's PMI report, a faster improvement is possible in the coming months. This would give a significant boost to the economy.
More signs of economic recovery in the Eurozone. German Flash PMI numbers are all strong. Check out especially Manufacturing Output, which has surged to a 17-month high. Markit
Mars Desert Research StationMarkets are basically doing nothing today. Asian markets ended modestly lower following a weak Chinese manufacturing report indicating that the sector had shrunk to an 11-month low. European stocks are up a little bit, with the latest news there being a decent French manufacturing report. Overall though, little commotion in either the equity or the currency space. US futures are doing nothing. That's the story of this month. Incredibly unremarkable market action on any given day.
Terockman via YouTubeSociete Generale's Wei Yao has lowered her China GDP forecast to 7.4% in 2013, down from 7.6%. But this isn't the only downgrade. The economist has lowered her GDP forecasts through 2016, and now looks for GDP of 6.9% in 2014 (pr. 7.2%), 6.7% in 2015 (pr 6.9%) and 6.7% in 2016 (pr.6.9%). The downgrade to the 2013 forecast is driven by disappointing economic data and the severe liquidity crunch we saw in June. Policymakers set forth creative destruction While interbank rates have come off their highs, other markets are still seeing some pain. For instance, discount rates on bankers' acceptance bills which show short-term liquidity conditions for corporates, are still 160 basis points higher than May levels. Going forward she expects credit growth to slow to 16% - 18% year-over-year with ramifications for corporates. It is also expected to cause borrowing costs to rise. The recent rise in interest rates also showed China's willingness to stomach short-term pain for long-term gain. In this light she argues that policymakers are likely to allow defaults in bond market and among wealth management products. This is because it would curb credit growth and "is exactly the creative destruction that China needs to reverse the declining trend in growth efficiency." This will also shake the commonly held belief that the state guarantees all interest-bearing securities and cause† investors rest on the belief that financial assets with interest are backed by the state and could cause "capital flight out of some segments of the shadow banking system or the bond market." The risks of liberalizing interest rates The "major reason behind our call for growth deceleration to persist over the next five years," according to Yao, is the China's risk-laden path to liberalize interest rates. Last week, the People's Bank of China (PBoC) announced that it was removing the floor on lending rates. At the time we pointed out that if policymakers were serious about interest rate liberalization they needed to remove the ceiling on deposit rates and reward Chinese households. In her new note, Yao points out that removing the ceiling on deposit rates is complicated, could take a few years, and involves some risks to economy. "If the cap on deposit rates were to be removed now, banks could feel pressure to raise deposit rates to compete for funding, which† may be only partially passed on to borrowers due to the economic slowdown," she writes. These also include the risk of rising non-performing loans and of the central bank losing control over monetary policy if it doesn't move carefully.† But Chinese policymakers' move to remove the floor on lending rates shows "the new leadershipís intention to fast-track interest rate liberalization." And what should investors take away from this? "The implication is that the authorities would also be willing to tolerate and prepare for the potential risk that will likely emerge as the process moves forward."
It's clear that the recession is coming to an end in Europe. The latest evidence: Very nice French manufacturing data from the Markit Flash PMI index. Here's the snapshot. Markit The sub-50 58.8 number is still contractionary, but the multi-month highs, including that 51.3 reading on the output index indicates that the shrinkage period is rapidly coming to an end.
China Photos/Getty ImagesLast week, the People's Bank of China (PBoC) announced that it was removing the floor on lending rates.  At the time we pointed out that if policymakers were serious about interest rate liberalization they needed to remove the ceiling on deposit rates and reward Chinese households. In a new note, Societe Generale's Wei Yao points out that removing the ceiling on deposit rates is complicated and could take a few years, for three key reasons: "If the cap on deposit rates were to be removed now, banks could feel pressure to raise deposit rates to compete for funding, which¬† may be only partially passed on to borrowers due to the economic slowdown. Subsequently, interest rate margin compression would be likely to occur during the period that non-performing loans¬† would be likely to continue to rise." "A deposit insurance scheme is perceived as a necessary condition for deposit rate liberalization, but the implication of such a programme is again that not every interest-bearing financial product will be backed by the central government and even banks can go under within the legal structure. ¬†There isn't an adequate alternate to the benchmark deposit rate at the moment, and if the PBoC doesn't manage this carefully it could lose control of monetary policy. This move is expected to cause near-term pain. But in the longer term, it's a crucial reform that will reward the Chinese household sector and help rebalance the economy away from exports and towards consumption.
