The German electoral system is famously complex, but even given the confusing numbers coming out of Germany, it's clear that Angela Merkel is fantastically popular ‚Äî and her popularity seems to be growing. One illuminating picture comes from Die Welt (via Alberto Nardelli), who have compiled a constituency map showing second vote results from 2005, 2009, and 2013 to illustrates "the triumph of Christian Democratic Union [CDU] and Merkel." We turned the map into a gif to illustrate the changes, or you can see the original here. Welt/Business Insider To understand the map, you do need to understand a little about how the German election system works, and how it is a mixed proportional and direct electoral system. German voters get two votes ‚Äî the first to select a Bundestag member in an individual district, and another to vote for a party in general. Roughly half of the Bundestag members are chosen because they were voted in directly, and the other half become Bundestag members through party lists and proportional representation. (There's also a number of other confusing little factors, so check out this Bloomberg article to understand a bit better.) Given that the map above only shows the second votes, i.e. the votes for a party in general rather than a specific local leader, it looks like a real sign of the growing endorsement amongst German voters of the conservative agenda of CDU, and Merkel in particular.
Lisa Blumenfeld/Getty ImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Bonds Could Be Heading For Just Third Yearly Loss Since 1980 (BlackRock) In the post-Lehman world, investing in fixed-income based on low interest rates and exposure to government-related securities no longer makes sense. That's the conclusion BlackRock's Jeff Rosenberg has drawn as core fixed income securities look to head for just their third yearly loss since 1980. "Such strategies made sense when those two features supported returns; now they detract. A period of continued 'normalization' of interest rates (recalling the Fed defines its longer-run 'normal' rate for the short end of the yield curve at 4 to 4.5%) suggests more losses in terms of annual returns to come in the future from traditional 'core' fixed income investing." Here's the chart: BlackRock STUDY: Wealth Consultants Underperformed Random Walk (FT) An Oxford University study found that wealth consultants' financial fund picks fared no better than average returns, the FT reported. "On an equal-weighted basis, US equity funds recommended by consultants underperformed other funds by 1.1 per cent a year between 1999 and 2011, according to¬†analysis of 29 consultancies accounting for more than 90 per cent of the market by a team from Oxford University‚Äôs Sa√Ød Business School. ' The enormous power wielded by consultants is not matched by their performance,' said Jose Martinez, one of the authors of the study."  Seth Klarman Will Return Money To Clients (New York Post) Klarman's $28 billion Baupost Group plans to return $3 billion to clients because they simply don't like what they're seeing in markets, the New York Post reports. "The decision was made 'to better match our assets under management with the opportunity set we see for new investments,' Klarman said in an investor letter." Baupost is the fourth-largest hedge fund in the country. Here Are Three Reasons You Must Remain In Equities (Deutsche Bank) In a note this morning, Deutsche Bank's Greg Poole says there are three reasons to stick with stocks in the face of increasingly noisy markets: "Given many DM equity indices are at or near all time highs, given positioning, the pain trade is to Buy them here," Poole writes. "Nevertheless, we remain positive on Equities. The end of the first phase of an equity bull market is multiple expansion ahead of an earnings inflection." Q2 State Tax Receipts Largest Since 2009 (Census) State tax revenues ticked $382.2 billion in Q2 2013, the biggest gain in any second quarter since at least 2009, according to new Census data.¬†States' income and sales tax revenues were also at their highest overall levels in 18 quarters.¬†A total of¬†$106.2 billion in income taxes were collected, a year-over-year increase of 19.4%. That's also the greatest jump since 2009. Meanwhile, sales taxes totaled $68.8 billion, up 4.7% YOY. Here are the charts: Census 
MacArthur Fellows ProgramMaria Chudnovsky is a mathematician at Columbia University who won the MacArthur fellowship in 2012 at the age of 35. It begins with a phone call. From out of nowhere. That's how a MacArthur Fellow learns they have just won $500,000 to spend, however they want. This scene has played out each year since 1981, when the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation recognized 21 individuals for their creative work and handed them hundreds of thousands of dollars to be allocated over a five-year period. These people are independent, creative, and demonstrate an exceptional talent in their field. They are also people whom the foundation thinks will benefit from the money they are given. The grant is "not a reward for past accomplishments, but rather an investment in a person's originality, insight, and potential," according to the foundation. On Wednesday, a new group of fellows will be announced. This year the recipients will receive "genius grants" of $625,000. You don't have to be a "genius" to receive an award. This term is only used by journalists, according to Cecilia Conrad, the director of the MacArthur Fellow Program who recently described the Fellowship in an article for The Washington Post, titled "Five myths about the MacArthur 'genius grants.'" Recipients are chosen from nearly every discipline ‚Äî there are agriculturalists, economists, historians, entomologists, marine biologists, sculptors, and theater directors. "We admire prodigies and great athletes, but those are not the attributes we are seeking when we make the award," Conrad writes. "We are looking for people on the precipice of a great discovery or achievement." You can read Conrad's full post here or read our brief overview of the MacArthur Fellowship below: How does the selection process work? You cannot apply to be a MacArthur Fellow. Recipients are nominated by the organization's own "talent scouts," who are generally leaders in their fields. The nominators change each year. A selection committee composed of 12 anonymous experts makes the final decision. The committee looks at a file of the nominee's work, like books, videos, or art installations, and combines this with recommendations from experts to identify the most outstanding candidates. Do the Fellows know they have been nominated? No. The winners don't know about their nomination until a few days before the official announcement when they receive a phone call. Anthropologist Shannon Dawday, who received a fellowship in 2010, described that moment as like "receiving a phone call from the Greek gods." What do the Fellows get? This year the MacArthur fellows will receive $625,000 paid over five years. In past years the stipend has been $500,000. Who are the winners? The winners come from all different fields, including science, journalism, mathematics, music, and art. According to Conrad, "from 2001 to 2012, 36 percent of the MacArthur fellows came from the arts and humanities, 36 percent from science or social science, and 26 percent worked on social problems such as homelessness, food security, and health care."¬† Is there an age limit? No. Last year the winners ranged in age from 33 to 66. How many people receive the fellowship? There are typically between 20 to 25 winners. There were 23 recipients in 2012 and 22 the year before that. Who won last year? Here is a list of the 2012 MacArthur Fellows. The winners included a stringed-instrument bow maker who is trying to improve the design and quality of violin, viola, and cello bows, a marine ecologist who is studying dead zones in the Gulf of Mexico, and a fiction writer from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. And the fellows can spend the money any way they want? Yes. There are no restrictions on how recipients can spend the money. However, the idea is to provide seed money so this group of creative people can do the work they have always dreamed of doing without financial constraints. The MacArthur website explains: "We believe that highly motivated, self-directed, and talented people are in the best position to decide how to allocate their time and resources. By adopting a 'no strings attached' policy, we provide the maximum freedom for the recipients to follow their creative vision, whether it is moving forward with their current activities, expanding the scope of their work, or embarking in entirely new directions."
REUTERS/Giampiero Sposito CAGLIARI,†Sardinia†(Reuters) -†Pope†Francis made one of his strongest attacks on the global economic system on Sunday, saying it could no longer be based on a "god called money" and urged the unemployed to fight for work. Francis, at the start of a day-long trip to the Sardinian capital, Cagliari, put aside his prepared text at a meeting with unemployed workers, including miners in hard hats who told him of their situation, and improvised for nearly 20 minutes. "I find suffering here ... It weakens you and robs you of hope," he said. "Excuse me if I use strong words, but where there is no work there is no dignity." He discarded his prepared speech after listening to†Francesco Mattana, a 45-year-old married father of three who lost his job with an alternative energy company four years ago. Mattana, his voice trembling, told the†pope†that unemployment "oppresses you and wears you out to the depths of your soul". The crowd of about 20,000 people in a square near the city port chanted what Francis called a prayer for "work, work, work". They cheered each time he spoke of the rights of workers and the personal devastation caused by joblessness. The†pope, who later celebrated Mass for some 300,000 people outside the city's cathedral, told them: "We don't want this globalised economic system which does us so much harm. Men and women have to be at the centre (of an economic system) as God wants, not money." "The world has become an idolator of this god called money," he said. Sardinia's coast is famous for its idyllic beaches, exclusive resorts and seaside palatial residences of some of the world's richest people, including former Italian prime minister†Silvio Berlusconi†and a host of Hollywood actors. But much of the island, particularly its large cities and the vast agricultural and industrial interior, has been blighted by the economic crisis, with factories closed and mines operating at low capacity. YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT, CLOSING MINES Cagliari has a youth unemployment rate of about 51 percent. The Sulcis area in the southwest of the island is threatened with more unemployment from the looming closures of the Carbosulcis coal mine and an aluminum smelter. The†pope†made clear that his assessment was not limited to the local situation. "It is not a problem of†Italy†and†Europe†... It is the consequence of a world choice, of an economic system that brings about this tragedy, an economic system that has at its centre an idol which is called money," he said to the cheers of the crowd. While Francis's predecessor Benedict also called for changes to economic systems, he was more likely to use dense intellectual language. Francis, who as bishop of†Buenos Aires†sided with unemployed workers in their conflict with government austerity plans, ended his improvised speech with a prayer asking God to "give us work and teach us to fight for work". Francis said he did not want the crowd to see him as a smiling "cordial manager of the Church who comes here and says to you 'have courage'". He added: "I don't want this. I want this courage to come from inside me and push me to do everything I can as a pastor and a man." Francis brought tears to the eyes of some in the crowd when he told his own family's story of emigration fromItaly†to†Argentina†and how they lost everything in the Great Depression. "I was not born yet, but as a child I remember hearing talk of this suffering," he said. Francis said globalization had brought with it a culture where the weakest in society suffered the most and often, those on the fringes "fall away", including the elderly, who he said were victims of a "hidden euthanasia" caused by neglect of those no longer considered productive. "To defend this economic culture, a throwaway culture has been installed. We throw away grandparents, and we throw away young people. We have to say no to his throwaway culture. We want a just system that helps everyone," he said. (Editing by Will Waterman)
curimedia via FlickrAir France said Tuesday it had filed a complaint after gold bars worth around 1.6 million euros ($2.1 million) were stolen from a plane bound for Zurich from Paris. "We hope the investigations will allow us to quickly determine the sequence of events and identify those responsible," a spokesman said. The gold bars, weighing around 50 kilos (110 pounds), were placed inside the plane at Paris's Charles-de-Gaulle airport last Thursday by employees of the US security firm Brink's. It is as yet unclear how the theft happened, but an airport source said the robbers had "probably made use of airport accomplices." This kind of shipment takes place every day, and Brink's employees always stay on the tarmac until the plane takes off. In a separate case also involving Air France, police earlier this month made a record haul of 1.3 tonnes of pure cocaine found in 30 suitcases on board a flight from the Venezuelan capital Caracas to Paris. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved. 
Julien M. Hekimian/Getty ImagesMany U.S. law students have spent recent weeks interviewing for summer associate jobs ‚Äî the gigs before the last year of law school that are essentially 10-week interviews. It's pretty well known among lawyers that summer associates don't end up doing a ton of work. They do go to a lot of parties. We spoke to one former summer associate at a big New York firm who said she gained 10 pounds after a summer of cocktail parties and firm-sponsored dinners. "It was kind of an exhausting social calendar," she said. The wining and dining of summer associates began as a way for law firms to attract top talent. Now, many of the lawyers at the firms have grown accustomed to these events. "The attorneys at these firms really like these events," the former summer associate told us. "It's fun to go to a cocktail party with these shiny summer associates." The summer associates she worked with had a general operating procedure to make sure they were behaving appropriately during those parties. "As long as there was a partner there who was drunker than you were," she said, "then you were in the clear." Of course, some firms might have better parties for summer associates than others. Careers site Vault recently did a survey of law firm associates who had participated in their firm's summer associate programs to find out which ones were the most fun. (Vault also did a separate ranking of which firms prepared summer associates the best, and which ones had the best overall program.) Here are the firms that associates ranked as the most fun: 1) Kasowitz, Benson, Torres, &amp; Friedman LLP ‚Äî The¬†firm says it tries to give summer associates a balance of work and play. Recent summer events included an art tour followed by dinner with artists, a Yankees game, and an evening at New York's oldest beer garden. There are also a lot of happy hours and summer lunches, associates told Vault. 2) Shook, Hardy, &amp; Bacon LLP ‚Äî Summer associates at Shook, Hardy participate in cultural and sports events and have dinner in partner's homes. The firm says specifically says it wants summer associates with a good sense of humor. 3) Irell &amp; Manella LLP ‚Äî This California firm organizes many fun events for its young summer lawyers, including a weekend in Catalina and a night at a Newport beach resort. 4) Troutman Sanders LLP ‚Äî Each regional office of Troutman has an "abundant" mix of social events, according to the firm. There's also a firm-wide retreat every year at a beach resort. 5) Gibson Dunn &amp; Crutcher LLP ‚Äî Summer associates in the Denver office recently went to a weekend golf and spa retreat in the Rocky Mountains. The summer associate program at Gibson Dunn includes so many social events that one law student who participated in it had this to say to The American Lawyer:¬†‚ÄúI would ask that the Summer Associate Program be scheduled so that there is a bit more time for work.‚Äù Another summer associate told Vault, though, that the firm hits the "work/play balance perfectly."¬† 6) Linklaters LLP ‚Äî The most fun part about the summer associate program at Linklaters' New York office could be the trip to London. 7) Ropes &amp; Gray LLP ‚Äî Summer associates here participate in scavenger hunts, trips to museums, baseball games and cooking classes. 8) Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher, &amp; Flom LLP ‚Äî The firm says its sponsored events provide a "social outlet" for summer associates to get to know the lawyers there. Recent events included a party at the Museum of Modern Art in New York and a Rolling Stones concert in Philadelphia, according to Above the Law. 9) Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison LLP ‚Äî Summer associates get to sail around Manhattan, go to cocktail parties, and watch Shakespeare in the Park. 10) Haynes &amp; Boone LLP ‚Äî "You'll have fun!" the firm promises prospective summer associates on its website. Associates get to participate in firm parties, go to dinners, and attend sports games.
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidStocks fell for the fourth day in a row. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories:
A South Carolina man finally claimed last week's mind-boggling $400 million Powerball jackpot on Monday. Now the hard part begins. Winning the lottery is the kind of good fortune that anyone short of Bill Gates would find staggering, let alone a guy who bought the winning ticket on an errand to "pick up hot dog buns." History has shown that in many cases, people's lives became notably worse after they struck it rich. "It's a really hard thing to cope with if you've never really grown up around big sums of money like that, which most of us haven't," says Colleen O'Brien, vice president and branch manager for Charles Schwab. To help, we asked O'Brien for her thoughts on what a lottery winner should do within the first year of winning to make sure they don't blow it all. Step 1: Don't quit your day job.   The worst thing anyone who's just woken up hundreds of millions of dollars richer can do is make knee-jerk decisions that would have taken them months to mull over under normal circumstances. That means keeping your day job, at least for a while, and stepping back to truly contemplate what your new wealth means, O'Brien says. "Your first day, your first week, you don't do anything," she advises. "A lot of people quit their jobs and start spending before they even have the money. The first thing people have to do is sit back and wait ... and figure out what this truly means to you." Step 2: Don't tell anyone. In the South Carolina winner's case, his choice to remain anonymous was the wisest move he could have made, O'Brien says. "What's the first thing that happens? All the friends and family feel like it's an open pool and the person who [won] feels an obligation to them," she says. "I would try to get my ducks in a row, wrap my head around it. If you don't tell anybody, it‚Äôs just you and your spouse who're dealing with it." There's another reason O'Brien recommends staying anonymous: Financial firms from around the country and beyond will be beating down your front door to take your business. To them, you're the kind of cash cow that comes around once in a lifetime and they'll want to milk you for all you're worth. Step 3: Hire a solid tax advisor. By remaining anonymous, you have the ability to quietly and methodically assemble a team of advisors who will act in your best interests. Your top priority should be finding a solid tax advisor. "Depending on your level of understanding, it can take at least a year to understand the different dynamics that go into taxation," O'Brien says. "The tax planning process is so critical. You have to take that [tax] money and set it aside so that it's done and it's out of the equation of your wealth." And depending on how you plan on taking your winnings, you may have to continue to count them as income for tax purposes. Just don't thumb through the Yellow Pages to find a CPA. Start by looking around at your circle of friends or acquaintances to find someone you think manages their money well. Ask for a referral to their CPA and go from there. Step 4: Get your estate in order.  Depending on the size of the jackpot, chances are that the lucky winner won't plan on spending every dime within their lifetime. Finding an estate planner will be a crucial step, as they will help you figure out how to not only set aside sums for family and friends but also manage charitable giving and other strategies to help you avoid taxes. "I really believe ... that when people have an estate planner they feel more secure about their wealth," O'Brien says. "An estate attorney will help you draft your trust and other documents related to how you want to pass down the money at death." With an estate plan in place, you'll also have a line of defense ready in case family members start to get pushy.  Step 5: Start a budget with a financial planner. It seems counterintuitive, but the uber-wealthy have just as much to gain from a budget as the rest of us ‚Äî especially if their wealth has come on suddenly. A financial planner plays the role of coach, keeping you on track so that your cash doesn't run out before you do. "If you want to retain your wealth, you have to have a certain kind of budget," O'Brien says. "Ask yourself what are the things that are most important to you? ... With a financial planner, then you figure that out and scale it back to an element that allows you to have some of what you want but not everything you want in the first couple of years. Give yourself time to get comfortable with the wealth. Then you can start to make bigger changes around your financial situation." That doesn't mean letting your planner take the wheel and drive completely. You'd be silly not to stay involved in the planning process and readjust your plan at least once per year. Step 6: Use your financial team as a defense against family and friends. The best thing about assembling a team of financial experts to help plan your money management? You can blame them for everything when your friends and family drop by with their hands outstretched. "If you put your professional team in place, they help guard you against manipulation a little bit," O'Brien says. "I would start by saying, 'I've got this money but it's kind of restricted in how I can use it.' If you lay it out there like that then that helps shift any of the manipulative behavior that can come in." The bottom line: Give yourself time to get used to your wealth before you spend it. "In the first year, you're going to have to settle in with what this is and not make a lot of decisions about spending," O'Brien says. "Make more decisions about taking care of your tax bill and planning for how you're going to retain this wealth over time."
REUTERS/Danish IsmailTen years ago, Goldman Sachs declared Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRIC) as the emerging markets with the brightest economic growth prospects. This year, Morgan Stanley declared the Brazilian real, the Indonesian rupiah, the South African rand, the Indian rupee, and the Turkish lira as the "Fragile Five," or the troubled emerging market currencies under the most pressure against the U.S. dollar. "High inflation, weakening growth, large external deficits, and in some cases exposure to the China slowdown, and high dependence on fixed income inflows leave these currencies vulnerable," wrote Morgan Stanley analysts in an August research note. We've highlighted Morgan Stanley's greatest concerns for each of the "Fragile Five," and include their year-to-date performance against the greenback.
APJust less than a half hour into his speech in opposition to Obamacare¬†on the Senate floor, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) compared his fight to defund it to the fight against Nazi Germany in the 1940s.¬† Cruz said that acceptance of Obamacare implementation is like 1930s appeasement of Nazi Germany.¬† He also compared his fight to standing up to the British during the Revolutionary War, and standing up to the Soviet Union during the space race. "So, we get to Obamacare," Cruz said. "What do all those voices say? Can't be stopped. You can't win. Cannot defund it.  "By any measure, Obamacare is a far less intimidating foe than those that I have discussed, with the possible exception of the moon. The moon might be as intimidating as Obamacare."
abc.go.comOn Fridayís premiere of the fifth season of ABCís reality pitch show ìShark Tank,î pitches ranged from what Mark Cuban called the worst in the history of the show to one so enticing every Shark wanted a piece of it.†† Sweet Ballz, a packaged food startup by Dallas-based entrepreneurs James McDonald and Cole Egger, swept all five Sharks into a competitive bidding war that ultimately forced the entrepreneurs to choose who they wanted as an investor ó a rare yet flattering place to be. However, with so much interest in their company, they may have given up too much too soon.†† The entrepreneurs initially asked for $250,000 in exchange for 10% of their company, which would value the company at $2.5 million. The Sweet Ballz business is selling packaged cake balls that come in packs of four in flavors like red velvet, chocolate, and cookies and cream. It capitalizes on the trend of the cake pop, but the balls come without the stick and a 45-day shelf life.† ìWhich one of you is ready to make some sweet, sweet dough with our Sweet Ballz?î McDonald asked.† Screenshot from ABC's "Shark Tank"The cake balls come in flavors like red velvet, chocolate, and cookies and cream.The Sharks were clearly intrigued and raved about the taste. They peppered the business owners with questions, and McDonald and Egger didnít disappoint. The packs retail for $1.99 to $2.49 each, but cost only 86 cents to make. They are already sold at 7-Eleven, one of the largest convenience stores in America, and since 95% of their sales are from 7-Eleven, thereís plenty of room to grow distribution.†† If the Sharks werenít already hooked, their eyes grew even wider when the business owners said theyíd done $700,000 in sales in the past 90 days and had profits of $95,000.†† ìThings are going great for you,î said investor Robert Herjavec. ìWhy are you here?î† That question alone should have tipped the business owners off that they had something of obvious value to the Sharks. Egger said the investment would go a long way towards growing the business and its distribution points.† Then the feeding frenzy began. Barbara Corcoran offered $250,000 for a 40% stake, and Kevin OíLeary undercut it with the same offer but for a 30% stake. Lori Greiner jumped in with an offer for a 36% stake, saying it comes with her QVC network.† Screenshot from ABC's "Shark Tank"The Sharks start a bidding war.Soon the panel of five Sharks, who had devolved into bickering over which one has the best network, divided themselves into two offers: Cuban and Corcoran would go in together at $250,000 for a 25% stake; and OíLeary, Greiner, and Herjavec jointly offered $250,000 for a 30% stake. They asked, Who do you want to work with?† It was a strong move on the Sharksí part ó one parents use often. Give someone only two options, and you ensure theyíll end up choosing something youíve sanctioned.†† In this case, the business owners chose Cuban and Corcoran, an investment that values their company at $1 million. When the business owners walked away pumping their fists and celebrating, they seemed to have forgotten that they were initially seeking a valuation of $2.5 million.†† They have a hot business, and it will surely get hotter with a large cash infusion and powerful investors behind them. But they also just gave away a quarter of their business in what seems a fire-sale deal for the Sharks. ìI think they made a mistake,î said OíLeary as the credits rolled.†
Jim O'Neill, former head of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, coined the term 'BRIC', and is a huge bull on China. Jim Chanos, the CEO of Kynikos Investments and famed short seller, is a massive China bear. They faced off at the Bloomberg Markets 50 conference, Bloomberg TV's Tom Keene hosted. Here we go. Keene started us off by asking the guys to lay out their arguments. O'Neill said that "most of the reason" why China has slowed is because it has deliberately slowed, and either way the rate they're going to grow at this year is equivalent to the U.S. growing at 4%. Chanos countered the that Chinese model is all wrong. It's built on credit. So in a sense, he said, "we're talking passed each other." He doesn't disagree with the number O'Neill presented, but what that number is built on, which is an investment driven model. "If you're going to grow net new credit in this economy by 30%-40% you ought well to be growing by 7% real," said Chanos. It's the health of the system, especially banking, Chanos is concerned about. "And by the way I'm using their data," he said smiling at O'Neill. This is where things got deep.† "It was blatantly obvious to people three years ago that China was finished," said O'Neil. The takeaway there (from O'Neill) was that Chanos is shorting the old China and he's bullish on the new one. "But there have been so many new Chinas!" said Chanos.† "How do you play the recent bounce in emerging markets," asked Keene, breaking in. Chanos responded: "I'm looking at Petrobras" (that's Brazil's state oil company that Chanos has openly said is subsidizing lower prices for its customers and hurting its own business). Chanos went on to say that any company in iron ore or mining is in trouble over the next year as well. But back to China. O'Neill said all the noise in June about another Chinese credit crisis started from the top. It was the higher ups saying, "hey guys this stuff is kind of dumb" to overzealous bank lenders. Chanos agreed. Still, he pointed out, the new free trade zone the country is building is actually like building another city. Go figure.† Getting into China's new cities, said Chanos, "is still really a phenomena" of the wealthy ó meaning that the cities aren't being filled, building debts are mounting, and the bubble is still expanding. O'Neill disagreed with that one: "at the margin, that's changing... the scale of wage increases going on over the last three years... real housing prices are going down." Nope, said Chanos. Housing and housing construction are reaching 400% of GDP. Even with wages rising, China simply cannot keep up. (This is what Chanos has called a "treadmill to hell.") "Where will China be in 5 years," asked Keene. O'Neill said they'll be doubling the average wealth to $14-15,000 a head and much more like the United States. Chanos thinks it will be slowed down and that the country will have had at least one credit event. Also, a curveball: "This leadership group may in fact be settling scores, if you will," he said.
Robert Galbraith/Reuters Business Insider has decided to show baristas some love for helping us start our days off right. And we'd like you to help us find the world's best baristas.† Whether they work in a big chain like Starbucks or a favorite local spot, we're looking to highlight true professionals who have your drink order memorized, deliver your mocha with a smile, and know your name by heart. It's easy to nominate your favorite barista.† Just email retail@businessinsider.com and include the following: A photo of your barista. Where he or she works. A brief explanation of why youíre nominating him or her.  A way for us to contact him or her. We appreciate your help. 
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman drew a line in the sand at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Conference today. The line is between him and all the high-frequency traders that get an advantage by receiving key market information early. It's a thin red line. "When blinding speed is coupled with early access to data, it gives small groups of traders the power to manipulate market movements in their own favor before anyone else knows what's happening," said Attorney General Schneiderman. "They suck the value out of market-moving information before it even goes public. That's 'Insider Trading 2.0,' and it should be a huge concern to anyone who cares about the markets and the free flow of capital on which our economy depends." If this continues, he added, no one will trust the markets anymore. No one will invest. This has become a major issue over the last year. Most notably, Simone Foxman at Quartz broke that there was an agreement between the University of Michigan and Reuters that allowed Reuters to leak data early to privileged (paying) customers. After that, Schneiderman told the audience at Bloomberg Markets 50, the New York attorney general's office started investigating the matter itself. "The power to skew the markets was exactly the 'service' that Thomson Reuters provided to select customers," Mr. Schneiderman said. Today, CNBC reports that some traders got news of Ben Bernanke's crucial decision not the taper $85 billion worth of monthly bond buying before everyone else. To high-frequency traders, said the AG, that is what separates the "smart money" from the rest of us, the "dumb money." "A lot of us here are probably part of the 'dumb money' because that includes everyone who doesn't have a supercomputer capable of flipping tens of thousands of shares in nanoseconds and access to market-moving information just a tiny bit ahead of everyone else," he said. So all together it's not hard to see why Schneiderman's office is making it a priority. Schneiderman is no slouch either. He was one of the attorneys general that most vigorously pursued banks for mortgage fraud in the (ongoing) aftermath of the housing crisis. Before that he was a New York state senator known for bringing lawsuits against corporations and individuals that hurt his constituents. Plus, since the age of Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general's office has been ground zero in the state for the prosecution of financial fraud. So we expect to see some results.
YahooAaron Task, Henry Blodget, and Harry Binswanger.Forbes contributor Harry Binswanger, who is a disciple of the writer Ayn Rand, argued this week that¬†people who make $1+ million a year are so valuable to society that they shouldn't pay any taxes. Far from these million-dollar earners paying¬†more taxes, Binswanger argued, the rest of America should "give back" to the 1% by thanking them for their service to the country and rewarding them by exempting them from taxation. This argument is the logical extension of an argument that many American entrepreneurs and investors make, which is that they are the country's "job creators" and therefore deserve almost all of the country's income and wealth. These "job creators," this argument goes, should pay their employees as little as possible and keep every penny of profit for themselves. After all, they deserve it: They're the ones who "create" the jobs that sustain the country. It's no surprise why this argument is popular among entrepreneurs and investors: Instead of making them feel selfish about taking such a big share of the country's wealth for themselves, it actually makes them feel magnanimous. If they weren't "creating all those jobs," then most Americans would have nothing to do! Unfortunately, this argument is both startlingly selfish and economically wrong. Business Insider, St. Louis FedProfits as a percent of the economy are at the highest level in history.What actually "creates jobs" in an economy is a healthy economic ecosystem, one comprised of entrepreneurs, investors, employees, and, critically,¬†customers. Successful entrepreneurs do play a valuable and important role in this ecosystem: They start companies that develop products and services that people want, and they guide the companies that produce them. Successful investors also play a valuable and important role: They provide the capital necessary for companies to invest in new products and services. But without talented employees who make a company's products and services, and ‚Äî just as important ‚Äî without financially healthy customers who buy them, entrepreneurs and investors can't create¬†any¬†sustainable jobs. So to suggest that entrepreneurs and investors deserve all the credit or compensation in the economy is absurd. It's also absurd to suggest that placing all of a country's wealth in the hands of entrepreneurs and investors is somehow good for the economy. The 100+ million Americans who work for others, after all, aren't just "employees." They're also American consumers. Every penny they earn is spent on buying products and services. So sharing more of a company's wealth with the folks who create it isn't just the right thing to do. It's also good for the economy. Business Insider, St. Louis FedWages as a percent of the economy are at an all-time low.Mr. Binswanger was kind enough to join me and Aaron Task on Yahoo's Daily Ticker today to talk about his philosophy (video here). He argued that CEOs and entrepreneurs should pay employees as little as possible. After all, Mr. Binswanger argues, the employees are just "trading" their labor for the entrepreneur's money. That's the employees' decision, and they don't deserve a penny more than they get. That's one way of looking at it. The other way of looking at it is that employees are members of a team. And that, as members of the team, employees should not be paid as little as possible but, instead, share in the value they help create. That, for what it's worth, is the way I look at it. And my view of this isn't the product of an armchair philosophy. It's the product of living and working in the once-vibrant U.S. economy and of running a successful company with ~130 employees. Most of the full-time employees at our company, Business Insider, have stock options. These allow everyone to share in the success of the company. We don't pay our employees "as little as possible." We pay our employees¬†as much as possible¬†while still achieving our financial goals. As the CEO of the company ‚Äî and as the entrepreneur who co-founded it and an investor who funded it ‚Äî I don't hallucinate that all of the company's success is due to me. It is a privilege to lead our team, but it is the hard work of the ~130 talented people on the team that make us successful. And it is the revenue we receive from our readers and clients that sustains the 130 jobs at Business Insider ‚Äî not me. The overall mission of Business Insider, meanwhile, is not to "make as much money as possible." It is to produce a great product for our readers and clients, produce a compelling return for our investors, and provide excellent jobs for our team. In short, the goal of our company is to create value for all three of our important constituencies: customers, shareholders,¬†and¬†employees. Unfortunately, in America right now, Mr. Binswanger's business philosophy is quite popular. America's investor class has taken such complete control of the economy that American companies are¬†treating their employees as "costs"¬†and paying them as little as they possibly can. Big American corporations are currently earning¬†the highest profits in history and paying the lowest wages in history. And because most of the employees who work for these companies are American consumers, the U.S. economy is suffering. This business philosophy is greedy, selfish, and shortsighted. And it is constraining the growth of the American economy. You can watch our interview with Mr. Binswanger here ¬ª SEE ALSO: This One Tweet Shows What's Wrong With The U.S. Economy
Instagram/adalbertolamp This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt; Business Insider is hiring a¬†video intern to shoot and edit videos for the fastest-growing business news site.¬† The ideal candidate has superb post-production video editing skills and knows how to use Final Cut. This intern should know how to bring in proper graphics and other media, when to make the right transitions, where to adjust audio¬†levels and lighting, etc.¬† The candidate should be able to tackle some of the types of videos produced at Business Insider: If interested, send your resume, a brief email, and 3 samples of your work to Jessica at jliebman@businessinsider.com. Note: This internship requires that you work full-time in our Manhattan office.
AP By all indications, the conservative gambit led by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) on defunding the Affordable Care Act through the continuing resolution is doomed to fail. But Cruz's battle has diverted attention away from another battle that Democrats wanted to fight through the continuing resolution ‚Äî sequestration. It's something that House Speaker John Boehner has taken advantage of, masterfully putting Republicans in position to come out of the government-funding fight with a win and with future leverage on the sequester. Last week, the House of Representatives passed a bill to avert a government shutdown. Boehner gave into demands from the conservative wing of his caucus, and the bill included the stripping of funding for Obamacare.¬† But the bill also funds the government through Dec. 15 at a spending level of approximately $986 billion. This locks in another temporary round of spending cuts, as it funds the government at levels under sequestration. According to the liberal Center for American Progress, it keeps 100% of the non-defense sequester cuts and 60% of the cuts to defense. But sequestration has become such an afterthought that Democrats have barely put up a fight in this round of fiscal talks. The White House has refused to take the step of issuing a veto threat against a bill that includes sequester-level spending. And Senate Democrats also look prepared to cave. A senior Democratic Senate aide told Business Insider that it's not likely the Senate will amend the House's bill to include higher-spending levels. Democratic aides say this is because they are worried about having the votes to push through anything higher than the House level. And they say that Boehner hasn't provided them enough time to fight on the sequester. If they do, they fear they'll be blamed in the event of a shutdown.¬†But the aides stressed that there are still a few days and possibly two Democratic caucus meetings before any strategy is set in stone.¬† It's likely, however, that the Senate will send back to Boehner a "clean" continuing resolution without the language to strip funding for Obamacare and that maintains the $986 billion spending level. At that point, House Democrats will be pressed to support the Senate-passed bill when it comes back to the House. Even though House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and¬†Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) have railed against a $986 billion-level bill, the Senate will have given them no cover. They would risk being blamed for a government shutdown if they oppose the bill that passed the Senate with substantially Democratic votes. For Boehner, the real test will come in convincing a majority of his caucus to also support the bill, considering many conservatives will be disappointed that it no longer includes language to defund Obamacare.¬† This doesn't mean that Republicans will come out of this fiscal debate unscathed. Polls show that the¬†majority of Americans oppose defunding Obamacare¬†if it means a government shutdown or debt default. But if Boehner can get enough of his caucus on board to avoid breaking the "Hastert Rule" and avoid a shutdown, Republicans will have won another significant battle on spending. That's plausible, considering that only a minority of 80 Republicans in the House signed a letter urging Boehner to defund Obamacare. It also means that Republicans will continue to hold important leverage on something Democrats ‚Äî and President Obama ‚Äî desperately want to eliminate.
REUTERS/Frank PolichIn the wake of an unusual trading pattern after the Federal Reserve's decision to continue economic stimulus last week, Fed officials have contacted certain news organizations to discuss rules and procedures for the central bank's advance release of sensitive information, CNBC has learned. On Sept. 18, the Federal Reserve shocked the financial world with its decision not to scale back its level of support to the economy as most market participants expected. Financial markets reacted at the speed of light, pushing stocks dramatically higher in just moments. But it looks like the speed of light just wasn't fast enough for some traders. Some traders in Chicago appear to have had access to the Fed's decision before anyone else in the Windy City. According to trading data reviewed by CNBC, they began buying in Chicago-traded assets just before others in that city could possibly have been aware of the Fed's decision. By one estimate, as much as $600 million in assets changed hands in the milliseconds before most other traders in Chicago could learn of the Fed's September surpriseóa sharp contrast to the very low volume of trading ahead of the Fed's decision. Eric Hunsader, founder of the market analysis firm Nanex, first spotted the unusual trading pattern and alerted CNBC to it. (Read more:†No taper! Did Bernanke fool the Street?) It's not exactly clear how the information got to Chicago markets so quickly. But the Federal Reserve is concerned enough about the unusual event that it has begun discussions with news organizations. In response to specific questions about the unusual trading activity, the Fed released a statement to CNBC saying, "We will be conducting follow-up conversations with news organizations to ensure our procedures are completely understood." And, the Fed said, "As is generally the case with other releases of market-sensitive information by government agencies, news organizations receiving embargoed information from the Federal Reserve agree in writing to make no public use of the information until the time set for its release." A Federal Reserve spokesman declined to name the organizations it is in discussions with. The spokesman did not respond on the record when asked whether any of the organizations broke the Fed's rules. The precise timing of the release is crucial because information can only travel as fast as the speed of lightóa physical reality first laid out by Albert Einstein. Informationólike a Fed decisionóreleased in Washington takes as much as 7 milliseconds to travel to Chicago, where futures and other assets are traded. And because high-speed trading firms are now able to execute trades at the millisecond level, there is a brief window of time in which information can be publicly available in Washington but is still traveling to Chicago, where computers won't receive it until milliseconds later. Thanks to modern technology, that window is long enough for some to profit if they know which direction the market is about to go and can place millisecond level trades accordingly. None of this trading would typically involve a human being ñ it takes slow-moving humans about 300 milliseconds just to blink an eye, making them much too slow to react to news at the millisecond level. Instead, high-speed data feeds are plugged directly to algorithmic trading computers, which in turn analyze the news as it comes in and execute pre-programed trading strategies. So how did information about the Fed's decision apparently get into computers in Chicago faster than the speed of light would allow? Here's the chronology of what happened on Wednesday. In advance of the release of the market moving decision, Federal Reserve officials followed a standard procedure to choreograph a tightly planned embargo operation that gave reporters advance copies of the Fed's decision. Inside a secure so-called "lockup" room on the top floor of the William McChesney Martin, Jr. building, Fed officials instructed reporters not to send information about that decision to the outside world before precisely 2 p.m. as measured by the national atomic clock in Colorado. The doors were locked at 1:45 p.m., and Fed staffers handed out copies of the statement at 1:50 p.m., allowing reporters a few minutes to digest the complicated document before reporting on its contents. At 1:58 p.m. television reporters were escorted out of the room to a balcony where cameras had been prepositioned. The Fed's security rules dictated that television reporters were not allowed to speak before precisely 2 p.m. Print reporters were told they were allowed to open a phone line to their editors at headquarters offices a few moments in advance of the hour, but not allowed to interact with people on the other end of the line until exactly two p.m. óó On top of those precautions, every media person entering the lockupóincluding two employees of CNBCówas required to sign an agreement that read: "I understand that I may make no public use of the documents distributed by Federal Reserve Board (FRB) staff or the information contained therein, including broadcasting, posting on the Internet or other dissemination, until the time the FRB has set for their public release." (Read more:†Buying an edge: The high-tech race for economic data pays) All of the security precautions were taken to prevent the details of the Fed's decision from leaving the building before the precise deadlineto make sure that editors, technicians, producers and even computer techs in media offices all over the country could not learn of the decision ahead of time. On Wednesday, that tiny sliver of time saw a burst of trading. Nanex said as much as $600 million dollars of assets changed hands in Chicago in the milliseconds before the rest of the market there was aware of the decision by the Fed. In the eMini futures market, Nanex spotted a buying increase that began just three milliseconds after 2 pm.which is earlier than the information could have reached Chicago if it was traveling by the speed of light from Washington. Similarly, gold futures began to accelerate just a millisecond or two after two p.m., which also would be a physical impossibility if traders were relying on information transmitted from the Federal Reserve's lock-up room. (Read more:†Consumer confidence releases: A journalism hat tip) In essence, the trading represented an arbitrage of the speed of light itself. The Fed's outreach to media organizations comes amid a broader effort by a variety of federal and state government entities to grapple with ways to protect investors in an era of superfast computerized trading and light speed communications. At issue: When, exactly, does information become public ñ and when do enough people know about it that it becomes appropriate to trade. That's a particularly thorny questions for government agencies releasing market moving news and struggling to ensure that no one has an unfair trading advantage. But it also applies to private groups that release information of their own that has the potential to instantly affect markets. Last year, the FBI and even the nuclear security experts at Sandia National Laboratories became involved in an effort to boost security at the Department of Labor, which releases market moving jobs data to the media in a lock-up procedure similar to the one at the Fed last week. In the end, the Department of Labor trimmed the list of firms allowed access to the lock up room, and instituted new regulations over the types of computer and telecommunications equipment allowed there. CNBC first reported the involvement of Sandia National Laboratories in that security overhaul. Similarly, New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman announced in July that he had secured an agreement by Thomson Reuters to stop providing high speed traders with a two second early look at market moving University of Michigan consumer survey results. That followed reporting by CNBC and others that the news service offered such early looks at the data to customers for a fee.
REUTERS/David McNew Baby Boomers march in an Occupy Los Angeles protest in 2011.Getting old is hard. Getting old and getting shut out of the workforce is misery. Since the recession, the labor force participation rate ó the percent of the population employed or looking for work ó has remained stubbornly low. Many analysts have attributed much of this to Americaís aging population. And that may be true. But what the numbers canít show is that some boomers are dropping out because they can't get re-hired if they've been left jobless.† In 2006, Connecticut resident Valerie Comeau was laid off from her job at a major insurer. She spent the next seven years in and out of work before giving up entirely this year and taking early social security at the age of 62. ìI am beyond frustration at this point regarding employment, so I just decided to pack it in,î she told us via email. She says she is fairly certain that in one instance an employer wouldn't take her on because she was too old to train. At another gig she applied to, she says, the hiring manager told her 800 applicants had also sent resumes. ìThere just are not enough jobs in this area for the number of people unemployed who are looking for work.î Analysts also like to point out that demographics actually began to drag the labor force participation rate prior to the recession. But according to Ronni Bennett, so did age discrimination. A retired news producer and web editor who now writes a blog on aging, Bennett, then 63, was let go from her position overseeing one of the earliest incarnations of a major consulting firmís website in 2004.† She spent the next year looking for a new gig, but only got two call backs. ìThey thought I was hot stuff, theyíd say ëHurry up, can you be there at 10 tomorrow,' " she said. "Then I would show up and theyíd say the job had been filled when they saw me.î As layoffs soared in the midst of the recession, so did workplace discrimination suits. But the spike in age discrimination cases was one of the most acute: Equal Opportunity Employment Commission It's a particularly unfair situation, Bennett said, given climbing lifespans should be extending the definition of prime earnings years. And she rejected the notion that she should have simply gone back to school. "Nobody who says that knows what they're talking about," she said. "[Maybe] if you're an administrative assistant working for somebody who only gave you typewriter to maybe learn computer." She ended up losing 35% of her savings in the wake of Lehman, and was forced to take out a reverse mortgage to give her an adequate financial cushion. Researchers at the Urban Institute have confirmed that the lack of entry (or reentry) into the workforce is having a greater impact on the labor force participation rate than the rate of people leaving it.† The rate of 55-66 year-olds entering or reentering the work force between 2010 and 2011 dropped 17 points compared with the rate following the 2001 recession: Urban.org Meanwhile, the rate of 55-66 year-olds leaving the workforce post-Lehman was actually found to be slower than post-2001: Urban.org This puts huge pressure on personal finances, Urban explains: "The reluctance of older workers to†reenter the labor market in recent years...is troubling, as they may be increasingly†likely to remain permanently out of the workforce, potentially compromising their retirement security." Even boomers facing negligible financial pressure have been forced into retirement. † A Massachusetts man we spoke with who wished to be identified as ìTedî said he had enough savings to comfortably hang up his nursing career in his ë50s. But he didnít plan to actually stop working until 65. † He ended up not having a choice in the matter, he says, after he was let go from a part-time gig. Heís convinced it was because he was one of the oldest workers there. ìThe CEO of company said we need to clean house ó and everybody who left was my age.î Despite getting shut out of the formal workforce, at least some of this cohort is still working. Ted now serves on the board of his son's startup firm. And between her blog and local volunteering gigs, Bennett said she is now actually working more hours than she ever did than when she was in the labor force. But it seems clear that, whether by choice or necessity, employers have left them behind.
REUTERSAIG CEO Robert Benmosche may have an inflated sense of his own problems. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal,†Benmosche appeared to say†that public anger over the company's decision to dole out†$450 million in bonuses†after it received $173.3 billion in government aid was "just as bad" as†actual historical lynchings in the Deep South. The quote ó which was not included in the Journal's print article but only in a subsequent MoneyBeat blog post ó†was picked up by†the†Columbia Journalism Review's Ryan Chittum. Here's the quote in context from†MoneyBeat: Mr. Benmosche on the governmentís campaign against partial ìbonusesî to be paid to hundreds of employees in the AIG financial-products unit as they unwound massive, ill-fated bets on mortgage bonds. He said ìless than 10î employees were behind the bad trades. ìThat was ignorance Ö of the public at large, the government and other constituencies. Iíll tell you why. [Critics referred] to bonuses as above and beyond [basic compensation]. In financial markets thatís not the case. Ö It is core compensation. ìNow you have these bright young people [in the financial-products unit] who had nothing to do with [the bad bets that hurt the company.] Ö They understand the derivatives very well; they understand the complexity. Ö Theyíre all scared. They [had made] good livings. They probably lived beyond their means. ÖThey arenít going to stay there for nothing. The uproar over bonuses ìwas intended to stir public anger, to get everybody out there with their pitch forks and their hangman nooses, and all thatñsort of like what we did in the Deep South [decades ago]. And I think it was just as bad and just as wrong." †In the interview,†Benmosche also controversially claimed that "too big to fail" had been solved.
Goldman Sachs economist and political analyst Alec Phillips thinks the nomination of Janet Yellen for Fed chair could come from the White House as soon as next week. Yellen, the current vice chair of the Federal Reserve, is widely considered the frontrunner to replace current Fed chairman Ben Bernanke when his term expires in January. Because she enjoys significant support in the Senate, the confirmation process will likely go smoothly for Yellen, should the White House choose to nominate her. However, that hasn't always been the case. The chart below, provided by Phillips in a note to clients, shows the confirmation timeline for the last five Fed chairs (12 terms in all). Goldman Sachs
APBillionaire hedge fund managers Marc Lasry and Glenn Dubin both said during a panel at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit that Larry Summers would have made a great Fed chair nomination. Summers withdrew his name earlier this month saying that the confirmation process would be "acrimonious" for him. Dubin, who runs Highbridge Capital, said that Summers was "hung out to dry" and that he would have made a "tremendous" Fed Chairman. Lasry of Avenue Capital agreed saying that he found it "sad." "I think he would have done a good job and it's sad he had to pull out." Lasry added that he thinks the President didn't want to get in a fight because of other issues they're dealing with in Washington. He added that he thinks that the odds are "greater than 50%" that we're going to have a government shutdown. With Summers out of the picture, the current front-runner for Fed Chair is current Fed Vice-Chair Janet Yellen.
One isnít just the loneliest number ó itís also the most expensive. Unwed women pay more than their married counterparts in many key financial areas. From health insurance to taxes to housing, see what the cost is of being single in society. 
Florida State Attorney OfficeRent vs. buy. In finance circles, it's a bigger debate than "paper vs. plastic" or "tastes great vs. less filling." It remains a debate fought by smart people on both sides, because the variables make calculus look like third-grade math. Advocates of buying will use arguments that feature phrases such as "throwing away money on rent," "mortgage interest rate deduction," and "forced savings." They may even appeal to your sense of community by pointing out the social benefits of an ownership mentality. Advocates of renting will say the benefits of homeownership are overrated while the costs are underrated. From the title of this column, you know where I stand. But let's give the rent advocates their due. Rent vs. buy: The case against buying a houseA popular argument against owning housing is that home prices barely keep up with inflation. Using Yale Professor Robert Shiller's data that goes back to the late 1800s, we're talking about just 0.2% annually.¬†Yes, that's a decimal point before the two. Compare that with the 6%-7% historical real return of the stock market and you can see where their argument is headed.¬† Buyers also pay closing costs, real estate agent fees, homeowners insurance premiums, property taxes, and sometimes refinancing costs. Then there are the "investments," which are often better classified as "cool stuff I want," or maintenance costs -- neither of which meaningfully increase the value of the house. I've owned a house for 10 years, so let's use me for illustrative purposes. Here's a list of things I've bought that cost at least $1,000 (often much more). Renters normally don't directly pay for any of this stuff. I fancy myself strategically frugal, but stuff breaks, neighbors complain about overgrown vegetation, and new wives refuse to live in a bachelor pad. So I've averaged more than one $1,000-plus item a year -- and I fully expect that trend to continue. Also remember that I'm excluding anything costing two or three digits -- like replacing the dishwasher (twice), the washer (twice), the dryer, the refrigerator (twice before the stainless-steel upgrade), the sump pump (whatever that is), the water heater, and a toilet. We haven't even talked about the countless¬†Home Depot¬†and Ikea nickel-and-dimes. And I've so far avoided the big kahunas of homeowner money pits -- additions and full-blown renovations. Others haven't. Given all this, I'd agree it's fair to factor in a good deal of hidden ownership costs that go beyond sizing up your mortgage against a comparable rental. Plus, there are the harder-to-quantify costs. The lack of liquidity (hence the term "house poor"). The massive debt you're taking on. The inherent risk and lack of diversification once you sink so much into one asset. Reduced mobility, making it harder to move to a new city or perhaps change jobs within the same city. The nights and weekends you spend on house projects. The ever-present responsibility and stress. You get the idea. There are careers' worth of arguments, theories, and speculations on why homeownership is overrated. But when you step away from the rhetoric, there's one fact that trumps everything: Nothing has built wealth for the typical family in the United States like homeownership. Rent vs. buy: The buyer's trump cardWhen the Federal Reserve tallied it up in 2010, the median household had $77,300 socked away in net worth. In other words, when you look at a family that's doing better than 50% of us and worse than 50% of us and you add up all their assets (stocks, bonds, house, cars, IRAs, 401(k)s, gold, equity in private businesses, checking accounts, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, cash under the mattress, etc.) and subtract out all their liabilities (mortgages, student loans, credit card debt, etc.), you end up $77,300 to the good. How much of that is due to owning a house? Here's a picture: Source: The Federal Reserve Board's Survey of Consumer Finances for 2010. It's pretty stunning that for all the hidden costs and arguments about better investments, housing makes up more than 60% ($47,500/$77,300) of the median family's cushion against bankruptcy.¬† Now you still may not be convinced. You may be clinging to the thought that those without homes should be able to put the money they don't spend on curtains and sump pumps to better investment use. It's a compelling theory refuted by reality. Here's the picture: Source: The Federal Reserve Board's Survey of Consumer Finances for 2010. That's over a 30-to-1 net-worth advantage in favor of homeowners. Anticipating the sharp readers who will argue that this could be demographics (e.g., older people, more educated people, families, or high-income people are more likely to own houses), I looked further. Households headed by folks under age 35 have a median net worth that's about double the $5,100 median net worth of non-homeowners. Households headed by folks with no high school diploma have saved more than triple what the non-homeowner has. So have single folks with no children. And, yes, even families in the bottom 20% of income have more net worth than the non-homeowner. Pretty darn stunning. We can speculate on why this is. I subscribe to the simple, classic argument in favor of homeownership. Each month, homeowners are automatically squirreling away the principal portion of their mortgage payment -- as opposed to the renter, whose whole rent is an expense. People sometimes forget that the alternative to a mortgage is paying rent (not investing in the stock market) when they argue that home prices barely keep up with inflation. As for the hidden costs of homeownership, I think a greater percentage of us than we'd like to admit end up blowing the money anyway -- on fancier vacations, or extra glasses of wine on nights out, or living in a more upscale house or neighborhood, or shoes, or playoff tickets, or whatever it is that keeps our median net worth at just $77,300. Don't misunderstand me. This isn't a call to arms for everyone to jump willy-nilly into one of the biggest, most complicated financial decisions of their lives. The harrowing stories from the housing bubble showed us what happens when we overpay or don't do our due diligence. There are also non-financial reasons that buying a house just doesn't make sense for some people. And nothing I've written should be interpreted as a justification to buy that expensive rug instead of putting a little extra into your 401(k). This is just a reminder that there are many theories on the other side, but the real-world numbers greatly favor buying versus renting when all else is anywhere close to equal. Anand Chokkavelu, CFA, loves homeownership but hates yard work. You can follow him on¬†Twitter.¬†We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that¬†considering a diverse range of insights¬†makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a¬†disclosure policy.
Josh Rosner's latest¬†investigative report¬†at Graham Fisher suggests that the nation's most notorious Too Big To Fail bank is an absolute swamp. Over the four years ending 2012, Rosner notes that JPMorgan has paid more than $8.5 billion in legal settlements, equal to roughly 12% of all company net income generated during that period. And with the investigations and actions continuing to pile up, it seems as though there's no end in sight. How are they able to do this? Simple - no high-ranking executives at the company are ever at any personal risk, it's just the company's profits at risk - and those profits have been fattened to such a huge extent, for so long, by the Federal Reserve and Treasury, that it almost doesn't matter. There's probably no amount of money that JPMorgan can be forced to settle for that can stop the company from rolling on. And if a handful of people have to lose their jobs every once in awhile, so what? This is what happens when you make it clear to the marketplace that a firm is too important systemically for it to ever truly be in danger. The big banks would have to be caught openly funding assassinations in a third world country to actually be at existential risk - and even then they'd probably claw their way out using the near-limitless amount of money and influence at their disposal. Five years after the financial crisis, we now have banks that are even bigger and more unmanageable, despite the rickety latticework of new regulation we've attempted to encircle them with. I'm not casting judgment on this system, I'm just pragmatically relaying to you the facts and the way things currently work. It is for you to decide if there is a better way or if we should allow the TBTF banking hegemony to continue in the interest of the nation's economy. JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon has made the case that America needs giant, global banks so that we can compete for giant, global deals. He seems to believe very strongly that this is somehow worth the risks that his firm's giant-ness engender. Apparently, there is consensus in Washington for this view, because his bank has only grown larger in the wake of the bailouts. The stock market looks to be voting on whether or not the bad press matters once again. In the wake of the London Whale fiasco, the markets rewarded JPM shares for the deftness with which the bank put the issue to bed. But now, from a technical standpoint, the headlines appear to be keeping equity buyers away from the name as the recent lower-high put in might represent the right hump of a textbook head-and-shoulders pattern. The below chart comes to us from¬†ChartSmarter.com:  ¬† To read Josh Rosner's in-depth, devastating report, click over below: JP Morgan Chase: Out of Control (Complete Rosner Report)¬†(The Big Picture)
REUTERS/ Robert GalbraithJanet Yellen, vice chair of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System.BofA Merrill Lynch is advising clients to buy Treasury securities. "We recommend a tactical long on the [5-year] note to position for a [10 to 15 basis point] decline in rates over the coming weeks," write BofA interest rate strategists Priya Misra and Shyam Rajan and technical strategist MacNeil Curry in a note to clients. "A combination of headline risks around the continuing resolution, dovish Fed speak, a possible Yellen nomination compounded by short positioning and technicals in the market could lead us lower in yields over the coming two weeks. Note that this is a tactical trade and we still maintain our view of rates heading higher by year end." The strategists initiated the trade at a 1.45% yield on the 5-year Treasury note, targeting 1.3%. (Right now, the 5-year yield is at 1.42%.) Misra, Rajan, and Curry expand on the five drivers of the trade: Of course, there are risks that could derail the trade, as Misra, Rajan, and Curry admit. "Stronger than expected data and relatively benign fiscal negotiations are risks to this trade," they write. "However, the underpinning of a fragile recovery and a dovish Fed that is in no hurry to taper lead us to believe that the risks to a sharp rise in rates in the coming weeks is small." The charts below show short positioning indicators. Stone and McCarthy Money manager survey CFTC
One of the oldest stock market phenomena that chart-watchers follow are the Dow Theory buy and sell signals. The Dow Theory dictates that if the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Dow Jones Transportation Average are hitting highs (or lows) within a reasonably short time-window, it's time to buy (or sell). Last week, the buy-signal was technically confirmed. But Dow Theory expert Richard Russell remains unconvinced that it's really time to jump into (or jump deeper into) the market. Writing on King World News, he says two other trends are giving him pause. First, the NYSE advance-decline line is, "running into resistance at a triple-top," which he shows by the blue line in the following graph: King World News Secondly, he doesn't like what he's seeing out of the Dow's Utility Index, the significance of which he explains thusly: "This average appeared in 1929, so it was never incorporated into classic Dow Theory.†  "Nevertheless, the Utility Average has a history of topping out three months ahead of the rest of the market.† Although, on occasion the Utilities have topped out simultaneously with the rest of the market. I show the Utility Average below, and it does indeed appear to have topped out." Here's what he means: King World News Russell admits the buy signal could still very well be real given that markets are seemingly beholden to the Fed's influence. But those two items have left him in wait-and-see mode: "I'm not going to go into the ìwhy'sî or ìhow comesî of the Fed's decision, let's just watch the market and see how it acts," he says.
Forbes/YouTubeJust a snap shot of what's going on at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Conference. Two serious dealmakers, JP Morgan's legendary Jimmy Lee and Blackstone CEO Steve Schwarzman just left the stage after speaking really candidly about the mergers and acquisitions landscape right now. And actually, they're kind of funny. The duo used humor to talk about some serious stuff, however. One matter that caught our attention was that Schwarzman and Lee agreed that in terms of deal making, the 1980s are back. Lee started it off saying: "There is some sort of echo of the 80s... behavior that is non-acceptable, it starts creeping up and becomes more acceptable. I wouldn't be surprised to see a private equity firm do something more unusual." Schwarzman agreed. ""It's back...it's like Freddie Kruger." "That movie didn't end well," said Lee. If you're not familiar with what happened in mergers and acquisitions in the 1980s, just know this ó it was the Wild Wild West. Think: Corporate takeovers, green money payouts to get corporate raiders to go away... Carl Icahn running even wilder than he is now. It was crazy. For more reading on this, pick up Barbarian's at the Gate by Bryan Burrough and John Heylar. It's about the deal to take RJR Nabisco private, and all the players are in there.
BofA Merrill Lynch technical analysts Stephen Suttmeier and Xue Jiong see two "triple bearish divergences" emerging in the stock market as the S&amp;P 500 rolls over from new all-time highs made after last Wednesday's shock FOMC decision to refrain from tapering back quantitative easing. The first divergence can be seen clearly in the chart below. As the S&amp;P 500 continues to make higher highs, the percentage of S&amp;P 500 stocks above their respective 200-day moving averages is making lower highs. "Both the S&amp;P 500 and percentage of S&amp;P 500 stocks above 200-day moving averages have stalled at key trend line resistances," write the analysts in a note to clients. "Lower tops for the percentage of S&amp;P 500 stocks above 200-day moving averages and higher highs for the S&amp;P 500 is a triple negative divergence." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg The second triple bearish divergence is in price momentum indicators ñ specifically the Moving Average Convergence-Divergence (MACD) and the Relative Strength Index (RSI). "The S&amp;P 500 has three higher highs, while weekly MACD and RSI remain in downtrends off those S&amp;P 500 highs ñ this is a potential triple bearish divergence," say the BAML analysts. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg The bottom line: "This sets up triple negative divergences. With overbought short-term indicators, the risk is S&amp;P 500 resistance near 1728-41 holds for now."
Legendary investor Jim Rogers has been wearing bow ties for years. He told Business Insider it's "embarrassing" how many bow ties he has. So, we thought we'd have him show us the proper way to tie one, and tell us the real reason he started wearing them in the first place. Produced by Robert Libetti Additional Camera Alana Kakoyiannis
Library of CongressThe Richmond Federal Reserve's manufacturing index collapsed to zero. The prior reading was 14, which¬†crushed expectations. Data points: Shipments: -1 verus prior 17 New orders: 5 versus prior 16 Employees: -6 versus prior 6 Full text: "Fifth District manufacturing activity was little changed in September, according to the most recent survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Shipments, capacity utilization, and vendor lead time flattened, while the volume of new orders slowed. The backlog of new orders remained in decline. Finished goods inventories and raw materials inventories built up at about the same pace as in August. Manufacturing employment fell and the average work week shrank, while wage growth remained robust. "Looking ahead six months, manufacturers' optimism about business prospects strengthened. Firms expected a greater volume of new orders, rising capacity utilization, with shorter lead-times and a solid increase in shipments. Further, they anticipated that the backlog of orders would grow. Additionally, survey participants expected a jump in capital expenditures. Manufacturers looked for the number of employees to climb and average workweek to moderate. Their outlook was for slightly slower average wage growth. "Raw materials and finished goods prices rose more quickly in September compared to last month. In addition, relative to their outlook of a month ago, surveyed manufacturers expected prices to rise more quickly in the next six months."
High-income taxpayers ($200,000 single, $250,000 filing jointly) are paying 0.9% points more in Medicare tax and an extra 3.8% on investment income.†According to Robert Pear of the New York Times, "The new taxes on wages and investment income are expected to raise $318 billion over 10 years, or about half of all the new revenue collected under the health care law." The medical device tax will raise $29 billion over 10 years, over $100 billion will come from insurance companies, $34 billion from drug companies, and $150 billion from the "Cadillac" tax, according to the Obama administration. (We can debate the wisdom of this tax, but it doesn't fall on the "typical" family.) We're already at $631 billion over 10 years. If we increased these taxes more, yes, we could use the money to fund premium reductions, most plausibly by increasing the income levels eligible for subsidies. Then, there's the little matter of the newly insured. By 2022, according to the CMS report Conover cites, 30 million more people will have insurance than would be the case without Obamacare. While many of those people will be receiving subsidies, a lot of them will be paying something for their insurance, adding even further to the sources of income that don't come out of what the "typical family" will pay.† Finally, the new 30 million people will be covered very efficiently. $621 billion divided by 9 years is $69 billion per year, divided by 30 million people is $2300 per person per year. While that figure is too low because we won't be insuring all 30 million immediately, remember that 2011 U.S. health spending per capita was $8174.90. Any way you look at it, the newly insured will be costing far less per person than those currently in the insurance system. There you have it. Forbes' most-read story of the day (with over 26,000 Facebook shares and 3400 tweets as I write this) is simply false. Between all the new taxes and the premiums from the newly insured, you can cover the total increase in health care spending. The typical, already insured family isn't going to see increases due to the rise in overall health care spending. You add 30 million new insured at a far lower cost than what we currently spend per person. And the editors didn't catch a blatant error on present value. Read more posts on Middle Class Political Economist ª
ptmoney.comEarlier this week I was reading a r/personalfinancethread (great place for pf advice by the way) from someone considering the Ohio 529 Savings Plan. I'm a fan of that plan and so I chimed in with how I thought it was a good plan for me, a Texan, since I do not have a state tax deduction to consider. Additionally, the CollegeAdvantage plan (as it's commonly known) comes with an easy online interface and most importantly, low-cost funds from Vanguard. The redditer went on to ask me about the different funds and which one I chose. I shared with him that I chose the Vanguard Aggressive Age-Based Option for both of my daughters. When studying the plan on the Vanguard website I discovered that the fundsí mix of stocks, bonds, and cash was based on the beneficiaryís age. Hereís a visual breakdown from Vanguard:  This is something I remember knowing with my first daughter. But I somehow forgot when opening up the second daughterís 529 account. You see, we didnít have our second daughterís SSN or even birth date when we opened the account. We actually opened it using Mrs. PT as the beneficiary, before the birth. By the time my second daughter was born, we had funded the account and we were already invested in the age-based fund: 75% in bonds and 25% in cash. Why this allocation? Because my wife is older than 19, obviously! So thanks to this reddit thread I realized the error of my ways. Now I know why my second daughters account has performed so poorly compared to my older daughter. Because the second daughterís account has been in bonds and cash! So embarrassing. Hereís the 2013 performance comparison: Daughter #1 (under 5yrs):  Daughter #2 (actually based on Mrs PTís age ñ over 19yrs):  Now Iím in the middle of changing the 529 plan beneficiary, something I was dragging my feet on because I didnít think it mattered. I spoke with CollegeAdvantage briefly and they assured me that once I changed the beneficiary information the bonds/cash funds would be sold and the account would reinvest into stocks (based on the under 5 bracket). This is certainly something I should have done 2.5 years ago. The good thing is that weíve got 16 more years to make up the difference. The moral of the story is always take time to understand your investments. Even with the best intentions (like starting a 529 plan before your child is born), mistakes can be made. Has this ever happened to you? Are you invested in the Vanguard age based 529 plan funds? Do you see this as another potential flaw in age-based investing options? Or am I just a lonely idiot here? More from PT Money:† Here's The True Impact of 529 Savings Plans The Gerber Grow Up Plan: Sound Investment or a Scheme for Suckers?
OíReilly took umbrage that I would even bring it up. Apparently he thinks itís perfectly fine to call me names but offensive for me to criticize him for doing so.† Yet OíReilly refuses to have me on his show to debate any of this ó either his initial charge Iím a Communist, or his indignation that I mentioned it in last weekendís op-ed. When he first claimed I was a Communist I challenged him to a debate ó a civil debate. He refused. He still refuses. He wonít even debate the topic of my op-ed ó the increasing shrillness and divisiveness of Fox News and other media outlets, which are only adding to the vitriol of American politics.† Why wonít OíReilly debate me? Whatís he afraid of? Please email him and tell him that instead of talking about me he should have the courage and decency to talk with me directly. His email address is: oreilly@foxnews.com. Read more posts on Contributor ª Read more posts on Contributor ª
APThe conservative editorial board of the Wall Street Journal blasted Sen. Ted Cruz's (R-Texas) strategy to strip funding of the Affordable Care Act through the continuing resolution to keep the government funded. The board cast Cruz as a "general" sending his troops out to battle in a losing fight ó a "charge into the fixed bayonets." It also blasted Cruz for the main problem with his strategy ó calling on House Republicans to "stand firm" in the face of sure losses in the Senate.† From the editorial: When Mr. Cruz demands that House Republicans "hold firm," he means they should keep trying to defund ObamaCare even if it results in a shutdown that President Obama will blame on Republicans. It's nice of him to volunteer House Republicans for duty. The supposedly intrepid General Cruz can view the battle from the comfort of HQ while the enlisted troops take any casualties. The Lee-Cruz strategy, to the extent it's about more than fund-raising lists or getting face time on cable TV, seems to be that if the House holds "firm" amid a shutdown, then the public will eventually blame Mr. Obama and the Democrats, who will then fold and defund ObamaCare. Or, short of that, Democrats might agree to delay the health-care law for another year past its launch date on October 1. Miracles happen, but it would rank as one for the ages if Mr. Obama agreed to defund his signature Presidential achievement. A year's delay would also be a victory, but Mr. Obama knows that punting the law past the 2014 election is risky if Republicans regain a Senate majority. The WSJ edit board has been one of the leading critics of Sens. Cruz and Mike Lee (R-Utah) in a fight that has divided conservative groups. In its editorial, the WSJ took shots at the Heritage Foundation ó which, it pointed out, was an architect and proponent of "Romneycare," on which Obamacare's individual mandate is based. "These columns opposed ObamaCare before it was known by that name, and we may have even been the first to call it by that name," the editorial reads. "We also don't need any lectures about principle from the Heritage Foundation that promoted RomneyCare and the individual mandate that is part of ObamaCare. Or from cable TV pundits who sold Republicans on Mitt Romney despite RomneyCare." A better strategy, the editorial board argued, would be to seek a one-year delay in the individual mandate, pointing out that President Barack Obama has already agreed to delay the so-called employer mandate. But the board noted that the only "real way" to fully repeal the law is to "win elections."
Airbus predicts that the world will need more than 29,000 new commercial planes over the next 20 years to respond to higher traffic and replace older models, the European planemaker said Tuesday. Delivering its 20-year outlook, Airbus said air travel through 2032 will be fuelled by traffic to and from emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India. To meet this challenge, Airbus and its rivals -- notably US giant Boeing -- will need to produce thousands more planes, the bulk of which will be single-aisle passenger carriers. "As aviation becomes increasingly accessible in all parts of the world, future journeys will increasingly be made by air particularly to and from emerging markets," Airbus said in its Global Market Forecast, which it produces every year. "Air traffic will grow at 4.7 percent annually requiring over 29,220 new passenger and freighter aircraft valued at nearly US$4.4 trillion (3.3 trillion euros)." Airbus said almost all the new required planes, about 28,350, would be passenger aircraft valued at $4.1 trillion. It added that by 2032, Asia-Pacific would lead the world in air traffic, overtaking Europe and North America. "Today on average, a fifth of the population of the emerging markets take a flight annually and by 2032, this will swell to two thirds," said John Leahy, chief operating officer at Airbus. "The attraction of air travel means that passenger numbers will more than double from today's 2.9 billion, to 6.7 billion by 2032, clearly demonstrating aviation's essential role in economic growth," he added in the report. Last year, Airbus had predicted that about 28,200 passenger and cargo aircraft would be sold by the sector between 2012 and 2031. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.
Today at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit, we got two little surprises from SEC Chair Mary Jo White. One was a strong signal as to where the SEC would be focusing its energies, the other is just awesome. First thing's first ó White said that the SEC had "renewed" †its focus on a specific area of enforcement action ó†accounting frauds, financial statement frauds, and reporting frauds.† So watch out Bernie Madoffs of the world. The second surprise has nothing to do with the SEC, it's just awesome. White happens to be an avid motorcycle rider. She says she's a bit too busy to ride anymore, but she also owns "the smallest Honda in the world" so that's probably a good thing. The rest of the interview was pretty standard. White said the SEC is a law enforcement agency with a great track record even before she got there. †It's an agency that will have "zero tolerance" for technical issues with exchanges. Additionally, it will continue to use 'no admit, no deny' (allowing entities/individuals not to admit culpability) as a powerful tool in its arsenal, though White also considers it extremely important that their "settlements have teeth." She would not comment on individual cases (of course not), but she said that her agency would be†"bold, unrelenting, and fair... and we'll be everywhere." Okay, now that you know she rides a motorcycle, doesn't that sound just a little more badass?
Flickr/Paul IsraelThe¬†results from the Conference Board's September consumer confidence survey are out. The survey's headline index fell to 79.7 in September from August's upward-revised 81.8 reading. Economists predicted the index would fall to 79.9. Below is the full text of the release: The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ Falls Slightly24 September, 2013 The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index¬Æ, which had increased slightly in August, decreased in September. The Index now stands at 79.7 (1985=100), down from 81.8 in August. The Present Situation Index grew to 73.2 from 70.9. The Expectations Index fell to 84.1 from 89.0 last month. The monthly Consumer Confidence Survey¬Æ, based on a probability-design random sample, is conducted for The Conference Board by Nielsen, a leading global provider of information and analytics around what consumers buy and watch. The cutoff date for the preliminary results was September 13. Says Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators: ‚ÄúConsumer Confidence decreased in September as concerns about the short-term outlook for both jobs and earnings resurfaced, while expectations for future business conditions were little changed. Consumers‚Äô assessment of current business and labor market conditions, however, was more positive. While overall economic conditions appear to have moderately improved, consumers are uncertain that the momentum can be sustained in the months ahead.‚Äù Consumers‚Äô appraisal of present-day conditions improved moderately. Those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúgood‚Äù increased to 19.5 percent from 18.7 percent, while those claiming business conditions are ‚Äúbad‚Äù decreased to 23.9 percent from 24.5 percent. Consumers‚Äô assessment of the labor market was also more favorable. Those saying jobs are ‚Äúplentiful‚Äù increased slightly to 11.5 percent from 11.3 percent, while those saying jobs are ‚Äúhard to get‚Äù decreased to a five-year low of 32.7 percent from 33.3 percent. Consumers‚Äô expectations, which had increased in August, declined in September. The percentage of consumers expecting business conditions to improve over the next six months edged up to 20.9 percent from 20.6 percent, while those expecting business conditions to worsen was virtually unchanged at 11.0 percent. Consumers‚Äô outlook for the labor market, however, grew more pessimistic. Those anticipating more jobs in the months ahead decreased to 16.9 percent from 17.5 percent, while those anticipating fewer jobs increased to 19.7 percent from 17.2 percent. The proportion of consumers expecting their incomes to increase declined to 15.4 percent from 17.5 percent. Source:September 2013 Consumer Confidence Survey¬ÆThe Conference Board Click here to refresh for the latest updates ¬ª
Yesterday, Apple announced that it sold 9 million iPhones during the first weekend of 5C and 5S sales. Gene Munster, Apple analyst at Piper Jaffray, threw a little cold water on the number, saying the real iPhone sales number was closer to 5.5 million. He said 3.5 million 5Cs were "channel fill" at carriers, or other places.† What Munster is saying is that a lot of the iPhones Apple sold were bought by wireless carriers, not consumers. So the 9 million, he says, is not indicative of super-strong consumer demand for the new iPhones. Munster's claim is a fairly serious one since it totally alters Apple's opening weekend iPhone story.† So, who is right? Munster? Or Apple?† Unfortunately for people who want a definitive answer, in this case, they both seem to be correct.† Let's start with Munster. For the conspiracists out there, it's important to note that he's a huge bull on Apple. He rates the stock "overweight" and has a $640 price target.† He's not accusing Apple of "channel stuffing" ó of selling millions more phones to carriers than the carriers can actually sell, thus creating misleading sales numbers. He's also not saying that Apple changed the way it reports opening weekend sales ó it didn't. (Apple counts sales from its retail stores and online store as a "sale" when a consumer buys a phone. It counts sales to carriers as sales when the carrier buys the phones.) What's different this year versus previous years is that, this year, Apple appears to have made more than enough new iPhones to meet initial demand. In prior years, Apple and its carrier partners have basically sold out of iPhones in the opening weekend. This year, Munster says, Apple and its carrier partners sold out of one of the two new iPhones, the more expensive iPhone 5S, but did not sell out of the new iPhone 5C. Apple did launch two new models of the iPhone, though, the 5C and the 5S. So it sold inventory of both into its store and carrier channels. The 5C is essentially last year's model, though, so people are not going to be in a huge rush to go to the store during opening weekend and buy the phone.† Munster believes, based on talking to his sources, that Apple came out of the weekend with 3.5 million 5C units still in carrier inventory ó sold to carriers but not yet sold to consumers. We don't know how accurate Munster's number is. It seems unlikely that, without inside information, he can perfectly nail the exact number of iPhone 5Cs sitting in carrier channels all around the world.  Maybe Apple had 2 million iPhone 5Cs still in the channel on Sunday night. Or 1 million. Or 4 million. †Odds are that Apple sells that inventory in the next few days, so it's not like it's going to be sitting around and rotting.† But Munster's broader point is accurate:  For this and other reasons, it's hard to make a clean apples-to-apples comparison between the 9 million iPhones Apple sold this year with the 5 million it sold last year. Apple sold iPhones through more carriers this year on opening day than it did last year. So sales that came later last year might have happened this year in the opening weekend. And, in the past, Apple only counted the new model of the iPhone when it announced opening weekend sales. That new model always sold out during the opening weekend, so channel fill was not an issue.† Business InsiderThere's a reason this year was so much bigger. What does this mean for Apple overall? Munster concluded that Apple's iPhone sales are off to a "solid start." That seems to be a fair appraisal. Over the next two quarters, we'll get a better read on sales of the 5C and the 5S as the hysteria of the opening weekend settles down. Those who viewed Apple's "9 million" announcement as an indication that its sales growth is going to explode, however, might want to temper their enthusiasm. It's likely that end consumer demand for iPhones was not 80% higher this year than it was last year.
Jeff Kubina / FlickrPaddy Power¬†‚Äî the source for all your Federal Reserve novelty betting¬†‚Äî now has a line on when the Fed will begin to taper quantitative easing. The central bank shocked markets last week when it announced it would not reduce the rate at which it is purchasing mortgage bonds and Treasury bills. Most analysts had expected the Fed would reduce the $85 billion a month program by around $10 billion. So market watchers have been left guessing when exactly the Fed will make the taper announcement. Here are the current odds on Paddy Power (granted there's no way to know how liquid this market is): Place your bets at Paddy Power¬†¬ª
Finance career site¬†OneWire¬†scored another great interview with one of the hedge fund world's Tiger cubs‚Äîthis time with Lee Ainslie, the rarely-interviewed head of Maverick Capital.¬† In the video, Ainslie breaks down his career path ‚Äî from discovering his passion for investing back in junior high, to earning an engineering degree, to working for the legendary hedge fund, Tiger Management, to founding his own¬†hedge fund¬†at only 28 years old. ¬† Of course, that was just the beginning. Now Ainslie faces a whole new set of challenges as the founder of his own firm.¬† ‚ÄúAt the end of the day,‚Äù he says, ‚Äúwe really only have two assets: the confidence of our investors and the talent of the team that we‚Äôre putting together." He continues, ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs a challenging business in that people have many different opportunities, so you have to build a culture where people really want to be part of your team, want to be part of your collective success, and they feel they‚Äôre in an environment where they‚Äôre very likely to be successful.‚Äù¬† And that's part of what makes working at Maverick different than working at other hedge funds ‚Äî ¬†a team mentality.¬† ‚ÄúWe try to set up people in their own boat with the rest of their team,‚Äù Ainslie says. ‚ÄúOne thing we do‚Ä¶that‚Äôs pretty unusual‚Äîwe‚Äôve never tracked an individual‚Äôs P&amp;L‚Ä¶we want everybody on that team to recognize that they‚Äôre in this boat, and they‚Äôll be judged by the success of how that team performs.‚Äù This video follows just a few months after another OneWire interview conducted with¬†Philippe Laffont, a Tiger cub who currently heads up Coatue Management.¬† Both Ainslie and Laffont are alumni of Tiger Management (hence the term ‚ÄúTiger cub‚Äù), run by hedge fund legend Julian Robertson, who helped to launch 38 hedge funds after closing his own fund.¬† Robertson is considered a visionary in the hedge fund arena, and in a few weeks OneWire will release an interview with him. ¬† To stay up to date on OneWire's interviews the moment they come out,¬†subscribe to the Open Door video series. Check out Ainslie's interview in full below: 
Reuters/Rick WilkingThe FHFA home price index beat expectations, rising 1% in July. This beat expectations for a 0.8% rise. This was the eighth straight monthly rise in home prices. Home prices were up 8.8% on the year, and down 9.6% from the April 2007 peak. June's reading was unchanged at a 0.7% rise. Economists have for some time expected home prices to cool in the second half of the year. Paul Diggle at Capital Economics also expects new home prices to slow more than existing home prices. The home price index is calculated using home sales price information from mortgages either sold to or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Here's a look at the seasonally adjusted and unadjusted home prices plotted on the same chart: FHFA
Fox NewsA single trader lost between $4 and $7 million placing a flurry of bets on Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney on Intrade in the final two weeks of last year's election, according to a new research paper studying election betting patterns. "Trader A," as the research paper dubs the trader, was responsible for about one-third of the money bet on Romney over the last two weeks ‚Äî and about one-quarter over the entire cycle on Intrade. The authors of the paper ‚Äî economists¬†Rajiv Sethi,¬†of¬†Barnard College and Columbia University; and¬†David Rothschild, of Microsoft Research ‚Äî speculate that Trader A's intent was to manipulate Romney's position.  Or, in the final few weeks of the election as Romney fell in polls, they determine that Trader A could have been attempting to manipulate beliefs about his standing to boost fundraising, morale, and turnout.¬† The economists determine three possibilities for the slew of bets:¬† (i) the trader was convinced that Romney was underpriced throughout the period and was expressing a price view, (ii) he was hedging an exposure held elsewhere, or (iii) he was attempting to distort prices in the market for some purpose. Sethi and Rothschild draw no definitive conclusions, but they lean toward option No. 3.¬† Another surprising finding from the study: Trader A aside, political betting seems to be much more static than other trading markets.  The economists found that 86% of traders never changed once whom they were betting on. That accounted for 52% of the volume of the bench. Only 6% of bettors were determined to be "unbiased" by taking positions on both candidates as the race developed. One of the biggest single-night shifts came on the night of the first presidential debate, which was viewed as a gigantic loss for President Barack Obama. Here's a look at how his Intrade price cratered that night:Trading Strategies and Market Microstructure
Google MapsS&amp;P/Case-Shiller's month-over-month data for its 20-city index came in at 0.62% for July. Analysts were expecting a gain of 0.80%. It's down from a revised 0.88% for June. The rest of the data came in mostly in-line. The 20-city year-over-year print hit 12.39%; analysts expected 12.40%. That's up from 12.07% year-over-year for June. The overall Home Price Index climbed to 162.49 versus 159.54 prior and 162.69 expected. Here's the year-over-year chart. You can see we're still heading in the right direction but we appear to have lost a small amount of momentum: Spice-Indices And the cities table, which shows insane year-over-year increases of more than 20% in every California city covered, as well as Las Vegas, which led all cities. Spice-Indices As our Sam Ro noted, analysts like Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach see housing as arguably the main component the Fed is looking at while it decides where to take monetary policy: "[A] factor that may cause the Fed to wait beyond the October meeting is that measures of home price appreciation (HPA) such as the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index shown in Exhibit 5 come out with a one-quarter lag ‚Äì meaning that during the week of September 23 the data will reflect HPA for the month of July," wrote Hornbach in a note to clients on Friday. "The Fed will also get S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home prices for August on the first day of the October 29-30 FOMC meeting. While August was the first full month after most of the mortgage rate increases had occurred, the Fed may want to see more data, given uncertain lags." Our Mamta Badkar also recently explained why new home price value growth is going to slow thanks to oversupply and demographics.
Business InsiderYou might think of a trading desk as a trader's second home, but really it should be their first. It's where markets happen (and markets = life). So the setup's got to be perfect. Traders can't miss a beat ‚Äî everything they need to know needs to be a glance away. We asked our readers to send us photos of their desks to check out how people are doing this all over the world. They obliged. You're welcome. If you missed out and want your trading desk set-up included, feel free to send and email with photos to jlaroche@businessinsider.com or llopez@businessinsider.com
Morgan StanleyYear-over-year price growth is flattening.At 9:00 a.m. ET, we'll get the July reading of the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index. Economists estimate that prices climbed by 12.4% year-over-year. Everyone will watch closely to see if rising mortgage rates had an impact on the housing market. Last week, the Federal Reserve pointed to tightening financial conditions when it announced that it would delay the tapering of its stimulative large-scale asset purchase program. Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach thinks it could be at least a month before we hear about a tapering. And among his many reasons, Hornbach points to home prices. "[A] factor that may cause the Fed to wait beyond the October meeting is that measures of home price appreciation (HPA) such as the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index shown in Exhibit 5 come out with a one-quarter lag ‚Äì meaning that during the week of September 23 the data will reflect HPA for the month of July," wrote Hornbach in a note to clients on Friday. "The Fed will also get S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home prices for August on the first day of the October 29-30 FOMC meeting. While August was the first full month after most of the mortgage rate increases had occurred, the Fed may want to see more data, given uncertain lags." As you can see from Hornbach's chart above, the year-over-year growth rate in prices have been plateauing. And while home price growth continues to be positive, it's important to remember that the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller number most people reference is a composite of 20 cities, and housing is very much a local story. Societe GeneraleBreadth is falling."We will be paying particular attention to the breadth of price hikes in the SPCS report," said Societe Generale's Brian Jones. "While universal during the first quarter of 2013, sequential price increases were posted by 15 of the 20 cities surveyed in the June report." Jones offers the chart to the right. As you can see, the breadth has been falling. We will cover the Case-Shiller report live on BusinessInsider.com.
Some three billion people who once lived in sleepy or sclerotic statist economies are now part of the global economy. Many compete directly with workers in the United States, Europe, and Japan in a world bound together by lightning- fast communications. Countries that were once poor now find themselves with huge surpluses of wealth. And the rich countries of the world, while still rich, struggle with monumental levels of debtóboth private and publicóand unsettling questions about whether they can compete globally. This shift is hardly news. Starting a dozen or so years ago, we began to hear all about globalization and the economic threat that the new, ìflatî world poses to developed countries. Yet since 2008, that talk has been overshadowed by the financial crisis and its aftermathó a crisis that eviscerated trillions of dollars in household wealth, created near-record levels of unemployment, and left the United States and Europe in adverse economic straits that persist to the present day (joining Japan, which has been hobbled for two decades). The causes of the crisis, it was said, lay in too much risk-taking by the lords of finance, along with too big an appetite for debt among ordinary people. And so for the past five years, weíve heard less about China and India and more about how to fix the financial systems and economies of the developed countries. When people think about todayís economic challenges, many of them put the problems facing the United States and Europe in separate baskets: one basket for such thorny issues as how to jump-start growth, reduce unemployment, and control the national debt; and a second basket for how to deal with trade deficits, currency issues, and competitiveness writ large. "The Age of Oversupply" argues that all these challenges belong in one basket. You canít understand the housing bubble and the financial crisis without appreciating how the rise of the emerging nations distorted the economies of rich countries. And you canít chart a course to more growth and stability in the developed world without recognizing that many of these distorting forces are still at work. It is time to recognize that the central challenge facing the global economy is an oversupply of labor, productive capacity, and capital relative to the demand for all three. Beginning in the late 1990s, a tidal wave of cheap money began flooding the global economy, much of it coming from Asia as China and other countries began to run huge trade surpluses and their burgeoning middle classes and thriving corporations socked away savings. Easy credit set the stage for the real estate bubble and the financial crisis. And cheap money also allowed Americans to sustain a high standard of living with low-cost borrowing and to ignore their declining competitiveness amid a growing surplus of global labor. Of course, the party couldnít last forever. Yet five years after the financial crisis, many leaders and commentators in the United States and Europe still donít get what happened. Nor do they seem to realize that the age of oversupply is here to stay and that oversupply is a central obstacle to restarting growth. Many of the standard tools for fueling growth simply donít work. Cheaper credit through monetary easing doesnít yield much in an era when cheap capital already exists in abundance. And policies that seek to stimulate growth run up against the fact that there is a huge oversupply of global labor and productive capacity. Meanwhile, major risks linger in the banking sectors of the United States and Europe, where reforms have not gone nearly far enough. Today, despite the painful lessons of recent years, the global financial system is anything but stable.† Finally, the United States and Europe face a huge overhang of unresolved private debt, a legacy of the credit bubbleódebt on a scale no nation has ever before confronted. These debts hold back growth, but asset holdersómostly the banksóhave been loath to write these debts off and take the hit they have to take. Few political leaders are ready to force a painful resolution of these debts. And across both the political and financial worlds, hopes abound that growth will resume, inflating the value of ìunderwaterî assets and devaluing outstanding debt.† That is simply unlikely to happen any time soon. Economic growth wonít rebound in a sustained way until the developed countries confront deep systemic problems in their own economies and the new and profound distortions in the global economy. Even though three billion people and trillions of dollars in wealth have emerged on the world scene, most policy makers are still stuck in denial about the earth-shattering nature of this shift. Can the United States and Europe get out of this mess? (And what about Japan, which has seemingly been unable to do so for decades and has now embarked on a quixotic quest to will its way out of persistent deflation?) I believe they can, and the book I have written offers a road map for avoiding a future of economic stagnation and new crises. We must begin by acknowledging how much everything has changed. Economic troubleshootersófrom presidents to central bankers to lawmakers to economistsóneed a fresh playbook in the age of oversupply. In particular, monetary policyóhistorically a critical tool for fighting economic downturns simply doesnít have, in a world of easy money, the bite it once had. And while fiscal stimulus can help restart growth, developed nations need to try this approach on a much larger scale than ever before if we are to put the advanced nationsí huge surplus of workers back to work. In "The Age of Oversupply" I suggest major new investments that deal strategically with infrastructure and I detail how such investment would not only help restart growth but also lay the foundation for future prosperity. At the same time, "The Age of Oversupply" proposes an aggressive effort to clear away the crushing burden of unresolved debt that is a legacy of the credit bubble. This is a daunting political challenge, because it means taking on creditors who hold trillions in bad debt. But until our advanced economies can emerge from under debt overhang, strong growth will be impossible. The United States, the worldís largest economy, must also confront two major obstacles to its global competitiveness: runaway costs for higher education and health care. The U.S. and European nations all need further reforms to their banking sectors to reduce risky behaviors and foster more stability. These efforts need to involve leaders and institutions from across the developed world if they are to succeed, given the interconnected nature of todayís global financial system. Likewise, new multilateral cooperation is needed to create a global currency system that will ensure stability and a level economic playing field. Today, seven years after home prices in the United States hit peak bubble values in the summer of 2006 and five years after the financial system of the entire developed world nearly ground to a halt, the economies of the United States, Western Europeóand yes, still Japanóremain mired in severe economic dislocation. The demand for goods and services in the developed world remains muted, relative to potential. Amid this flat demand, even the most profitable companies see little reason to invest in new equipment or hire new workers. And never has there been such bitter disagreement and deep confusion, among politicians and economists alike, about what ails the economies of the developed world and how to fix them. To combat the ongoing slump, for half a decade despairing policy makers have employed almost every conventional, and many far more heterodox, economic countermeasuresómeasures that arose from a century of modern economic scholarship and experience. As a result, they have succeeded in avoiding an outright collapse of key institutions and enterprises, while kicking down the road a growing list of unresolved†problems. At this writing, an alarming percentage of the political leadership in the developed countries have flirted with or have outright implemented fiscal austerity policies. Nothing could be more damaging to the interests of the 800 million or so people of the advanced nations. Commenting in March 2013 on the dominance of austerity policies in Europe, Gideon Rachman of the Financial Times of London wrote, ìThere are many who argue that this prescription is dangerous. But the anti-austerians have failed to come up with a set of alternative policies that is coherent enough to turn the intellectual tide.î "The Age of Oversupply" is intended to answer precisely that type of criticism: to provide a coherent intellectual rationale for why we are where we are, to deliver policy initiatives that focus on the ongoing challenges to the global economy, and, particularly, to chart a way forward toward the renewal of developed-world growth and prosperity. A modified excerpt from my new book, "The Age of Oversupply: Overcoming the Greatest Challenge to the Global Economy," which will be released for sale by the Penguin Portfolio division of Penguin Random House on September 26th. With the developed world economies still unable to escape from a condition of persistent economic slump, I think you will find the following insights of value in understanding why that is so.
Earnings came in at $0.54 per share, which was much higher than the $0.45 expected by analysts. This is an encouraging sign as tighter financial conditions have come with rising mortgage rates. Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and most recently Citi have announced major layoffs in their mortgage arms due to shrinking business. "We continue to see long-term fundamental demand in the market driven by the significant shortfall of new single-family and multi-family homes built over the last five years," said Lennar CEO Stuart Miller. "While there may be bumps along the road that may impact the short-term pace of the recovery, the long-term outlook for our business remains extremely bright." For now, the numbers continue to be staggering, From Lennar: Later this morning, we'll get new U.S. housing data via the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index.
From Reuters, probably everything you need to know about the rise and fall of Blackberry, which just agreed yesterday to be taken private. Reuters
Flickr / Beaufort's TheDigitelIn JPMorgan's morning "Lookback At The Market", Adam Crisafulli highlights to slightly cautious signals from the market yesterday. Perhaps the big story in the market was the very weak bank trading.¬† Financials slumped ~1.4% overall and the BKX was down ~1.6% (note that the BKX broke down through its 50dayAM for the firs time since Nov ‚Äô12).¬† The Citi article from the FT this weekend didn‚Äôt help but sentiment in general is becoming pretty gloomy (NIMs won‚Äôt expand as quickly thanks to the Fed, trading trends appear to be softer than expected, reserve releases and opex cuts can‚Äôt continue forever, regulatory scrutiny is only worsening, etc).¬† Away from financials, one of the other big trends was selling/profit taking in a bunch of the best-performing ‚Äúmomentum‚Äù stocks (many of them in internet and biotech) ‚Äì BIIB, CELG, GILD, RGEN, YHOO, GOOG, NFLX, etc (there really wasn‚Äôt a specific fundamental ‚Äúreason‚Äù behind the action in these names other than people looking to lock in profits ahead of the quarter and month end). Here's the report from FT about how Citi's trading revenue has dropped. Anyway, one day of market action isn't a big thing, still it's interesting that the "no taper" rally has totally evaporated.
REUTERS/Jason LeeA woman uses her Samsung mobile phone to take a picture before a Red Dress run event in Beijing May 12, 2013.SINGAPORE (Reuters) - The world's biggest smartphone market China will likely ship in more than 450 million devices in 2014, at least a quarter more than this year, research firm IDC said. IDC said the increase will be driven by the government's issuance of 4G licences and expectations that ChinaMobile Ltd, the world's biggest wireless operator, would carry iPhones by then. China, a market dominated by Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Lenovo Group Ltd, is expected to ship 120 million¬†4G-enabled smartphones to meet consumer demand for Internet connectivity. Smartphone shipments are expected to reach 360 million this year, IDC said. In the second quarter, Samsung and Lenovo maintained their lead in China with market shares of 18.5 percent and 9.8 percent respectively, while China Wireless Technologies Ltd's Coolpad moved up a notch from the previous quarter to rank No.3. Apple Inc's iPhones saw market share and ranking fall to 5 percent and No.6 in the second quarter, from 9 percent and No.5 a quarter ago, IDC analysts said. The U.S. technology giant's market share usually slips a quarter or two before its next product launch. "Affected by the sluggish sales of iPhone 5, Apple's market share has declined dramatically, but its performance is expected to remarkably improve with the launch of the new iPhone," James Yan, an IDC analyst, said in a statement. Apple unveiled two new smartphone models, the iPhone 5S and a less expensive 5C, in China just hours after their U.S. launch. Apple sold 9 million new iPhones during the first three days in stores after China joined the list of launch countries for the first time, though it declined to give a breakdown for the Chinese market. Currently, China Unicom and China Telecom carry iPhones in the country. (Reporting by Lee Chyen Yee; Editing by Miral Fahmy)
REUTERS/Rick WilkingA stuffed teddy bear chair lies slumped over in the flooded Eastwood Village in Evans, Colorado September 23, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know.
REUTERS/Mike BlakeFrom Calculated Risk, here's a quick look at the data that's coming out today. The housing-related data at 9 AM should be particularly interesting. ‚Ä¢ 9:00 AM ET, the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller House Price Index for July. Although this is the July report, it is really a 3 month average for closings in May, June and July. The consensus is for a 12.4% year-over-year increase in the Composite 20 index (NSA).¬† ‚Ä¢ Also at 9:00 AM, the FHFA House Price Index for July 2013. The consensus is for a 0.7% increase.¬† ‚Ä¢ 10:00 AM, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for September. The consensus is for the index to decrease to 80.0 from 81.5. ‚Ä¢ Also at 10:00 AM, the Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for September. The consensus is for a reading of 10.5 for this survey, down from 14 in August (Above zero is expansion). We'll be covering them all, LIVE.
en.wikipedia.orgIt's been an incredible 2013 for the stock market. The strength in equities makes people nervous about committing fresh money to the market, and now even some investing legends are out with cautious comments about how the stock market is "fully valued" and how you have to be wary of the Fed pulling the plug on the rally. So what does one do? According to Deutsche Bank's Greg Poole, the answer is that you have to keep buying stocks. Here's his argument, which includes three key bullish points: Equities have been the best performing asset class year to date. Given many DM equity indices are at or near all time highs, given positioning, the pain trade is to Buy them here. Nevertheless, we remain positive on Equities. The end of the first phase of an equity bull market is multiple expansion ahead of an earnings inflection. After nearly two years of downgrades to earnings expectations, we remain increasingly confident that an inflection is close at hand: ‚Äì80% of global PMIs in August are trending upward and point to an annualized Q3 global GDP run rate of 4%., This is ahead of DB‚Äôs above consensus global growth target of 3.8% for 2014. ¬†‚ÄìCorporate commentary is more cautiously upbeat in tone ¬†‚ÄìCentral Banks remain in a super-accommodative mode and are keen to avoid rising interest rate expectations suffocating the nascent growth before it has taken hold Wednesday‚Äôs move by the FOMC to temporarily defer tapering, until more tangible signs of growth are irreversibly lodged in the broader fabric of the economy, supports our relative preference for Equity over Bonds. The last point about central banks is an interesting one. Not only did the Fed decline to "taper" at its last meeting, but ECB chief Mario Draghi said yesterday, too, that he would consider more actions to improve Eurozone liquidity if needed.
REUTERS/Robert Galbraith From Goldman: We expect the President to nominate Janet Yellen to be the next Federal Reserve Chair and we expect the announcement to come soon. However, this week's political calendar may be too crowded to make an announcement. Assuming a government shutdown is avoided, an announcement could come as soon as early next week.¬† The Senate is apt to begin considering the nomination within a few weeks of the announcement. This will include a public hearing in the Senate Banking Committee, and probably questions in writing for the nominee. Both steps are likely to include substantive discussion of monetary policy. There you go.
Flickr/facelegEarly this year, everyone was talking about the vaunted Chinese "hard landing" and how it was finally here. And yet in recent months, Chinese economic data has been consistently better than expected. PMI readings show a manufacturing sector returning to health, while retail and power use measures have als been pretty positive. So the question is: Can it last? In a brief note to clients, Morgan Stanley's Helen Qiao says it's unlikely to last. She gives three quick reasons: Is this rebound sustainable? We do not hold high expectation that this growth rebound will last long, as the favorable low base from last year will dissipate soon. In addition, headwinds will likely strengthen in early 2014, as: 1) the temporary boost from restocking demand and business confidence will likely taper off; 2) the hurdle for policy easing is harder to reach after the recent rebound; and 3) the potential weakening in EM demand may become a drag, despite a mild DM recovery. Ultimately, she isn't too worried about China, even if the upturn in data doesn't prove to be durable. There is a rebalancing, she argues, going on towards more consumption, and there is a lot of necessary investment yet to do, which should keep something of a floor on economic activity.
APThe big stories dominating the media right now involve the US fiscal follies. Specifically, there's the risk of a government shutdown at the end of September, and the there's the risk of a debt ceiling breach sometime soon thereafter The GOP much prefers to fight over the debt ceiling, since the party feels it has real leverage. That's because in a government shutdown, it's highly likely that the GOP would take the blame, and lose big time politically. With a debt ceiling fight, there's the sense that the President HAS to negotiate. The reason the GOP is so angry at Ted Cruz is that he's waging his "Defund Obamacare" war around the possible government shutdown, risking an actual shutdown, and thus risking a bad moment for the party. But while the market might not like to see this shutdown happen, a brief one would probably be fine, or even bullish. The reason is that a government shutdown would weaken the GOP and make a debt ceiling fight much less likely. The party is unlikely to suffer the consequences of a shutdown, and then do something immediately after to make itself look like horrible. The key thing is: A debt ceiling fight would be bad for markets (potentially) and the US economy. A brief government shutdown would likely nip this in the bud.
NASAIt's very quiet today. Markets around the world aren't doing much of anything, and there isn't much news out that would be market-moving. The dominant story that will be ongoing revolves possible government shutdown and the debt ceiling. Until these are resolves, they are going to suck up a lot of oxygen. Although so far, the market hasn't really cared about either, as it's been inured to Washington games, and it expects a last-minute deal.
